-- Which Party Is Better for the Economy? Neither!: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-03-02T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/which-party-is-better-for-the-economy-neither-michael-kinsley.html
Every year around late February, the
government puts out the  Economic Report of the President , which
includes a whole bunch of historical charts on the state of the
economy that you can download as Excel spreadsheets. Most years
I combine them all into one big spreadsheet and try to draw some
conclusions.  The exercise has been fun because through the 1990s and
2000s, it  showed that , on average, Democratic presidents make
better Republicans than Republicans do. That is, if you’re
interested in higher growth, lower inflation, less government
spending and taxes, and so on (and even if you don’t care much
about the poverty rate or number of Americans without health-
care insurance), your best bet over the past half-century -- on
average -- has been to vote Democratic for president.  Of course, this assumes falsely that the president controls
the economy all by himself, without Congress or the  Federal
Reserve  or the laws of nature playing any role. But then, the
same false assumption is the basis for most of our presidential
politics. You can also quarrel with my “methodology,” if it even
deserves such a term. But any conceptual errors or mistakes of
math on the  attached spreadsheet  are truly accidental and don’t
skew the results in favor of my own preferences. Honest.  However, my own preference this year was to skip the whole
thing, because I feared the result. When  George W. Bush  was busy
turning a federal surplus into an enormous deficit, the
spreadsheet provided plenty of opportunity to gloat. But now
that President  Barack Obama  -- though largely for good reason --
has made Bush and all his other predecessors look like pikers in
the deficit department, I worried that the spreadsheet might
spread disenchantment.  Smaller Is Better  Before you indignantly start to defend recent fiscal policy
as essential to an economic recovery, let me say that I agree
with you, pretty much. Remember, this exercise is about
Republican economic goals and who has done better in achieving
them. So it assumes that smaller government -- less spending,
lower taxes, smaller deficits -- is always good.  There is no perfect way to compare presidential statistics
from 50 years ago to those from today. Today’s numbers are all
bigger, for better or for worse, because of inflation, real
growth and  population growth . Just comparing, say, unemployment
under  Richard Nixon  with unemployment under Obama would be
unfair to Nixon -- something we should all strive to avoid.
Therefore the figure I use, in most cases, is the change in a
factor in “real” terms (adjusted for inflation) as a percentage
of gross domestic product.  The president supplied most of the numbers. I calculated
all the “change” figures and plugged a few holes with numbers
from reliable sites elsewhere on the Internet. (That irritating
“transition quarter” from the late 1970s -- some kind of fiscal
leap year -- I just ignored.)  Anyway, here’s the recipe. Take key statistics from the
past 50 years. (Why 50? Because that’s how far back most of the
figures in the Economic Report of the President go.) Measure
changes each year in terms of share of GDP. Assign each year to
the Republicans or the Democrats depending on which party holds
the White House. Average all the Republican years and all the
Democratic years. Compare and contrast.  So, what conclusions can we draw? On unemployment, for
example,  Mitt Romney  has been claiming that, as a former
businessman, he knows how to create jobs. (How? So far, he’s
kept that a secret.) But the spreadsheet says that, over the
past half-century, the  unemployment rate  has fallen under
Democratic presidents and risen under Republicans. This remains
true even if you assume a one-year lag in the time it takes for
a president’s policies to take effect.  Which party’s presidents have done better with the most
important statistic, which is GDP -- basically the size of the
economy? Incredibly, it’s a tie! Applying a one-year lag, the
Democratic presidents surge ahead by a minuscule 0.01 percent.
Inflation? A straight comparison shows that Democrats have done
a better job, but the one-year lag gives lower inflation to the
Republicans.  Republicans win on lower taxes -- no surprise there -- but
lower spending (the stat I’d been dreading) goes to the
Democrats. Put it all together and neither party has anything
like a monopoly on economic virtue, even when defined in
strictly conservative terms. I’m sorry for this anticlimactic
result, but numbers don’t lie.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 