-- Williams Says Fed Should Vigorously Keep Stimulus, QE3 Remains an Option
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-03-02T07:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/williams-says-fed-should-vigorously-provide-economic-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco  President  John Williams  said the Fed should maintain
an “extraordinarily supportive policy” to reduce an
 unemployment rate  that will probably exceed 7 percent for years.  “This is clearly a situation in which we have to keep
applying monetary policy stimulus vigorously,” Williams said
yesterday in a speech in Honolulu. “Looking ahead, we may need
to do more if the recovery falters or if inflation stays well
below 2 percent.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a U.S. Senate committee
yesterday that sustained stimulus is warranted even as the
expansion gains strength. He gave no indication the Fed is
considering providing more accommodation. The policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  in January pledged to maintain low
 interest rates  through at least late 2014 and is scheduled to
meet on March 13.  “If the economy does need more stimulus, restarting our
program of purchasing mortgage-backed securities would probably
be the best course of action,” Williams, a voting member of the
FOMC this year, said yesterday at the CFA Hawaii Economic
Forecast Dinner.  The central bank pushed down its  target interest rate  close
to zero in December 2008 and has engaged in two rounds of asset
purchases totaling $2.3 trillion to boost the economy. Fed
officials in January were keeping open the option of a third
round of large-scale asset purchases, and Williams reiterated to
the audience that’s a tool to use if the economy requires it.  Forecast Risks  Williams said “there’s a risk the economy could do worse
than” his forecast for 2.25 percent growth this year and 2.75
percent growth in 2013, citing  Europe ’s debt crisis as the
biggest potential challenge. Fielding questions from the
audience after his prepared remarks, he also said an oil-price
shock poses a risk to the outlook.  Reports released since the FOMC meeting on Jan. 25 have
indicated that the U.S. expansion is gaining traction. Increases
in manufacturing helped the economy grow at a “modest to
moderate pace” in January and early February, the Fed said this
week in its Beige Book business survey.  A report yesterday showed that jobless claims declined to
351,000, matching the lowest level since March 2008. Gross
domestic product rose more than forecast in the fourth quarter
as companies rebuilt inventories in anticipation of higher
demand, the Commerce Department reported earlier this week.  Stronger Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 9.3 percent this
year, closing 0.6 percent higher yesterday at 1,374.09.  Even with the economy improving, the  unemployment rate  may
remain above 8 percent into next year and above 7 percent “for
several years to come,” Williams said. That compares with the
5.2 to 6 percent level that Fed officials say is consistent with
maximum employment. The jobless rate was 8.3 percent in January.  Answering audience questions, Williams said another round
of monetary stimulus, known as QE3, will depend on how the
economy performs and is “definitely not off the table.” The
exit from the Fed’s stimulus measures is likely “several
years” away, he said. Because interest-rate changes take time
to have their desired effect, Williams said he wouldn’t wait
until the economy reaches full employment to raise borrowing
costs.  Europe’s Improvement  “My forecast hasn’t changed very much in the past few
months” even as an easing crisis in Europe has meant that
“some of the downside risks have lessened,” Williams told
reporters. He added that the U.S. recovery has yet to become
“broad-based,” with the manufacturing industry led by
automakers returning to growth while the housing market has
“not shown much of a rebound at all.”  While providing no hints of beginning a new round of large-
scale asset purchases, Bernanke yesterday reiterated that the
job market is still “far from normal.” He also defended the
Fed’s move in November 2010 to start a second round of
quantitative easing.  “We’ve had about 2.5 million jobs created” since then,
Bernanke said to the Senate Banking Committee. “We’ve seen big
gains in stock prices, improvement in credit markets.”  Williams became the San Francisco Fed’s president in March
2011 after two years as its director of research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  