-- Wine Critics More Sensitive to Flavors Buyers Can’t Taste
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-02T20:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/wine-critics-more-sensitive-to-flavors.html
The flavors described so effusively
by top wine critics may not be shared by consumers who buy
products based on their opinions, a researcher suggests.  Winemakers and critics surveyed in  Canada  were found to be
much better able to sense a test chemical as intensely bitter,
compared with average consumers who weren’t bothered by the
taste, according to a report in the  American Journal of Enology
and Viticulture .  The chemical is an indicator of oral sensitivity, the
researchers wrote. The data suggest people born with a talent
for identifying tiny differences in wine may have naturally
gravitated to an industry where their abilities give them an
edge, said John Hayes, director of the  Pennsylvania State
University ’s sensory evaluation center.  “Wine experts are more likely to have a very exquisite,
acute sense of taste that the rest of us can’t sense,” said
Hayes, one of the authors of the report, in a telephone
interview. “Some of that is biology.”  Because consumers may not have the same tasting ability,
they probably don’t benefit as much from drinking highly rated
wine, Hayes said. Still, there may be a psychological lift.  “If you think the wine is supposed to be good, you’re
going to enjoy it a lot,” Hayes said. “But to me the simplest
rule in wine is if you like it, drink it.”  The work builds on earlier data finding similar “super
tasters” among chefs and food experts, the researchers wrote.
The bitter chemical used by the researchers was selected because
it’s been linked in studies to taste sensations that typically
are associated with alcoholic beverages, such as the bitterness
tasted in scotch and beer.  Intense Changes  The wine experts in the study experienced intense changes
in taste, depending on the concentration of the chemical, as
well as differences in mouth sensations, the research found.  They may be unique in their ability to appreciate the
“somewhat cooler, soil-driven flavors and sexy dusty
minerality” of the 2007 Domaine La Romanee pinot noir, as
described on  Wines.com . The wine, being discounted at $735 a
bottle, “still boasts impressive breadth and fat,” according
to the site.  With thousands of wineries and varieties to choose from,
consumers depend on experts to help make purchase decisions for
wine, which had a U.S. retail value of  $30 billion  in 2010.
While comments about flavors may be useless to the average
consumer, people still want help identifying the best wines,
Hayes said.  Hayes conducted the study with Gary Pickering, a wine
researcher at Brock University in  St. Catharines , Ontario. The
work was partially sponsored by grants from the  National
Institutes of Health  and the Natural Sciences and Engineering
Research Council of Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  