-- Yale Professors Want Singapore Campus to Protect Human Rights
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-03-02T13:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/yale-professors-want-singapore-campus-to-protect-human-rights.html
Yale University professors are
pushing the school to protect civil and political rights at the
branch campus in  Singapore  scheduled to open next year.  At a meeting yesterday, faculty members proposed a
resolution that demands the campus “respect, protect and
further the ideals of civil liberties,” Victor Bers, a classics
professor at the  New Haven , Connecticut-based school, said in an
e-mail. The resolution may be voted on at the April 5 faculty
meeting, Bers said.  The campus, which Yale will run with the  National
University  of Singapore, will be the first overseas branch in
Yale’s 300-year history. It is one of a number of campuses in
 East Asia  being developed by U.S. colleges including  New York
University  and  Duke University . Those campuses face restrictions
on academic and political freedoms, and Yale professors said
they are concerned about human rights in Singapore and the
faculty’s exclusion from the planning.  “Colleagues, our honor and judgment are being tested by
the Yale-NUS enterprise,” Bers said at the meeting, according
to an e-mailed copy of his remarks.  The meeting was attended by more than 140 professors as
well as Yale President  Richard Levin , Bers said.  Bers noted that Levin spoke out in opposition to the New
York Police Department’s monitoring of Muslim students at Yale
and wondered what his response would be to a similar government
intrusion in Singapore.  “President Levin did us proud by issuing a public
protest,” Bers said at the meeting. “Does he plan, as a member
of the Yale-NUS board of trustees to stifle himself in
comparable circumstances?”  Human Rights  Singapore’s government censors the media and uses the
courts to silence criticism of the regime,  according  to  Human
Rights Watch , a New York-based group. Last year, Levin said he
was confident that Yale’s faculty in Singapore could teach and
publish without restrictions.  Yale-NUS College is scheduled to open in August of 2013
with 150 undergraduate students and will grow to about 1,000,
according to Yale. Its board includes Levin and members
appointed by both Yale and NUS.  Christopher Miller, a Yale French and African-American
studies professor, raised the issue of homosexuality, which is
illegal for men in Singapore, he said. Because it is seldom
enforced, Yale has been lured to believe it won’t be a issue for
faculty and students, he said.  “There is no confusion about the law on the books: male
homosexuality is illegal,” Miller said in remarks he made at
the meeting and e-mailed. “But the Singaporean government has
managed to create a ‘twilight zone’ around the question of
enforcement. And Yale has fallen into their trap.”  Yale, a member of the  Ivy League  of eight private U.S.
universities, was founded in 1701.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  