-- Yelp Surges in Debut After IPO Raises More Than Forecast
-- B y   A n j e l i c a   T a n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-03-02T22:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-02/yelp-surges-in-trade-debut-after-initial-offer-raises-more-than-forecast.html
Yelp Inc. (YELP) , the site that lets users
review businesses ranging from diners to dentists, surged 64
percent in its first day of trading after selling shares for
more than planned in an initial public offering.  The stock climbed to $24.58 today in  New York , giving Yelp
a market valuation of $1.47 billion. That price is about 18
times Yelp’s annual revenue. The San Francisco-based company
raised $107.3 million in the IPO, pricing the shares at $15
each, according to a statement yesterday.  By letting users post reviews of small, neighborhood
businesses on the Web, Yelp took an early lead in the online-
local advertising market, more than tripling sales since 2009.
To help the company reach profitability while contending with
competition from larger companies  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Stoppelman, 34, plans an overseas
expansion this year.  “They’re a first mover, and they definitely have a
following,” said  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees $2 billion as chief
investment officer of Solaris Group in  Bedford Hills , New York.
Still, the prospect of rivalry from other Internet companies
“is a big issue,” he said.  Sales Gain  Yelp offered 7.1 million shares, while the Yelp Foundation
offered 50,000. The stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol YELP. The company planned to offer the
shares for $12 to $14 each. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup
Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc. led the offering.  Yelp’s biggest investors, including Stoppelman, didn’t plan
to sell shares in the IPO. The former PayPal Inc. executive will
hold about 11 percent of the voting power in Yelp following the
share sale, according to a regulatory filing. At today’s closing
price, the stake is worth about $145 million.  Bessemer Venture
Partners (PEF2883)  and Elevation Partners each will have about 22 percent,
the filing shows.  Revenue rose 74 percent to $83.3 million last year, with
local ads accounting for 70 percent of that and brand
advertising making up most of the rest. The company hasn’t
posted a profit since at least 2007, according to the
 prospectus . The proceeds will go toward general corporate
purposes and expanding Yelp’s financial flexibility, according
to the filing.  Amazon-Sized ‘Opportunity’  The company said in its IPO prospectus that it had 66
million monthly unique visitors and that it had 25 million
published reviews at the end of last year. The online local
advertising market may rise to $37.9 billion in 2015 from $26.4
billion this year, according to BIA/Kelsey.  Stoppelman predicted that Yelp’s reviews will be as
prominent in users’ daily Web browsing as content from
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, had
87.9 million unique U.S. visitors in December, who spent an
average of about 42 minutes on the site, according to Nielsen.  “We see a huge opportunity to become the strongest brand
in local, much like you see with Amazon,” Stoppelman said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.” “We see Yelp occupying that space with content.
Whatever business you need to go to, we’re going to have the
best content for that. You’re going to go to us day in and day
out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anjelica Tan in New York at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  