-- ‘Fast & Furious’ Sequel Tops Weekend Films, $98.5 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-27T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/-fast-furious-sequel-tops-weekend-movies-with-98-5-million.html
“Fast & Furious 6,” from  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures , was the top film at theaters in the
U.S. and  Canada  in the first three days of the U.S. Memorial Day
weekend, taking in $98.5 million, the biggest-ever debut for the
studio.  The film, which also had the second-biggest opening this
year, topped  Warner Bros .’ comedy “The Hangover Part III,”
which had sales of $42.4 million,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
in a statement yesterday.  The new installments of these popular franchises helped
boost revenue for the top 12 films this weekend 73 percent from
the year-ago period, according to Hollywood.com. For Universal,
the success of “Fast & Furious 6” bodes well for its ranking
among U.S. studios, where it’s third with $442.5 million in
domestic revenue through May 23, according to Box Office Mojo.
Walt Disney Co. is first with $655.8 million.  “It’s very rare for a sixth franchise, which is more than
a decade old, to do so well,” said Gitesh Pandya, chief
executive officer of Boxofficeguru.com. “It started out as a
low-budget film, and over time has transformed itself into a
 James Bond  for the youth.”  He also credited its success to the fact it appealed to an
ethnically diverse audience as well as women, who made of up 49
percent of the audience.  “That’s very high for a macho-type movie,” he said.  International Crime  In “Fast & Furious 6,” federal agent Luke Hobbs, played
by  Dwayne Johnson , reunites with a team of car-heist experts to
battle an international crime organization. Regulars Vin Diesel
and Paul Walker return in their roles as Hobbs’s unlikely
allies.  The first five films in the series generated $1.59 billion
in worldwide ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo . The
sixth installment was expected to generate $107 million over the
four-day holiday weekend, the estimate of  Boxoffice.com , another
researcher.  It’s topped that number already, with $122.7 million in
sales as of yesterday, and today still to be counted.  “The Hangover Part III” is billed as the last in the
raunchy comedies about the misadventures of three globe-trotting
buddies played by  Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis and  Bradley Cooper . In the new film, one of the trio is kidnapped and held
hostage to force the other two to locate recurring bad guy Mr.
Chow, played by Ken Jeong.  Evil Forces  “The bad reviews reinforced the fact that the film wasn’t
that funny,” Pandya said. Audiences were already disappointed
from the previous series and had already “checked out,” he
said.  Sales for “The Hangover Part III” excluded revenue from
its May 23 opening, one day earlier than originally scheduled.
Including that date, the movie took in $63.8 million.  The weekend’s other new film,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s animated
“Epic,” was fourth with sales of $34.2 million. The film tells
the story of a teenage girl who finds herself in a battle with
evil forces that seek to destroy the natural world.  The voices of  Beyonce Knowles , Amanda Seyfried,  Josh
Hutcherson  and  Colin Farrell  are featured.  “Star Trek Into Darkness,” the second film in J.J. Abrams
reboot of the franchise, dropped to third place from first with
$38 million in sales for  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures. Made
for about $190 million, the sequel has taken in $156.8 million
since it opened on May 16, according to Hollywood.com.  Holiday Record  “Iron Man 3” from Disney’s Marvel fell to fifth place
from second with sales of $19.4 million.  The film has generated $1.14 billion worldwide since it
opened on May 3. The movie took in $174.1 million that weekend,
the biggest opening year to date.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose to $252.7 million
from $146.3 million in the year-ago period, Hollywood.com said.  Pandya said a diversity of film subjects allowed
moviemakers to cater to everyone, which boosted receipts.  Hollywood.com said that for all films in release it was a
record Memorial Day weekend with sales totaling $257 million,
beating the previous record of $223 million in 2011.  Year to date, revenue and attendance are both down 7
percent, Hollywood.com said.  The following table has U.S. movie box office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales and estimates from May 24-May 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  