-- Haiti’s Ex-Slaves Demand Land and Mule From France’s CDC
-- B y   D a v i d   W h i t e h o u s e
-- 2013-05-26T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/haiti-s-ex-slaves-demand-land-and-mule-from-france-s-cdc.html
France ’s colonial past in Haiti is
coming back to haunt it.  A group of black-rights associations is suing a French
state-owned bank over compensation payments it collected for
slave owners in the Caribbean nation, citing as precedent
reparations ordered by U.S. Civil War General  William Sherman .  Haiti, France’s most valuable 18th-century colony because of
sugar and coffee production, became independent in 1804 after a
slave revolt. Under the threat of attack from French warships in
1825, the country agreed to pay reparations of 150 million
francs as compensation to former slave owners. Though the amount
was cut in 1838, it took Haiti until 1947 to pay off its debt.  The lawsuit filed this month against Caisse des Depots et
Consignations, or CDC, and the French state is demanding an
acknowledgement of their role in Haiti’s impoverishment,
modeling the petition on compensation devised by Sherman -- a
commander in the Union army in the U.S. Civil War -- who in
January 1865 ordered that former slaves be given 40 acres and a
mule for each family.  That’s the “historical reference for the demand for moral
and financial acknowledgement” of the impact of debt paid by
Haiti as compensation to French slave owners, Norbert Tricaud,
one of the lawyers who filed the suit, said in a May 21
interview at his office in Paris.  More slaves were imported from  Africa  into Haiti than into
the U.S., where slavery lasted 70 years longer, according to
Philippe Girard, who teaches history at  McNeese State University
in Louisiana  and is the author of the book, “Haiti.”  Europe 
has lagged behind in seeking accountability from companies that
may have benefited from the slave trade, Tricaud said.  JPMorgan Cited  The French suit cites an agreement in 2005 by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  to contribute $5 million to finance education for
young blacks in  Louisiana  in recognition of the role in slavery
of units that later became part of the bank.  CDC was created in 1816, a year after Louis XVIII restored
the monarchy in France, to help alleviate the country’s heavy
debts and its problems raising money. CDC guaranteed and
invested deposits collected in escrow accounts and civil
servants’ retirement funds. The financial institution, which now
acts as the vehicle for state holdings, has stakes in French
companies including  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV) , Icade SA,  CNP
Assurances (CNP)  SA and Veolia Transdev.  CDC spokesman  Bruno George  said that bank had received the
suit and that legal reasons prevented him from commenting on it.
 Alexandre de Jorna , the French state lawyer in the case, said
the state has not yet decided its position on the suit.  In Poverty  French slave owners’ 150 million francs in compensation from
Haiti compares with 60 million francs for the U.S. purchase of
Louisiana from France in 1803.  The payments made by Haiti to CDC meant that victims of
slavery were forced to compensate those who benefited from it,
according to the suit. They set  Haiti  on the road to modern
indebtedness and poverty, it says.  Using inflation and compound interest, Haiti’s former
president Jean-Bertrand Aristide claimed that the amount paid to
France was worth $21 billion. In his history of Haiti, Girard
writes that the figure was designed to distract attention from
the failings of Aristide’s rule.  The suit was filed at the Paris Tribunal de Grande Instance
by the  Conseil Representatif des Associations Noires , an
umbrella grouping of French black-rights groups set up in 2005.  The group’s focus is less on compensation for slave
descendants and more on getting France to recognize its actions.  ‘Good Faith’  The group is demanding that CDC pay 10 million euros ($13
million) to fund slavery-related research and education.  CDC should pay for French school textbooks to be updated to
explain the consequences of French imperialism and a slavery
museum should be built in France, Tricaud said.  A ruling on the suit, filed on May 13, will take at least a
year and CDC and the French state could delay the case for much
longer, he said.  “It depends on the good faith of the state,” he said. “I
know what it takes to delay a case.”  The case was filed after intensified lobbying efforts since
the victory of Socialist Francois Hollande in the 2012
presidential election, Tricaud said.  France in 2010 canceled 56 million euros of remaining debt
from Haiti and said that it would spend 230 million euros to
help the country rebuild after the earthquake in January 2010
that killed about 300,000 people.  No Reparations  Hollande said this month that it would be impossible to make
reparations for slavery.  The reparations order from Sherman, whose “March to the
Sea” in late 1864 left a trail of destruction across  Georgia ,
also didn’t become a reality. Land was set aside in Georgia and
 South Carolina  and then taken back when U.S. President Andrew Johnson rescinded the command in the same year.  In 2012, Haiti was ranked 161st out of 187 countries in
terms of human development by the United Nations Development
Program. About 80 percent of the population lives on less than
$2 a day, according to the  World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Whitehouse at 
 dwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  