-- Aussie Dollar Falls as Shorts Climb, Before U.S. Confidence Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-05-27T05:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/aussie-dollar-falls-as-shorts-climb-before-u-s-confidence-data.html
Australia ’s dollar extended declines
versus the greenback from last week before U.S. data forecast to
show improvement in  consumer confidence  that may add to the case
for the  Federal Reserve  to slow stimulus.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank may cut the pace of asset purchases if policy makers see
indications of sustained growth. The currencies of Australia and
New Zealand slid against their major peers on prospects slowing
growth in China will curb exports for the South Pacific nations.  “The Fed’s slowing of stimulus would erode the Aussie
dollar’s yield advantage,” said Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo . “If data this
week confirm a slowdown in the Chinese economy, the Oceanic
currencies will come under further pressure.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.2 percent to 96.32 U.S. cents
as of 3:26 p.m. in Sydney from May 24, when it completed a 0.8
percent weekly slide, its third straight decline. It dropped to
95.94 on May 23, a level unseen since June 1.  The Aussie lost 0.4 percent to 97.36 yen. The currency
touched NZ$1.1886, the lowest since January 2009, before trading
at NZ$1.1918, little changed from last week. It dropped to 99.23
Canadian cents, the weakest since August 2011, before trading
0.1 percent lower at 99.49.  New Zealand ’s currency slid 0.1 percent to 80.88 U.S.
cents. The kiwi lost 0.3 percent to 81.77 yen.  Australia’s  10-year bond  yield fell three basis points to
3.28 percent, snapping a five-day advance. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive a flowing rate,
was little changed at 2.91 percent.  U.S. Economy  The Conference Board’s  index  of U.S. consumer sentiment
probably climbed to 71 this month from 68.1 in April, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
before the New York-based private research group releases the
data tomorrow. U.S. markets are closed for a holiday today.  Chinese President Xi Jinping last week signaled a tolerance
for slower expansion to avoid environmental degradation as
policy makers outlined plans for the private sector to take a
bigger role in boosting growth.  Data last week from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
 showed  a preliminary reading for a purchasing manager’s index of
Chinese manufacturing fell to 49.6 in May, below the 50.4
estimated by economists in a Bloomberg survey. A reading below
50 indicates a contraction. China is the biggest trading partner
for both Australia and New Zealand. A PMI reading from the
government is due for release on June 1.  Net income at Chinese industrial companies increased 9.3
percent in April from a year earlier to 437 billion  yuan  ($71
billion), up from a 5.3 percent increase the previous month, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website today.  Aussie Shorts  Future traders increased bets that the Australian dollar
will decline against the greenback, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a drop in the Aussie compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 32,409 on May 21,
compared with net shorts of 13,450 a week earlier, and the most
bearish since the week ended June 12.  New Zealand’s dollar has strengthened 7.8 percent in the
past 12 months, the second biggest increase among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The Aussie has fallen 1.7 percent, while the yen is
down 23 percent, the worst performer.  Barclays Plc recommends shorting the Australian dollar
against its Canadian and New Zealand counterparts.  “Lingering concerns about  China  growth is likely to weigh
further on” Australia’s dollar, Barclays analysts including
New-York based Yuki Sakasai, wrote in a note to clients dated
yesterday.  -- Editors: Rocky Swift, Jonathan Annells.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  