-- Australia May Lose LNG Projects Unless Costs Fall, APPEA Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-26T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/australia-may-lose-lng-projects-unless-costs-fall-appea-says.html
Australia may lose A$100 billion
($96.5 billion) of potential liquefied natural gas projects to
 East Africa  and  North America  unless costs in the nation are
reduced, according to an industry group.  “Australia’s attractiveness as a place to invest is under
enormous pressure,”  the Australian Petroleum Production &
Exploration Association  said yesterday in a statement before its
conference scheduled to start in Brisbane today.  Energy companies from Chevron Corp. to BG Group Plc are
building almost A$200 billion of LNG export projects in
Australia to tap rising Asian demand. Gas producers are
considering a further A$100 billion of plants, now in doubt
unless the industry rectifies high costs, low labor productivity
and duplication of regulation, APPEA said.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-largest oil
producer, last month scrapped a plan to build an onshore
liquefied natural gas project estimated at $46 billion in favor
of studying cheaper options as costs rise.  Delays and spending over-runs are endemic, according to an
April report from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., which estimates
that projects in  Australia  run from 15 percent to 50 percent
over their original cost estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, and
rivals are also being dogged by surging costs. Producers of
everything from gold to coal are firing workers and putting
assets up for sale, as they are squeezed by unfavorable foreign
exchange rates, lower prices and higher labor costs.  Japan, Europe  Further clouding the outlook for companies in Australia,
the U.S. Energy Department is weighing 19 applications from
companies seeking to build export terminals and sell natural gas,
converted into liquid form, to nations without free-trade
agreements with the country. That list includes  Japan  and most
of  Europe .  Earlier this month the department gave conditional approval
for the Freeport LNG project in  Texas , the second export
application approved under President  Barack Obama ’s
administration.  The Australian gas industry will deliver more than A$13
billion a year in royalties and taxes by 2020, APPEA said,
citing data from Deloitte Access Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  