-- Bruins Knock Rangers Out of NHL Playoffs, Chicago Extends Series
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/bruins-win-3-1-to-eliminate-rangers-from-nhl-playoff-series.html
The  Boston Bruins  beat the  New York
Rangers  to reach the National Hockey League conference final
against the Pittsburgh Penguins, while the  Chicago Blackhawks 
escaped elimination with a win over the  Detroit Red Wings .  The Bruins topped the Rangers 3-1 last night to win the
second-round, best-of-seven Eastern Conference series. The
Blackhawks won 4-1 over the Red Wings, who have a 3-2 series
lead as they vie for the chance to play the Los Angeles Kings or
San Jose Sharks.  In tonight’s game, the Kings can advance to the Western
Conference final with a win over the Sharks in Game 6.  The Bruins needed seven games to win round one against the
Toronto Maple Leafs and five games to oust the Rangers.  “We probably played with fire in the first round and
almost got burnt,” Bruins coach Claude Julien told reporters.
“We knew we couldn’t let our guard down (against New York)
because, if we did, they would come right back at us.”  The Rangers trailed by three games to none before winning
Game 4.  “I watched our team fight tonight to extend this series.
We get it on a big guy’s stick with a chance to tie it,”
Rangers coach  John Tortorella  told reporters. “So it goes. They
were the better team. They deserved to win.”  Dan Girardi  scored to give the Rangers a 1-0 first-period
lead.  Torey Krug tied the game at 1-1 in the second period before
Gregory Campbell scored the first of his two goals to put the
Bruins ahead 2-1 on home ice at TD Garden in Boston. Campbell’s
second goal came with 51 seconds left in the game.  “I expected more from us, and I hoped for more,” said
Rangers goalie  Henrik Lundqvist  who made 29 saves. “Right now,
it’s just an empty feeling, and disappointment.”  At United Center in Chicago, Bryan Bickell scored a goal
five minutes, 52 seconds before the end of the first period to
give Chicago a 1-0 lead.  Dan Cleary tied the game midway through the second period
before the Andrew Shaw and  Jonathan Toews  added points for the
Blackhawks. Shaw scored his second goal in the final period.  The Red Wings host Game 6 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  