-- Caribbean Should Trade Venezuelan Oil for Homegrown Sun
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/caribbean-should-trade-venezuelan-oil-for-homegrown-sun.html
Still recovering from last year’s
 Hurricane Sandy  and the 2008 financial crisis, many Caribbean
countries now face another threat: the possible curtailment of
 Petrocaribe , a Venezuelan program that has kept their economies
afloat with deals on discounted oil.  Consider the case of Jamaica, which this month had to go to
the  International Monetary Fund  for a $932 million  loan  after
rescheduling $9 billion worth of domestic debt. With exports of
bauxite and sugar down, fewer tourist arrivals and Sandy’s
lingering costs, its economy has been shrinking. Unemployment
hovers at 14 percent. Last year, public-sector debt was up to
140 percent of gross domestic product.  That included the $2.4 billion that Jamaica owes  Venezuela 
for oil deliveries, at an interest rate of only 1 percent. If
Venezuela were to cancel the program,  Jamaica  -- which relies on
oil for more than 90 percent of its energy needs -- would need
to find $600 million a year to  replace  the supply. According to
the  Inter-American Development Bank , in 2012 the oil trade
imbalance for Caribbean countries was equivalent to -8.7 percent
of GDP.  The good news is that Jamaica and its neighbors can reduce
their dependence on Venezuelan heavy crude. More affordable
technology can unlock the energy contained in the sun, wind and
sea -- resources that Caribbean countries possess in abundance.  Body-Slammed  True, many of Petrocaribe’s 13 Caribbean members would have
suffered without the cheap oil that began flowing to them in
2005 -- especially after the 2008 crisis body-slammed the most
tourism-dependent economies. These countries have benefited not
just from the 1 percent interest rate but also from two- to
three-year grace periods, 17- to 25-year repayment plans and
flexible agreements that have let them channel money to
development.  This sweet deal, however, also enabled governments to
postpone tough fiscal choices in favor of racking up debt. The
 Dominican Republic , which owes Venezuela $3 billion for oil, saw
its debt-to-GDP ratio rise to 45 percent last year, up 10 points
from 2008. Debt in the Bahamas has jumped to 50 percent, from 32
percent in 2008 -- still low by U.S. standards, but high for an
island nation vulnerable to external shocks. After its
devastating 2010 earthquake,  Haiti  had $395 million in oil debt
forgiven by Venezuela; it has since amassed almost $1 billion
more. Some estimates suggest that, by 2015, 35 percent of the
Caribbean’s external debt will be owed to Venezuela.  Now Venezuela and  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , its state oil
company, face economic pressures of their own. President  Nicolas Maduro  said this month that the Petrocaribe program will
continue. But production of oil, which provides 95 percent of
Venezuela’s foreign exchange and about half its government
revenue, has dropped over the last few decades. Moreover,
agreements with Cuba and the other Petrocaribe countries and
 China  mean that PDVSA now receives cash for less than half its
exports. During this spring’s election, opposition candidate
Henriques Capriles Radonski pledged to stop “giving away”
Venezuela’s oil, and there are many in Maduro’s camp who think
the same.  To blunt the impact of such a shock, Caribbean countries
should take advantage of their “unique opportunities for
renewable energy technology implementation,” to quote a  report 
by the Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas, an
initiative started in 2009 by President  Barack Obama . In their
part of the world, the sunshine picks up during the seasons when
the winds die down, and vice versa. Plus, the Lesser Antilles
chain is a “geothermal powerhouse.” And the region’s electricity
rates -- among the world’s highest -- make it an ideal
marketplace for renewable energy, especially as the price of
generating solar and wind power has fallen.  Sunny Prospects  Two of Petrocaribe’s biggest customers, Jamaica and the
Dominican Republic, are among the best candidates for widespread
solar generation, according to a recent report by  Bloomberg New
Energy Finance . Both have created clean energy policy frameworks
and standards, an example that other Caribbean nations should
follow, and they have growing clean energy investments that need
regulatory reform to thrive. In Jamaica, the monopoly utility
will need to make it easier for outside developers to plug into
the grid. And the Dominican Republic will need to make its grid
more efficient and secure; as it is now, as much as 40 percent
of its electricity is stolen or otherwise lost.  Although the U.S. has long recognized its interest in
promoting growth and stability on its “ third border ” -- to use
President  George W. Bush ’s phrase -- its promotion of clean
energy there has been mostly hortatory. It has funded  projects 
through multilateral institutions such as the IADB, and  through 
the U.S. Export-Import Bank. The State Department’s still-new
Bureau of Energy Resources has also jawboned on behalf of
connecting grids and establishing regulatory frameworks. Yet set
against declining U.S. assistance and Venezuela’s billions for
oil, that doesn’t add up to much. A high-profile demonstration
project would be a wise investment. So would speeding up
Department of Energy approval for exports of relatively clean
liquefied natural gas to the region. If Petrocaribe goes down,
it shouldn’t take a good chunk of the Caribbean with it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 