-- Lazio Beats Roma in Italian Cup Final; Celtic Wins Scottish Cup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-27T02:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/celtic-beats-hibernian-3-0-to-win-scottish-cup-for-36th-time.html
Lazio beat city rival Roma 1-0 to win
soccer’s Italian Cup for the sixth time. Celtic defeated
Hibernian 3-0 to secure its record-extending 36th Scottish Cup
title and complete a league and cup double.  Lazio midfielder Senad Lulic got the only goal at Rome’s
Olympic Stadium yesterday in the first meeting of the capital
clubs in the final. The victory also earned Lazio a place in
next season’s Europa League.  In  France , Lyon beat Rennes 2-0 on the final day of the
season to clinch a place in  Europe ’s elite  Champions League .
Lisandro Lopez and Clement Grenier scored the goals as Lyon
wrapped up third place in Ligue 1 ahead of Nice, which qualified
for the Europa League after winning 2-0 at Ajaccio. Troyes
joined Nancy and Brest in being relegated following a 2-1 loss
at Valenciennes.  Real Sociedad’s chances of qualifying for the Champions
League for the first time in a decade were hampered by a 3-3
home draw against Real  Madrid  in  Spain . Valencia moved up to
fourth place, the final qualifying spot, with one game left
after beating Granada 1-0 on Roberto Soldado’s second-half goal.  Sociedad must win at Deportivo La Coruna on June 1 to have
any chance of overtaking Valencia, which visits Sevilla.  In Glasgow,  Gary Hooper  scored for Celtic in the eighth and
31st minutes and Joe Ledley added a third goal 10 minutes from
the end at Hampden Park. Celtic clinched the league title with
four games last month to spare and finished 16 points ahead of
second-place Motherwell.  Hibs, who lost 5-1 in last year’s final to Edinburgh rival
Hearts, hasn’t won the trophy since 1902.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  