-- China’s Li Relying on Merkel to Resolve Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-05-27T08:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/china-s-li-relying-on-merkel-to-resolve-crisis-and-boost-growth.html
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said his
country will rely on  Germany  to lead the euro out of its crisis
and boost the global economy as European leaders begin to tackle
soaring unemployment after three years of budget cuts.  Li, on the final stop of his first trip as Chinese leader,
said the government in Beijing will continue to stand by the
European Union. He said the fact that Germany was the only EU
nation he visited underscored its position and the “very, very
important” ties between Germany and China.  “We earnestly hope that the EU resolves these temporary
difficulties, and we hope that the euro area can remain
stable,” Li told reporters as he stood beside Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin yesterday. A strong euro “is also a good thing
for China’s own development -- and good for the whole world.”  Optimism over the global economy has dimmed as the pace of
Chinese growth slows and the 17-member euro region languishes in
recession. European leaders will spend the coming weeks working
on plans to bolster growth and address a scourge of joblessness
as they shift to fixing the ailing economy.  Germany and  France  are due to announce joint proposals
tomorrow to address youth unemployment under the banner of a
“New Deal for  Europe .” The blueprint may involve the  European
Investment Bank  “leveraging” 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion)
being made available from the EU through 2020 to yield as much
as 60 billion euros in loans to tackle joblessness, Germany’s
 Rheinische Post  reported May 13.  Schaeuble, Moscovici  The plan will be aired in the French capital by the German
and French finance ministers,  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and  Pierre Moscovici , and by the respective labor ministers, Ursula von der Leyen and Michel Sapin.  The EIB is deploying 40 percent more funds, or almost 70
billion euros, in the next three years to fight unemployment,
director Werner Hoyer told Germany’s  Bild newspaper  in an
interview published today.  The boost is a “clear signal that Europe won’t leave
states that have undertaken painful reforms and savings to
consolidate budgets and strengthen competitiveness in the
lurch,” Hoyer said, according to Bild. The EIB will do
“everything its power” to counter youth unemployment, he told
the newspaper.  Merkel, who will travel to Paris on May 30 for talks on the
euro with French President  Francois Hollande , said that she
welcomes China’s support throughout the crisis and its
acceptance of the euro as an “important currency.”  “It’s evident that the European Union is on the way to
resolving this debt crisis,” Merkel told reporters. “Now it’s
urgently necessary to return to growth and fight unemployment.”  Bilateral Ties  Even as he warned against a trade conflict with the EU, Li
said China’s new leadership under President Xi Jinping would
seek to intensify relations between the two countries.  China’s reliance on Europe to return to growth comes as Xi
last week signaled a tolerance for slower expansion in his
country to avoid environmental degradation. Xi told a study
session of the Communist Party’s top leadership May 24 that
 China  won’t sacrifice the environment to ensure short-term
growth as they make plans to overhaul the economy.  In the euro area, which extended a recession to a record
sixth quarter, policy makers have increasingly stressed the need
to resolve youth unemployment, which climbed to 24 percent as of
March. The figure soared to 38 percent in Portugal and 56
percent in  Spain , both recipients of euro bailout funds.  Merkel, speaking at a congress of her Christian Democratic
Union party over the weekend, said youth unemployment levels
were “unimaginable” and require urgent action.  Additional assistance could also come from a German plan to
mobilize funds from its state-owned development bank KfW Group
to help ease credit in countries such as Spain,  Portugal  or
 Greece , according to  Der Spiegel , which cited a letter from
Schaeuble to the German Economy Ministry.  Those funds, which would have to be approved by the German
parliament, would be in the single-digit billions, Spiegel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  