-- Japan Says Chinese Premier Li Ignores History in Potsdam Remarks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-27T04:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/china-s-li-calls-to-uphold-postwar-peace-amid-japan-island-spat.html
A top Japanese official said Chinese
Premier Li Keqiang “ignored history” by interpreting a 1945
allied agreement to mean  Japan  should hand over disputed islands
to  China .  In a speech yesterday in Potsdam, Germany, site of the
conference where terms of surrender were dictated to Japan, Li
said that agreement reaffirmed Japan should return all territory
stolen from China, including “Taiwan and related islands.”  Li’s speech continues a campaign by China to assert control
over the uninhabited islands in the East China Sea, called
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, that are
administrated by Japan. Last year’s decision by the Japanese
government to buy the islands from a private owner sparked
protests in China and harmed a $340 billion annual trade
relationship.  “These were comments that completely ignored history,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters today in
 Tokyo . “The Senkaku islands are our territory in terms of
history and international law and we have administrative control
over them.”  In his speech, Li said no one must be allowed to violate
the peace achieved after World War II.  “We should not allow anyone to destroy or deny the postwar
peace order,” Li said yesterday  in Potsdam .  Shrine Visits  Tensions were compounded last month after Japanese
lawmakers visited a Tokyo shrine where war criminals are honored
along with other war dead. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
then vowed to protect the islands by force.  Earlier this month Chinese scholars at a state-run academy
said the Potsdam agreement and other World War II-era allied
declarations call into question Japan’s sovereignty over
Okinawa, site of U.S. military installations. Chinese Foreign
Ministry Spokeswoman Hua Chunying later declined to affirm
Japan’s sovereignty over Okinawa and other islands in the Ryukyu
chain.  “The forces of justice and the Chinese people -- and the
people elsewhere who love peace -- will never accept any
comments or actions that seek to deny or glorify the past
history of fascist aggression,” Li said.  Li is visiting  Germany  as part of his first overseas trip
since taking office. He has also visited Switzerland, Pakistan
and  India  during the trip.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Patrick Donahue in Potsdam at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  