-- China Builds EU Beachhead With $5 Billion City in Belarus
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2013-05-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/china-builds-eu-beachhead-with-5-billion-city-in-belarus.html
China is building an entire city in
the forests near the Belarusian capital Minsk to create a
manufacturing springboard between the European Union and  Russia .  Belarusian President  Aleksandr Lukashenko  allotted an area
40 percent larger than  Manhattan  around Minsk’s international
airport for the $5 billion development, which will include
enough housing to accommodate 155,000 people, according to
Chinese and Belarusian officials.  Lukashenko, who’s led his former Soviet state of 9.5
million for two decades, is turning to China to help revive a
$60 billion economy that’s needed $6.5 billion of bailouts from
the  International Monetary Fund  and Russia since 2009. The hub
will put Chinese exporters within 170 miles of EU members  Poland 
and  Lithuania  and give them tax-free entry into Russia and
Kazakhstan, which share a customs union. It will also let them
draw from a workforce that’s 99.6 percent literate and makes
$560 a month on average, half the Polish wage.  “This is a unique project,” Gong Jianwei,  China ’s
ambassador to Belarus, said on state television May 17, after
the project won regulatory approval. “Nobody will be able to
build anything like this industrial park anywhere else in  Europe 
anymore. The infrastructure is so powerful.”  The “modern city on the Eurasian continent,” as it’s
called in marketing documents, will be built around the M1
highway that links Moscow and Berlin via Belarus and Poland. A
speed-rail network will tie the airport to the center of the
city, which will be powered by a $10 billion nuclear plant,
Belarus’s first, which Russia agreed to finance and build by
2018. The first stage of the park is scheduled to be completed
by 2020, with the second stage taking another 10 years.  Gay, Dictator  Lukashenko, 58, a former collective farmer, has sought to
cultivate allies outside the former  Soviet Union  and reduce his
reliance on Russia since the U.S. and EU intensified sanctions
on him and other Belarus officials for jailing political
opponents after the 2010 election that gave him a fourth term.  His isolation deepened after the deaths of two of his few
supporters among world leaders,  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi in 2011
and in March Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , for whom Belarus declared
three days of national mourning. Last year,  Germany ’s openly gay
foreign minister,  Guido Westerwelle , called Belarus “the last
dictatorship in Europe,” prompting Lukashenko to quip that he’d
“rather be a dictator than gay.”  ‘Highly Advantageous’  China, which signed a $3 billion currency swap deal with
Belarus in 2009 to boost trade, agreed to finance the venture
with low-interest loans as long as half the money is spent on
Chinese materials, technology or labor, according to Kirill
Koroteev, the former Economy Ministry official tapped by
Lukashenko to manage the Belarus side of the project. Koroteev
is deputy head of Industrial Park Development Co., which is 60
percent owned by a unit of China National Machinery Industry
Corp. and 40 percent owned by Belarus’s government.  “The loan conditions are highly advantageous,” Koroteev
said in an interview in his office in Minsk, leaning back from a
desk cluttered with documents in Russian, English and Chinese.
“It doesn’t make sense for us to even consider financing from
other banks.”  Export-Import Bank of China and  China Development Bank 
Corp. are among Chinese lenders that have already agreed to fund
the project, Liu Xuesong, councilor at the Chinese Embassy in
Minsk, said by e-mail. The press office at China Development
Bank in Beijing didn’t respond to an e-mail request for comment
and  Liu Yang , a publicity officer at Export-Import Bank, didn’t
answer calls to his office phone.  Tax Breaks  It’s not just Chinese companies that are eligible for the
tax breaks at the future park. Any enterprise that pledges to
invest at least $5 million and work in an “advanced sphere”
such as biomedicine or electronics can receive the 10-year
waiver on profit and property taxes, according to the project’s
website. Taxes will be halved for companies in the second 10
years after their investment.  More than 10 companies have already shown interest,
including drug makers  Sinopharm Group (1099) , based in  Hong Kong , and
Latvia’s Grindeks, Koroteev said. Sinopharm didn’t respond to e-mailed questions and Grindeks declined to comment immediately.  “We aim to turn this place into an international business
springboard,” Koroteev said. “We don’t want to build a dead
city.”  Chinese leaders have been seeking to establish a
manufacturing base for their exporters within the EU for years.
Talks with  Bulgaria  on establishing a park similar to the one
Belarus has approved, though much smaller, started in 2010 only
to stall after a change in leadership in both countries, Valery
Andreev, who heads the company overseeing Bulgaria’s industrial
zones, said by phone from Sofia.  ‘China’s Bulwark’  “It would make sense for Chinese companies to build
factories here, where the market is, but we are not in a
position to wait for Chinese investors only,” Andreev said.  Then-Premier  Wen Jiabao  led a meeting with officials from
several eastern and central European countries in Warsaw,
Poland, last April during which he identified 12 steps they
could take to improve relations with China -- one of which was
to have China develop an economic zone in each of the countries,
according to Andreev.  “Belarusian authorities want, a bit naively, to turn their
country into China’s bulwark in Europe,” Alexei Pikulik, head
of the Belarusian Institute for Strategic Studies, an
independent research group based in Vilnius, Lithuania.  “This goal will be complicated while Belarus has strained
relations with the West,” Pikulik said by phone from Minsk on
May 23. “While Belarus borrows, China makes money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  