-- Consumer Spending Probably Little Changed: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-26T04:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/consumer-spending-probably-little-changed-u-s-economy-preview.html
Consumer spending  was probably little
changed in April as Americans pocketed the savings from lower
gasoline prices and smaller utility bills, economists said
before a report this week.  The projected unchanged reading in purchases would follow a
0.2 percent rise in March, according to the median of 69
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey before Commerce Department data
due May 31. Other reports may show  home values  jumped by the
most in seven years, and more Americans signed contracts to buy
previously owned houses.  The rebound in housing and cheaper fuel costs are shoring
up household finances and confidence, making consumers more
willing to keep shopping in the face of a higher  payroll tax .
Bigger gains in employment and wages are the missing elements
that would ensure the world’s largest economy will better
weather the  federal budget  cuts that took effect in March.  “Consumers are showing more resilience than we’d have
anticipated,” said  Jonathan Basile , a U.S. economist at Credit
Suisse in  New York . “Demand for homes will keep improving, and
prices should appreciate quicker because the supply is so low.”  The Commerce Department’s consumer-spending report may also
show  incomes  grew 0.1 percent last month following a 0.2 percent
rise in March, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  A drop in the number of people  filing claims  for jobless
benefits is signaling a waning in dismissals that will lay the
groundwork for hiring and faster wage growth.  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
said on May 22 that it is adding factory workers as rising sales
prompt the second-largest U.S. automaker to boost capacity to
build 200,000 more vehicles annually in  North America .  Auto Sales  Americans are replacing older vehicles, taking advantage of
low borrowing costs. Cars and light trucks sold at a  14.9
million (SAARTOTL)  annual rate in April, after a 15.2 million pace the
prior month, data from Ward’s Automotive Group showed. The
average for the first quarter was 15.3 million, the strongest
since the same period in 2008 and a sign the longer-term outlook
remains positive.  A drop in receipts at services stations, reflecting lower
 gasoline prices , probably restrained last month’s spending
total, economists said.  The Commerce Department’s price index tied to spending, the
gauge tracked by Federal Reserve policy makers, dropped 0.2
percent in April as fuel costs retreated, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. It would mark the biggest decline in
almost a year.  Inflation Adjusted  Adjusting the spending forecast for the drop in prices
would yield a 0.2 percent increase in so-called real purchases,
which are the figures used to calculate gross domestic product,
following a 0.3 percent gain in March.  Consumers also probably had smaller utility bills last
month as the weather turned warmer following the coolest March
since 2002, also helping to curb total spending.  Households are being underpinned by gains in equity and
housing markets. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  is up 15.7
percent this year through May 24 and reached a record on May 21.  Starting a week shortened by tomorrow’s Memorial Day
holiday, a May 28 report may show the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities rose 1 percent in March after a 1.2
percent gain the prior month, economists predicted in the
Bloomberg survey. That would put  home prices  up  10.2 percent 
from a year earlier, the biggest jump since April 2006.  Confidence Improving  Americans’ moods echo the improvement in their finances and
the economic outlook, two other reports may show. The Conference
Board’s consumer  confidence index , due May 28, probably climbed
to a six-month high in May. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  sentiment  gauge, to be released on May 31, likely
surged to the highest level in almost six years.  The index of  pending home  sales increased 1.5 percent in
April, matching the gain the prior month, economists forecast
ahead of a report from the National Association of Realtors due
May 30.  The same day, revised data from the Commerce Department
will show the economy grew at a 2.5 percent annualized rate in
the first quarter, the same as estimated last month, economists
said. Consumer spending probably expanded faster than previously
projected, the figures may also show.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  