-- Best to Join Lions Rugby Squad After Hartley Gets 11-Week Ban
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-27T03:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/dylan-hartley-set-to-miss-lions-rugby-tour-after-red-card-1-.html
Ireland hooker Rory Best will join up
with the British and Irish Lions rugby squad today after
 England ’s  Dylan Hartley  received an 11-week ban for verbally
abusing the referee in the English Premiership final.  Hartley, who was shown the red card by referee Wayne Barnes
in the match two days ago, is set to miss the Lions’ tour of
Hong Kong and  Australia  after a Rugby Football Union
disciplinary panel suspended him yesterday. Hartley has the
right of appeal against the decision, the RFU said.  “A final decision on whether Dylan Hartley will take any
part in the tour will depend on the outcome of any potential
appeal,” Lions Tour Manager Andy  Irvine  said in a statement.  Lions coach Warren Gatland, whose squad flies out today
ahead of the June 1 tour opener against the Barbarians in Hong
Kong, said after announcing his 37-man roster last month that
leaving Best out had “probably been our hardest decision.”
 Wales ’s Richard Hibbard and Tom Youngs of England are the other
two hookers in the squad.  Hartley was red-carded as his Northampton Saints team lost
37-17 to Leicester Tigers at Twickenham in  London , becoming the
first player to be sent off in the title match. He was alleged
to have sworn at Barnes and called him a “cheat” after a
penalty decision went against the Saints.  The panel found that Hartley’s remarks were aimed at
Barnes. Hartley had said he was expressing his frustration to an
opposition player, according to Northampton Director of Rugby
Jim Mallinder.  “We cannot get around the fact that Wayne Barnes was
certain that Mr. Hartley’s comments were directed at him,”
panel chief Jeff Blackett said in the ruling. “In terms of
sanction, calling a referee a cheat is an attack on his
integrity and contrary to the core values of rugby and therefore
we have taken a serious view and provided a serious sanction.”  After playing in  Hong Kong , the Lions travel to Australia
for nine matches starting June 5 against the Western Force Super
Rugby team in Perth. The three-Test series against the Wallabies
begins June 22 in Brisbane with matches to follow in  Melbourne  a
week later and Sydney on July 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  