-- Emerson Sees Weaker Aussie Aiding Carmakers After Ford Closure
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-26T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/emerson-says-weaker-aussie-will-aid-carmakers-after-ford-closure.html
Australian Trade Minister Craig Emerson said the government will back the nation’s remaining two
automakers after Ford Motor Co. announced it would stop car
production, adding that a weaker currency would aid the effort.  “We’ll continue to support the automotive industry,”
Emerson told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television in an
interview yesterday. “At an  exchange rate  of A$1.03 obviously
they’ve been under a lot of pressure, I think the exchange rate
now is below 97 U.S. cents, if it goes lower that further boosts
the competitiveness of those industries.”  The Australian dollar fell below parity earlier this month
after averaging above $1.03 for more than 2 1/2 years.  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  said May 23 it will stop making cars in  Australia  and
cut 1,200 jobs from October 2016 at plants in Melbourne and
Geelong.  Australia’s government supports the car industry through a
A$5.4 billion ($5.2 billion) fund, including a A$34 million co-investment with Ford Australia announced last year. The  Reserve
Bank  of Australia, while eschewing intervention to weaken the
currency, cut its  benchmark interest rate  to a record low 2.75
percent on May 7, and the Aussie slumped 5.7 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  since the reduction.  “The dollar has been retarding the export strategy of
Holden and Toyota,” Emerson said. “If the dollar is lower,
that’s a good thing.”  Worst Performer  The Aussie has been the worst performer this quarter among
the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg -- slumping 7.4
percent -- as concerns mount that growth in  China , Australia’s
biggest trading partner, is slowing. China’s outlook is
reflected in weakening prices for Australian commodities that
have powered a decade-long mining investment boom now
approaching its peak.  Emerson’s colleague, Treasurer  Wayne Swan , said yesterday
that the nation’s construction and services companies will need
to pick up the economic slack from mining, while acknowledging
the local currency has complicated the task.  “This transition won’t be seamless, and recently the high
dollar has been making it harder for firms in many non-mining
sectors to pursue new investment opportunities,” Swan said in
his weekly  economic note  released yesterday. “While the dollar
still remains at historically high levels, the recent dip in our
exchange rate may provide relief for some firms -- although it
often takes time for exchange rate movements to have an impact
on business decisions.”  Research, Innovation  While the automotive industry employed just 2 percent of
Australia’s workforce and 29 percent of manufacturing workers in
2012, it supports research and innovation across the entire
economy, according to the Australian Industry Group.  “When you talk to people such as Boeing, which is a very
high tech aeronautical engineering firm that provides components
for the Dreamliner, talk to the CEO there and he’ll tell you
that the majority of their workers were trained in the
automotive industry,” Emerson said, referring to Boeing Co.,
the U.S. aircraft maker. “So it’s a training ground for
developing the skills for manufacturing in this country.”  Ford is the smallest of the nation’s three manufacturers
after units of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)   Australia’s hourly compensation cost in manufacturing was
$46.29 in 2011, compared with $47.38 in  Germany , $35.71 in  Japan ,
$35.53 in the U.S. and $11.65 in  Brazil , according to a survey
of 33 countries by the U.S. Department of Labor.  ‘Extremely Tough’  Toyota, which said in January 2012 it was laying off as
many as 350 workers amid a 36 percent fall in Australian output
since 2007, will continue making cars locally even as conditions
are “extremely tough,” the company said in a May 23 statement.
Holden will invest A$1 billion to ensure production until 2022
and believes the industry “can survive,” Managing Director
Mike Devereux said.  “We must recognize the impact people feel from the
economic change we’re going through,” Swan said. “So the
government is committed to ensuring affected workers and the
communities of Geelong and Broadmeadows are assisted and
supported through this very tough period.”  Australian  consumer confidence  slumped by the most in 17
months in May as the government’s announcement this month that
the budget would remain in deficit overshadowed record low rates,
a private survey showed.  Traders are pricing in about a 25 percent chance the
central bank will lower rates to a fresh record of 2.5 percent
at the next policy meeting on June 4, according to  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government is looking at alternative areas to tap
 Asia ’s growing middle class. On May 25, it released a national
food plan that aims to boost the value of agriculture and food-related exports 45 percent by 2025 to meet demand from emerging
nations including China. Australia exports A$30.5 billion of
food per year and produces enough to feed the nation of 23
million people twice over, according to the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  