-- Even at Half Speed, Nadal Still the Man to Beat in Paris
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-27T14:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/even-at-half-speed-nadal-still-the-man-to-beat-in-paris.html
Rafael Nadal ’s knee injury means he
isn’t the same player who won seven titles on the clay courts of
the  French Open . He’s still the man to beat.  The 26-year-old Spaniard is favored to win and become the
only player with eight French Open titles, even though he said
his knee is still “not 100 percent.” Although he can practice
less than an hour a day, he’s made the final in each of the
eight tournaments he’s played since he returned to the men’s
tennis circuit in February.  Nadal’s performance since his comeback “speaks for
itself,”  Boris Becker , a six-time major singles champion, said
in an interview. “The way he’s come back as strong as he did,
you have to put him back on top. Before his comeback, I was
worried if he would come back at all.”  Nadal, an 11-time Grand Slam champion, returned to the tour
at a small clay-court event in Vina del Mar,  Chile , in February
after recovering from a partially torn patella tendon and
inflammation in his left knee. Since then, five of his six
titles have been won on clay, with one on hard courts, in  Indian
Wells ,  California .  “His record on clay is incredible,” U.S. Open champion
 Andy Murray  said two weeks ago in Rome before dropping out of
Paris with a back injury. “On that surface he is so ahead of
the rest of the pack. Even if he hasn’t played, his level is a
long way ahead of the rest.”  French Titles  Nadal, who’s won 41 clay-court events including a men’s
record seven French Open championships, came back to defeat
unseeded Daniel Brands of Germany 4-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-4, 6-3 to
win  his first round today.  Defending women’s champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  faces
42nd-ranked Su-Wei Hsieh of Chinese Taipei, while former winner
 Li Na  of China beat Spain’s Anabel Medina Garrigues.  “My comeback has been just a dream,” Nadal said a week
before Roland Garros at the Italian Open, where he defeated
men’s Grand Slam record-holder  Roger Federer  of Switzerland 6-1,
6-3 to claim his seventh Rome crown.  Federer won easily yesterday on the opening day of Roland
Garros, beating Spanish qualifier Pablo Carreno Busta, 6-2, 6-2,
6-3.  Serena Williams , the women’s top seed, only conceded one
game against Anna Tatishvili of  Georgia .  Nadal’s March victory at Indian Wells -- on his least-favorite surface because of the impact it has on his joints --
was “an incredible achievement,” according to Becker, who is
an ambassador for Barclays Plc.  “An injury is going to affect you mentally and
physically,” Becker said. “You lack confidence and any sort of
match fitness. That’s on the mental side. But on the physical
side, you just don’t know whether your knees are strong enough
when you are being pushed.”  ‘Right Decisions’  The Spaniard is the 8-13 favorite at U.K. bookmaker  William
Hill Plc (WMH)  to win  Roland Garros . Australian Open champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia follows at 9-4, with former winner Federer
the next-best chance at 9-1.  Federer told a news conference two days before the start of
Roland Garros that Nadal had taken “all the right decisions,”
in his comeback, giving himself enough time to recover.  “He’s healthy, he’s fit, hopefully in no pain,” Federer
said. “Can he then also keep it up on other surfaces? That will
be the next question for him. Once the clay-court season is
over, how is he going to cope with grass and then hard courts
after that?”  Djokovic, the French Open top seed seeking his first title
in Paris, lost to Nadal in last year’s final 6-4, 6-3, 2-6, 7-5.
Play had been halted for the night because of rain after
Djokovic came back from two sets down to win eight games in a
row and go up a break in the fourth set.  Missed Tournaments  “Maybe I could have won if we had continued that day,”
Djokovic said in an interview in  Rome  two weeks ago. “But at
the end of the day, it wasn’t to be.”  There won’t be a repeat of last year’s final because the
third-seeded Nadal and Djokovic have been drawn in the same half
and could meet in the semifinals. Federer, the second seed, is
in the opposite half and can only meet Nadal in the final.  Djokovic won in straight sets on clay at the Monte Carlo
Masters last month, ending Nadal’s quest for an unprecedented
ninth straight title. The Serb has struggled on clay since,
losing to 28th-ranked Bulgarian Grigor Dimitrov in his opening
match in  Madrid , and a week later in the quarterfinals of Rome
to sixth-ranked Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic.  After missing the London Olympics, the  U.S. Open , the ATP
World Tour Finals and the Australian Open, Nadal said he hadn’t
set a target in his comeback.  “My only goal before I started to play -- and it’s still
my goal today -- is to try to be 100 percent healthy,” he said.
“That’s the only thing that worries me. I didn’t forget how to
play tennis in seven months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  