-- Fischer Splits Analysts on Next Israel Move After Cut
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-05-26T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/fischer-splits-analysts-on-next-israel-move-after-cut.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer, who took economists by surprise earlier this month with
an unscheduled rate cut, now has them divided on whether
borrowing costs will fall again at today’s monetary policy
meeting.  Twelve of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg think policy
makers led by Fischer, who used his tie-breaking vote for the
first time to restrict the cut to 0.25 percentage point,
probably won’t change the 1.5 percent benchmark rate. The
remainder forecast the monetary panel will reduce  rates  for a
second time this month, to 1.25 percent, the lowest since March
2010, in an effort to spur slowing growth.  “The Bank of Israel is likely to wait for a while to
examine the effect of the steps it took, before deciding on an
additional rate cut,” said David Reznik, head of fixed-income
research at the Leumi Capital Markets division of Tel Aviv-based
Bank Leumi Le-Israel.  Fischer, who is stepping down next month after eight years
at the helm of the central bank, and his monetary committee have
gradually lowered the benchmark rate from 3.25 percent in 2011
to help spur growth in the export-driven economy. Together with
the mid-month rate cut, the first unscheduled decision since
2008, the Bank of Israel announced a plan to purchase $2.1
billion by the end of the year, in an effort to help moderate
the shekel appreciation.  Dovish Approach  The Israeli currency has gained more than 4 percent in the
past six months, making it the best performer among the 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It weakened by about 3.4
percent since the surprise May 13 rate decision.  Minutes of the policy meeting released last week revealed
that three of the six-member panel favored a half-point cut,
while the others said a quarter-point cut would be sufficient
until the scheduled meeting today, when “the effect of this
reduction could be analyzed.” The split vote fueled speculation
of an additional rate cut today.  “The protocol of the last rate decision revealed, again,
the dovish approach of the monetary committee members, who are
giving economic growth top priority,” said Modi Shafrir, chief
economist for I.L.S. Brokers Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “Delaying the
rate cut will lead to renewed appreciation in the shekel rate.”  Israel’s economy will probably slow to 2.8 percent in 2013,
excluding gas output, from 3.2 percent last year, the Bank of
Israel said in March. Including first-time natural gas
production, the economy will grow 3.8 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  