-- Gold Bets Cut to Five-Year Low as Prices Whipsawed: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-05-27T15:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/gold-bets-reach-five-year-low-with-prices-whipsawed-commodities.html
Hedge funds are the least bullish on
gold in more than five years as speculation about the pace of
money printing by central banks whipsawed prices, driving
volatility to a 17-month high.  Money managers cut their net-long  position  by 9 percent to
35,686 futures and options as of May 21, the lowest since July
2007, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
Holdings of short contracts rose 6.7 percent to a record 79,416.
Net-bullish  wagers  across 18 U.S.-traded commodities slid 2.1
percent, as investors became more bearish on coffee and wheat.  Gold’s 60-day historical volatility touched the highest
since December 2011 last week and a gauge of price swings for
the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest bullion-backed exchange-traded
fund, surged 73 percent this year. Bullion see-sawed as Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke testified before Congress on
May 22. Two days later, Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
said he’s done enough to spur growth.  “Gold has so many drivers that it leads to a lot of
getting pushed around by one thing or another,” said Dan Denbow, a fund manager at the $1 billion USAA Precious Metals &
Minerals Fund in San Antonio. “It makes it impossible to
determine a direction.”  May Returns  Futures dropped 5.3 percent in May, poised for a second
monthly decline. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24
commodities is little changed while the MSCI All-Country World
of equities rose 7.1 percent. A Bank of America Corp. Index
shows Treasuries lost 1.3 percent.  Increasing price swings have made gold the fourth-most
volatile commodity in the GSCI index since March 29, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Silver topped the ranking for raw
materials tracked by S&P, followed by natural gas and corn.
Investors sold 467 metric tons of gold through exchange-traded
products this year, contributing to $45.3 billion of  value  being
erased from global holdings, as some lost faith in the metal as
a store of wealth.  Futures traded in New York rose 0.5 percent as of 10:45
a.m. after earlier slipping as much as 0.3 percent.  Gold rose as much as 2.6 percent and dropped as much as 1.8
percent on May 22, the day Bernanke told Congress that raising
interest rates or curbing bond buying too soon would endanger
the recovery, while also saying the bank may slow its asset
purchases if there are signs of sustained economic growth.
Kuroda said May 24 the Bank of Japan had announced enough
monetary easing and would implement flexible money-market
operations.  Temporary Volatility  Volatility in gold prices will be temporary and investors
will return to buy the metal as a hedge against inflation, said
Nic Johnson, who helps manage $30 billion of commodity assets at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California .  While  price swings  increased this quarter, gold was the
third-least volatile commodity in the past five years. Cattle
and feeder cattle were the most stable and natural gas and crude
oil had the most variations. Bullion surged 57 percent since the
end of 2008 as central banks printed money on an unprecedented
scale to boost growth.  The U.S. Mint sold 209,500 ounces of gold  coins  last month,
the most since December 2009. Central banks may buy as much as
550 tons this year after adding 534.6 tons in 2012, according to
the London-based World Gold Council. Twelve analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg expect prices to rise this week, with nine bearish and
eight neutral, the highest proportion of bulls since April 26.  ‘Diversifying Element’  “Gold is a diversifying element to people’s portfolios,”
Johnson said. “The liquidation is more institutional in nature,
so I think investors very much view gold in the same light as
they did before. Volatility will decline back to historic
levels.”  Money managers pulled $1.57 billion from gold funds in the
week ended May 22, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows. Total outflows from commodity funds were
$1.89 billion, according to EPFR.  Investor sentiment is “negative towards gold,” and
physical demand has started to slow,  Suki Cooper , a New York-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said in a May 24 report. The
metal will get “crushed” and trade at $1,100 in a year and
below $1,000 in five years as inflation fails to accelerate, Ric Deverell, the head of commodities research at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said in  London  on May 16.  Crude Wagers  Bets on a rally for crude oil climbed for a fourth week to
231,794 futures and options, the highest since March 2012, the
CFTC data show. Investors are holding a  silver  net-short
position of 187 contracts from a net-long holding of 1,413 a
week earlier. Bullish platinum wagers fell 17 percent to 19,713,
the biggest drop since February.  China ’s manufacturing is contracting in May for the first
time in seven months. A Purchasing Managers’ Index from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics released May 23 showed a
preliminary reading of 49.6 for May, below the level of 50
separating growth and contraction and missing analyst estimates.  A measure of net-long  positions  across 11 agricultural
products slumped 15 percent to 228,870 contracts, the first drop
in six weeks. Speculators held a coffee net-short position of
11,695 contracts, compared with 172 a week earlier. Wagers on a
decline for wheat expanded to 40,447 from 17,225. Bullish corn
holdings fell for the first time in four weeks.  Coffee prices tumbled 7 percent last week, the most since
July. Inventories monitored by ICE Futures U.S. soared 79
percent in 12 months. Farmers will harvest the biggest grain and
soybean crops ever this year as U.S. fields recover from last
season’s drought that was the worst since the 1930s, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates.  “I would be underweight the commodities at this point
until we start seeing a pickup in global growth and a self-sustaining recovery here in the U.S.,” Chad Morganlander, a
Florham Park, New Jersey-based fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., which oversees about $130 billion. “The global economy has
been decelerating, and China is struggling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  