-- Graham Urges Special Counsel on U.S. Probes of Reporters
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/graham-urges-special-counsel-on-u-s-probes-of-reporters.html
A special counsel or independent
investigative body should be named to look deeper into the U.S.
 Justice Department ’s decisions to obtain the e-mails and
telephone records of journalists,  Senator Lindsey Graham  said.  “We’ve begun to criminalize journalism, and that should
worry all of us,” Graham, a South Carolina Republican, said
yesterday on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “This is clearly
an overreach.”  The  Associated Press  had its telephone records seized and a
Fox News reporter’s e-mails were also obtained as part of a
Justice Department investigation into the sources for stories
that dealt with national security. U.S. Attorney General Eric
Holder said last week he will review the rules that guide
prosecutors in investigations that include journalists.  Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, said on “Fox
News Sunday” that, while he’s not ready to call for a special
counsel, the Justice Department’s actions raise questions about
how to protect national security as well as freedom of the
press.  “What’s a journalist today in 2013?” Durbin said. “Does
it include a blogger? Someone who is tweeting?”  Holder participated in the decision to ask for a search
warrant for a Fox News reporter’s e-mails, the Justice
Department said last week. Prosecutors sought the warrant as
part of a probe into a 2009 leak on  North Korea ’s nuclear
program, the agency said in a statement.  Potential Conflict  Lawmakers called Holder’s review of the rules guiding
prosecutors a conflict because of his involvement in the
decision to pursue a warrant.  “You cannot investigate yourself, and I think it’s a total
conflict of interest,” said Senator  Tom Coburn , a Republican
from  Oklahoma , on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “Allowing
the very person that authorized the two things that we are very
aware of today, to investigate whether or not he did that
appropriately, is inappropriate.”  Senator Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from  New York , told CBS
that he and Graham are proposing new legislation that would
require agencies to gain approval from a judge before asking
journalists to divulge sources and certain information.  “You always need set rules and an independent arbiter,”
Schumer said on the pre-taped program. “We have neither now.”  Graham also called for a special counsel to investigate the
 Internal Revenue Service ’s targeting of conservative groups for
special scrutiny. The agency’s actions reflect a culture within
the Democratic Obama administration of pursuing the president’s
political enemies, said Graham.  The Obama administration has been roiled by allegations
that the IRS gave extra scrutiny to conservative groups that
applied for tax-exempt status. Beginning in 2010, the IRS used
“inappropriate criteria” to identify groups for further review
based on their names or policy positions, according to an
inspector general’s report released May 14. Congressional
committees have begun looking into the allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  