-- India Cricket Head Rejects Calls to Quit After Arrest of Kin
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-05-27T04:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/india-s-cricket-chief-rejects-calls-to-quit-after-arrest-of-kin.html
N. Srinivasan, president of the board
that runs the world’s richest cricket tournament, rejected calls
for his resignation after a relative was arrested by the police
for betting on the outcome of games.  Mumbai Police on May 24 arrested Srinivasan’s son-in-law
Gurunath Meiyappan on charges of placing bets on Indian Premier
League matches. That form of gambling is illegal in  India .
Meiyappan, who is a member of the team managing  Chennai Super
Kings , a franchise owned by India Cements Ltd., was yesterday
suspended by the Board of Control for Cricket in India from any
involvement in the game, according to a  statement  on the website
of the sport’s governing body.  An investigation into spot fixing, where players manipulate
specific actions in a game, following the arrest of three
cricketers and a Bollywood actor, widened with the detention of
Meiyappan and led to calls from Parliamentary Affairs Minister
Kamal Nath to former board secretary Jayawant Lele for
Srinivasan’s resignation. Fueled by sponsorships, broadcast
revenue and ticket sales, the IPL has grown into the world’s
richest cricket competition, worth $3.67 billion, according to
London-based Brand Finance Plc.  “I have not been asked by anybody” on the board to
resign, Srinivasan, who’s also the managing director of  India
Cements (ICEM) , said in a press conference in Kolkata yesterday. “On
the contrary, my support is complete and I refuse to yield to
unfair, motivated attacks.”  Meiyappan’s lawyers Abad Ponda and Ishwar Nankani said his
arrest was “irrational and illegal,” the Financial Express
reported yesterday.  Mumbai Indians  The Twenty20 league, which showcases the sport’s newest and
shortest format, concluded its sixth season. Mumbai Indians,
controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , beat Chennai Super Kings, which has won two of the last
five iterations of the Indian league faced, in yesterday’s IPL
final in Kolkata.  Srinivasan was heckled by spectators in Kolkata’s Eden
Garden stadium as soon as he was introduced during the
presentation ceremony that followed the game, Times of India
reported today.  The controversies have destroyed $1 billion of  stakeholder
value, said Unni Krishnan, global strategy director at Brand
Finance.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  agreed to spend 3.97 billion rupees ($71.2
million) over five years to be the title sponsor of the Indian
Premier League. Pradeep Wadhwa, a Gurgaon, India-based spokesman
for the world’s second-largest beverage company, didn’t respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Ethical Violations’  “Such ethical violations are steadily chipping away at the
trust levels of viewers and other stakeholders who will
eventually lose all real and serious interest in IPL,” Krishnan
said in an e-mail. “This will break the backbone of IPL and
erode all other stakeholder interests making India and cricket
poorer.”  The board’s officials met with the Mumbai Police on the
evening of May 23, and will “continue to offer all assistance
to the police and regulatory authorities,” it said in the
statement.  Three cricketers, including a former national team bowler
are being investigated by police for spot-fixing in matches. The
three players including S. Sreesanth, all belong to the
Rajasthan Royals team.  Sreesanth said he had “been falsely implicated,”  Press
Trust of India  reported citing his bail application.  Twenty20 Match  “The last few days has been difficult for me as a father
and a father-in-law,” said Srinivasan, whose media interaction
was telecast live by most news channels. “However, I sit here
as the president of the BCCI and put aside all personal
feelings, and I can assure you I will not shirk from my duty,
however difficult it may be.”  Minister Nath in televised remarks said Srinivasan’s
position had become “untenable,” while Lele said Srinivasan
shouldn’t “wait for 10 minutes to resign,” Hindustan Times
reported yesterday.  The rapid-fire appeal of a Twenty20 match has won huge
audience in a cricket crazy country. The sport, invented in
 England  more than four centuries ago, has largely been played in
former British colonies.  The league capitalizes on the growing popularity of the
shorter version of the game compared with the more traditional
one played over five days with breaks for lunch and tea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  