-- India Vows to Fight After Congress Leaders Die in Rebel Ambush
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-27T06:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/india-congress-party-local-chief-among-23-killed-in-rebel-ambush.html
India will send top anti-terrorism
investigators to a central state after an attack by communist
insurgents killed senior members of the country’s ruling party,
amid recriminations over alleged security failures.  The  National Investigation Agency  will probe the incident
in which at least 27 people died, and extra forces have been
approved for Chhattisgarh state, R.P.N. Singh, junior home
minister in the federal government, said by phone. Chhattisgarh
is a mineral-rich province where the guerrillas, known as
Naxalites or Maoists in India, have forest strongholds.  “We will pursue the perpetrators of this crime with
urgency,” Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said yesterday as he
visited the injured in a hospital in Raipur, Chhattisgarh’s
capital, along with Congress party chief Sonia Gandhi. “I can
assure the nation that the government is committed to bring them
to justice.”  About 300 armed rebels blocked roads, exploded landmines
and opened fire May 25 as local Congress leaders returned from a
political rally in the state’s Bastar district. Four senior
Congress members, including the party’s state chief and a former
provincial minister, were killed, with 32 injured.  The attack underscores the instability that plagues an area
of central and eastern  India  known as the “Red Corridor,” a
swathe of territory where rebels move across state borders and
fight police forces. The insurrection has hindered India’s bid
to lure investment for rich seams of iron ore, coal, bauxite and
other minerals.  ‘Strategic Error’  The guerrillas say they are fighting for the rights of poor
villagers and tribal communities whose resources are, the rebels
argue, being exploited to propel India’s $1.9 trillion economy
with few benefits for local people.  “Maoists have again consolidated in the Red Corridor areas
by recruiting more people, holding more training camps and
motivating locals after making a strategic error by expanding to
new urban areas where they lost cadres and some leaders,” said
Ajai Sahni, executive director of the New Delhi-based Institute
for Conflict Management.  “Administrations and security forces are ignorant of the
reality at ground and have not been able to increase their
capabilities and capacities in terms of training, intelligence
gathering and acquiring technology to dominate them.”  Gandhi said the ambush was a cowardly attack on the
country’s democracy. Her son, Rahul Gandhi, scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family that is preeminent in Indian politics, said the
Congress party won’t be cowed by such attacks.  Join Hands  Congress leaders staged protests in other states, accusing
the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Chhattisgarh of
failing to provide adequate security for the Congress vehicles,
the Press Trust of India news agency reported. The BJP postponed
a planned series of demonstrations against the federal Congress-led ruling alliance to show its sympathy, the agency said, and
called on political parties to join hands to fight the threat
posed by militancy.  While the weekend strike was one of the biggest on
politicians in the four-decade insurrection, casualties among
civilians and the security forces have fallen in recent years.  In April 2010, rebels killed 76 policemen in the Dantewada
district of Chhattisgarh, the deadliest attack on security
forces. That year, Maoists killed 1,005 civilians and security
personnel, a figure that fell to 611 in 2011 and 415 last year,
according to government data.  ‘Spring Thunder’  Singh has called the insurgents the greatest threat to
India’s internal security. India in October 2009 intensified its
offensive against the guerrillas.  The leftwing insurgents were named after the West Bengal
village of Naxalbari where demands for land reform coalesced
into a radical uprising in 1967, inspired by the thoughts of Mao Zedong. The Indian revolt was greeted as “a peal of spring
thunder” by  China ’s People’s Daily when it began.  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , India’s largest iron-ore producer, operates its
biggest mine in Chhattisgarh, and Essar Steel Ltd., India’s
fourth ranked producer of the alloy, plans to build a $1.5
billion steel plant there. The Maoists in 2009 blew up an Essar
pipeline built to transport iron ore from the NMDC mine.  Efforts to defeat the rebels are being hampered by too few
police, while the absence of roads, schools and hospitals makes
it hard to win over sympathizers of the guerrillas, Palaniappan Chidambaram said last year when he was the home minister. He now
heads the Ministry of Finance.  Among those killed May 25 were Congress state chief Nand
Kumar Patel and Mahendra Karma, the architect of a villager
force called the Salwa Judum that was used by the state to
counter Maoists. A former federal minister, V.C. Shukla, was
injured and airlifted to a hospital near New Delhi.  Karma, who had survived at least four attempts on his life,
was the prime target of the insurgents, the Hindustan Times
reported today, citing eyewitnesses. The rebels sang and danced
around his body after the attack, the paper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  