-- European Shares Rebound as Yen Strengthens; Oil Declines
-- B y   S t e p h e n   V o s s
-- 2013-05-27T21:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/japan-stock-futures-drop-as-yen-gains-on-china-growth-concern.html
European stocks rose, rebounding from
the first weekly loss in a month, and  Asian shares  fell after
Japan’s top central banker indicated that  interest rates  may
gain as the economy improves. Oil retreated for a fifth day and
 South Africa ’s rand weakened while the yen and gold climbed.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.3 percent at the
close. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures gained 0.1 percent.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.3 percent. The yen
strengthened 0.4 percent to 100.96 per dollar. The rand slid
against most of its major peers. Spanish and Italian bonds rose
for the first time in three days. Crude slipped 0.5 percent in
 New York , while gold rallied 0.6 percent. Markets were shut in
the U.S. and U.K. for holidays.  Fiat SpA, the Italian automaker, and Vivendi SA, the French
media and telecommunications company, led European shares
higher.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, speaking
yesterday, cited an April BOJ report indicating rates could rise
between one and three percentage points in an improving economy
without causing instability. Data will probably show tomorrow
that U.S.  consumer confidence  improved.  “Some investors think that the correction is over and they
are prepared to go back into the market,” Raimund Saxinger, a
 fund manager  at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees
about $22 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The auto
sector is leading the advance with Fiat.”  Fiat, Vivendi  European stocks climbed, following a two-day decline. Fiat
gained 4.4 percent after Italy’s industry minister offered to
help support the country’s biggest carmaker. Vivendi added 2.8
percent as Qatar Telecom QSC’s Chief Executive Officer, Nasser
Marafih, said his company has raised $12 billion to finance its
bid for a majority stake in Maroc Telecom. Vivendi owns 53
percent of Maroc Telecom, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A gauge of technology companies posted the second biggest
advance of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600 as SAP AG
climbed 2.1 percent. The world’s largest maker of business-software systems abandoned talks to buy Jive Software Inc.,
people familiar with the matter said after the close of European
trading on May 24. European equities fell last week as investor
confidence was dented by speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
scale back momentary stimulus.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer sentiment
probably climbed to 71 this month from 68.1 in April, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the New York-based private research group releases the
data tomorrow.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.2 percent following
the biggest weekly decline in seven weeks. Benchmark gauges in
India,  Poland  and  Taiwan  rose at least 0.9 percent, while the
Philippine Stock Exchange Index tumbled 2.4 percent, the most
since June 4.  In  Brazil , real estate developer MRV Engenharia e
Participacoes SA led losses among members of the Ibovespa
benchmark, which closed little changed. Mexico’s IPC dropped 0.9
percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent as
environmental-protection companies gained. The country won’t
sacrifice the environment to ensure short-term economic growth,
President  Xi Jinping  said May 24. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland stocks listed in  Hong Kong  rose
for the first time in five days, advancing 0.3 percent.  The yen rose against the dollar after last week’s 1.9
percent increase, the biggest since the five days ended June 1,
2012. It is still down 19 percent in the past six months on
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge to stem deflation.  Weaker Rand  Japan’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 130.54 per
euro, while the dollar traded at $1.2931 per euro. The rand slid
0.4 percent to 9.6104 per dollar as concern growth in South
Africa is slowing weighed on the currency.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield fell nine basis points to 4.32
percent and the rate on similar-maturity Italian debt dropped
nine basis points to 4.05 percent. Germany’s 10-year bund yield
climbed three basis points to 1.46 percent.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil for July delivery dropped
to $93.65 a barrel in New York. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, which accounts for about 40 percent of the
world’s oil supply, will maintain its output quota of 30 million
barrels a day when the group meets May 31 in Vienna, according
to 19 of 20 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gold rose, extending gains after the best week in a month,
as International Monetary Fund data showed Russia and Kazakhstan
expanded  gold reserves  for the seventh straight month in April.
Gold for immediate delivery advanced to $1,394.78 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Voss in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  