-- Japan Agrees to Give Myanmar Development Loans as Abe Visits
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-05-26T08:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/japan-agrees-to-give-myanmar-development-loans-as-abe-visits.html
Japan agreed to grant Myanmar 51
billion yen ($503 million) of development loans today, the
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said in a statement.  The agreement comes as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visits the
South Asian nation, meeting today with President  Thein Sein ,
whose moves to allow more political freedom and open the economy
after five decades of military rule have helped end decades of
international isolation.  The loans will be used to build and refurbish
infrastructure such as roads, electricity and water supply as
Myanmar’s government seeks to reduce poverty. They carry 0.01
percent interest and are repayable in 40 years, including a 10-year grace period, according to the statement.  Myanmar’s gross domestic product may grow 6.75 percent this
fiscal year, led by natural gas sales and investment as it
modernizes its financial system, the  International Monetary Fund 
said on May 22. Natural gas is Myanmar’s most important source
of export earnings,  according  to the  Asian Development Bank .  Japan will also clear Myanmar from overdue charges of about
189 billion yen from earlier debt after monitoring the nation’s
reform efforts, according to a government press release.  Japan agreed to a separate 40 billion yen of direct aid to
the nation,  Kyodo News  reported earlier today.  Japan decided to provide new yen loans and grant assistance
in support of Myanmar’s development, according to a joint
statement by Abe and President Thein Sein. The two leaders
agreed to build a lasting, friendly and cooperative
relationship, the statement said.  North Korea  Abe also asked for Myanmar’s cooperation in resolving
issues with North Korea, including abductions of Japanese
citizens, missile launches and nuclear weapons development,
during the meeting the Myanmar’s leader, Kyodo reported.  He is the first Japanese leader to visit the South Asian
country in 36 years, as his nation’s companies seek to invest in
an economy that has some of the cheapest labor in  Asia .  Myanmar’s annual pay burden for a worker in manufacturing
totaled $1,100 per year, less than half the cost in  Vietnam  and
a sixth that of  Thailand , according to a Jetro survey published
in December.  Japanese companies are looking to diversify manufacturing
operations following recent wage increases in Thailand, Malaysia
and Indonesia, and a territorial dispute with China that soured
ties between Asia’s biggest economies.  Corporate Ventures  Suzuki Motor Corp. got permission from Myanmar in February
to form a manufacturing subsidiary to make small trucks
beginning this month. Sumitomo and NEC Corp. last week signed a
contract to help improve the country’s communications network.  Mitsui & Co. in March said it would import 5,000 metric
tons of rice from Myanmar, its first purchase in more than four
decades. The trading company may invest 15 billion yen to build
three rice-milling plants in Myanmar capable of processing
300,000 tons a year for the  Middle East  and  Africa , a Mitsui
spokeswoman said in March.  Abe yesterday met opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi , and
his itinerary during the three-day visit includes a visit to the
port and industrial estate at Thilawa, 25 kilometers (16 miles)
south of Yangon, Myanmar’s biggest city. Mitsubishi Corp.,
Marubeni Corp. and Sumitomo Corp. are helping to develop the
port, part of which is set to open as early as 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  