-- Japan’s Abe to Offer Myanmar 40 Billion Yen New Aid, Jiji Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-05-26T02:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/japan-s-abe-to-offer-myanmar-40-billion-yen-new-aid-jiji-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
will offer Myanmar 40 billion yen ($395 million) of new funds
and exempt about 200 billion yen of delinquent debt when he
meets President Thein Sein today, Jiji Press reported without
citing anyone.  As Myanmar’s largest creditor,  Japan  last year agreed to
settle $6.6 billion in debt and provide loans to help repay the
Asian Development Bank and World Bank. Japan has sought closer
ties since the 2010 election that brought Thein Sein to power,
hosting him in  Tokyo  last year and sending Finance Minister Taro Aso to Myanmar in January with business leaders.  Support for Myanmar will lead to growth for Japan, Kyodo
cited Abe as saying to reporters in Myanmar yesterday. Abe is
the first Japanese leader to visit the South Asian country in 36
years, as his nation’s companies seek to invest in an economy
that has some of the cheapest labor in Asia. Myanmar’s annual
pay burden for a worker in manufacturing totaled $1,100 per
year, less than half the cost in  Vietnam  and a sixth that of
 Thailand , according to a  Jetro survey  published in December.  Japanese companies are looking to diversify manufacturing
operations following recent wage increases in Thailand, Malaysia
and Indonesia, and a territorial dispute with  China  that soured
ties between Asia’s biggest economies.  Suzuki Motor Corp. got permission from Myanmar in February
to form a manufacturing subsidiary to make small trucks
beginning this month. Sumitomo and NEC Corp. last week signed a
contract to help improve the country’s communications network.  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  in March said it would import 5,000 metric
tons of rice from Myanmar, its first purchase in more than four
decades. The trading company may invest 15 billion yen to build
three rice-milling plants in Myanmar capable of processing
300,000 tons a year for the Middle East and  Africa , a Mitsui
spokeswoman said in March.  Abe yesterday met opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, and
his itinerary during the three-day visit includes a visit to the
port and industrial estate at Thilawa, 25 kilometers (16 miles)
south of Yangon, Myanmar’s biggest city.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,
Marubeni Corp. and Sumitomo Corp. are helping to develop the
port, part of which is set to open as early as 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  