-- Jordan Plans Up to $2 Billion U.S.-Backed Bond Sale in 2013
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   R i a d   H a m a d e
-- 2013-05-26T10:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/jordan-plans-up-to-2-billion-in-u-s-backed-bond-sale-this-year.html
Jordan  plans to raise as much as $2
billion in bonds backed by the U.S. government this year as the
Arab country seeks to shore up public finances amid an
increasing influx of refugees from war-ravaged  Syria .  The kingdom is working with a syndicate of banks and aims
to access the market before the end of the year, Finance
Minister Umayya Toukan said yesterday, declining to identify the
banks. The U.S. guarantee has helped Jordan’s $750 million
Eurobonds due 2015 rally to a record this month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “That’s the least expensive source of financing the budget
deficit,” Toukan, who was appointed to his current post March
30, said in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in Jordan.
The issuance will be $1.5 billion to $2 billion, he said.  The Jordanian economy, the smallest in the  Middle East 
after Bahrain, has been hurt by rising energy costs after
disruptions of gas supplies from  Egypt  and the burden of hosting
more than 500,000 Syrian refugees. The budget deficit may widen
to 9 percent of economic output this year, the highest level
since at least 2008, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates.  Energy Subsidies  Disruptions in supplies of natural gas from Egypt in 2011
and 2012 cost the nation $5 billion because it had to buy more
expensive fuel elsewhere, King Abdullah II said in December. The
crisis prompted Jordan, which imports more than 90 percent of
its energy supplies, to sign a $2 billion loan agreement with
the IMF. Under the program, Jordan has reduced energy subsidies,
replacing them with cash transfers.  The IMF accord has a “clear road map on reducing the
 budget deficit  over three years as well as the debt levels,”
said Toukan, who served as the country’s central bank governor
from 2001 to 2010. The government seeks to reduce the budget
shortfall by “at least” one percentage point of gross domestic
product this year to just over 8 percent, he said.  The government removed fuel subsidies in November,
prompting protests that have largely subsided. The government
also plans to remove electricity subsidies before the end of the
year, Planning Minister Ibrahim Saif said in a May 7 interview.
The National Electric Power Co.’s debt is to increase by about
1.25 billion dinars ($1.75 billion) a year and losses need to be
reduced, Prime Minister Abdullah Ensour said last month.  Declining Yields  Investor sentiment has improved since the king swore in a
new cabinet March 30. The government is led by the first prime
minister to be elected by the nation’s parliament instead of
being appointed by the monarch.  The premium investors demand to hold Jordan’s debt over
U.S. Treasuries dropped 70 basis points, or 0.7 of a percentage
point, since President  Barack Obama ’s visit March 23, to 363 at
the end of last week, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG
Jordan Sovereign Spread index.  The yield on the country’s 3.875 percent bonds due November
2015 has tumbled 71 basis points to 4.23 percent on May 24. The
decrease compares with a rise of 20 basis points in the same
period to 4.52 percent in the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle East
Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index.  Rating Downgrade  The government’s measures, the IMF agreement and support
from Gulf Cooperation Council nations “prevented a balance of
payments crisis and we expect they will stabilize Jordan’s
fiscal and external accounts in the medium term,”  Standard &
Poor’s  said last week. It lowered the country’s long-term
foreign and local currency sovereign credit ratings on Jordan
one level to BB- because the measures won’t “reverse the
external and fiscal weakening of the past year.”  The U.S. is topping up its $360 million in annual aid to
Jordan with an additional $200 million, and  Saudi Arabia ,
 Kuwait , Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates  have pledged a
combined $5 billion for development projects in the country.  The four oil-rich Arab states began depositing funds last
year, Wassim Jomaa, head of asset management at Capital
Investments, the investment arm of Capital Bank of Jordan, said
in a telephone interview April 8. The contributing countries are
all ruled by monarchs, as is Jordan, and are eager to forestall
the upheaval that began in  Tunisia  in January 2011 and has
roiled much of the Middle East.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in  Dead Sea  at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Riad Hamade in Dead Dea at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  