-- N.Z., China May Allow Direct Currency Conversion for Trade
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-27T05:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/n-z-china-may-allow-direct-currency-conversion-to-boost-trade.html
New Zealand  and  China  are in talks
about making their currencies directly convertible, aiming to
reduce costs as trade between the two countries is targeted to
surge 33 percent in the next two years.  The talks were initiated during New Zealand Prime Minister
John Key’s visit to China last month, his spokeswoman Lesley
Hamilton said by telephone yesterday, confirming an earlier
report in the Wall Street Journal. The negotiations are in an
early stage and are progressing without a specific timeframe,
she said.  New Zealand’s exports to China jumped 32 percent in the
first quarter, surpassing shipments to Australia for the first
time, led by dairy products, logs and meat. The currency talks
are underway as New Zealand targets NZ$20 billion ($16.2
billion) in two-way annual trade with China by 2015 from about
NZ$15.2 billion in the year ended March.  “By having direct convertibility, that would reduce the
transaction cost of doing business with China,” said  Jane Turner , economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “It reduces the
cost of hedging and the risk of currencies moving against you,
and you can become more competitive in your pricing.”  The People’s Bank of China today raised the daily yuan
fixing to 6.1811 per dollar, the strongest level since a peg
ended in July 2005. The currency fell 0.09 percent to 6.1274 per
dollar at 12:52 p.m. in  Shanghai . The  New Zealand dollar  fell to
80.77 U.S. cents at 4:52 p.m. in Wellington.  Overtaking Australia  New Zealand’s sales to China amounted to NZ$2.31 billion in
the three months ended March 31,  Statistics New Zealand  said in
an April 26 report. Exports to  Australia  fell 7.3 percent to
NZ$2.17 billion, the lowest since early 2008 and the first
calendar quarter it fell behind China.  New Zealand became the first developed nation to sign a
free-trade  agreement  with China in 2008. In the 12 months
through March, exports rose 25 percent to NZ$7.41 billion, still
lagging behind NZ$9.74 billion of shipments to Australia.  “We’re looking for as fast an outcome as we can get,” New
Zealand Prime Minister John Key told reporters in Wellington
today. “The indications I got from the Chinese side were that
it was possible for us to do it quite quickly.”  Direct trading between the yuan and the Australian dollar
began last month, making the Aussie the third currency to be
directly convertible with China’s, following the  U.S. dollar  and
the Japanese yen. Direct trading means the fixing will be
computed without involving a cross rate with the dollar.  China’s  yuan  was the 13th most-used currency in global
payments in April, according to the Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunication. Its share of global
payments rose to a record 0.74 percent in March, according to
figures from the financial messaging platform.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  