-- Neymar Joins Messi’s Barcelona After Agreeing on Five-Year Deal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-26T13:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/neymar-joins-messi-s-barcelona-after-agreeing-on-five-year-deal.html
Neymar,  Brazil ’s most marketable
soccer player, will join world player of the year Lionel Messi
in Spanish champion Barcelona’s attack next season after
negotiating a five-year contract.  “Barcelona and Santos have agreed to terms for Neymar da
Silva Santos Junior,” Barcelona said in a statement. “The
Brazilian forward will don the Blaugrana strip for the next five
seasons. The 21-year-old is one of the most promising football
players on the planet.”  Neither team disclosed terms of the deal, which Neymar said
will be signed tomorrow. Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper said
Santos, which had rejected two previous offers from Barcelona in
recent days, agreed to sell Neymar after the Catalonia-based
team raised its bid to 74 million reais ($36 million). Brazilian
media also said Santos accepted an offer from Real  Madrid .  Neymar’s impending move to  Spain  ends a three-year drama
over the future of Brazil’s most bankable soccer star, who
France Football magazine ranks as the fifth best-paid player in
the world with annual income of 20 million euros ($25.8
million). Since emerging in Santos’s first team as a 17-year-old
Neymar has been likened to Pele, who spent much of his career
with Santos.  Two days ago Neymar’s manager Eduardo Musa said in a
telephone interview the striker would prefer to see out his
contract with Santos that ends after Brazil hosts next summer’s
 World Cup .  Speed and Skill  Santos, in a statement posted on its website, said it made
“every effort to keep him in Brazil” and tried to get Neymar
to extend his contract but “it was not possible to compete with
the conditions offered by the proposals received from abroad
which affected the decision of the player to review his
professional life.”  Neymar, who has 138 goals in 229 games for Santos, has been
coveted by soccer’s biggest clubs. With a mixture of speed and
skill, he’s become a starter for the Brazilian national team.  In 2011, a goal he scored in a league game against Flamengo
was voted the best goal in professional soccer by global
governing body FIFA. That same year he helped Santos win  South
America ’s top club competition, the Libertadores Cup, for the
first time since 1963. Still, at times he’s struggled on foreign
soil. He was part of the Brazil team beaten by underdog  Mexico 
in the 2012 Olympic soccer gold medal match in  London  and was on
the field as Messi scored twice in a 4-0 victory for Barcelona
over Santos in the FIFA Club World Cup a year earlier.  “My feelings for the club and the fans will never
change,” Neymar said a posting on social network Instagram.
“Titles, goals, dribbling celebrations and songs that fans
created for me will be forever in my heart.”  Billionaire  Neymar is one of Brazil’s most recognizable celebrities,
with sponsorship deals with multinationals including  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Unilever NV. (UNA)  Billionaire  Eike Batista 
recruited Neymar for his venture with IMG Worldwide Inc. that
will steer his career in Brazil and beyond.  Complicating discussions over a move to  Europe  has been the
complex structure over Neymar’s transfer rights. Santos will get
55 percent of the fee, the remainder will go to supermarket
chain owner Delcir Sonda, whose company DIS in 2009 paid 5.5
million reais for a 40 percent stake in Neymar’s transfer
rights, and a company called Terceira Estrela Investimentos
S.A., which paid 3.5 million reais for a 5 percent stake in
2011.  Soaring Revenue  Neymar’s fame has helped Santos’s revenue soar.  In its statement Santos detailed how the player’s presence
helped the club’s business operations, saying membership had
increased to more than 65,000 from 17,000 and revenue tripled
since Neymar’s debut in 2009.  Sales at Santos have risen to 199.8 million reais from 70.4
million reais since 2009, according to data compiled by Amir Somoggi, a  management consultant  to Santos and other top
Brazilian clubs. Sponsorship receipts grew to 50.3 million reais
in 2012 from 17.8 million reais in 2009 and ticket revenue
almost doubled to 17.4 million reais during the same time,
according to his figures.  “More than an idol, Neymar became a myth not only for
Santos but for Brazilians and football fans around the world,”
Santos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  