-- Rosberg Wins Monaco Grand Prix 30 Years After Father’s Victory
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-27T01:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/nico-rosberg-of-mercedes-wins-monaco-grand-prix-vettel-second.html
Nico Rosberg won a crash-interrupted
Monaco Grand Prix to follow his father as a winner of the race
and give Mercedes its first Formula One victory of the season.  Sebastian Vettel finished second yesterday after 78 laps of
the Monte Carlo street circuit to extend his championship lead.
His Red Bull teammate  Mark Webber  came third.  The race was halted for 25 minutes after a crash involving
Williams’s  Pastor Maldonado  and Marussia’s Max Chilton. There
were also two safety-car periods following other accidents. Off
the track there was a pre-race protest against Mercedes by
Ferrari and Red Bull that questioned the legality of a tire
test. The matter was referred to the sport’s governing body.  Keke Rosberg, the 1982 series champion, won the Monaco
Grand Prix the following year when driving for Williams. He was
in attendance yesterday to see Nico become the first son of a
former Monaco winner to take the checkered flag at the race.  “Monaco is such a special place to win and it just feels
amazing,”  Nico Rosberg  told reporters. “It was my childhood
dream to win this race and to do it on the streets where I have
lived all of my life is fantastic. I can’t quite believe it has
happened yet and it will probably take a while to sink in.”  Rosberg, on pole for the third straight race, led from
start to finish. It was the 27-year-old German’s second Formula
One win, the first coming at the 2012 Chinese Grand Prix.  Tire Protest  Red Bull and Ferrari had lodged a protest against Mercedes
over a tire test with manufacturer  Pirelli & C. SpA (PC)  earlier this
month in Barcelona. The issue is whether there was a breach of
rules that prohibit in-season testing.  Race stewards heard submissions from the teams and after
confirming the race result said they’ll report on the matter to
governing body Federation Internationale de l’Automobile.  In a  statement , the Paris-based FIA said its prosecuting
body may bring the matter before its international tribunal,
which “may decide to inflict penalties that would supersede any
penalty” the race stewards may have issued.  The leaders maintained their grid positions in the early
stages of yesterday’s race, the first major disruption coming
after 30 laps when Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  crashed, bringing out
the safety car for the first time.  Lewis Hamilton  of Mercedes,
who’d started second on the grid, lost a couple of places in the
pit stops that followed.  The race was stopped on lap 46 when Maldonado’s car became
airborne and pushed track barriers out of place when it crashed
into them. Chilton was given a drive-through penalty for his
part in the incident.  Racing Resumes  After racing resumed, Rosberg maintained his lead ahead of
Vettel, Webber and Hamilton and the four kept that pattern until
the end. There was still more disruption as Lotus’s  Romain
Grosjean  crashed into the rear of Daniel Ricciardo’s  Toro Rosso ,
resulting in another safety-car period.  Adrian Sutil  of Force India finished fifth ahead of  Jenson Button  of McLaren and  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari. Toro Rosso’s
Jean-Eric Vergne, Paul di Resta of Force India and Lotus’s  Kimi Raikkonen  rounded out the scoring positions. Raikkonen dropped
down the field late in the race after colliding with McLaren’s
Sergio Perez.  Vettel, seeking his fourth straight drivers’ title,
extended his lead in the standings to 21 points through six of
19 races. Vettel has 107 points, followed by Raikkonen (86),
Alonso (78), Hamilton (62), Webber (57) and Rosberg (47).  “I had a fantastic start, but there was no room,” Vettel
said. “It was hard with the restarts, but we can be happy with
the result. Two cars on the podium is very good.”  Red Bull  leads the constructors’ championship with 164
points ahead of Ferrari (123), Lotus (112) and Mercedes (109).  The next race is the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal on
June 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  