-- N. Korea Nuclear Affirmation Fuels Doubt Over Call for Talks
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-05-27T02:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/north-korea-nuclear-affirmation-fuels-doubt-over-call-for-talks.html
North  Korea  affirmed its commitment
to nuclear weapons in a statement that attacked  South Korea ’s
leader, fueling skepticism over the regime’s claim it wants to
return to dialogue over its atomic program.  The north is demonstrating its might as a “military power
and nuclear weapons state envied by world people and feared by
enemies,” the official Korea  Central News Agency  said May 25.
The rest of the statement was directed at South Korean President
Park Geun Hye, saying she had behaved “coquettishly” and
“kicked up confrontation hysteria.”  The statement came after the North’s envoy, Choe Ryong Hae,
told Chinese President Xi Jinping on May 24 his country wants to
find ways to resolve its conflicts via talks. The nuclear
affirmation signals the North won’t abandon weapons development,
a condition the U.S. has set for the resumption of six-party
talks that collapsed in 2008.  “In order for the six-nation talks to restart,  North Korea 
will need to internally shift and rejig its policy stance,” Yoo
Ho Yeol, a North Korean professor at Korea University in  Seoul ,
said by phone yesterday. “The North has de facto rejected the
condition by issuing a statement the day after Choe met Xi.”  Tensions with the North flared after it defied United
Nations sanctions with a rocket launch in December and a nuclear
test in February. It later threatened pre-emptive nuclear
strikes against the U.S. and South Korea.  Korea’s benchmark Kospi stocks index added 0.3 percent as
of 10:41 a.m. in Seoul, with gains in companies including  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  The won was steady against the  U.S. dollar  at
1,126.13 after declining for a third week.  Accept Advice  As the North’s chief political and economic patron,  China 
has come under pressure to rein in Kim Jong Un’s regime. In a
statement about Choe’s meeting with another top Chinese official
in Beijing on May 23, the official Xinhua News Agency said the
North “is willing to accept advice from the Chinese side and
carry out dialogue.”  The May 25 KCNA statement made no mention of Choe’s visit
to China or his remarks. Instead it criticized Park, saying she
didn’t understand the North’s strategy of protecting itself
against U.S. blackmail and aggression.  “She had better buckle down to grasping the level of its
military preparedness before learning how to change her skirt
into trousers and change her civilian dress into a military
uniform,” KCNA said in the statement.  South Korea today expressed its regret at KCNA’s comments
on Park. “North Korea should exercise restraint in behavior and
word to improve the relationship” between the North and South,
Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk said in a briefing.  Xi is due to meet U.S. President  Barack Obama  in California
next month in their first face-to-face talks since China’s power
transition ended in March. Secretary of State  John Kerry  met
last month in Beijing with officials including Xi and said
afterward China is “very serious” about trying to bring North
Korea in line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  