-- NTPC Coal Imports Said to Double on Shortage: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-05-27T12:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/ntpc-coal-imports-said-to-double-on-shortage-corporate-india.html
NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , Asia’s second-biggest
power utility by value, will almost double purchases of coal
from outside India this fiscal year to curb fuel shortages at
its plants, said two company officials familiar with the plans.  The  state-run  Indian company will import 17 million metric
tons of thermal coal in the year started April 1, compared with
9 million tons the previous year, the people said, asking not to
be identified as they are not authorized to speak to the media.
NTPC’s plants in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Odisha,
Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh face a shortage of coal.  Power producers in India are relying on imports of the fuel
to bridge a shortfall in shipments from  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the
nation’s monopoly supplier. Land acquisition hurdles and delays
in federal approvals for mines are depriving power plants of
coal supplies and keeping almost 400 million in the world’s
second-most populated nation without electricity.  “Increasing imports has become a must for NTPC since many
of its plants are running with alarmingly low coal stocks,”
said Lakshminarayana Ganti, an analyst at Standard Chartered
Securities India Ltd., who has an outperform rating for the
stock. “Adequate fuel availability is critical to NTPC’s
earnings.”  Sales in the three months ended March 31 increased 1.2
percent, the slowest pace in almost three years, because of the
lack of coal. Revenue may rise 11 percent to 177 billion rupees
in the quarter ended June 30, according to an average estimate
of two analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  NTPC  shares  rose 1.5 percent to 152.30 rupees at the close
of trading in  Mumbai , trimming this year’s decline to 2.7
percent. The benchmark  S&P BSE India Sensex (SENSEX)  has gained 3.1
percent this year.  Critical Stocks  More than 33 power plants in the country, with a total
generation capacity of 31,320 megawatts, had coal stocks of less
than seven days as of May 21, according to the power ministry’s
 Central Electricity Authority , which monitors the development
and operation of power plants in the country. Stocks of less
than 15 days are considered critical.  Of NTPC’s 15  coal-fired plants  that have a combined
capacity of about 31,855 megawatts, units generating more than
7,000 megawatts don’t have any fuel-supply accord with Coal
India. These units receive coal on the basis of an agreement
that doesn’t include any penalty clause for a drop in quantity.  NTPC said on April 4 Coal  India  doesn’t supply the grade of
coal it is paid for and it will sign accords for those units
only if the miner assures a “minimum grade” of coal.  “Coal availability at plants that do not have a fuel-supply agreement with Coal India is a big issue,” Ganti said.
“In the near-term, the big catalyst for the stock would be
signing of these accords.”  Power Generation  The utility generated 60.3 billion kilowatt hours of
electricity in the three months ended March 31, little changed
from a year earlier, despite adding generation capacity.
Production stagnated because of a 10 percent drop in coal
imports, Chirag Shah and Anuj Upadhyay, analysts at Mumbai-based
ICICIdirect.com wrote in a May 13 note. NTPC added 4,160
megawatts of generation capacity in the year ended March 31.  Imported coal is especially critical for those plants that
have yet to sign the fuel supply accord with Coal India.  Declining  international prices  are also encouraging Indian
power producers to import coal.  Indonesia , the world’s biggest
exporter of power-station coal, cut its  reference thermal coal 
prices by 3.65 percent for May, bringing them to the lowest
level in five months.  Indonesian Prices  “Falling international coal prices and a lack of
availability from domestic sources is fueling India’s coal
imports, said Ashish Sethia, country manager, India at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  Indonesian reference prices for this month stand at $85.33
a ton for coal of 6,322 kilocalories per kilogram. Coal India’s
price for the grade is 3,970 rupees ($71.50) a ton.  NTPC has placed an order for 7 million metric tons of
imports, the people said.  Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE) , the nation’s
biggest thermal coal importer, won the tender for 4.5 million
tons, while state-run trading company  MMTC Ltd. (MMTC)  won the bid for
2.5 million tons, they said.  The utility will import another 10 million tons in two
phases during the year, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  