-- Obama Sees Sunset on Sept. 11 War Powers in Drone Limits
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-05-26T18:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/obama-sees-sunset-on-sept-11-war-powers-in-drone-limits.html
Republican lawmakers denounced
Democratic President  Barack Obama ’s plan for winding down the
U.S. war on terror, calling it a misguided approach that
undermines national security.  Obama’s May 23 policy speech, which urged an end to the
broad war powers Congress approved to fight al-Qaeda after the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, was portrayed by Republicans as a lack
of resolve in the face of terrorism threats worldwide.  “At a time when we need resolve the most, we are sounding
retreat,” Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican,
said on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “Our enemies are
emboldened all over the planet. Al-Qaeda in  Iraq  is coming back
with a vengeance.”  The president said he would curtail drone strikes and push
for an eventual closing of the Guantanamo Bay prison in Cuba.
The speech called for a ratcheting-down of the war on terrorism,
with Obama saying that the U.S. may be drawn into more wars
unless the nation moderates its stance.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said Obama, as well as
the Republican Bush administration, failed to talk honestly
about the scope of the global threat posed by terrorism. The
president’s speech missed the mark, he said.  “I think it’s just stunningly, breathtakingly naive,”
Gingrich, a Republican, said on CNN’s “ State of the Union .”  Defying Reality  Calling it the most significant foreign policy address ever
given by Obama, Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas
Republican, said on “State of the Union” that he couldn’t
disagree more with the president.  “I found many parts of it disturbing for many reasons,”
McCaul said. “I think the rhetoric sort of defies the reality
in terms of the threat level that we’ve all been briefed on.”  Senator Dick Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, backed the
president, saying basic values and freedoms may be compromised
in a never-ending war-like atmosphere.  “I’m not going to take lightly the terrorism threat
against the U.S.,” Durbin said on the “Fox News Sunday”
program. “But if we are constantly thinking of this in the
context of war, we stand at risk of doing things which
compromise our values and freedoms.”  The president said he will tighten the rules governing who
can be targeted in strikes by U.S. drones, which are unmanned
aircraft. He said he’ll also ask Congress to lift restrictions
on transferring Guantanamo detainees to other countries and lift
a moratorium on transfers to Yemen. The speech came weeks after
Obama renewed his 2009 pledge to close the prison at Guantanamo,
in the face of objections from Congress, and as a hunger strike
at the facility has led to the force-feeding of 30 prisoners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  