-- Obama Pledges Assistance While Touring Oklahoma Damage
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   G i l l i a n   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-05-27T17:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/obama-pledges-assistance-while-touring-oklahoma-damage.html
President  Barack Obama  stepped into
the role of consoler-in-chief today, as he laid a wreath at
Arlington National Cemetery to honor fallen troops and called on
Americans not to forget the war in  Afghanistan .  “As we gather here today at this very moment more than
60,000 of our fellow Americans still serve far from home in
Afghanistan,” Obama said at the traditional ceremony marking
the Memorial Day holiday. “They are still going out on patrol,
still living in spartan forward operating bases, still risking
their lives to carry out their mission. And when they give their
lives, they are still being laid to rest in cemeteries in the
quiet corners across our country, including here in Arlington.”  Obama’s remembrance of fallen service members follows a May
23 speech in which he said the broad war powers Congress
approved to fight al-Qaeda after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks
shouldn’t continue forever. In that speech, Obama said that the
U.S. may be drawn into more wars unless the nation moderates its
stance.  The ceremony today came a day after Obama’s visit to
victims of tornado-ravaged Moore,  Oklahoma , where he told those
coping with the devastation and lost loved ones that the federal
government is there to help.  Yesterday, Obama arrived in the Oklahoma City suburb to
survey the wreckage in the wake of the tornado, which took the
lives of at least 24 people, including 10 children.  “A picture is worth a thousand words,” the president said
in front of an elementary school where seven students were
killed as winds exceeding 200 miles (322 kilometers) per hour
ripped off roofs and twisted sheet metal around splintered trees
and utility poles.  School Destroyed  The school is now replaced with rubble including bricks,
insulation, overturned automobiles and torn books and lesson
plans. “Obviously the damage here is pretty hard to
comprehend,” Obama said.  “As fellow Americans, we’re going to be there as shelter
from the storm” for those affected by the tornado, Obama said.
“We’re going to be with you every step of the way.”  Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin, who visited the damage with
Obama, told  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” earlier in the day that
she hopes the government response will be quick enough.  “There’s a lot to be done here; A lot of businesses
closed, a lot of people without jobs because their businesses
are closed,” Fallin said on CNN. “It’s not just a couple of
houses with roofs off.”  Warning Lawmakers  The president praised weather forecasters, first responders
and the teachers who shielded students. He also issued a veiled
warning to lawmakers in  Washington  in anticipation of fights
over funding amid budget cuts, saying “we can’t shortchange
that kind of ongoing disaster response.”  “I know everybody in Congress cares deeply about what is
happening and I’m confident that resources will be forthcoming
when it comes to rebuilding,” Obama said.  The May 20 twister was an EF5, the most powerful on the
National Weather Service scale for tornado strength. The storm
destroyed more than 1,300 homes and more than 47 nonresidential
structures, according to the  Federal Emergency Management
Agency . The storm may have caused as much as $2 billion in
damages and affected 30,000 people, according to Oklahoma City
Mayor Mick Cornett.  The storm, which was 1.3 miles across at its widest,
touched down the day after two people were killed and 39 injured
in separate storms in the state. At least 30 tornadoes were
reported on May 19 from  Illinois  to Oklahoma.  Deadliest Tornado  The twister hit Moore two days before the second
anniversary of the deadliest single U.S. tornado in almost 60
years, which slammed into Joplin,  Missouri , about 225 miles
northeast of Moore. That storm killed 161 people and caused more
than $2 billion in damage.  It’s traditional for the president to upend his schedule in
the wake of catastrophic events, yet such visits have been
frequent over the last several months.  In December, Obama went to Newtown,  Connecticut , days after
the shooting massacre that took the lives of 20 children and six
school employees. He spoke at a memorial service in April days
after the Boston Marathon terrorist attacks that killed two
people and injured scores more. Earlier this month, he attended
a memorial service for residents and emergency workers killed in
an April 17 fire and explosion at a fertilizer plant in West,
 Texas , near Waco.  Hurricane Sandy  Tomorrow, he plans to travel to the New Jersey shore to
survey the rebuilding and recovery efforts after  Hurricane Sandy 
devastated the coastline in October. Obama visited the area to
meet with victims and first responders within days after the
storm hit.  “It’s important for the people in these communities to
understand that the entire nation is standing with them in their
time of need,”  Josh Earnest , an Obama spokesman, told reporters
traveling with the president to Oklahoma on Air Force One.  There are still families displaced and small businesses
unopened in the wake of Sandy, Representative Michael Grimm, a
Republican from  New York , said yesterday on CNN.  “You think the cavalry’s coming, and it’s going to take a
long time because there is a bureaucracy,” Grimm said. “We
certainly haven’t done enough, and it certainly is taking too
long.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Gillian Roberts in Washington at 
 groberts42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  