-- Todd Family to Seek U.S. Congressional Probe Into Son’s Death
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-05-26T04:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/todd-family-to-seek-u-s-congressional-probe-into-son-s-death.html
The family of Shane Todd, who was
found hanged in his Singapore apartment, said they plan to seek
a U.S. congressional investigation into how the American
research engineer died.  The family plans to meet with U.S. Senators  Max Baucus  and
Jon Tester on the inquiry proceedings conducted in a Singapore
court, his father Rick Todd said in a phone interview from the
U.S. state of  Montana  today, adding that no date has been fixed.  “We will meet with Senator Baucus and Tester to tell them
how we were treated,” Todd said. “We were told that it will be
an honest and open inquiry. Our experience was the opposite.”  The Todd family last week quit the inquest, opened by
Singapore to determine how the 31-year-old died in June. The
family had said Todd may have been killed because of his
sensitive work at Singapore’s  Institute of Microelectronics  and
possible technology transfers to  China ’s Huawei Technologies Co.
The island’s police ruled he committed suicide by hanging.  Singapore’s  Foreign Affairs  and Law Minister K. Shanmugam
said May 22 it was regretful that the Todd family pulled out
from the inquest.  The case drew queries from Democratic Senators Baucus and
Tester of Todd’s home state of Montana. Shanmugam, who met with
Baucus on March 12 during a visit to the U.S., has said there
were no illegal technology transfers at the institute, which is
subject to rigorous audits.  The family walked out of the courtroom on May 21 after
their request to delay the hearing to examine claims made by a
witness was initially rejected by the judge. The witness, a
former colleague, said he met Todd on June 23, the day before
his body was found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  