-- Inmobiliaria Colonial Climbs as Stake Sale Looms: Madrid Mover
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-27T16:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/ohl-owner-said-to-consider-buying-stake-in-inmobiliaria-colonial.html
Inmobiliaria Colonial SA (COL)  jumped in
 Madrid  trading as Grupo Villar Mir, an investor with interests
ranging from fertilizers to construction, considers acquiring a
stake in the debt-laden Spanish property company.  Inmobiliaria Colonial climbed 9.1 percent to 1.01 euros,
paring the stock’s decline this year to 38 percent and boosting
the Barcelona-based company’s market value to 228 million euros
($295 million). It was the  third-biggest gainer  in the 112-company  Madrid Stock Exchange General Index (MADX)  today.  Villar Mir, the closely held owner of a shareholding in
builder  Obrascon Huarte Lain SA (OHL) , is weighing a purchase of as
much as 29.99 percent of Colonial via a capital increase, a
person familiar with the matter said, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are private. Juan-Miguel Villar Mir, chairman and owner of the Madrid-based holding
company that bears his name, said this month he’s considering
investing in Colonial, whose shareholders include  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “It will all come down to price and I suspect he’ll ask
for a big discount,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based
strategist at FGA/MG Valores, said by telephone. Villar Mir is
known as a contrarian investor and has successfully restructured
businesses in the past, Salvador said.  Colonial, whose assets include office properties in prime
locations of Madrid, Barcelona and Paris, has struggled with
mounting losses and debt from its expansion during the real
estate boom in Spain.  Falling Rents  In Spain, investors that acquire 30 percent or more of a
company are required by law to make a full takeover bid. Villar
Mir isn’t interested in buying individual assets owned by
Colonial, the person said.  Representatives for Grupo Villar Mir and Colonial declined
to comment on the acquisition plan.  As  Spain  grapples with  record unemployment , spending on
real estate has slumped. Prime rents in Madrid have fallen 41
percent since peaking in 2008, according to BNP Paribas.
Investment in Spanish commercial properties fell 45 percent in
2012 to 1.8 billion euros, according to Deloitte LLP.  Colonial’s first-quarter net loss widened to 24 million
euros from 13 million euros a year earlier. Net debt fell to 3.4
billion euros from 3.6 billion euros in the fourth quarter.  Villar Mir started building his group in 1987, steering it
into real estate and construction before diversifying into areas
such as fertilizers and electro-metallurgy.  OHL jumped 2.9 percent, bringing the shares’ gain this year
to 35 percent, compared with a 7.7  increase  by the 31-member
Madrid Stock Exchange Basic Materials, Industry & Construction
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd White  in Madrid  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  