-- OPEC May Keep Target as Oil Demand Set to Rise, al-Husseini Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-05-26T16:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/opec-may-keep-target-as-oil-demand-set-to-rise-al-husseini-says.html
OPEC may leave the group’s output
target unchanged at Friday’s meeting in Vienna because increased
demand in the next few months will help maintain the commodity’s
price, a local energy analyst said.  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will review the 30 million barrels a day production
ceiling as demand in the U.S. and the Middle East ramps up
during the hottest part of the year, said Sadad al-Husseini, who
founded  Husseini Energy , an independent energy consultant in
Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia , after retiring from Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
in 2004.  OPEC countries don’t have many options other than keeping
the current target unchanged, al-Husseini said. “With summer
approaching, OPEC countries will need to keep production high to
meet seasonal local energy demand.”  The OPEC basket, a weighted average of the main grades
produced by the member countries, traded above $100 in the
second half of 2012 and for much of 2013, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It dipped in April amid signs of
weakening economic growth and has since recovered.  Conditions in the market are “almost perfect,” with no
supply shortages or disruptions, al-Husseini said. “Prices are
subject to very limited volatility this year, and they are at a
level every producer was dreaming about without hurting demand
and consumers.”  OPEC is also focusing on measures to stabilize the market
as major oil consumers such as the U.S. are exerting less
pressure to lower prices than previous years, said al-Husseini,
who was executive vice president for exploration and development
at  Saudi Aramco  before he retired.  OPEC will maintain its 30 million-barrel ceiling at the
Vienna gathering, according to 19 of 20 traders and analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  