-- Palestinian Economic Plan Would Attract $4 Billion
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-05-26T18:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/palestinian-economic-plan-would-attract-4-billion.html
An economic stimulus plan being
developed for the Palestinians would bring $4 billion in
investment, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said.  The plan, led by former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair ,
would generate money for projects involving tourism, energy,
agriculture and construction in the West Bank and Gaza Strip,
Kerry said during a meeting of the World Economic Forum at the
Dead Sea in Jordan.  Blair’s group, which includes corporate executives,
estimates that Palestinian gross domestic product could be
increased by 50 percent over three years. In their “most
optimistic estimates,” the plan would create enough new jobs to
cut unemployment to 8 percent from 21 percent, Kerry said.  “When you’re talking about $4 billion or more and this
kind of economic effort, you’re talking about something that is
absolutely achievable,” Kerry said, speaking after Palestinian
President  Mahmoud Abbas , Israeli President  Shimon Peres  and
Palestinian business leader Munib al-Masri.  Masri and Israeli entrepreneur Yossi Vardi presented a
separate plan called “Breaking the Impasse” in which both
Palestinian and Israeli business executives and civil society
leaders are meeting in an effort to support negotiating a peace
agreement.  Speaking before Kerry, Abbas said Palestinians won’t accept
a phased solution to the conflict with Israel and that any
agreement must address the issues of refugees and political
prisoners.  Temporary solutions “won’t end the conflict” and will
make it “more complicated,” Abbas said.  Kerry, Blair and U.S. investor Tim Collins were scheduled
to meet later with the foreign ministers of Jordan and the
United Arab Emirates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia at  ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  