-- Palestinian Economic Plan Would Attract $4B: Kerry
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-05-26T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/palestinian-economic-plan-would-attract-4b-kerry.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
pressed Israelis and Palestinians to renew peace negotiations,
touting a plan that he said could attract $4 billion in
investments to boost the Palestinian economy.  The initiative, formulated by former U.K. Prime Minister
 Tony Blair  with a group of corporate executives and investors,
would generate money for projects involving tourism, energy,
agriculture and construction in the West Bank and  Gaza Strip ,
Kerry said yesterday during a meeting of the  World Economic
Forum  at the  Dead Sea  in Jordan.  “We know it can be done,” he said. “This is a plan for
the Palestinian economy that is bigger, bolder and more
ambitious than anything proposed” since the Oslo peace accords
20 years ago.  The U.S. and  Israel  have proposed a variety of economic
development plans for the Palestinians that were aimed at
supporting peace negotiations. Abbas has rejected phased peace
plans and the notion that economic development will lead to
resolving the conflict, demanding that Israel address key issues
such as West Bank settlements and refugees before a peace
agreement can be signed.  Temporary solutions “won’t end the conflict” and will
make it “more complicated,” Abbas said in an earlier address.  Kerry responded to Abbas, saying his goal is a permanent
political solution and that can’t be replaced with simply
bolstering the Palestinian economy. Still, he said the Blair
plan could bring the two sides together and improve chances for
a peace agreement.  GDP Growth  “Is this a fantasy?” Kerry asked. “I don’t think so,
because there are already great examples of investment and
entrepreneurship that are working in the  West Bank . We know it
can be done, but we’ve never experienced the kind of
concentrated effort that this group is talking about bringing to
the table.”  Kerry said Palestinian gross domestic product could be
increased by 50 percent over three years under the plan being
developed by Blair. In the “most optimistic estimates,” the
plan would create enough new jobs to cut unemployment to 8
percent from 21 percent, Kerry said.  Kerry, Blair and U.S. investor Tim Collins were scheduled
to meet later with the foreign ministers of Jordan and the
 United Arab Emirates .  Eternal Conflict  Separately, Palestinian businessman Munib al-Masri and
Israeli entrepreneur Yossi Vardi presented a plan called
“Breaking the Impasse” in which executives and civil society
leaders from both sides are meeting in an effort to support
peace negotiations with joint economic projects.  “The time for action is now,” Masri said. “If we don’t
cease today, then we have ourselves  to blame for falling into
an abyss of eternal conflict.”  Israeli President  Shimon Peres , who also spoke at the
forum, endorsed the initiative of the Palestinian and Israeli
businessmen and called on Abbas to return to the negotiating
table.  “President Abbas,” Peres said. “You are our partner and
we are yours.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Amman, Jordan at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  