-- Pinot Blanc Pairs With Foie Gras, Curries: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-05-26T22:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/pinot-blanc-pairs-with-foie-gras-gorgonzola-baked-beans.html
They are the color of gold but not at
all rare; They are inexpensive yet hard to find on a wine list.
Yet they are among the most versatile white wines, not least
with dishes that contain a good dose of spice.  I’m speaking about pinot blanc, once a prolific grape in
 France ’s Burgundy region and now displaced by chardonnay. It is
widely planted in Alsace, where it is sometimes called klevner;
in northern Italy, it is called pinot bianco; in  Germany , it’s
known as weissburgunder; in the Czech Republic, it’s rulandske
bile. Yet in  California , a bottle labeled pinot blanc may
actually be another varietal called muscat melon.  Pinot blanc is such a workhorse grape that it’s difficult
to get handle on just how it’s supposed to taste. In Austria and
Alsace, the soils contribute to distinctive spiciness and
aromatic qualities that make it as easy to drink as a faintly
sweet aperitif as with a wide variety of foods.  It doesn’t have the acidic bite of Riesling or the pungent
herbaceousness of gewurtztraminer. Instead, it achieves a middle
ground whereby the wine never overpowers food and still buoys up
many savory flavors, not least those in Asian dishes.  Last week in  London , I drank pinot blanc with almost every
meal, finding it as refreshing with dishes like wild bream and
crab as it was with smoked salmon, and with just about all
cheeses, from cheddar to Gorgonzola.  Coconut Chutney  I was most charmed by pinot blanc’s vivacity with the
refined Indian seafood at the restaurant Quilon, including curry 
leaf and lentil crusted fish with ginger and coconut chutney, 
and a prawn with ground pink peppercorn and byadgi chili.  That’s a lot of spices, some hot, each with its own aromas.
The combination of citrus fruit, mineral, oak, and spice flavors
in a 2009 Alois Lageder Haberle ($20 retail) from Alto Adige,
 Italy , mingled beautifully with the exotic spices of the meal.  So, too, at a new hot spot named Social Eating House in
Soho. Sommelier Boris Poliakov served me a luscious, pear-like,
highly aromatic Alsatian pinot blanc from Jean-Marie Haag 2011
($20), with a modest 12.5 percent alcohol.  It went with a salt-cod fishcake with lemon butter and
chive cream, and a dish of Colchester crab with a roasted-tomato
vinaigrette. The meal ended with a very sweet honey-almond
sponge cake with goat’s curd ice cream and orange, which the
wine still had the body to complement.  Heston Blumenthal  At chef Heston Blumenthal’s superb restaurant named Dinner,
I ordered another Alsatian beauty from one of the best-known
estates in the region, Domaine Zind Humbrecht 2011 ($30).  It was a beautiful match with a chicken liver and foie gras
parfait; spiced duck breast with a smoked confit of fennel; and
brown bread ice cream with salted butter caramel, pear, and
malted yeast syrup.  While that is a difficult array of flavors for any wine to
cope with, the pinot blanc proved more than a good companion for
every dish. With 13.5 percent alcohol, it had the power of a
good Burgundian chardonnay.  Even within Alsace, pinot blancs show many different flavor
components. At lunch at the Brasserie at  Ellenborough Park  in
the Cotswolds, a Paul & Philippe Zinck 2011 ($12) showed a great
deal of fruit and very little acid, with a real softness on the
palate and a touch of sweetness that went very well with a wild
mushroom and vegetable risotto.  The puzzling thing was that all of these restaurants listed
just a single pinot blanc on their wine lists. You won’t find
scads of them at wine shops either.  Domaine Pfister  Once I got home, with a little calling around I found a few
bottles among the rieslings and gewurztraminers. Domaine Pfister
2009 ($27) was very tangy and delightfully herbal, with a
flowery bouquet, and a pretty sweetness, with 12 percent
alcohol, making it very easy to drink.  By contrast, Domaine Mittnacht Freres Terre d’Etoiles 2011
($19) was of another style: spicy with a gingery spark and a
nose close to a gewurtztraminer. It was a subdued wine without
much punch. Still, with chicken burgers on a bun with ketchup,
red peppers, and baked beans, I couldn’t have been happier
sitting outside for my first early summer’s meal.  Pinot blanc is that kind of appealing and amenable wine,
offering surprises from estate to estate. And if it’s not a wine
to go with a porterhouse steak, for most everything else, it
will serve.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Guy Collins  and  John Mariani  on
wine,  Scott Reyburn  and  Frederik Balfour  on the art market,
Farah Nayeri on film and  Gwen Ackerman  on  Israel  art.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 