-- Qatar Telecom Raises $12 Billion to Buy Maroc Telecom, CEO Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e ,   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-05-27T08:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/qatar-telecom-raises-12-billion-to-buy-maroc-telecom-ceo-says.html
Qatar Telecom  QSC raised $12 billion
to finance its bid for a majority stake in Maroc Telecom SA as
it seeks to expand through acquisitions, its chief executive
officer said in an interview.  Qatar Telecom, which recently changed its name to Ooredoo,
plans to focus on buying telecommunication operators abroad
after expanding holdings in companies in Kuwait, Iraq and
 Tunisia  last year, Nasser Marafih said yesterday at the  World
Economic Forum  in  Jordan .  “We’re aware that we’ve not done any acquisitions lately,
but have increased our stake in our existing companies,” he
said. “There are companies that will be available for
consolidation and when they become available they will pursue
them.”  The company is competing with  Emirates Telecommunications
Corp. (ETISALAT)  to buy  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s 53 percent stake in Maroc Telecom and
both made binding offers in April. The holding has a market
value of about $5.6 billion based on trading in Casablanca.
Vivendi wants to complete the sale by October, people familiar
with the matter said last month. Etisalat offered a higher price
than Qatar Telecom, Reuters reported May 24, citing two people
familiar with the matter it didn’t identify.  Qatar Telecom submitted a “strong, compelling offer” and
raised the necessary financing, Marafih said. “We still believe
we have a strong chance to win this bid.”  Vivendi shares rose 1.7 percent to 15.42 euros at 10:04
a.m. in Paris.  Myanmar License  Etisalat sought $8 billion of loans to back its bid, two
people with knowledge of the deal said last month.  Qatar Telecom plans to bid for a license in Myanmar next
month because it may be “one of the last untapped markets.”
The country’s mobile phone penetration is about 5 percent,
Marafih said.  ‘It’s a very good opportunity in southeast  Asia ,’’ he said.
“In terms of financing, we have the capability to do that.”  Most of the company’s 91 million customers are in countries
outside of Qatar, including Indonesia, Kuwait, Iraq, Tunisia,
Oman and Algeria,  according to its website . Its home market of
1.9 million people accounted for 18 percent of its revenue in
2012, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Qatar Telecom is in talks with regulators in Iraq and
Algeria for third-generation, or 3G, mobile phone licenses and
hopes the countries will issue them this year, Marafih said.  “There are acquisition opportunities in our region,” he
said. “The industry is going to consolidate in the coming
years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  