-- Deutsche Bank’s Hungate to Head Cotton at Singapore Trader
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-05-27T03:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/rcma-hires-ex-deutsche-bank-trader-hungate-to-head-cotton-team.html
Nick Hungate joined RCMA Commodities
Asia Pte Ltd. as global head of cotton today as the Singapore-based firm expands agricultural trading.  Hungate, previously director of farm commodities at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in  London , will lead a team of five, Chief
Executive Officer Chris Pardey said in an interview. Hungate
started his career at Cargill Inc. in 1985 on the same day as
Pardey, both said. He will continue to be based in London.  RCMA, majority-owned by hedge-fund managers  Doug King  and
 Michael Coleman , has increased headcount 80 percent to 120 since
end-2010. Merchants such as Vitol Group, the largest independent
oil trader, are moving into agriculture as investment banks cut
commodity staff amid declining revenues and stricter regulation.
Cotton is the second-best performer this year on the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials.  “We see cotton as a growing market,” Hungate, 49, said in
an interview on May 21. “Demand at the moment is quite good.
Almost all the mills in the major consuming countries, from
Indonesia to  Bangladesh , they all need to buy as they ran down
their stockpiles.”  Global consumption increased 10 percent in the past decade,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , as rising
incomes boosted sales of clothes. While inventories are seen by
the USDA surging to a record 92.7 million bales in 2013-2014, 63
percent is stored in China, the largest user, leaving less
supply for textile makers in countries including Bangladesh.
Each bale weighs 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  Hungate joined Deutsche Bank in London in 2010 and was
formerly executive director at Rabobank International.  RCMA Commodities expanded into sugar last year after hiring
ex-Cargill trader Jonathan Drake to lead that team. The firm
expects to handle 400,000 metric tons of rubber this year,
300,000 tons of sugar and 60,000 tons of coffee, Pardey said.  Phil Munden, last with  Nestle SA (NESN)  as coffee procurement
manager for Europe, will start at RCMA as arabica coffee head in
London on June 3, Pardey and Munden said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  