-- Rockets Hit Lebanon as Nasrallah Vows Victory in Syrian Conflict
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2013-05-26T21:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/rockets-hit-lebanon-as-nasrallah-vows-victory-in-syrian-conflict.html
Rockets slammed into a Hezbollah
stronghold outside  Beirut , injuring at least four people, hours
after the Lebanese militant group’s leader declared he could
mobilize thousands of fighters to help  Syria ’s rulers beat an
insurgency.  As many as three rockets hit a southern suburb of Beirut
yesterday, damaging homes,  Al Jazeera  satellite TV said, showing
shrapnel-damaged walls and cars. Lebanese President Michel Suleiman called the spillover from Syria’s civil war an act of
“terrorist saboteurs” who don’t want peace and stability for
Lebanon, Lebanon’s National News Agency said.  In a weekend speech, Hezbollah leader  Hassan Nasrallah 
called the fighting in neighboring Syria part of a broader
struggle against  Israel  and warned that “foreign extremists”
could destabilize his country if allowed to control Syrian
territory near Lebanon.  “We consider the control of these groups in Syria a major
threat to Lebanon,” Nasrallah said. “Syria forms the back of
the resistance, and that resistance won’t keep silent and watch
its back break.”  The rockets hit a car dealership in the Mar
Mikhael district on the southern edge of the capital and a
residential building in the Chiyah district, about a mile away,
the  Associated Press   reported , attributing the information to
Lebanese security officials. Lebanese media said security forces
were searching for a third unexploded rocket, the AP reported
yesterday.  Peace Conference  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem told a news
conference in  Baghdad  yesterday that his government would take
part in peace talks next month in Geneva sponsored by the U.S.
and  Russia . An earlier international attempt to bring the
conflict to a close failed.  The Shiite Muslim Hezbollah, backed by  Iran  and classified
as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and Israel, is now
fighting alongside Syrian government forces to retake the city
of Al-Qusair from the mainly  Sunni Muslim  rebels trying to oust
President Bashar al-Assad. At least 27 rebels were killed May 25
in al-Qusair in Homs province, according to the Coventry,
England-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  With government forces, backed by Hezbollah, advancing on
key opposition strongholds, Syria’s opposition leader George Sabra earlier this month appealed for rebels to concentrate on
Al-Qusair and aid 50,000 people trapped inside. In recent weeks,
the opposition has lost Otaibah to the east of Damascus after a
37-day battle, the southern town of Sanamein and Aziza near
Aleppo in the north.  Syrian government forces entered Al-Qusair this month to
secure the highway linking Damascus with the coastal mountain
region that forms the Alawite heartland, the regime’s support-base, and cut the rebel resupply lines from Lebanon. The battle
is seen as a test for both sides.  80,000 Dead  At least 80,000 people have been killed in Syria since the
uprising began in 2011, Vuk Jeremic, president of the  United
Nations ’ General Assembly,  said  this month. U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  on May 22 said “upwards of 100,000 people”
may have been killed.  The UN has registered more than 1.3 million refugees who’ve
fled to  Turkey , Lebanon and Jordan.  The conflict has also spilled into Lebanon, at times in
deadly clashes between groups supporting opposing sides and most
recently with yesterday’s rocket attack. Al Jazeera, citing its
own correspondent, reported that five people were wounded, while
the National News Agency put the number at four. The agency said
two rockets were fired and that the Lebanese army had cordoned
off the area where missile launch pads were found.  Hezbollah has been open about its support for Assad, 47,
who belongs to the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam,
from the start of the March 2011 insurrection in Syria. In
recent weeks, it has become more actively involved in the
violence, and Nasrallah made it clear over the weekend his
loyalists were ready to join the fray even more deeply.  Deeper Involvement  “We aren’t forcing anyone to fight, but tens of thousands
of our fighters are ready,” Nasrallah said. while Hezbollah’s
policy is to only allow those with siblings to fight, parents
are insisting on sending their sons to war, Nasrallah said.  In response,  Bahrain ’s Foreign Minister Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmed Al Khalifa said on his Twitter account that Nasrallah was
a “terrorist” who declared war on the Arab world. Stopping him
and “freeing Lebanon from him is a national and religious
duty,” he wrote.  Bahrain crushed a Shiite Muslim revolt against its Sunni
rulers in March 2011, and has accused Iran of intervening in the
internal affairs of Arab countries in the  Persian Gulf . Iran has
denied allegations of interference and accused Sunni rulers in
Bahrain and  Saudi Arabia  of discriminating against Shiites.  Arabic for Party of God, Hezbollah is the only group that
refused to disband following the end of Lebanon’s 1975-1990
civil war, swelling from a small militia to the most powerful
political group in Lebanon with seats in parliament and
ministers in the Cabinet.  Weapons  It says it needs its arsenal of weapons to defend against
Israeli attacks. Hezbollah spearheaded the fight against
Israel’s occupation of an enclave in south Lebanon and claimed
victory when Israel withdrew in 2000 after 18 years.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said yesterday
that his country is “preparing for any scenario” with the
three-day national civil defense exercise it is set to begin
tomorrow.  “Israel is the world’s most threatened country from rocket
or missile attacks,” he said.  Hezbollah portrays itself as a pan-Islamic, rather than a
sectarian Shiite, party. Its inconclusive war against Israel in
2006 earned it popularity across the region, including in
overwhelmingly Sunni Gulf countries, despite its ties to Shiite
Iran. Today, Syrian rebels regularly burn Hezbollah’s yellow
flag and stomp on its leaders’ pictures.  “Just as I promised you victory in 2006 war, I again
pledge today to bring you victory,” Nasrallah said.  Hezbollah fighters are part of Assad’s “killing machine”
and Hezbollah leaders continue to coordinate with Iran to “prop
up a murderous and desperate dictator,”  Susan Rice , U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations, said on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  