-- Serena Williams Cruises as Venus Exits French Open Tennis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-27T00:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/serena-williams-cruises-as-venus-exits-french-open-tennis.html
Serena Williams rebounded from her
first-round defeat at the 2012 French Open by routing Anna
Tatishvili on day one of this year’s tournament. Her sister
Venus was upset in the opening round.  Top-seeded Serena beat the 83rd-ranked player from Georgia
6-0, 6-1 in 51 minutes yesterday on the main Court Philippe
Chatrier. Six hours later on Court Suzanne Lenglen, Serena
watched Venus lose 7-6 (7-5), 6-7 (4-7), 6-4 to Poland’s Urszula Radwanska in a match full of service breaks and long rallies.  “I was just in a really big hole,”  Venus Williams  told
reporters after falling to her earliest exit at  Roland Garros  in
12 years. “It’s definitely not the place you want to be in the
third set. But I just tried to stay positive and keep fighting
back. She didn’t really make a lot of errors, kept bringing a
lot of balls back and competing well.”  Also on the opening day of the clay-court tennis Grand
Slam, former champion  Roger Federer  and fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  won in straight sets. While all eight seeded men to
complete their matches advanced, No. 30 Venus Williams was
joined by 11th-seeded  Nadia Petrova  as losing women’s seeds.  Seven-time champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain plays his first
round match today against unseeded Daniel Brands of Germany.
Defending women’s champion  Maria Sharapova  of Russia faces 42nd-ranked Su-Wei Hsieh of Chinese Taipei, while former winner  Li Na 
of China plays Spain’s Anabel Medina Garrigues.  Major Mark  Venus Williams, 32, was playing in her 59th major, the most
among active players on the women’s tour. Her best result in
Paris was in 2002, when she lost in the final to her sister.  Williams, a five-time Wimbledon champion now ranked 30th on
the women’s tour, was diagnosed with the energy-sapping
Sjogren’s Syndrome in 2011. She has since struggled during some
of her matches with stamina and strength, and has also had
several injuries that kept her off the circuit.  Against the 37th-ranked Radwanska, Williams saved five set
points before dropping the first-set tiebreaker with a backhand
into the net.  The match went into another tiebreaker as Williams twice
failed to serve out the set. Radwanska raced to a 4-0 lead, only
for Williams to win the next seven points and force a third set.  Radwanska took a 5-2 lead in the final set as Williams
continued to struggle with her serve. After fighting back to
4-5, Williams netted a ground stroke to lose in three hours, 19
minutes.  “For me today it’s a positive to be able to play three
hours,” Williams said. “I’m constantly finding ways to get
better and to feel better.”  Serena Rebounds  Serena Williams  fired 27 winners, including 8 aces, in
dropping only one game against Tatishvili. Her victory was in
contrast to last year, when she fell to her first defeat in the
opening round of a major against then 111th-ranked Virginie Razzano of France.  After the loss, Williams went on a run to the top spot in
women’s tennis, winning Wimbledon, the  U.S. Open , the season-ending WTA Championships and singles and doubles gold at the
London Olympics. Her only title in Paris came in 2002.  Ana Ivanovic, another former women’s champion, overcame a
challenge from Petra Martic of  Croatia  to reach the second
round. Sara Errani, last year’s runner-up from  Italy , eased past
Arantxa Rus of the Netherlands 6-1, 6-2.  Federer, the 2009 champion from Switzerland, was never in
trouble against Spanish qualifier Pablo Carreno Busta, firing 33
winners to 12 for his opponent in a 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 win.  “I was happy with the way I was able to mix up the game
with a player who can play very well on clay,” Federer, who won
a men’s record-extending 17th Grand Slam singles crown at
Wimbledon last year, said in a news conference.  Men’s Seeds  Ferrer of Spain advanced with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 win against
Marinko Matosevic of Australia. Milos Raonic, the No. 14 seed
from Canada, beat Belgium’s Xavier Malisse 6-2, 6-1, 4-6, 6-4,
while France’s No. 15 seed Gilles Simon overcame former top-ranked  Lleyton Hewitt  of Australia in five sets.  No. 18 seed  Sam Querrey , the highest-ranked American man,
defeated Slovakia’s Lukas Lacko, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4. Querrey has
never gotten to the third round of Roland Garros in seven
appearances. Fellow American  James Blake , a former top 10
player, lost to Serbia’s  Viktor Troicki .  With spectators wrapped up in scarves and hats in
temperatures of 10 degrees Celsius (50 Fahrenheit), Ivanovic of
Serbia opened the tournament on the main Court Philippe Chatrier
by beating Martic 6-1, 3-6, 6-3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  