-- Serena Williams and Federer Cruise Into French 2nd Round
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-26T14:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/serena-williams-routs-anna-tatishvili-at-french-open.html
Serena Williams got over her first-round loss at the  French Open  last year by routing Anna
Tatishvili on the opening day of Roland Garros today. Former
champion Roger Federer also won easily.  Women’s top-seed Williams eased past the 83rd-ranked player
from  Georgia , 6-0, 6-1 in 51 minutes on a cold and cloudy day on
the main Court Philippe Chartier.  “I was definitely nervous,” Williams, 31, said in a news
conference after she had received cheers from the court for
addressing them in French during a post-match interview. “But
for the most part I felt pretty safe and felt good about my
game. If I can just do what I do in practice, I’ll be okay.”  Federer, the 2009 champion from Switzerland, was never in
trouble against Spanish qualifier Pablo Carreno Busta, 6-2, 6-2,
6-3. Federer, who won a men’s record-extending 17th major
singles crown at Wimbledon last year, struck 33 winners compared
with 12 for his opponent.  “It was not easy for him, but I am always happy to be back
playing in the main stadium here in Paris,” Federer, 31, said
in a court-side interview.  Serena’s Run  Williams fired 27 winners including 8 aces past her
opponent. Her win today was in sharp contrast to last year, when
she got handed her first-ever defeat in the opening round of a
major during a nervous encounter with then 111th-ranked Virginie Razzano of  France .  After the loss, Williams went on a run to the top spot in
women’s tennis, winning Wimbledon, the U.S. Open, the season-ending WTA Championships and singles and doubles gold at the
London Olympics. Williams last won the title in Paris in 2002.  Ana Ivanovic, another former champion, moved to the second
round earlier today, overcoming a challenge from Petra Martic of
 Croatia . Sara Errani, last year’s runner-up from  Italy , eased
past Aranxta Rus of the Netherlands, 6-1, 6-2.  Milos Raonic, the No. 14 seed from  Canada , beat  Belgium ’s
Xavier Malisse, 6-2, 6-1, 4-6, 6-4 while France’s No. 15 seed
Gilles Simon overcame former top-ranked Australian Lleyton
Hewitt, 3-6, 1-6, 6-4, 6-1, 7-5. No. 18 seed Sam Querrey, the
highest-ranked American man, also won, defeating Slovakia’s
Lukas Lacko, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4.  Cold Courts  With spectators wrapped up in scarves and hats in 10 degree
Celsius (50 Fahrenheit) weather, Ivanovic of  Serbia  opened the
tournament on the main Court Philippe Chatrier this morning by
beating Martic, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3.  The 14th-seeded Ivanovic won the French Open in 2008, and
soon after reached the top spot in the women’s rankings. Since
that season, the 25-year-old struggled with her form and
injuries. She made the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open last year,
her best result in a major since she won Roland Garros. Ivanovic
had entered the French Open after she reached the semifinals of
 Madrid  and the quarterfinals in Stuttgart, both times losing to
defending Roland Garros champion Maria Sharapova of  Russia .  Serena’s elder sister, Venus Williams, plays the closing
match of the day against  Poland ’s Urszula Radwanska at the Court
Suzanne Lenglen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  