-- Sexism Stands in Way of ’Abenomics’ Saving Japan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-05-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/sexism-stands-in-way-of-abenomics-saving-japan.html
No one needs a lean-in movement like
Japan’s women.  I had this conversation in Tokyo 12 years ago with Sheryl Sandberg, long before she joined Facebook Inc. and wrote her
book on female empowerment. We were listening to her boss at the
time, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , speak about the
need for structural reforms to the Japanese economy, in a giant
auditorium devoid of women. It was one of several male-dominated
events that day. The author of “Lean In” leaned over and asked
me half-seriously: “There ARE women in this country, right?”  A dozen years on, Japan’s leaders appear to have realized
that the two problems are intertwined: The lack of women in the
workforce poses one of the biggest structural impediments to
faster growth. Japan’s institutionalized sexism deepens
deflation, hurts competitiveness and exacerbates the demographic
trends that make Japan’s debt load so dangerous.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe claims that tapping the other
half of Japan’s 126 million people is a key element of his
revival plan, dubbed “Abenomics.” Yet his proposals are timid
and may even make it harder for Japanese women to enter the
working world. As with other vital structural changes required
to restore Japan to health, Abe needs to act more boldly.  Key Statistic  The  World Economic Forum   ranks  Japan a dismal 101st in
 gender equality  out 135 countries -- behind  Azerbaijan ,
 Indonesia  and  China . Not a single Nikkei 225 company is run by a
woman. Female participation in politics is negligible, and the
male-female wage gap is double the average in Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development countries.  One number explains why Japan must pull women into the job
market and help them achieve leadership roles: 15 percent.
That’s how much of a boost that gross domestic product would
receive if female employment matched men’s (about 80 percent),
says Kathy Matsui, the chief Japan equity strategist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  “Japan is lagging because it’s running a marathon with one
leg,” says Matsui, who has been churning out “Womenomics”
reports regularly since 1999. “It must start tapping its most
underutilized resource.”  Abe is acting from fiscal necessity, not from a sense of
social justice.  Japan ’s workforce is shrinking as the population
ages and the birthrate declines. That might be manageable if not
for a public debt more than twice the size of the $5.9 trillion
economy. Politically, increasing the number of women workers is
an easier sell than opening up Japan to immigrant labor.  Women’s Notebooks  Yet even so, Abe’s proposals hardly match his rhetoric. He
has talked about extending child-care leave, expanding day-care
facilities and asking companies to hire female board members.
He’s merely scratching surface and reinforcing stereotypes about
the role of women in society.  The  government  is considering circulating “Women’s
Notebooks” to warn of the evils of postponing marriage and
motherhood. Yes, career-oriented women are selfish. When Abe
calls on companies to provide three years of maternity leave, he
uses a Japanese expression that a child should be held by its
mother until the age of 3. In other words, kids are women’s
work. (In fact, knowing that a three-year absence could derail
their careers, many women are likely to further delay
childbirth.)  Abe’s government should begin by actually enforcing the
1986 Equal Employment Opportunity Law. Japan should promote
diversity and offer tax incentives to companies that do, as
well. More-flexible work hours would draw women into the
workforce. So would offering subsidized or free day care so more
families can afford it.  Gender Quotas  Abe should consider quotas for female executives. A 2012
McKinsey & Co. report titled “ Women Matter ” bemoaned the low
percentage of female Japanese managers and found companies that
champion diversity are more profitable and innovative. Women are
good for business, not charity cases. And yet only 30 companies
on the  Nikkei 225 , and 130 out of the 1,600-plus companies
listed on the  Tokyo Stock Price Index (TPX) , have a female board
member. Those numbers won’t improve on their own.  These aren’t the only difficult structural fixes Abe is
avoiding. Is he lifting barriers to immigration? Tightening
corporate governance? Tweaking taxes to support startup
companies? Crafting a new  energy policy  that creates jobs, cuts
prices and phases out nuclear reactors in seismically active
Japan? Nope.  Has Abe introduced more flexibility into labor markets? Is
he ending protections enjoyed by farmers, medical services or
fisheries? What about retooling the education system? Again, no.
Manipulating exchange rates is simply easier than upending
Japan’s postwar model.  Leaning In  It’s time for a national dialogue and decisive action.
Women should take a page from Sandberg and demand equality.
Japanese men must lean in, too. In a top-down society, the push
needs to come from political and business leaders.  “To change things in society, you do need to put change
agents in leadership positions,” Matsui says.  Abe boosters, including many women, like to think that’s
exactly what the prime minister is. But the market -- which
plummeted on May 23 partly due to doubts about Abenomics --
isn’t entirely sure yet. Some investors are concerned that Abe
won’t match the Bank of Japan’s policies with ambitious moves to
free the  economy .  The prime minister’s aides urge skeptics to wait until next
month, when Abe supposedly plans to lay out a more detailed
reform plan that will take on several previously untouchable
political lobbies. Simply choosing the right battles isn’t
enough, though. If Abe truly wants to revive Japan, he will have
to bring more powerful weapons to the fight.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  