-- Stiglitz Says Too Soon to Cut U.S. Stimulus as Growth Not Normal
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-05-26T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/stiglitz-says-premature-for-fed-to-reduce-u-s-monetary-stimulus.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said it would be premature for the U.S. Federal Reserve
to reduce monetary stimulus even if there’s little evidence it
helped the world’s largest economy.  “It’s the only stimulus,” the Columbia University
professor said in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in
Jordan May 25. “Clearly the economy is not back to normal, and
to accept this as the new normal would be really wrong.”  U.S. stocks dropped and Treasuries fell for a fourth week,
the longest slide since August, after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the Fed may cut the pace of asset purchases if policy
makers see indications of sustained growth. Orders for durable
goods increased more than forecast in April, signaling the
economy will get a lift in the second half of the year.  The  U.S. economy  “is still in the recovery phase, so
maintaining the momentum of the growth is still a main issue”
even after strong growth in the past few months, International
Monetary Fund Deputy Managing DirectorZhu Min said in an
interview on the same day in Jordan.  Growth may slow this year to 2 percent from 2.2 percent in
2012 before expanding 2.7 percent in 2014, the fastest pace
since 2006, according to the median estimate of 83 economists on
Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said last week policy makers will know in three to four
months whether the economy is healthy enough to overcome  federal
budget  cuts and allow the central bank to begin reducing record
stimulus.  Weak Evidence  What makes the debate over the Fed’s stimulus difficult is
that “the evidence that it provided much stimulus to the
economy is very weak,” Stiglitz, a former chief economist at
the  World Bank , said. “It may have contributed to asset price
bubbles, it may have contributed a little bit to the weaker
dollar, which actually helps U.S. exports.”  Speculation about the pace of U.S. recovery comes amid a
slowdown in China, the world’s second-biggest economy, as
authorities seek to emphasize the quality of expansion and
urbanization to boost domestic demand. Gross domestic product
grew 7.8 percent last year compared with 9.3 percent in 2011.  China’s President  Xi Jinping  signaled a tolerance for
slower expansion to avoid environmental degradation as policy
makers outlined plans for the private sector to take a bigger
role in boosting growth.  “A slowdown in  China’s economy  is not necessarily bad
news,” Zhu, a former deputy governor of the People’s Bank of
China, said. “You need to move the growth model from more
investments in exports into internal consumption. It’s very good
that the government is not overly emphasizing on the growth
rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  