-- U.S. Isn’t Flooding the Third World With E-Waste
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-05-26T22:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/stop-the-baseless-panicking-over-u-s-e-waste.html
Every year, Americans  toss out  as
much as 4.5 million tons of old mobile phones, laptops,
televisions, Xboxes and other electronic gadgets.  Some is recycled; some is repaired and refurbished for
reuse; and some is thrown into landfills or incinerators. Almost
none of it, however, is “dumped” overseas.  That, at least, is the conclusion of the first
comprehensive  survey  of what happens to U.S. e-waste after it is
dropped into a recycling bin. Published in February, the study
by the U.S. International Trade Commission surveyed 5,200
businesses involved in the e-waste industry (companies that
received the survey were required by law to complete it, and to
do so accurately), and found that almost 83 percent of what was
put into American recycling bins in 2011 was repaired,
dismantled or recycled domestically.  According to the same survey, only 0.13 percent of the 4.4
million tons of e-waste that Americans generated in 2011 was
sent overseas for “final disposal” -- a term that explicitly
excludes recycling and reuse -- with an additional 3 percent
sent abroad for “unknown” purposes.  Reality is a far cry from the long-standing claim, first
 made  by the Basel Action Network, a Seattle-based
nongovernmental organization in 2002, that as  much  as 80 percent
of U.S. e-waste is exported to the developing world. Amazingly,
even with the wide currency the  claim  has enjoyed over the years
among environmental organizations and the  media , it was never
based on a systematic study.  Misguided Efforts  This misunderstanding has led to several  efforts  at
erecting partial export bans on U.S. electronics to developing
countries, which -- other studies demonstrate -- import them as
cheap and sustainable alternatives to new equipment. As a
result, perfectly usable electronics are diverted into a
recycling stream, where they are turned into raw materials,
rather than into markets where they can be reused for years.  There are no statistics on how many used gadgets were
exported from the U.S. to the developing world in 2002. Nor, for
that matter, can anyone say for sure what happened to those
gadgets. No doubt, many were broken down in developing-world
facilities, where low-technology and often-hazardous methods of
recycling and disposal were employed (such as the use of acids
to strip copper and other metals from circuit boards in open,
unprotected environments).  Anecdotally, I have been told by recyclers in southern
 China  that cheap, secondhand electronics exported from the U.S.
and, to a lesser extent, the European Union were used by Chinese
computer labs, offices and dormitories in the 1990s through the
mid-2000s, when new gadgetry simply wasn’t affordable. (There
has been no comprehensive survey to verify these claims,
however.)  It was a good deal for the U.S., too: In the 1990s and
 early 2000s , America didn’t really have an electronics-recycling
sector, and those machines would have been put in a landfill if
China hadn’t wanted them. Nonetheless, as China developed, and
incomes rose, demand for those used machines dropped off.  The good news is that a similar cycle is occurring in
 Africa , where used electronics from the EU and the U.S. have
become a critical means of bridging the global digital gap.
Unlike Chinese imports in the 1990s and early 2000s, the African
imports are being surveyed and quantified.  For example, a 2011  study  by the  United Nations Environment
Program  determined that only 9 percent of the used electronics
imported by Nigeria -- a country that is regularly depicted as a
dumping ground for foreign e-waste -- didn’t work or were
unrepairable, and thus bound for a recycler or a dump. The other
91 percent were reusable and bound for consumers who couldn’t
afford new products.  Nigerian Experience  That certainly doesn’t excuse the hazardous means that some
Nigerians use to recycle old electronics (and,  increasingly ,
those old electronics are thrown away by middle-class Nigerians,
rather than being imported from abroad). Yet it also doesn’t
suggest that the U.S., Europe or even China (a growing source of
e-waste) are to blame, either.  So what happens to the 14 percent of U.S. e-waste that
isn’t processed domestically, sent for “final disposal” in other
countries, or isn’t otherwise unknown? According to the trade
commission  report , most is exported as recycled commodities to
be reused by manufacturers in new products; as reusable gadgets;
and even as warrantied products for repair.  Less than half of those exports, by weight, go to
developing countries; the majority is shipped to member
countries of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development, such as Japan and  Belgium , where the recyclable
material is handled better in factories than it can be in
America.  The U.S. shipped almost three times as much e-waste to
Belgium in 2011 as it did to sub-Saharan Africa, according to
the trade commission.  Why? Belgium has  one  of the world’s best (and cleanest)
factories for the extraction of precious metals from circuit
boards and other complicated devices. It is thus capable of
paying far more for them than a recycler in Nigeria with little
more than some jars of acid capable of refining gold, though not
platinum and other precious metals.  The biggest story embedded in the trade commission’s story
isn’t that U.S. e-waste exports are greener than ever. Rather it
is that the domestic electronics-recycling industry has grown
into a large, mature business that views export as a second
choice, not the first one.  The industry generated sales of $20.6 billion in 2011,
compared with less than $1 billion in 2002, according to figures
from the trade commission as well as the Institute of Scrap
Recycling Industries, an industry association.  Recycling Jobs  E-Stewards, a strict, U.S.-based electronics recycling
certification standard that bans most exports, has  grown  from
having zero member facilities certified in 2010 to 102 in 2013,
including several belonging to Waste Management, North America’s
largest recycling company. Most of what these companies --
certified or not -- produce are commodity-grade raw materials,
such as metals and plastics, usable for new products in the U.S.
and abroad.  More revealing, yet, is the employment picture: The
institute estimates full-time jobs in the U.S. electronics-recycling industry grew to more than 45,000 in 2011 from 6,000
in 2002. Some of those employees, no doubt, are involved in
packing used electronics for shipment around the world,
including to places where unsafe, environmentally damaging means
of disposal are still used.  Thanks to the International Trade Commission findings and
other, smaller-scale studies, we now know that most secondhand
electronics are reused and recycled in the U.S. The toxic tide
that frightened Americans into stashing their old computers in
closets turns out to be nothing more threatening than a trickle.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog at Bloomberg and author of the forthcoming “Junkyard
Planet.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Adam Minter at  elemintal@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  