-- Swan Urges Non-Miners to Pick Up Slack as Australian Boom Peaks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-26T03:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/swan-urges-non-miners-to-pick-up-slack-as-australian-boom-peaks.html
Australia  needs non-mining industries
to pick up the economic slack as a record resource investment
boom crests, Treasurer Wayne Swan said, while acknowledging the
local currency has complicated the task.  “This transition won’t be seamless, and recently the high
dollar has been making it harder for firms in many non-mining
sectors to pursue new investment opportunities,” Swan said in
his  weekly economic note  released today. “While the dollar
still remains at historically high levels, the recent dip in our
exchange rate may provide relief for some firms - although it
often takes time for exchange rate movements to have an impact
on business decisions.”  Swan earlier this month delivered a budget that projected a
deficit of A$19.4 billion ($18.7 billion) this fiscal year,
blaming the currency’s record stretch above parity with the U.S.
dollar for an erosion of company tax revenues. The Reserve Bank
of Australia has slashed  borrowing costs  by 2 percentage points
over the past 19 months to 2.75 percent, joining global
counterparts in embracing record-low interest rates as it tries
to spur industries like construction to take over from mining.  “For the manufacturing sector, a major challenge has been
dealing with the sustained high dollar, which has had a profound
impact on the future of many firms,” Swan said three days after
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , in Australia since 1925, said it will close its
local manufacturing plants in October 2016, eliminating 1,200
jobs.  Saddler Business  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden unit, which traces its roots to
1856 when it started as a saddler business, said on April 8 it
will cut about 500 jobs as currency devaluations overseas make
its operations among the world’s costliest.  “We must recognize the impact people feel from the
economic change we’re going through,” Swan said. “So the
government is committed to ensuring affected workers and the
communities of Geelong and Broadmeadows are assisted and
supported through this very tough period.”  Australian  consumer confidence  slumped by the most in 17
months in May as the government’s announcement that the budget
would remain in deficit overshadowed record low rates, a private
survey showed.  “We know these shifts are challenging, but we are equipped
to go through them because our fundamental strengths have been
preserved and bolstered in recent years,” Swan said. “We’ve
come through the biggest resource investment boom in our history
with contained inflation and low interest rates, and we’ve come
through the biggest global economic crisis in our lifetime with
an economy that’s more than 13 percent bigger and an
unemployment rate with a ‘5’ in front.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  