-- Swiss Seen Immune From Euro Recession as SNB Holds Firm
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-05-27T07:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/swiss-seen-immune-from-euro-recession-as-snb-holds-firm.html
Switzerland’s economy probably kept
growing in the first quarter as domestic demand and the central
bank’s currency cap kept at bay the recession afflicting many of
its neighbors.  First-quarter  gross domestic product  probably rose 0.2
percent from the previous three months, according to the median
of 17  forecasts  in a Bloomberg News survey. That contrasts with
the surrounding euro area, which has suffered six quarters of
recession.  Germany , the region’s largest economy, eked out
expansion of only 0.1 percent in the first quarter.  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  has shielded the economy from the
effects of the slump in the euro region with its currency
ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro. Such a policy has helped ensure
Switzerland suffered only one quarter of contraction since the
cap was imposed in September 2011, and an unemployment rate
about a quarter of that in the 17-nation bloc.  “The last quarter was better than anticipated and the
question is whether Switzerland was able to outgrow the rest of
Europe at a comparable pace,” said  Reto Huenerwadel , a senior
economist at  UBS AG (UBSN)  in Zurich. “Private consumption here is
growing above trend, and the question is whether this can last
in light of a softening labor market.”  Domestic demand accounted for about 57 percent of growth
last year, while net exports made up 10 percent.  Economic Strength  GDP figures are scheduled for publication on May 30, a day
after forecasts from the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development. Also due this week are trade data for April and
the KOF barometer, which aims to predict the state of the
economy in six months’ time.  Switzerland has “very high economic strength, as reflected
in the country’s open, highly developed and diversified economy
that is both a major financial center and an important producer
of chemicals and pharmaceuticals,” Moody’s Investors Service
said on May 23, affirming the country’s Aaa credit rating. It
also has top ratings at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  With tensions in the euro area easing, the franc weakened
through 1.26 per euro for the first time since May 2011 last
week, driven down by SNB President Thomas Jordan’s warning that
further measures such as a shift in the cap’s level or negative
interest rates hadn’t been ruled out. The Zurich-based central
bank holds its next monetary policy assessment on June 20.  Stocks Gain  The franc was little changed against the euro today,
trading at 1.2431 at 9:22 a.m. in Zurich. Against the dollar it
stood at 96.08 centimes. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.3
percent, while Asian stocks fell for a fifth day after  Bank of
Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in  Tokyo  yesterday his
country could cope with higher rates.  The SNB, which forecasts economic growth of as much as 1.5
percent this year and consumer prices declining 0.2 percent, has
said its cap will remain in place until deflation risks recede,
a pledge reiterated by Jordan last week. Swiss consumer prices
have fallen 19 consecutive months and are likely to stagnate
this year, according to the median economist estimate in
Bloomberg’s monthly survey.  With about 46 percent of Swiss exports going to the euro
area, the euro’s 0.9 percent gain against the franc in the first
three months of this year was a boon to exporters.  “The depreciation of the franc of late should be a spot of
good news for companies -- it all goes in the right direction,”
said Maxime Botteron, a research analyst at Credit Suisse in
Zurich.  ‘Risk Normalization’  While Switzerland’s exports have yet to return to their
pre-crisis level from 2008, they have climbed in the past three
years, defying the franc’s strength against both the dollar and
the euro, albeit with companies making concessions on prices.  Data due tomorrow will show whether exports continued to
increase in April, after climbing 5.1 percent in March. Exports
rose 1.8 percent in the first quarter, supported by the
chemicals and pharmaceuticals segment, which include drugs made
by Roche Holding AG and Novartis AG, and shipments of precision
instruments.  According to analysts including  Richard Adcock  at UBS and
Vasileios Gkionakis at UniCredit Spa, a further weakening of the
franc may lie in store, which could prove a further support to
the economy.  “We still see the great risk normalization to remain the
dominant theme of the markets for the remainder of the year,”
said Gkionakis, global head of foreign exchange strategy at
UniCredit, which sees the franc plummeting to 1.33 per euro by
year’s end.  Asia Exports  In a sign of shoppers remaining wary, consumer confidence
rose less than expected in April. On May 30, the UBS Consumption
Indicator, which signals developments three months ahead, will
show whether data again improved after snapping five months of
declines in March.  Switzerland’s joblessness, which is at a two-year high, has
hurt  consumer confidence . At 3.1 percent in March, the
unemployment rate is still a fraction of the euro area’s record
of 12.1 percent for that month.  Exporters including watchmakers Cie. Financiere Richemont
SA and  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  have increased their business with Asia,
helping them offset weak demand in Europe.  The 30 companies, whose stocks are listed in the SLI Swiss
Leader Index, generated about two thirds of their 2012 revenue
outside Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Exports
to China, which accounted for 3.5 percent of Swiss foreign trade
in goods in the first quarter, is likely to be boosted by a
trade agreement due to be signed in July. The details of the
deal were finalized on May 24 during the visit of Chinese Prime
Minister Li Keqiang to Switzerland -- his initial stop on his
first trip to Europe as premier.  “This agreement marks a new and very important step in
bilateral economic relations between Switzerland and  China  and
will permit, on a lasting basis, greater cooperation and
economic exchange between our countries,” Economy Minister
Johann Schneider-Ammann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  