-- WTI Extends Losing Streak as China Signals It May Slow Growth
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-05-27T22:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/wti-drops-a-fifth-day-as-china-says-it-may-allow-slower-growth.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for a fifth day, the longest run of declines this year, as  China 
signaled it may accept a slower economic growth rate. OPEC is
expected to keep its supply target unchanged this week.  Futures slid as much as 1 percent in  New York , extending a
2 percent drop last week. China, the world’s second-biggest oil
consumer, won’t sacrifice the environment to ensure short-term
growth, President  Xi Jinping  said on May 24. The U.S.  Federal
Reserve  should continue monetary stimulus because the economy
still isn’t normal, Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said May 25. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will maintain its output limit when the group meets
May 31 in Vienna, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “We have slowing Chinese growth and demand and plenty of
supply coming online in the U.S., so the feeling is that the
market is oversupplied,” Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy
at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said by telephone today. “There
is a bit of risk.”  WTI for July delivery declined 20 cents to $93.95 a barrel
at 6:34 p.m. in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices are up 0.5 percent in May after a 3.9 percent
loss in April. Floor trading is closed on the Nymex for the U.S.
Memorial Day holiday. Electronic transactions will be booked
with tomorrow’s trades for settlement.  OPEC Quota  Brent for July settlement fell 2 cents to end the session
at $102.62 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $8.97
to WTI futures. The spread closed at $8.49 on May 24, the widest
in six days.  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
will need to keep its output target unchanged at 30 million
barrels a day to meet increased demand during the northern
hemisphere summer, said Sadad al-Husseini, the founder of
Husseini Energy, a consultant in Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia .  National Commercial Bank , Saudi Arabia’s biggest lender by
assets, said the group will need to cut production to maintain
 oil prices  at more than $100 a barrel for the rest of 2013.  OPEC’s 12 members pumped 30.5 million barrels a day in
April, according to the group’s monthly oil market report
published May 10. Saudi Arabia is the largest exporter.  Stiglitz Warning  Stiglitz said it would be premature for the Federal Reserve
to reduce monetary stimulus even if there’s little evidence it
helped the world’s largest economy.  “Clearly the economy is not back to normal,” the Columbia
University professor said in a May 25 interview at the  World
Economic Forum  in  Jordan . “To accept this as the new normal
would be really wrong.”  WTI has technical support along its middle Bollinger Band
on the weekly chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This indicator, at around $92.34 a barrel today, is close to
where futures halted declines the past two weeks. Buy orders
tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on WTI to the highest level
in more than a year with the approach of the U.S. Memorial Day
weekend, which marks the start of the summer months when demand
for motor fuels typically rises.  Money managers boosted net-long positions, or wagers on
higher prices, to 231,794 futures and options combined in the
week ended May 21, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on May 24. It
was the most since March 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  