-- Xi Joins Li in Indicating China Tolerance for Slower Growth Rate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-26T09:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/xi-joins-li-in-indicating-china-tolerance-for-slower-growth-rate.html
China’s President  Xi Jinping 
indicated a tolerance for slower expansion to avoid
environmental degradation, adding to signs that the government
will limit temporary boosts for the economy as officials map out
plans for market-based changes to drive long-term expansion.  The country won’t sacrifice the environment to ensure
short-term growth, Xi said during a study session of the
Communist Party’s top leadership on May 24. His comments follow
a statement issued on the same day that the State Council, or
cabinet, which is chaired by Premier  Li Keqiang , approved a
series of measures aimed at revamping the economy.  China’s new leaders may be reluctant to implement stimulus
to reverse an unexpected slowdown in first-quarter growth after
a 4 trillion  yuan  ($586 billion at the time) package to support
the economy during the global financial crisis led to inflation,
a housing bubble and industrial overcapacity. Since taking
office in March, Li has pledged to cut government interference
in the economy, give market forces more power and boost the role
of private companies.  “The government is showing a much bigger tolerance for
lower growth because they understand that China’s potential
growth rate is slowing and that concerns about the environment
are rising,” said Lu Ting, chief China economist at Bank of
America Corp. in  Hong Kong . “One of the reasons we cut our
growth forecast is because protests over environmental issues
are leading to the cancellation or delay of a lot of investment
projects.”  Bank of America lowered its 2013 estimate for economic
expansion to 7.6 percent from 8 percent on May 14, its second
reduction this year.  ‘Painful’ Changes  As part of efforts to curb pollution, the  Ministry of
Environmental Protection  said this month it suspended approval
for coal-fired power projects in the regions of  Inner Mongolia ,
Henan and Guizhou. It also ordered 15 companies, including
state-owned Hebei Iron & Steel Group, to pay fees for sulfur-dioxide emissions, according to a statement on its website.  In his first press conference as premier on March 17, Li
described reform as the “biggest dividend for China” and said
that cutting the government’s power was a “self-imposed
revolution.” The changes would “be very painful and even feel
like cutting one’s wrist,” he said.  In its May 24 statement, the State Council approved a
series of measures put forward by the National Development and
Reform Commission. They include changing the household
registration, or hukou, system, boosting social welfare, taxing
products that are resource-intensive and heavily polluting and
expanding levies on natural resources.  Public Discontent  Xi’s pledge to protect the environment follows growing
public discontent that industrial expansion is creating
pollution and threatening  food safety . Pollution has replaced
land disputes as the main cause of social unrest, Chen Jiping, a
former leading member of the Communist Party’s Committee of
Political and Legislative Affairs, said in March.  Demonstrations against industrial plants have taken place
in Shanghai and Kunming, the capital of southern Yunnan province,
this month. State-owned China National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s biggest oil producer, pledged to take measures to
ensure a chemical factory it wants to build near  Chengdu , the
capital of Sichuan province, won’t harm the environment amid
growing opposition to its proposal.  “Environmental issues are much higher on the agenda with
the current leadership,” said  Ma Jun , a Beijing-based
environmentalist and founder of the  Institute of Public and
Environmental Affairs . Xi’s comments “are very positive and
more serious this time, although the implementation will be very
difficult.”  Market Mechanisms  In March, Li said the country needed economic  expansion  of
around 7.5 percent a year until 2020 to meet the government’s
social and development targets. That’s down from an average pace
of 10.5 percent a year over the past decade, with growth driven
by surging investment and exports.  Li signaled this month that policy makers are reluctant to
use stimulus to counter the slowdown.  “To achieve this year’s targets, the room to rely on
stimulus policies or government direct investment is not big --
we must rely on market mechanisms,” Li said in a speech
broadcast to officials around the country, according to a
transcript published May 14. Relying on government-led
investment for growth “is not only difficult to sustain but
also creates new problems and risks,” he said.  Economists at banks including UBS AG, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Bank of America Corp. lowered estimates
for  China ’s 2013 expansion after the pace of gains in  gross
domestic product  unexpectedly moderated to 7.7 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier.  The median estimate of 51 analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey this month was for economic growth of 7.8 percent this
year. That’s down from an 8 percent median projection of 52
economists in an April poll and would match the pace of
expansion in 2012 that was the weakest in 13 years.  --Fan Wenxin, Nerys Avery in Beijing. With assistance from
Feiwen Rong in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Peter Hirschberg  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  