-- Yen Climbs a Third Day on Bond Yield Concern; Rand Drops
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-05-27T18:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-26/yen-climbs-amid-speculation-on-fed-stimulus-aussie-dollar-drops.html
The yen strengthened for a third day
against the dollar amid concern the  Bank of Japan  is struggling
to control a jump in government bond yields.  The yen gained versus most of its 16 major peers after BOJ
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said yesterday  Japan  could cope with
rising interest rates. Yields on JGBs rose to the highest in
more than a year on May 23, damping the appeal of selling the
yen in search of higher yields elsewhere. Futures traders
 increased  bets to the most since July 2007 that the yen will
fall against the dollar.  South Africa ’s rand slid before a
report tomorrow that is expected to show growth slowed.  “The short-yen trade has been driven mainly by speculative
money on the expectation that ultimately Japanese investors
would also join the trade,” said  Beat Siegenthaler , a currency
strategist at UBS AG in Zurich. A short position is a bet that
an asset’s value will fall. “If higher JGB yields mean this is
not going to happen, or to a lesser extent, then this will be a
problem for short-yen positions.”  The yen rose 0.2 percent to 101.09 per dollar at 1:57 p.m.
 New York  time after jumping 1.9 percent last week, the steepest
climb since the five days ended June 1. It gained 0.2 percent to
130.69 per euro after a 1.2 percent advance in the five days
ended May 24.  Europe ’s common currency was little changed versus
the dollar at $1.2928.  Markets in the U.S. and U.K. are closed for public
holidays.  Net Shorts  Data from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed the difference in the number of wagers by
 hedge funds  and other big speculators on a decline in the yen
versus those on a gain, known as net shorts, was 95,186 on May
21, compared with 88,407 a week earlier.  “Given the amount of leverage that there is in short-yen
positions, if you start to see any kind of slight unwind, stop
losses just snowball,” said  Thomas Averill , a managing director
in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency and interest-rate
risk-management company. A stop-loss order is an automatic
instruction to buy or sell a currency at a certain level to
limit losses.  The yen has weakened 17 percent in the past six months, the
worst performer among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
pledged to end 15 years of deflation and the BOJ doubled monthly
bond purchases to stimulate the economy.  Yields on Japan’s 10-year government bonds were at 0.82
percent today after reaching 1 percent on May 23, the highest
since April last year. The rate completed a three-week gain of
28 1/2 basis points on May 24, the most since April 2008.  Bond Volatility  Some BOJ board members attributed increasing bond
volatility to central bank debt purchases that aim to meet a 2
percent inflation target, according to  minutes  of policy makers’
April 26 meeting released today.  A few noted that expectations for downward pressure on
yields from large-scale JGB purchases along with a pledge to
achieve the BOJ’s price target “might initially have been
perceived by market participants as contradictory,” the minutes
said. “This perception had led to fluctuations in financial
markets.”  Bill Gross , who oversees the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said investors should watch
for a selloff in Japan’s currency and bonds.  Gross, who runs Pimco’s $293 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  in
 Newport Beach ,  California , said the BOJ “dominates asset
markets for better or worse.”  “Watch JGBs, the yen and the exodus from each,” he wrote
in a Twitter post.  Rand Weakens  South  Africa ’s rand declined for a second day before a
report tomorrow that economists said will show growth in
Africa’s biggest economy slowed in the first quarter.  Gross domestic product expanded at an annualized 1.6
percent in the three months through March from 2.1 percent the
previous quarter, according to the median estimate of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Growth is stalling as labor
disruptions curb mining output amid slowing global demand for
the nation’s exports.  The rand fell 0.3 percent to 9.6012 per dollar after
touching 9.6948 on May 23, the weakest since March 2009. The
South African Reserve Bank is concerned by volatility in the
currency, not the level, Deputy Governor Lesetja Kganyago told
reporters today in Johannesburg.  The Australian dollar fell amid concern that a deceleration
in  China’s economy  will reduce demand for commodity exports.  China  won’t sacrifice the environment to ensure short-term
growth, President  Xi Jinping  said during a study session of the
Communist Party’s top leadership on May 24.  “The slowdown in Chinese demand may persist going forward
and continue to weigh on the Australian dollar,” Citigroup Inc.
analysts, including Amanda Chow in New York, wrote in a research
note today.  The so-called Aussie weakened 0.2 percent to 96.344 U.S.
cents after falling to 96.15 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  