-- ‘Chronicle’ Leads Weekend Box-Office Sales With $22 Million for News Corp.
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-06T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/-chronicle-leads-weekend-box-office-sales-with-22-million-for-news-corp-.html
“Chronicle,” the film about three
teens who acquire psychic powers, opened as the top movie in
theaters in the U.S. and  Canada , taking in $22 million for  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  The ghost story “The Woman in Black,” featuring “ Harry
Potter ” star  Daniel Radcliffe , was second in its debut with
revenue of $21 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Big Miracle” opened in
fourth place with $8.5 million.  Theaters, which normally face competition from the  National
Football League ’s Super Bowl championship for viewers, had no
trouble attracting filmgoers this past weekend. Receipts for the
top 12 films were up 31 percent from the year-ago period,
according to Hollywood.com.  The game “didn’t have that much of an impact” this
weekend, said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries
in Skillman,  New Jersey . “It’s a slow time of the year for
Hollywood and even so, it’s performing quite well and is ahead
of last year.”  “Chronicle” follows three teenagers who acquire
remarkable powers. The movie, filmed to look like amateur video
shot by the characters, was expected to take in $15 million,
according to BoxOffice.com.  With a cast of little-known actors, “Chronicle” cost
about $12 million, according to researcher BoxOfficeMojo.com.
The film features Dane DeHaan, Michael B. Jordan and Alex
Russell.  ‘The Grey’  “The Woman in Black,” based on the novel by Susan Hill,
is Radcliffe’s first feature film as an adult leading man. In
the picture, the 22-year-old actor portrays a recently widowed
attorney who travels to a remote English village to handle a
probate case. He gradually is drawn into a mystery surrounding
his client’s death. Ciaran Hinds co-stars in the film, which is
being distributed by CBS Films.  The Liam Neeson action film “The Grey” fell to third from
first, taking in $9.5 million for Open Road Films, the
distributor founded last year by the two largest U.S. theater
chains. Owned by  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and AMC Entertainment
Holdings Inc., the company was a response to shrinking output by
major studios.  Neeson’s character in “The Grey” leads a group of oil-
rig workers who are threatened by wolves after their plane
crashes in the Alaskan wilderness. Dermot Mulroney co-stars.  ‘Big Miracle’  “Big Miracle,” based on the true story of gray whales
trapped by ice near  Alaska , stars Drew Barrymore as an
environmentalist who tries to save the creatures. She joins
forces with a news reporter, who also happens to be her former
boyfriend, to build support for the cause. John Krasinski co-
stars in the film from Comcast’s  Universal Pictures .  “Underworld: Awakening” dropped to fifth from second
with sales of $5.6 million for  Sony Corp. (6758)   The movie, the fourth
film in the vampire-versus-werewolf series, has taken in $54.4
million since it opened on Jan. 20.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose to $95.9 million
from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said. Year to date,
revenue is up 14 percent and attendance is up 15 percent. The
amounts below are based on actual tickets sales for Feb. 4 and
Feb. 5 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  