-- American Apparel, Micron, MetLife, TiVo: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-02-05T17:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/american-apparel-micron-metlife-tivo-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading tomorrow. Stock symbols are
in parentheses.  American Apparel Inc. (APP)  : The young-adult clothing
retailer said preliminary total net sales increased 14 percent
to $41.4 million in January while same-store sales rose an
estimated 11 percent in January from the same month a year ago.
Wholesale net sales increased an estimated 21 percent in
January.  Buffalo Wild Wings Inc. (BWLD)  : The restaurant chain
that features Buffalo-style chicken wings may decline more than
22 percent as the rising costs of chicken wings hurts its
earnings, Barron’s said, citing estimates from Hedgeye Risk
Management analyst Howard Penney.  Depomed Inc. (DEPO)  : The drugmaker said it will get
“modest, single-digit royalties” on net product sales of Merck
& Co.’s (MRK US) type-2 diabetes Janumet XR until the expiration
of the licensed patents.  Iconix Brand Group Inc. (ICON)  (ICON US): Iconix Brand Group may
be attractive if the economy improves and demand for clothing
and jewelry expands, Barron’s reported in its “The Trader”
column.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  : The biggest U.S. life insurer may
propose a dividend increase or share buyback this year as it
exits the banking business and faces fewer regulatory
limitations, Barron’s reported in its “The Trader” column.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  : The largest U.S. maker of
computer-memory chips appointed Mark Durcan as chief executive
officer and director after CEO Steven R. Appleton died in a Feb.
3 airplane accident in Boise,  Idaho .  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  : The digital-video recording pioneer
may rise to $18 or higher as patent-lawsuit settlements boost
income and its digital-recording technology attracts takeover
bids, Barron’s reported.  Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX)  : The specialty pharmaceutical
company filed a plan to sell as much as $75 million of
securities. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
commercialization of its Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro drugs and
develop new product candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net . 