-- Australian Dollar Declines From Six-Month High on Retail Sales, Before RBA
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2012-02-06T18:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/aussie-dollar-near-6-month-high-before-retail-sales-after-u-s-jobs-data.html
Australia’s dollar fell from an
almost six-month high after a government report showed retail
spending unexpectedly declined, adding to the case for the
 Reserve Bank  to lower  interest rates  tomorrow.  The Aussie weakened against the yen for the first time in
five days as economists forecast RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will
cut the benchmark rate for a third meeting, damping the appeal
of the nation’s assets. The New Zealand dollar declined from the
strongest in almost five months versus the greenback on
speculation recent advances were too rapid.  “The market has got a high chance of a rate cut priced in
for tomorrow and this number isn’t going to change that,”
 Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth
Bank of Australia, referring to retail-sales data. “If they do
deliver a cut, the Aussie might fall. But the major push to the
Aussie from the RBA is going to come from their statement.”  Australia ’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.0735 at 12:55
p.m. New York time. It touched $1.0794 on Feb. 3, the most since
Aug. 2. The currency declined 0.4 percent to 82.18 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar weakened 0.1 percent to 83.46 U.S.
cents from last week and 0.2 percent to 63.89 yen.  Retail sales  in Australia declined 0.1 percent in December
from a month earlier, the first drop in six months, the Bureau
of Statistics said today. The result compares with the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists for a 0.2
percent gain.  Risk of $1.20  Swaps traders  are betting on a 74 percent chance that the
RBA will lower its cash rate to 4 percent from 4.25 percent when
policy makers meet tomorrow, according to a Credit Suisse AG
index. A separate index shows 88 basis points, or 0.88
percentage point, in cuts predicted within 12 months.  Today’s declines pared to 5.1 percent the Aussie’s gains
this year against the U.S. currency and to 4.6 percent its
advance versus the yen. The  New Zealand dollar  has risen 7
percent and 6.5 percent respectively over that period.  “The Australian dollar has been much more tightly
correlated with swings in global risk appetite and asset prices
than it has domestic economic developments and RBA policy,”
 Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy for
 Asia  excluding  Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore, wrote in a
note to clients today. “With perceived tail risk from the
European sovereign debt crisis diminishing despite concerns on a
potential Greek default, this likely spells additional
Australian-dollar appreciation.”  Elmer said it may be worth buying the Aussie on any
declines after tomorrow’s decision with investors “too
complacent” on risks for a gain to $1.20 and beyond.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  