-- Australia’s Labor Caucus Backs Gillard Leadership, Treasurer Swan Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-05T23:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/australia-s-labor-caucus-backs-gillard-leadership-treasurer-swan-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has the backing of Labor Party lawmakers, according to
Treasurer  Wayne Swan , amid speculation that Foreign Minister
 Kevin Rudd  is considering a leadership challenge.  “Our prime minister has the strong support of our
caucus,” Swan said on Australian Broadcasting Corp. television
yesterday. “She is someone who is getting things done.”  Gillard met with party lawmakers in the capital Canberra
yesterday ahead of tomorrow’s start to the parliamentary year in
a bid to boost morale amid media reports about a possible
challenge by Rudd, whom she ousted in a late-night party coup in
June 2010. Australia’s first female leader received a
boost in a Nielsen poll published today in the  Sydney Morning
Herald  that showed increased support for her and the government
among voters.  Gillard rose 6 percentage points as preferred prime
minister to 48 percent in the survey conducted Feb. 2-4, with
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  on 46 percent, the survey showed.
Labor rose four percentage points as the preferred party to 33
percent, trailing Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition on 45
percent, down four percentage points. The survey of 1,400 people
had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  ‘Surprising’ Bounce  “The bounce is a bit surprising, but the most important
poll for Gillard is her caucus,” said John Wanna, a professor
of public administration at the Canberra-based  Australian
National University , who isn’t aligned with any political party.
“She will keep her leadership if she performs well in
parliament and her caucus thinks she has voters’ support,” he
said in a phone interview today.  Gillard formed a government after the nation’s closest
election in seven decades in September 2010, three months after
replacing Rudd as leader. Her parliamentary majority was reduced
to one seat last month when an independent lawmaker withdrew his
support, saying she’d broken a pledge to tighten gambling laws.  “It’s a different image of leadership,” Gillard said in
an interview broadcast on the Seven Network yesterday, referring
to being the nation’s first female leader. “I’m not surprised
that it’s kind of taking a bit of time for that to settle with
the Australian public.”  Swan and senior members of the ruling Labor government
including Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  and  Kim Carr ,
manufacturing minister, have publicly backed Gillard to remain
as leader.  Planning Session  The meeting in Canberra was a planning session for the
party ahead of Parliament’s first sitting for the year, Gillard
 told  2CC radio on Feb. 3.  Rudd, who wasn’t present at yesterday’s meeting because he
was in  Germany  for a conference, said last week he was happy
with his role as foreign minister, according to The Australian
newspaper. The next general election will be held in 2013.  Speculation of a coup by Rudd intensified after a Jan.
28-29 Newspoll survey showed Labor’s primary vote fell one
percentage point to 30 percent, behind the Liberal-National
coalition’s 45 percent.  Gillard’s lead as preferred prime minister in the latest
Newspoll fell 3 percentage points to 40 percent, compared with
Abbott’s 37 percent. The survey had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3 percentage points.  Several ministers would leave their posts if Rudd retook
the leadership, the Sydney Morning Herald reported Feb. 4,
without naming them. Independent lawmaker  Rob Oakeshott , who
helped Labor form a minority government in 2010, won’t guarantee
his support for the party if there is a leadership change, the
newspaper reported.  Economic Record  Abbott criticized Gillard last week for her handling of the
economy. In 2011, her first full year as prime minister, the
nation recorded its worst job growth in 19 years and  house
prices  slumped by a record 4.8 percent.  Gillard plans to implement a price on  carbon emissions  and
pass mining tax legislation through the Senate this year. Last
month she faced hurdles including opposition demands for an
inquiry into Labor’s role in clashes between police and
aboriginal protesters.  Labor lawmakers will focus on policies that help
businesses, including those affected by the nation’s high
dollar, Swan said yesterday. The government is committed to
returning its budget to surplus in 2012-13, which will require
fiscal discipline, he said.  Swan also criticized  Australia ’s banks for signaling they
may not pass on in full any cuts to the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s benchmark  rate .  “What they are saying is that they should have a right,
irrespective of any particular market condition, to maintain
forever huge profitability,” Swan said.  “There’s a lot of other businesses out there that would
look at that sort of approach of the banks and they’d be pretty
puzzled, because the marketplace isn’t working like that for
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  