-- Australia’s Gillard Has Support of Ruling Labor Party Lawmakers, Swan Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-05T07:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/australia-s-gillard-has-support-of-ruling-labor-party-lawmakers-swan-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has the backing of her Labor Party caucus, said
Treasurer  Wayne Swan , responding to speculation that Foreign
Minister  Kevin Rudd  will make a leadership challenge.  “Our prime minister has the strong support of our
caucus,” Swan said on Australian Broadcasting Corp. television
today. “She is someone who is getting things done.”  Gillard met with party lawmakers in Canberra today amid
media reports about Rudd’s leadership tilt, which intensified
after a Jan. 28-29 Newspoll survey showed Labor’s primary vote
fell one percentage point to 30 percent, behind the Liberal-
National coalition’s 45 percent.  Gillard, Australia’s first female prime minister, formed a
government after the nation’s closest election in seven decades
in September 2010, three months after replacing Rudd as leader
in a late-night party coup. Her parliamentary majority was
reduced to one seat last month when an independent lawmaker
withdrew his support, saying she’d broken a pledge to tighten
gambling laws.  Rudd, who is attending a security conference in  Germany  and
wasn’t at the Canberra meeting, said earlier this week he was
happy with his role as foreign minister, according to The
Australian. The next general election will be held in 2013.  Swan and senior members of the ruling Labor government
including Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  and Kim Carr,
manufacturing minister, have publicly backed Gillard to remain
as leader.  Planning Session  The meeting in Canberra was a planning session for the
party ahead of Parliament’s first sitting for the year next
week, Gillard  told  2CC radio on Feb. 3.  “We want to run a very competent, stable, methodical
government, so it just makes sense to bring the team together at
the start of the Parliamentary year and talk about the year to
come,” Gillard said. “I don’t worry about chatter in the
media, I get on with the job.”  Several ministers would leave their posts if Rudd retook
the leadership, the Sydney Morning Herald reported yesterday,
without naming them. Independent lawmaker  Rob Oakeshott , who
helped Labor form a minority government in 2010, won’t guarantee
his support for the party if there is a leadership change, the
Herald reported.  Gillard’s lead as preferred prime minister in the latest
Newspoll fell 3 percentage points to 40 percent, compared with
Liberal-National opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s 37 percent. The
survey had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  Economic Record  Abbott criticized Gillard this week for her handling of the
economy. In 2011, her first full year as prime minister, the
nation recorded its worst job growth in 19 years and  house
prices  slumped by a record 4.8 percent.  Labor lawmakers will focus on policies that help
businesses, including those affected by the nation’s high
dollar, Swan said today. The government is committed to
returning its budget to surplus in 2012-13, which will require
fiscal discipline, he said.  Swan also criticized  Australia ’s banks for signaling they
may not pass on in full any cuts to the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s benchmark  rate .  “What they are saying is that they should have a right,
irrespective of any particular market condition, to maintain
forever huge profitability,” Swan said.  “There’s a lot of other businesses out there that would
look at that sort of approach of the banks and they’d be pretty
puzzled, because the marketplace isn’t working like that for
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  