-- Australia TD Inflation Gauge Slows to 2.2% as Fruit Prices Fall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/australia-td-inflation-gauge-slows-to-2-2-as-fruit-prices-fall.html
A gauge of  Australia ’s annual
inflation slowed toward the lower end of the central bank’s 2
percent to 3 percent target range as falling fruit and vegetable
prices partly offset a gain in automotive fuel.  Consumer prices rose 2.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with a 2.4 percent annual advance in December,
according to an index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the
Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today.  Prices (TDMIYOY)  rose 0.2
percent in January from December, when they rose 0.5 percent.  The report supports  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens’s view there’s a “pretty good chance” inflation
will stay within the target band this year. Policy makers cut
 interest rates  on Nov. 1 to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent, the
first reduction in 31 months, and to 4.25 percent on Dec. 6 as
global growth slowed. The RBA’s next policy meeting is scheduled
for tomorrow, and 24 of 27 economists predict another reduction.  “There is clearly ample justification for the RBA board to
take the next step and shift monetary policy into a more
accommodative stance tomorrow,”  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-
Pacific research at TD Securities in  Singapore , said in a
statement. “The very strong Australian dollar only adds weight
to the RBA easing sooner rather than later.”  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth most-traded
currency, has strengthened 4.7 percent this year. It reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was floated in
1983, as higher rates and a mining bonanza attracted
international funds.  Today’s report showed price gains on utilities, education
and transportation, with automotive fuel rising 1.5 percent.
These were partly offset by falls in furniture and furnishings,
holiday travel, accommodation, and fruit and vegetables, which
declined 3.1 percent in January.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  