-- Boeing Sees 787 Inspections Slowing Work While Meeting 2012 Delivery Goal
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   E d   D u f n e r
-- 2012-02-06T21:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/boeing-orders-inspections-of-787-dreamliner-fleet-on-fuselage-delamination.html
Boeing Co . said 2012 deliveries for
the 787 Dreamliner should stay on schedule after an initial
slowdown of work as the first composite-plastic  passenger jet  is
inspected for signs of delamination on the fuselage.  “We’re working through the engineering on it and we don’t
think it’ll impact our deliveries for the year,” Boeing
Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  told reporters today
suburban Seattle. “It’ll slow things down initially, though.”  There is no “short-term safety concern” from the fault,
which was caused by an incorrect assembly in a support structure
within the plane’s aft fuselage, according to a statement
yesterday from Scott Lefeber, a spokesman.  All Nippon Airways
Co ., the 787’s only operator, said it will keep flying the jets.  Delamination is a term for the separation that can occur in
a composite material when its layers crack and lose strength.
The new checks add to the challenges in boosting output of the
twin-engine 787, which entered service in 2011 after more than
three years of delays.  The Dreamliner’s two deliveries in January were half a
plane less than the current monthly production rate, which is
due to reach 10 by the end of 2013. Chicago-based Boeing
declined to say how many jets showed signs of delamination.  Boeing expects that the repairs on the 787 will be a
“relatively easy fix,” Albaugh said today in Mukilteo,
 Washington , near the planemaker’s wide-body jet factory in
Everett.  ‘Take a Look’  “We need to open a few of those up and take a look,”
Albaugh said. “We understand what needs to be done. We think
it’s a relatively easy fix.”  Boeing  fell 1.2 percent to $75.46 at the close in  New York .
That was the third-biggest drop among the 30 companies in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  on a day when broad U.S. indexes
declined.  The work that resulted in the delamination was traced to
the assembly of the aft fuselage section at a plant near
Charleston,  South Carolina , Boeing said yesterday. It involved
“improper shimming” of the support structure in that part of
the plane.  Subcontractors use different techniques to make composite
parts, which can result in issues for manufacturers, said Michel Merluzeau, an aviation consultant with G2 Solutions in  Seattle .  “Delamination is not like the aircraft is peeling” its
skin, he said. “This doesn’t have anything to do with the
design itself. This is a production issue that needs to be
corrected. There’s no flight or safety issue.”  All Nippon  Boeing said it already notified the Dreamliner’s early
customers “to ensure they are informed and aware of our plans
to make repairs, should they be needed.”  ANA is awaiting more details from Boeing, said Ryosei Nomura, a spokesman. The Tokyo-based airline has five 787s and
is due to receive 15 more by the end of March, 2013.  Commercial jets have traditionally been built from
aluminum. While the 787’s new materials are intended to save
weight and boost fuel efficiency, they also contributed to
manufacturing difficulties that slowed the 787’s debut.  Boeing is continuing to assemble new 787s while working
through a backlog of several dozen already-built Dreamliners
that are being modified to reflect design changes in the months
since they left the factory.  GE Engines  Albaugh declined to discuss the delay in testing of the
second version of the 787, powered by  General Electric Co. 
engines. Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney said in October
that the GE model had completed 95 percent of the certification
process. Boeing gave the same status on Jan. 25.  According to a report today in the Seattle Times, which
cited a person the newspaper didn’t identify, the discovery of
the 787 delamination held back some flight tests needed to
certify the variant with GE engines.  Albaugh referred questions to  David Joyce , the head of GE’s
aviation business, who said the engines are ready to go and
aren’t holding up certification. While the engines were
certified separately last year, they still need to win Federal
Aviation Administration approval in combination with the plane.  “The engines are working great,” Joyce said today.
“They’re out here, they’re ready for delivery.”  Japan Airlines Co. , the first carrier that will receive
787s with GE engines, said last week it now expects to get its
initial plane next month.  The inspections were reported late Feb. 4 by the online
trade publication Flightglobal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner in Dallas at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Lear at 
 jlear@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  