-- British Airways, Ryanair, Cancel Flights After 4 Inches of Snow Hit London
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-05T12:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/british-airways-ryanair-cancel-flights-after-4-inches-of-snow-hit-london.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA’s British Airways unit and  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  were
among airlines cutting hundreds of flights from  London  after
snow blanketed the capital.  About 30 percent of flights from the capital’s  Heathrow
Airport  were canceled today, a spokesman for the airport
operator,  BAA Ltd. (FER) , said by phone. A total of 850 flights will
run today compared with 1,230 on a typical Sunday, he said. Both
runways are operating, and it’s too early to say whether there
will be cancellations tomorrow, he said.  London late yesterday got as much as 10 centimeters (4
inches) of snow, its first taste of the precipitation that’s
blanketed much of  Europe  in the past week, killing hundreds of
people in the eastern part of the continent and dumping the
biggest snowfall on  Rome  in more than a quarter of a century.  “The focus will now turn to ice for tonight,” Dave
Britton, a spokesman for the U.K. Met Office, the government
forecaster, said in a telephone interview today. “That’s likely
to lead to some disruption for commuters.”  British Airways detailed more than 150 flight cancellations
from Heathrow on its website, while Ryanair cut 24 flights
across Europe with departures from cities including London,
Paris, and Ancona and Bari in  Italy , after scrapping at least 39
flights yesterday, according to its website.  Heathrow got 7 centimeters of snow, and Northolt in North
London saw 10 centimeters, Britton said. More flurries are
possible, as are sleet and rain, leading to icy conditions on
the roads, with eastern and southern  England  most at risk, he
said.  Subway  Gatwick, London’s second airport, said in a  statement  on
its website that it remained “open for business” after
receiving 8 centimeters of snow. The airport “remained open
throughout the night and made no cancellations because of the
weather conditions,” it said.  Stansted Airport is also open, though flights may be
subject to delays, according to its  website . City Airport said
on its  website  that it expects to open the runway “as normal.”  In the capital, Transport for London reported on its
website that subway lines including the Jubilee, Central and
Bakerloo are subject to weather-related delays.  “The cold weather looks like it will last through to the
end of the week,” the  Met Office  said in a statement on its
website today. “This weather could increase the health risks to
vulnerable patients and disrupt the delivery of services.”  The U.K. Highways Agency urged drivers in a  statement  on
its website to take “extra care” on the roads, even where they
have been treated with salt and grit to melt the ice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  