-- China Suffers From Lowest Lunar Sales Growth Since 2009: Retail
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-06T11:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/china-s-lowest-lunar-sales-since-2009-seen-dimming-asian-outlook-retail.html
Chinese shoppers on their Lunar New
Year holiday were less lavish than expected by  Hong Kong 
jewelers, curbed spending on beauty brands and slowed spending
at South Korean stores. They may keep that pace in the coming
year of the dragon.  Holiday sales on the mainland grew 16 percent to 470
billion yuan ($75 billion), according to data from the Ministry
of Commerce, the slowest pace since the 2009 financial crisis
and three percentage points below last year’s increase.  China  is
finding it is not immune to global economic forces and the
slowdown is hitting Chinese consumers, who may increase this
year’s spending at a slower pace than in 2011.  This may mean trouble for the growing number of foreign
companies rushing into China, especially luxury brands, said
Jason Yuan, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian in  Shanghai .  “This year is going to be tough, probably the toughest
year for many foreign luxury brands since they entered into
China,” he said.  “Sales of jewelry and valuable watches during Chinese New
Year were quite disappointing,” said Caroline Mak, chairman of
the Hong Kong Retail Management Association. “Sales growth of
over 30 percent last year is unsustainable against a worsening
macro-economic backdrop.”  Some member jewelers reported customers buying smaller
diamonds than they used to, she said.  Smaller Diamonds  Hong Kong jeweler  Chow Sang Sang Holdings International
Ltd. (116) , whose sales grew as much as 28 percent in the first three
days of the holiday, expects quarterly sales growth to slow to
10 percent in the second quarter from 15 percent in the first.  Sales director Dennis Lau declined to make projections for
the rest of the year because of worries a further global
downturn could hurt consumer sentiment.  “We can’t see how strong the recovery in the U.S. is, and
the debt crisis in Europe never seems to end,” Lau said. “If
those economies mess things again, it could severely hurt global
 consumer confidence .”  Twinky Choi, an assistant at a Hong Kong  Shiseido Co Ltd .
cosmetics store, is seeing that first-hand.  “People are browsing,” Choi said. “They don’t buy
instantly, unlike last year when customers were grabbing
everything.”  China’s economic growth, hurt by a property market slump
and slower export growth, is poised to weaken to 8.5 percent
this year from about 9.2 percent in 2011, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Momentum Not Exciting’  “The momentum is not exciting,” noted Macquarie Capital
Securities analyst Linda Huang.  The Lunar holiday, like Thanksgiving or Christmas in the
U.S., is among the biggest selling periods in China and parts of
 Asia . Chinese consumers spend more at home and at overseas
vacation spots such as Hong Kong and Macau. This year’s holiday
extended from Jan. 23 to Jan. 29 and marked the start of the
year of the dragon.  “It does give some indications on retail sentiment,” said
Phoebe Tse, an analyst at Barclays Capital Asia Ltd.  “It is
one of the busiest shopping seasons.”  Lipstick and fragrance seller  Sa Sa International Holdings
Ltd.  said Lunar sales were below its forecasts. The retailer’s
Hong Kong and Macau sales rose 17 percent during the Lunar
holiday from Jan. 23 to Jan. 29, which was “slightly below our
expectations,” said Chief Executive Officer Simon Kwok in a
statement. “Looking ahead, the group remains cautiously
optimistic.”  Mak said her association expects Hong Kong retail sales
growth to slow to 15 percent this year from 25 percent in 2011.  China Home Prices  China’s consumers have been hurt by a drop in  home prices ,
which fell for a fifth month in January, according to SouFun
Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner.
Residential prices slid in 60 of 100 cities tracked by the
company in January, according to SouFun. The benchmark Shanghai
Stock Exchange Composite Index has also fallen 17 percent over
the past year, lowering the value of consumers’ investments.  “Macro-economic uncertainties impact consumer
confidence,” Tse said. “They feel more secure when they have
money in the pocket.”  Chinese tourists on holiday drove up January casino revenue
in the gambling center of Macau 35 percent to 25 billion patacas
($3 billion).  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) ’s  Sands China Ltd .,  Wynn
Resorts Ltd .’s  Wynn Macau Ltd . and  MGM Resorts International ’s
 MGM China Holdings Ltd.  compete in Macau, the world’s largest
gambling hub.  Slower Casino Growth  Even so, high-stakes gamblers, who bring in the most
revenue and can bet as much as $250,000 a hand, may not have
boosted sales as much as previous years because of less
available credit, BOC International analyst Edwin Fan said.  Banks have less money to lend because China’s policy makers
have raised  interest rates  and reserve ratio requirements.  Macau casino revenue growth may slow to 22 percent this
year from 42 percent a year ago, said Victor Yip, an analyst at
UOB Kay Hian Ltd.  At South Korean retailer  Shinsegae Co.  sales rose 9 percent
between Jan. 6 and Jan. 17, a promotional period just before the
new year for tourists. That was slower than last year’s 16
percent, said spokeswoman Lee Jung Ah.  At  Korea ’s  Lotte Shopping Co.  sales growth in a promotional
period from Jan. 6 to Jan. 19 was 9.8 percent this year compared
with last year’s holiday increase of 16 percent.  Expenditure per customer at  Tokyo ’s  VenusFort  mall didn’t
rise and wasn’t proportional to the rise in Chinese visitors,
probably because of the stronger  Japanese yen , said spokesman
Yusuke Nishimura. The yen, which has risen because of demand for
safer assets amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, has gained 7.1 percent
against the dollar in a year and 2.5 percent against the yuan.  Jewelry Sales  Hong Kong jeweler  Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd.  said
sales at stores open at least a year grew 13 percent in mainland
China and 4 percent in Hong Kong and Macau during the week-long
holiday. That was below expectations as “a seasonal surge
failed to materialize” for the industry, according to Citigroup
Global Markets.  “The sales of jewelry and valuable watches are good
indicators of how strong the Chinese tourists’ purchasing power
is,” Mak from the Hong Kong Retail Management Association said.
“We expect some Chinese shoppers to cut back on big-ticket
items as the wealth effect fades.”  Sa Sa International shares dropped 5.7 percent to HK$4.84,
the biggest drop since Nov. 10, at the close of Hong Kong
trading. Luk Fook closed 2.2 percent lower at HK$26.50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  