-- Chrysler Continues to Seek U.S. Energy Loans, Marchionne Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-02-05T02:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/chrysler-continues-to-seek-u-s-energy-loans.html
Chrysler Group LLC will continue
pursuing loans from the U.S. Energy Department while the failure
of companies that have borrowed from government programs may
prolong the process, the chief executive officer said.  “I’m not ready to give up,”  Sergio Marchionne , CEO of
Chrysler, told reporters yesterday at the National Automobile
Dealers Association convention in  Las Vegas . “The department
has not indicated an unwillingness to lend.”  Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , continues to hold
talks with the U.S. about the program, which encourages
production of fuel-efficient vehicles, Marchionne said. He
reiterated that the amount that Auburn, Hills, Michigan-based
Chrysler may be able to borrow has been reduced to less than the
$3.5 billion the company sought last year.  “The due diligence process that they have inside the
 Department of Energy  is one which is reflective of a series of
concerns, part of which are maybe attributable to recent events
and some of the deals they’ve done,” Marchionne said.  Ener1 Inc. (HEVV) , the maker of batteries for electric cars that
received a $118 million Energy Department grant to make
electric-car batteries, last month filed for  bankruptcy
protection  after defaulting on bond debt amid Asian competition.
Ener1’s bankruptcy follows the failure of at least two U.S.
government-backed renewable energy companies, solar panel maker
Solyndra LLC and energy storage company Beacon Power Corp.  Natural Gas  Marchionne plans to introduce compressed natural gas-
powered vehicles in the U.S. to meet 2025 standards calling for
the average fuel economy to rise to 54.5 miles per gallon. He
said at the Detroit auto show last month that Chrysler plans to
begin sales of  natural-gas  powered pickups to fleet customers as
soon as this year.  “I can make them faster than you can think,” Marchionne
said yesterday. “We’re going to start showing the product, and
then we’ll see whether people will take them.”  The dealers association, based in McLean,  Virginia , has
said it expects attendance of more than 20,000 at its convention
this year. Marchionne said in a keynote speech that Chrysler
dealers are the “most profitable they have been in a decade,”
without elaborating.  Chrysler’s dealer body is about 85 percent profitable now
compared with 70 percent in 2009, Ralph Kisiel, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Marchionne also is chief executive officer of Turin-based
Fiat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Las Vegas at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  