-- Clinton Calls for ‘Immense Pressure’ on Assad
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-02-06T07:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/clinton-calls-for-immense-pressure-on-syria-s-assad-following-veto-at-un.html
The U.S. will work with its allies to
put “immense pressure” on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to
step down after  Russia  vetoed a resolution aimed at ending the 
fighting, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  “Faced with a neutered Security Council, we have to
redouble our efforts outside of the  United Nations  with those
allies and partners who support the Syrian people’s right to
have a better future,” Clinton told reporters in Sofia,
Bulgaria yesterday. “Assad must go.”  The U.S. will also work to strengthen sanctions against the
Syrian government and “expose those funding Assad’s regime,”
she said.  Russia and China vetoed on Feb. 4 a proposal by western and
Arab countries that backed an Arab League plan to facilitate a
political transition in  Syria . It was the second time Russia
blocked attempts at the UN to hold Assad accountable for a
conflict that the UN says has killed more than 5,400 people.  The veto gives Assad a “license to kill,” Qatar’s
Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Khalid Al Attiyah said at
a security conference in Munich. “This is exactly what we
feared.”  Syrian army shelling killed at least 22 people today in the
city of Homs, a center of the uprising against Assad, where a
hospital was struck,  Al Arabiya  reported, citing activists. The
army used helicopters and rockets in the city and also shelled
Idlib in the north and Zabadani near the Lebanese border.  Russian Weapons Sales  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the head of
Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service, Mikhail Fradkov, will
meet with Assad tomorrow in Damascus. Russia is counting on
planned talks to encourage the Syrian government and its
opponents to hold negotiations, the Foreign Ministry said.  “We hope that this meeting will promote the start of a
process of dialogue between the different sides in Syria,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich said by phone
today.  Russia sells Syria weapons and has its only military base
outside the former  Soviet Union  in the Syrian port of Tartus.  “The Russian government is not only unapologetically
arming a government that is killing its own people, but also
providing it with diplomatic cover,” Philippe Bolopion, UN
director at  Human Rights Watch  in  New York , said after the vote.  Foreign Provocateurs  Assad has blamed “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs
for fomenting the protests, which began in March.  “The visit by Russian diplomats to Damascus next Tuesday
indicates that Moscow knows the regime is in trouble,” Andrew J. Tabler, a fellow at the  Washington  Institute for Near East
Policy, said in response to e-mailed questions. “They want to
try and see if they can prop it up by convincing it to reform --
the one thing this regime has proven incapable of doing for over
four decades.”  A measure of Russia’s growing isolation is that  South
Africa  and  India , which had abstained in an October UN vote on
Syria that was vetoed by Russia and  China , broke ranks and sided
with Arab and European nations.  Both countries took issue with Russia’s claims that
concessions made by Arab and European Union negotiators in the
final draft could still be interpreted as calls for an Assad
ouster.  ‘Brutal Civil War’  “The veto of the resolution on Syria will embolden Assad
to even further brutalize his people,”  Paul Sullivan , a
specialist in Middle East security at  Georgetown University  in
Washington, said in an e-mail. “There has been some
consideration given to tightening sanctions, but without the
arms embargo this will end up likely hurting the people it might
be intended to help more than those in power.”  “We are trying to start a process of political
transition,” Clinton said. “The failure to do so will increase
the risk of a brutal civil war.”  The  Arab League  in November imposed sanctions on Syria and
sent monitors to the country in an effort to stop the violence.
The league later drafted a plan that called for the formation of
a national unity government within two months to implement a
peaceful handover of power.  The Russian Ambassador to the UN,  Vitaly Churkin , said
that, while he “would certainly agree tragic events are
happening” in Syria, his country had “made an honest effort.”
He said the Arab League “shall not count on the Council” for
endorsement of a plan that imposes a timeline on when Assad
should leave.  ‘Lost the Arabs’  Russia’s alignment with Syria may put at stake the
country’s relationship with oil-rich Gulf States led by Qatar
that asked the  Security Council  to endorse their plan to
convince Assad to delegate his powers to a deputy to pave way
for elections.  “The Russians are doing this to help preserve their navy
base in Tartus, their arms trade with Syria and their strategic
position in the Eastern Mediterranean,” Sullivan said. “In the
end Russia will lose its base. Russia has also in many ways lost
the Arabs on this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  