-- Compugen Jumps to 6-Year High in Tel Aviv on Cancer Treatment Technology
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-05T14:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/compugen-jumps-15-on-cancer-treatment-genome-technology-tel-aviv-mover.html
Compugen Ltd. (CGEN)  surged to the highest
level in six years on speculation the use of one of its products
in cancer treatment research will boost revenue.  The  shares  of the the developer of computational genomic
products soared 15 percent to 21.89 shekels, or the equivalent
of $5.90, at the 4:30 p.m close in Tel Aviv, the highest since
February 2006. The  U.S.-traded stock , jumped 7.7 percent last
week, to close at $5.89 on Feb. 3.  Compugen said on Feb. 2 it used technologies to identify a
particular protein that can be used as a drug target to treat
cancers such as melanomas and sarcomas. Drug companies are
looking for new treatments as patents that cover about 20
percent of specialty pharmaceutical sales expire this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  “The idea that they’ve done a lot of gene analysis and
have this very cutting-edge technology could add up to be of
significant value,” Raghuram Selvaraju , an equity analyst at
Morgan Joseph TriArtisan who covers Israeli biotechnology
companies, said by phone from  New York  on Feb 3. “The science
is of a high caliber.”  Compugen, founded by members of an Israeli army
intelligence unit that designed software to break codes, uses
computer programs to discover proteins that may have the ability
to treat diseases. It then finds partners that will pay to
develop drugs. The company has  never generated a profit  since it
started trading on the  Nasdaq  in 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue  The company will “start seeing revenue from deals” with
drug companies in 2012, Chief Executive Officer Anat Cohen-Dayag
said Feb. 3 in a phone interview from Tel Aviv. Compugen isn’t
interested in being bought out, she said.  “The name of the game for Compugen is making as many
discoveries as possible and incorporating them into the
development of pipelines for pharmaceutical companies,” she
said. “Now that we really have candidates that are moving
forward, that are showing capabilities, there is interest from
pharma companies.”  Compugen’s announcement may boost the prospects that it
will join with a larger  drug company  to develop treatments based
on its discovery,  Andrew Berens , a senior health-care analyst at
Bloomberg Industries, which provides company research, said by
phone from Princeton,  New Jersey , on Feb. 3.  “Investors may see this as a validation of the drug
discovery platform,” he said. “We do see companies with viable
drug discovery platforms as potential candidates for
acquisitions.”  U.S. biotechnology company  Threshold Pharmaceuticals Inc. (THLD) 
surged the most in a year on Feb. 3 after  Germany ’s Merck KGaA
agreed to pay them to jointly develop and sell a drug for
cancer. Threshold will get $25 million upfront and the total
potential payments are $525 million, according to a statement
from the companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  