-- Team Obama Shows Dangerous Penchant for Hubris: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-02-05T16:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/team-obama-shows-dangerous-penchant-for-hubris-albert-r-hunt.html
President  Barack Obama  is headed for
political turbulence.  That prediction isn’t based on any private polling data or
inside information. It’s just common sense: National political
campaigns are cyclical, and after an especially good cycle, the
Democratic president is due for some downtime.  On re-election prospects, the Obamaites are confident when
they look at the state of the race, especially the Republicans.
They’re showing signs of cockiness.  Like many politicians, Obama courts trouble when he’s
riding high. Following his victory in the Iowa caucuses four
years ago he was a favorite to end Hillary Clinton’s campaign
with a blowout victory in  New Hampshire . In a debate there, he
showed veiled disdain for his opponent, saying that she was
“likeable enough.” He then lost that primary.  Today, the administration’s chest-thumping over the  State
of the Union address  is illustrative. It was a good political
pitch, putting Republicans on the defensive on the fairness
issue. It also was devoid of governing substance, something
political handlers and White House spin doctors have tried to
deny.  The president didn’t mention the Bowles-Simpson deficit
commission. He appointed that panel two years ago. Then, when it
issued a bipartisan report on how to fix the government’s books
in December 2010, the president went silent. Privately, the
White House’s explanation was that they kept quiet because they
wanted to smoke out the budget proposal of the House
Republicans, which was being drafted by Representative  Paul Ryan 
of  Wisconsin . That was unveiled almost a year ago, and the
Democrats got lots of political mileage out of it.  Brewer Clash  The White House victory lap after a small set-to last month
between the president and Arizona Governor Jan Brewer also is
revealing. While greeting Obama on airport tarmac in Tucson, the
governor initiated an exchange on immigration. That issue is
likely to come down to the president’s advantage in the November
election, and Brewer is an inconsequential figure. The president
and his team were bragging about slam-dunking a peripheral bore.  Over the last couple of months, Obama hasn’t been held to
the same standard as the Republicans. That’s not because of any
bias or media love affair with the president; it’s because his
foes have provided so much ammunition about each other. That’s
also part of the cycle, not likely to last.  Another illustration of presidential hubris involved the
Bush family. The White House put out a picture of a private
meeting in the Oval Office on Jan. 27 that included former
President  George H.W. Bush  and his son, Jeb, the former governor
of  Florida .  The Bushes were in town for the annual black tie dinner the
next night at the Alfalfa Club, a gathering of business and
political elites. The two featured speakers, both intended to be
brief and humorous, were Obama and  Jeb Bush . The president spoke
to good reviews. He left before Bush spoke.  Obama hates such dinners. Some of his aides, in particular
his political adviser  David Plouffe , urged him not to spend an
evening mingling with the 1 percent. Yet he chose to go, and
attendees said it was the first time they could recall a speaker
leaving before the other side had its fun. In addition, Obama’s
87-year-old predecessor was present.  Imagine the criticism five years ago if President  George W. Bush  had walked out on a dinner before  Hillary Clinton  spoke,
with  Bill Clinton  in the audience.  In 2004, Democrats expressed outrage that  Karl Rove  served
simultaneously as both the top White House adviser and as the
head of George W. Bush’s re-election campaign. That, they said,
was a blatant conflict of interest. Yet today, Plouffe is
performing those two functions for Obama; the only difference is
that Plouffe is a little better on politics and Rove had a
better grasp of policy.  Insular Mentality  The most dangerous sign of arrogance is Team Obama’s
insularity. It’s an exclusive club, with no room for outsiders.
Inside the White House, that dynamic is personified by  Valerie Jarrett , the president and first lady’s longtime confidante, who
conducts the loyalty litmus tests.  “She’s the wagon master,” says a top Democratic political
operative. “If there’s trouble, Valerie circles the wagons
tighter.”  The same generally applies to the political team.
Conversations last week with five of the smartest and most
experienced Democratic political strategists -- none associated
with the Obama campaign -- yielded the same bottom line: They’re
only consulted occasionally and the outreach is pro forma. If
it’s a runaway election, that approach will work out fine for
the White House; if it gets tight, Obama may need some other
counsel.  In politics, with exceptions, it’s usually better to
respect your political opponent. This time, the appearance is
that the Obama campaign has little regard or respect for the
Republican front-runner, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney; that’s a mistake.  The Obama team has reason for confidence. The last several
months have brought some glimmers of brightness on the economic
front; the  jobless rate  was down to 8.3 percent last month, from
9 percent in September, and most of the indicators are fairly
positive.  In addition, the Republicans are into self-immolation. The
House majority caucus so botched the extension of the payroll-
tax cut in December that for the first time in memory Democrats
were on the winning side of a big tax fight.  House Republicans 
may again show their political masochism when the issue is
joined again later this month.  Meanwhile, the Republican primary race in January was
dominated by a pettiness exceeded only by its vitriol. Romney is
“methodically dishonest” and “lives in a world of Swiss bank
accounts, Cayman Island accounts,” according to  Newt Gingrich .
Romney described the former speaker as a “highly erratic”
political pinball machine who sold his soul to the federally
subsidized mortgage giant,  Freddie Mac .  Obama should take note that even with all that, he enjoys
only a slight edge over Romney in polls.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in  Washington  at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at    mberley@bloomberg.net . 