-- Son of U.S. Transportation Secretary Charged in Egypt Over NGOs
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-06T13:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/egypt-asked-by-u-s-about-reports-ngo-workers-will-be-prosecuted-in-cairo.html
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood’s son is among 43 people charged in  Egypt  after a probe
into foreign funding of non-governmental organizations.  Sam LaHood, who works for the International Republican
Institute, and Julie Hughes, the Egypt country director for the
National Democratic Institute, another Washington-based group,
are among those who face prosecution, Judge Ashraf el-Ashmawy
told reporters in Cairo today.  The inquiry into the NGOs, whose stated aim is to promote
democracy, has added to strains between the U.S. and Egypt and
jeopardized American financial aid to the Egyptian military, a
close ally. The U.S. State Department said yesterday that it
wants Egypt’s government to clarify reports that 19 Americans
are among 43 people to be prosecuted.  Those referred to trial are accused of “accepting funds
and benefits from an international organization” to pursue an
activity “prohibited by law,” according to a statement read by
el-Ashmawy. They are also accused of carrying out “political
training programs,” supporting election campaigns and providing
financing illegally to individuals and groups, he said.  Egyptian authorities have prevented Americans working for
U.S.-funded NGOs, including LaHood, from leaving the country
pending a decision on whether to prosecute them for not
registering with the government. Several of the democracy
advocates have taken refuge at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo.  ‘Total Judicial Issue’  Other organizations that have had employees referred to
trial include Freedom House, a watchdog group that advocates for
democracy and human rights, el-Ashmawy said.  Egyptian authorities can’t intervene in the judicial
branch’s inquiry, Foreign Minister Mohamed Amr said yesterday.  “These groups are under investigation by the judicial
authorities,” Amr told delegates at a security summit in
Munich. “Those groups are unregistered and from the view of the
judiciary they were breaking the laws of Egypt. This is a total
judicial issue. We cannot exercise influence on the judges.”  Five Serbs, two Germans, three Arabs and 14 Egyptians are
also reported to be facing charges, the National Democratic
Institute said in an e-mailed statement. In a separate
statement, the International Republican Institute called the
reported prosecutions a “politically motivated effort to squash
Egypt’s growing civil society.”  Visiting Generals  A delegation of Egyptian generals is in  Washington  to
discuss U.S. aid and security issues with military officials,
lawmakers and the Obama administration.  U.S. aid to Egypt, linked to the 1979 peace treaty with
 Israel , has averaged about $2 billion a year since then,
according to the  Congressional Research Service , the nonpartisan
research arm of Congress. Most of the aid goes to Egypt’s army.  President  Barack Obama  must certify to Congress that Egypt
is making progress toward democracy in order for the aid to
continue. On Feb. 2 and Feb. 3, the generals met with State
Department officials, including Assistant Secretary for Near
East Affairs  Jeffrey Feltman  and Assistant Secretary for
Political-Military Affairs  Andrew Shapiro .  The visits were part of a regular dialogue between the U.S.
and Egypt on security assistance, Toner, the State Department
spokesman, said Feb. 3. He said the travel ban and other issues
related to NGOs were discussed. The Egyptian delegation also met
last week with Defense Department officials and with members of
Obama’s national security team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net 
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  