-- European Leaders Maintain Pressure on Greece to Complete Terms for Bailout
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-06T05:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/european-leaders-maintain-pressure-on-greece-to-complete-terms-for-bailout.html
European leaders maintained pressure
on  Greece  to accept terms demanded by international lenders
during a weekend of talks to avert a financial collapse.  Interim Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  struck a
tentative deal with party leaders to boost economic
competitiveness and extend spending cuts after euro-area finance
chiefs told them an increase in the 130 billion-euro ($170
billion) aid package wasn’t forthcoming.  “If we determine that it’s all going wrong in Greece, then
there won’t be a new program -- and that means in March you’ll
have a declaration of bankruptcy,” Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs euro finance meetings, told  Der Spiegel 
magazine in an interview published yesterday.  The effort to keep Greece from tumbling into default
presents what  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  this weekend called a “make or break” moment. While
Greek leaders reached their framework agreement yesterday, New
Democracy leader Antonis Samaras said he would “fight” demands
made by the so-called troika of international creditors that
could deepen a recession.  The leaders in Athens will meet today aiming to complete an
accord as international creditors imposed an 11 a.m. deadline in
Athens for a final deal. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters Feb. 4 that negotiations in Athens for
more funding hung “on a razor’s edge.” In Paris, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
meet today for a joint Cabinet meeting.  Euro’s Decline  The euro fell, losing 0.5 percent to $1.3087 as of 2:15 p.m.
in  Tokyo . Still, the Greek drama came amid the backdrop of signs
that the global economy is improving and European Central Bank
lending has staved off a financial crisis. The yield on
 Germany ’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 8 basis points to 1.93
percent last week, while the yield on Greek 10-year bonds fell
18 basis points to 34.19 percent.  With Greece at stake, focus over the weekend turned to a
race to clinch agreement on a plan that’s been in the works
since July, with talks between international monitors and Greek
officials running in parallel with discussions among Papademos’s
coalition members and Greece’s government and its private
creditors.  Attempts to untie the Greek knot have overshadowed progress
by EU leaders in setting up a new regime of budget rules and
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s success in pushing through
budget cuts. Italian 10-year bonds rose for a fourth week last
week, the longest run in two years.  Bond Redemption  Open questions involve how much more aid Greece needs, how
much more austerity is required, and how to involve the ECB in
the debt swap. Papademos faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment
on March 20 and general elections as soon as April.  Venizelos had said that everything needed to be completed
by yesterday in advance of a meeting of euro-area ministers
scheduled for Feb. 8. A formal offer for the debt swap must be
made by Feb. 13 to allow all procedures to be completed before
the March 20 bond comes due.  “The Greek negotiations are getting down to the wire with
probably no more than one or two weeks left to get all the
agreements in place if we are to avoid a messy default in
March,” Erik F. Nielsen, UniCredit’s chief global economist,
said in a note to clients yesterday.  The rescue blueprint includes more than 70 percent losses
for bondholders in a voluntary debt exchange and loans that will
probably exceed the 130 billion euros now on the table.  ‘Make or Break’  “We are in a make-or-break situation and Greece plays a
very important role -- and if we find a solution in the next few
days, I think we’re on the right track,” Deutsche Bank’s
Ackermann told a panel on Feb. 4 in Munich. Ackermann, who said
letting Greece fall would open a “Pandora’s box,” was due to
fly to  Athens  as talks continued over the swap involving Greek
debt with a face value of about 200 billion euros.  Meanwhile, the ECB is considering using its bond holdings
to bolster Greece’s next rescue program and support efforts to
contain the sovereign debt crisis, three euro-region officials
said. The ECB has purchased 219 billion euros of debt-strapped
nations’ bonds since 2010 and between 36 billion euros and 55
billion euros are invested in Greek sovereign debt, according to
estimates by  Barclays Capital  and UBS AG.  Papademos held meetings over the weekend with members of
the so-called troika -- the European Commission, the ECB and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- over what the country has to do
to receive more funds.  Recession  Greece has lagged behind budget targets set when it won an
initial, taxpayer-funded rescue of 110 billion euros in May 2010,
prompting euro-area threats to cut off aid and hastening a
German push to make bondholders contribute. The country’s
economy shrank 6 percent last year, according to the latest IMF
estimates, the  budget deficit  is still close to 10 percent of
GDP and unemployment is around 18 percent.  The lead negotiators of the creditors’ steering committee
working on a debt accord with Greece,  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the International Institute of Finance, and  Jean Lemierre , a senior adviser to the chairman of BNP Paribas SA,
returned to Athens this weekend to continue talks.  Ackermann is the chairman of the group, based in  Washington ,
which has more than 450 financial firms as members and is
representing private creditors in the talks. Those talks are
happening in parallel with those with the troika, Venizelos said
Feb. 4 “but that’s now the easiest part of the process.”  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Munich at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  