-- Euro Drops Against Dollar, Yen on Concern Greek Bailout Agreement Elusive
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-06T22:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/euro-declines-as-greek-debt-stalemate-increases-european-crisis-concern.html
The euro slid the most in a week
against the dollar and yen on concern  Greece ’s political leaders
will fail to reach an agreement allowing the nation to receive a
second bailout from international creditors.  The 17-nation currency pared losses after German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy proposed
setting up a separate account for Greek debt payments to
reassure creditors. Australia’s currency retreated for the first
time in five days before the central bank, which is expected to
cut interest rates, meets tomorrow. Brazil’s real fell after the
central bank intervened to stem the currency’s gains.  “The reason the euro is not falling more rapidly and more
aggressively is, even with some of the disquieting headlines
that we’ve seen from Greece and that they still don’t have a
deal, there is an underlying expectation that a deal will be
reached,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York .  The euro fell as much as 1 percent to $1.3028, the steepest
intraday decline since Jan. 30, and traded 0.2 percent weaker at
$1.3130 at 5 p.m. New York time. It dropped 0.3 percent to
100.51 yen after falling as much as 0.9 percent. The dollar was
little changed at 76.55 yen.  Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  requested the
country’s  Finance Ministry  to prepare a document on the
implications of a Greek default, Panos Beglitis, spokesman for
the socialist Pasok Party said.  Greek ‘Consequences’  “It’s an important initiative because the Greek people
should know exactly what consequences a bankruptcy and euro zone
exit would have and thereby take their responsibility,”
Beglitis said.  Papademos will tomorrow confer with the leaders of the
three political parties supporting his interim government to
finalize details for an accord framework.  “The market is almost looking through the whole Greek PSI
deadline because, at this point, so many deadlines have been
missed that the market is jaded with anything that has to do
with Greece,” Thomas Molloy, chief dealer at FX Solutions, an
online currency-trading company in Saddle River,  New Jersey ,
said referring to private-sector involvement. “We are right in
the center in the range we’ve been in for the past week.”  The euro has fallen 4.4 percent over the past three months,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has
advanced 3.1 percent and the dollar has gained 0.9 percent.  ‘Severe’ Condition  The yen rose against most of its major peers even after
Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the nation’s
economic condition is “severe” because of deflation and the
strong currency. The central bank is implementing monetary
easing measures and will take appropriate steps as needed, he
said in parliament in  Tokyo  today.  The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.7257 per  U.S. dollar  after
 Brazil ’s central bank bought dollars at an exchange rate of
1.7170 reais in the first such purchase since Sept. 13.  The central bank is stepping up intervention in the
foreign-exchange market after companies borrowed $14 billion in
overseas debt markets this year, fueling speculation that those
dollar inflows will extend the real’s rally.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, climbed 0.1 percent to 79.036.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said today holding interest rates near zero to counteract a high
degree of slack in the  U.S. economy  may be a costly mistake. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  has pledged to keep the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low at least until late 2014.  ‘Looming Disaster’  “If we continue using this interpretation of events, it
may be very difficult for the U.S. to ever move off of the zero
lower bound on nominal interest rates,” Bullard said in a
speech in Chicago. “This could be a looming disaster for the
 United States .”  Traders are  expecting  the Fed to increase interest rates by
eight basis points in the next year compared with an expected
reduction of 1 basis point at the start at February, according
to a Credit Suisse Group AG Index. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. U.S. government data showed on Feb. 3 that
nonfarm payrolls rose by 243,000 in January, surpassing the
140,000 increase estimated by economists.  The benchmark  yield  on 10-year Treasuries jumped 10 basis
points to 1.92 percent that day, the biggest gain since Dec. 20.  ‘Watching the RBA’  “Quantitative-easing expectations will be pushed back as
the logic for such actions becomes weaker when the rate of
employment creation is in line with what the Fed may have
claimed that it wanted to see,” said Shahab Jalinoos, a senior
currency strategist for UBS in Stamford Connecticut. “We’re
watching the RBA and the extent to which the RBA will meet
expectations for ongoing easing, given some of the improved
global growth expectations that have come through over the past
month.”  The Australian Bureau of Statistics said the country’s
retail sales fell 0.1 percent in December from a month earlier.
Economists had estimated a 0.2 percent gain.  The Reserve Bank of  Australia  will lower the benchmark
interest rate to 4 percent from 4.25 percent in a meeting
tomorrow, another survey of economists shows.  The Aussie lost 0.4 percent to $1.0726 and weakened 0.5
percent to 82.10 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  