-- U.S. on ‘Right Road’ With Employment: Summers
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-02-05T17:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/ex-treasury-chief-summers-says-u-s-economy-on-right-road-with-jobs-data.html
Former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  said the latest jobs report shows the economy
is “on the right road” while  Glenn Hubbard , an adviser to
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , said he’s
skeptical about the meaning of the January numbers.  “Unlike many of the favorable past reports, if you look
beneath the surface of this one almost every indicator within it
is favorable,” Summers said today on ABC’s “This Week,” where
he appeared with Hubbard, dean of the Columbia Business School.  Employers added 243,000 jobs in January, the biggest gain
in nine months, and the unemployment rate dropped to 8.3 percent
from 8.5 percent in December, the Labor Department reported last
week in  Washington . The improvement exceeded the most optimistic
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Summers, director of the National Economic Council under
Democratic President  Barack Obama  until last year, said the
administration needs to build on the momentum of the easing
unemployment.  Hubbard, who was chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers under Republican President  George W. Bush , said the
improved employment data was driven by a drop in the number of
people who are looking for jobs while the rate of
underemployment remains high. Administration policies have stood
in the way of the recovery, he said.  Serious Debate  “There needs to be a serious debate on what we can do in
 tax policy , in health care, in regulation and financial reform
to actually create jobs,” Hubbard said.  Obama administration officials offered a guarded public
response to the report last week, with nine months to go before
the November election and the U.S. economy still vulnerable to
risks such as a worsening of the European debt crisis.  Obama said that while too many people in the U.S. still
don’t have jobs, the data show “the economy is growing
stronger” and “the recovery is speeding up.” In remarks Feb.
3, Obama appealed to Congress to pass an extension of
 unemployment benefits  and the payroll tax cut.  “Do not slow down the recovery that we’re on,” Obama
said, directing his words at lawmakers. “Don’t muck it up.”  Romney, 64, said upon winning Nevada’s caucus yesterday
that Obama didn’t deserve credit for January’s drop in the
 unemployment rate .  ‘Private Sector’  “Mr. President, we welcome any good news on the jobs
front,” Romney said. “But it is thanks to the innovation of
the American people in the private sector and not to you.”  Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum
and former economic adviser to U.S. Republican Senator John McCain’s 2008 presidential bid, said today that unemployment
will go up before it comes down in a permanent way and the
economy still needs steady job growth.  “We got one month’s good news in the labor market, that’s
great, but the truth is the debt is bad and the recovery is not
very strong, and we have a long way to go,” Holtz-Eakin said on
CNN’s ”State of the Union.”  Alice Rivlin , senior fellow at the Brookings Institution
and former vice chairman of the  Federal Reserve , said on CNN
that she expects “good, slow recovery with gradual reduction in
the unemployment rate.”  Rivlin said that as much as she’d like to see continued
growth of GDP and employment, the key to the  U.S. economy ’s
future is for congressional Republicans and Democrats to work
with the president to address the country’s long-term debt.  “Gridlock is the greatest threat, much greater than
anything else that could happen to our economy,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  