-- Mexico’s Ruling Party Likely to Pick Vazquez Mota in Presidential Primary
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-02-05T22:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/mexico-s-ruling-party-likely-to-pick-vazquez-mota-in-primary.html
(Corrects Vazquez Mota’s age in second paragraph.)  Mexico’s ruling  National Action Party 
will probably choose Josefina Vazquez Mota today as its
presidential candidate, hoping she can claw the party back into
contention for the July 1 election.  Vazquez Mota, 51, the campaign head of President Felipe Calderon in 2006 and the only woman running in the election, is
29 percentage points ahead of her nearest rival in the primary,
Santiago Creel, according to a poll by Gabinete de Comunicacion
Estrategica reported by Milenio Television on Feb. 3.  While Vazquez Mota holds the lead in her party, she trails
Enrique Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party  on
the national level. To make up the ground, the former education
minister plans by making it easier to hire and fire workers and
to attract private investment into  Mexico ’s state-controlled oil
industry, boosting economic growth to a rate of at least 6
percent from 2 percent over the past decade.  “A victory within the  PAN  by a broad margin would help her
project the image of someone who can win the presidential race
and generate enthusiasm among undecided voters,”  Jorge Chabat ,
a political scientist at CIDE, a university in Mexico City, said
by phone before the primaries.  In a Dec. 29 interview, Vazquez Mota also said she aimed to
boost tax collection in  Latin America ’s second-largest economy,
and create the 1 million jobs per year Mexico requires to
relieve poverty.  More than 1.8 million party members are inscribed to vote
today, according to Vazquez Mota’s  website . The vote takes place
between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Mexico City time in about 2,000
polling stations across the country.  Still Behind  On a national level, Vazquez Mota has the backing of 23
percent of voters, compared with 41 percent for Pena Nieto,
according to a Jan. 14-18 survey by Mitofsky.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who narrowly lost the presidential election in
2006 with the Party of the Democratic Revolution, had 18 percent
support. The survey included 1,000 people and had a margin of
error of 3.1 percentage points.  Her chances of narrowing the gap on Pena Nieto have been
dented by sluggish economic growth, which will slow to  3.33
percent  this year from 3.9 percent in 2011, according to 29
economists and consulting firms in a central bank survey
published Feb. 1. The central bank estimates that employers will
add no more than 600,000 this year.  “Doubling the rate of growth, which we are proposing now,
would permit us, if not to totally satisfy the demand for jobs
in the formal employment market, then to get much closer to
it,” Vazquez Mota said in December.  Vazquez Mota will need 50 percent of the votes plus one to
win today’s primary, or at least 37 percent of the vote and a 5
percentage point margin over her closest opponent, according to
the party’s election rules. According to the GCE survey, she is
backed by 52 percent of voters who identify with PAN, compared
with 23 percent for Creel and 21.5 percent for  Ernesto Cordero .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 