-- Tom Coughlin Makes Case for Hall of Fame With Second Victory at Super Bowl
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-02-06T08:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/giants-coach-coughlin-rebounds-again-for-chance-at-championship.html
Tom Coughlin ’s job was in doubt six
weeks ago. Now the question is whether he belongs in the Pro
Football Hall of Fame.  Coughlin, 65, has coached the Giants to a Super Bowl win
for the second time in four years, seven weeks after fans called
for his firing after a defeat to the  Washington Redskins  left
the Giants 7-7 and in danger of missing the playoffs for the
third consecutive year.  Now, after six straight wins culminating in a 21-17 victory
over the  New England Patriots  in the National Football League
championship game last night, Coughlin joins  Bill Parcells  as
the only coach to win two Super Bowl titles in  New York .  “This is a good case for the Hall of Fame right here,”
said Michael Strahan, a former defensive end for the Giants who
holds the NFL single-season record for quarterback sacks. “He
doesn’t deviate from his plan. He just encourages you to win.
He’s going to ride with you no matter what.”  Coughlin has an 82-57 record over eight seasons with the
Giants, including 8-3 in the playoffs. Parcells was 85-52-1 in
New York from 1983 to 1990, including 8-3 in the postseason.
Parcells on Feb. 4 failed to become the eighth of 12 coaches
with multiple Super Bowl titles to be elected to the Pro
Football Hall of Fame.  ‘Blinders On’  Coughlin said he doesn’t pay attention to detractors or
those who say he should one day gain a place in the Canton,
Ohio-based Hall of Fame.  “I just try to do the best job I possibly can; put the
blinders on, go to work and be the best you can possibly be,”
he said. “Once you have done everything that you possibly can,
you’ve put forth your greatest effort, then I can live with
whatever’s next.”  Coughlin surpassed Dick Vermeil, who was 63 with the  St.
Louis Rams  after the 1999 season, as the oldest coach to win a
Super Bowl. George Halas was the oldest coach to win an NFL
championship with the  Chicago Bears  in 1963 at 68. Coughlin is
among 12 coaches to lead an NFL team after turning 65, with
Parcells and Hall of Famers Don Shula, Joe Gibbs, Marv Levy and
Weeb Ewbank among them.  “Tom is tough, he’s very detailed, he has a lot of
experience, he’s an intense coach and I think that’s reflected
in the way his teams play,” said Patriots coach  Bill Belichick ,
who, like Coughlin, was an assistant under Parcells.  Seeks No. 4  Belichick failed to join Chuck Noll, who led the Pittsburgh
Steelers from 1969 to 1991, in winning four  Super Bowls . He also
fell shy of his 18th postseason win, third behind Tom Landry (20)
and Shula (19).  The Giants snapped a 10-game winning streak by the Patriots,
as they won seven of their past eight since a four-game losing
skid. No Super Bowl champion has had a losing streak as long.  Defensive end  Justin Tuck  said Coughlin’s consistency and
belief were keys to the turnaround.  “At 7-7, everybody and their mom was counting us out but
he just stayed persistent and stayed true to who he is as a
coach and a person,” Tuck said last week. “It trickles down
when you see a person has faith in you when nobody else does. It
is kind of easy for us to continue to have his back and do our
best. We have been rewarded for that.”  Jaguars’ Tenure  Coughlin was the first coach of the  Jacksonville Jaguars ,
from 1995 through 2002, going 68-60 record with two trips to the
American Football Conference championship game. He became the
only coach to lead an NFL expansion club to the playoffs in four
of its first five years, before being fired in 2002 after a
third straight losing season.  “If hindsight you could change, I’ll be honest with you: I
probably would have never changed Coughlin,” Wayne Weaver, the
Jaguars’ former owner, told the team’s website last month. “I
thought Tom’s pride would never allow him to take a step back
and me take the general manager’s position and all power and say,
‘Go coach the football team.’ He did that in New York, but I
thought it would hurt his pride too much.”  Coughlin embraces discipline as a key to winning. In
Jacksonville, he banned beards and jewelry. In New York, he’s
fined players who didn’t arrive at team meetings early enough.
Yet Coughlin, who imposed a 11:55 p.m. team curfew in
Indianapolis last week, also changed over time.  Different Coach  “He’s not the same guy he was when we first got here,”
said offensive lineman Chris Snee, who is Coughlin’s son-in-law.
“That’s definitely a credit to him, that he’s adapted his style.
And that really started back in ‘07.”  That’s not to say Coughlin has mellowed.  Following a practice last week, linebacker Chase Blackburn
was talking with reporters in the locker room when he grabbed
punter Steve Weatherford and started sprinting for the exit.
“Hey, we’ve got a meeting in 30 seconds.” Blackburn yelled.
“Thirty seconds.”  “That’s TC’s deal, just having us aware, and just being a
stickler for time,” safety Antrel Rolle said. “I had a lot of
those taken out of my paychecks, but it’s all for the better of
the team. I think we all buy into it, understand it, all jokes
aside. It’s what this team needs.”  The Giants extended Coughlin’s contract in July for two
years, through the 2012 season. A second Super Bowl title may
ensure an even longer tenure.  “In 2007, it was, ‘Coughlin better get to the playoffs or
he’s gone,’” Jim Fassel, who Coughlin replaced in 2004, said in
a telephone interview. “This year it was, ‘Well, if they don’t
get this, he’s gone.’ You get to the Super Bowl and everybody’s
happy. As a coach, over the years, you learn to deal with the
ups and downs. You have to.”  Coughlin said he doesn’t plan to retire and that this
season wasn’t more stressful than any of the previous one’s that
he’s coached.  “You lose a game in New York you’re fired, you know,
burned at the stake, whatever you want to say,” he said at a
news conference following the Super Bowl victory. “I didn’t pay
a lot of attention to that, to be honest with you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net  and Mario Parker in Chicago at 
   mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  