-- Republicans Move Toward Romney as Pace of Primaries Picks Up
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-02-06T21:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/gingrich-pledges-to-press-on-in-gop-race-as-romney-takes-nevada-caucuses.html
Republican voters are beginning to
coalesce around the presidential candidacy of front-runner  Mitt Romney  even as his opponents vow to continue their campaigns
into a series of contests this month and beyond.  Republicans will cast ballots this week in  Colorado (BEESCO) ,
Missouri,  Minnesota (MBASMN)  and  Maine (STTLME) , all states where Romney has a
financial and organizational advantage over his remaining three
opponents. He won a majority of the vote in the  Nevada (BEESNV)  caucuses
Feb. 4, days after his 14-point triumph in the  Florida (MBASMO)  primary.  While some party loyalists and elected officials already
support the former  Massachusetts  governor, his strength in
recent contests shows that socially and fiscally conservative
voters -- long critical of his ideological credentials -- are
starting to accept his march toward the nomination.  “ Newt Gingrich  had what was likely to be in the final
analysis his best moment in  South Carolina ,” Tea Party leader
and former House Majority Leader  Dick Armey  said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” yesterday, referring to Gingrich’s Jan.
21 win. “We are not going to get a reliable small-government
conservative out of this nominating process.”  Attack on Santorum  Romney’s campaign today began an offensive against another
of his primary rivals,  Rick Santorum , as the former Pennsylvania
senator gunned for a strong showing in tomorrow’s  Minnesota 
caucuses. Santorum delivered a speech hammering Romney for
having backed a Massachusetts health-care plan that required
state residents to purchase medical insurance, and Romney’s team
deployed former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  to try to
tarnish Santorum’s credibility with fiscal conservatives.  “He clearly has been part of the big-spending
establishment in Congress and in the influence-peddling industry
that surrounds Congress,” Pawlenty told reporters in a
conference call today, detailing Santorum’s support for earmarks
-- the targeted spending lawmakers use to steer federal money to
the districts and states they represent.  “Rick has been holding himself out as the perfect
conservative or the only real conservative in the race,”
Pawlenty said. “If you look at his record, it’s not a perfect
conservative record by a long shot.”  Won’t Predict Victory  Pawlenty wouldn’t predict a Romney victory in Minnesota,
whose caucuses he said typically draw low turnout and voters who
“gravitate toward the most conservative candidate -- real or
perceived.”  Romney’s own record is “not perfect, but conservative,”
Pawlenty said. “Mitt will be competitive, but it’s hard to tell
who’s going to be the top of that pack.”  Gingrich also took a shot at Romney’s record on health care
during a rally today for several hundred people in Golden,
 Colorado . The former U.S. House speaker drew parallels between
the law Romney signed as governor of Massachusetts and President
Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul legislation.  “We’re in a situation where we need fundamental change,”
Gingrich said. He said he has revised his campaign strategy to
more forcefully set himself apart from party moderates.  Gingrich’s Colorado spokesman, Tom Lucero, a former
University of Colorado regent and Larimer County Republican
chairman, spoke optimistically about tomorrow’s caucuses.  “I love our chances,” Lucero said in an interview.
“People here are trying to make a decision between Gingrich and
Santorum -- anybody but Romney.”  Nevada Breakdowns  In Nevada, Romney, 64, won almost every voting group,
including those traditionally skeptical of his candidacy such as
Tea Party supporters, according to a survey of voters outside
polling places before they cast their ballots. Among self-
described “very conservative” voters, 51 percent supported him
at the polls, as did 48 percent of evangelical Christians.  The survey also showed he won support from three-quarters
of those who listed the ability to beat Obama in November’s
general election as the most important candidate quality for
them, a group that was 44 percent of the electorate.  “We would rather have a Republican president that’s not
fully the guy we adore wanting our affections than a Democrat
president who despises us,” Armey said.  Gingrich, 68, dismissed the  Nevada  results, saying contests
in the South will put him in a “very competitive” position.  “Our goal is to get to Super Tuesday where we’re in much
more favorable territory,” he said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program. “We believe by the time  Texas  is over,
we’ll be very, very competitive in delegate count.”  Super Tuesday  Super Tuesday’s 11 contests on March 6 include  Georgia (BEESGA) ,
which Gingrich represented in the House, while  Texas (BEESTX)  is
scheduled for April 3. Gingrich failed to meet the requirements
to appear on Virginia’s primary ballot that day and has now
dropped a court bid to be added.  Santorum, 53, insisted that his candidacy would regain
strength. He beat Romney by 34 votes in the lead-off Iowa
caucuses on Jan. 3 and has seen his support drop since then.  “We’re going to show improvement,” he said on “Fox News
Sunday” yesterday. “This race is a long, long way from being
over.”  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, who came in third in
Nevada after campaigning heavily in the state, also said that
voters are still making up their minds.  “There’s a large number of people who are looking for
another option,” Paul, 76, said on ABC’s “This Week”
yesterday. “Romney doesn’t satisfy a lot of people.”  With all Nevada precincts reporting, Romney had just over
50 percent of the vote and Gingrich had 21 percent, followed by
Paul with almost 19 percent and Santorum with 10 percent,
according to an Associated Press tally.  Following Nevada, there are five nomination contests in
February, including caucuses in  Maine  that started over the
weekend and will end later this week. Tomorrow’s caucuses in
Colorado and Minnesota are followed by primaries in Arizona and
 Michigan  on Feb. 28. A non-binding primary will also be held
tomorrow in  Missouri .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Las Vegas , Nevada at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Oldham in Golden, Colorado at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  