-- Israeli Foreign Minister Travels to Washington to Discuss Iran
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-02-05T17:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/israeli-foreign-minister-travels-to-washington-to-discuss-iran.html
Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman will travel to the U.S. tonight to discuss security
matters amid signs the allies disagree over a potential attack
on  Iran ’s disputed nuclear facilities.  Among the issues Liberman will discuss in Washington is the
impact of the recent European Union decision to place sanctions
on Iranian oil exports and its central bank beginning this
summer, an Israeli foreign ministry official said. The official
declined to be identified, citing government policy.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will visit Washington in
early March, and he will speak at the annual conference of the
American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the Israeli government
announced today.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Feb. 2 that the
country must consider conducting “an operation” before Iran
reaches an “immunity zone,” referring to Iran’s goal of
protecting its uranium enrichment and other nuclear operations
by moving them to deep underground facilities.  “The world has no doubt that  Iran’s nuclear program  is
steadily nearing readiness and is about to enter an immunity
zone,” Barak said in an address to the annual Herzliya
Conference at the Interdisciplinary Center campus north of  Tel
Aviv . “If the sanctions don’t achieve their goal of halting
Iran’s nuclear weapons program, there will arise the need of
weighing an operation.”  ‘Time and Space’  The U.S. holds the view that “there is still time and
space to pursue diplomacy” with Iran over its nuclear program,
Mark Toner, a State Department spokesman, said today in
Washington. The U.S. “is absolutely committed to preventing
Iran from getting nuclear weapons,” Toner said.  Defense Secretary Leon Panetta declined to comment directly
on a report by Washington Post columnist David Ignatius that
Panetta believes there is a strong likelihood  Israel  will strike
Iran in April, May or June. Panetta and other U.S. officials
have repeatedly warned Israel not to act alone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  