-- Sony, Panasonic Forecast Deeper Losses as Samsung Dominates
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-06T09:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/japan-electronics-makers-warn-of-17-billion-loss-as-samsung-tightens-grip.html
Japan ’s biggest makers of phones,
televisions and chips say they’ll lose about $17 billion this
year, about three-quarters of what  Samsung Electronics Co.  will
spend on research to lengthen the lead over its competitors.  Sony Corp.  more than doubled its annual loss forecast for
the year ending March 31 as it announced a new chief executive
officer, while  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp.  predicted  the
worst losses in their histories. Their combined losses compare
with the $22 billion that Samsung,  Asia ’s largest consumer-
electronics company, said it will invest in  capital expenditures .  Japanese companies hurt by a stronger yen, flooding that
swamped Thailand factories and weaker demand for their TVs may
not be able to regain ground lost to Samsung and  Apple Inc. 
That’s prompting  Sony  and  Panasonic  to focus on sectors
including medical devices, solar panels and rechargeable
batteries in an effort to revive earnings.  “Japan’s consumer-electronics makers are in a total
breakdown,” said Masamitsu Ohki, a  fund manager  at Stats
Investment Management Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund. “They need
to compete with ideas, not technology.”  Samsung is the world’s biggest maker of TVs, memory chips
and flat-screen panels, and the second-biggest manufacturer of
mobile phones. The Suwon, South Korea-based company and its
affiliates plan to spend 47.8 trillion won ($43 billion) this
year on new product research and upgrading plants.  Harsh Competition  Samsung, which doesn’t forecast annual results, reported a
17 percent increase in fourth- quarter  net income.  “The Japanese consumer electronics makers shouldn’t
compete with the Koreans in the same market,” said Koji Toda,
chief fund manager at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “The
environment surrounding Japanese manufacturers is very harsh.”  Panasonic, Sony and Nikon Corp. gained in  Tokyo  trading
today as Asia-Pacific markets rose after U.S. jobs data beat
estimates, raising expectations that exports will increase.  Panasonic gained 6.3 percent to 637 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, and Sony advanced 4 percent to 1,492 yen. Nikon surged
11 percent after raising its full-year operating profit forecast
7.5 percent on higher-than-expected demand for digital cameras.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  added 0.4 percent.  Panasonic’s reform of TV and chip operations, cost cuts,
buying more parts from Asian producers and a recovery from flood
damages may boost profit by about 250 billion yen ($3.3 billion)
in the year starting April 1, the company said Feb. 3.  Recovery Measures  President Fumio Ohtsubo “highlighted bold recovery
measures,”  Shiro Mikoshiba , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in Tokyo with a “buy” rating on Panasonic shares, said in a
report today. “Panasonic continues to be among electronics
makers with prospects of large profit increases next fiscal
year.”  Sony, Japan’s largest electronics exporter, predicted its
loss in the year ending in March will widen to 220 billion yen,
the first time since the Tokyo-based company began  trading  in
1958 that it will have four consecutive annual losses.  Kazuo Hirai, named last week to take over as CEO starting
April 1, said he will close less-competitive businesses. Sony,
worth more than $100 billion in 2000, is now valued at about $19
billion.  Moody’s Investors Service said today it remained
“concerned that Sony’s earnings may remain weak and volatile
without effective strategies to deal with the company’s
structural challenges.” The company’s credit profiles remain
under “strong pressure,” the ratings company said.  Strong Yen, Weak Won  Panasonic, Japan’s biggest appliance maker, forecast a 780
billion-yen loss, the worst since the Osaka-based company was
founded in 1918.  Fitch Ratings today downgraded Panasonic’s long-term rating
to “BBB-,” the last of its 10 investment grades, from BBB,
citing “material deterioration” in the company’s financial
results. Fitch also had a “negative” outlook on the company.  Sharp, the maker of Aquos TVs, predicted a loss of 290
billion yen, its worst in a century. Moody’s today changed its
outlook for Sharp’s “A3” rating to negative.  “The rating action reflects Moody’s increasing concern
that Sharp may not be able to improve its financial profile in a
timely manner,” Moody’s said in the statement.  Thailand ’s worst floods in 70 years shut factories making
cameras and hard-disk drives, disrupting production and causing
shortages during the  holiday shopping season .  Apple’s Record Profit  Samsung also benefits from the strengthening Japanese
currency against the dollar, compared with the weakening won
against the greenback.  The yen’s 7.3 percent surge against the dollar and 11
percent gain against the euro in 2011 damped the repatriated
value of Japanese companies’ overseas sales. Sony earned 70
percent of its  revenue  outside Japan and Panasonic 48 percent.  Manufacturers have been forced to both relocate production
outside of Japan and to press their  suppliers  for cost cuts.  By comparison, the won depreciated 1.3 percent against the
dollar in the past year, helping Samsung, which earned 85
percent of its revenue in 2010 outside  South Korea .  Samsung’s  profit  in the quarter ended December advanced 17
percent to 4 trillion won, helped by smartphone sales that kept
pace with Cupertino, California-based Apple. Sales rose 13
percent to 47.3 trillion won.  ‘Marvelous Manufacturer’  “Samsung is a marvelous manufacturer,” said Edwin Merner,
president of Atlantis Investment Research in Tokyo, who manages
$300 million. “They can make good things at a very low price.
Sony can’t do that.”  Apple  had a net income of $13.1 billion in the quarter
ended Dec. 31, ranking it among the highest quarterly profits on
record and putting the company in the same league as Exxon Mobil
Corp. and  Russia ’s Gazprom OAO.  “Apple changed the paradigm of thinking,” Stats
Investment’s Ohki said. “It would be very hard for the Japanese
companies to recover unless they can get back the de facto
standard for products like mobile phones from Apple.”  That’s what Sony wants to do. The company will strengthen
mobile devices and expand in new areas such as medical, Hirai
said Feb. 2.  In the  television  business, Sony hasn’t had a profit in the
past seven years selling Bravia models, while bigger rivals
Samsung and LG Electronics Inc. are profitable in the sector.
Last year, Sony exited a joint venture with Samsung that makes
panels as part of revamping the business, that’s set for an
eighth year of losses in the year to March 31.  Sony’s financial services, music and movies businesses were
all profitable in the year to March 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We weren’t able to select areas where we want to
concentrate, so we ended up keeping products that became
commoditized,” Hirai said. “We want to make our focus clear
soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  