-- Jeremy Lin Scores Career-High 25 as New York Knicks Beat Nets 99-92
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-05T05:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/jeremy-lin-scores-career-high-25-as-new-york-knicks-beat-nets-99-92.html
Former Harvard University point guard
Jeremy Lin breathed life into a  New York Knicks ’ team that had
lost 11 of its last 13 games, scoring a career-high 25 points in
a 99-92 win over the  New Jersey Nets .  Lin added career highs of seven assists and five rebounds,
drawing several standing ovations from the fans and his
teammates at Madison Square Garden in New York. It was the third
game in as many nights for the Knicks after losses to the
Chicago Bulls and Boston Celtics.  “This night, it just hasn’t really just sunk in yet, to be
honest,” Lin told reporters last night after the game. “I’m
still kind of in shock about everything that happened.”  Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni  said he was most surprised by
the composure of Lin, who went 10-of-19 from the field,
including 0-for-4 from 3-point range.  “He missed about three or four wide-open shots and we were
struggling,” D’Antoni said at a televised postgame news
conference. “In his position, without a lot of experience, that
could have crumbled most people, but he took it again and he
took it again and he got it right. I just thought it showed a
lot of mental toughness.”  With the Knicks in need of help at point guard as Baron Davis continues to recover from a back injury, D’Antoni said he
is leaning toward starting Lin for the Knicks’ home game
tomorrow against the  Utah Jazz .  Lin, who was cut by the  Golden State Warriors  and  Houston
Rockets  before ending up with the Knicks, also played a career-
high of almost 36 minutes with only one turnover and two steals
in the win. He helped hold the Nets’ Deron Williams to 21 points
on 7-of-19 shooting.  “I had my doubts but we just stayed with it, and he has
some of the qualities that we needed,” D’Antoni said. “I
didn’t know about his defense. If he keeps it right there, he’s
going to be a valuable piece.”  The Knicks improved to 9-15 with the win, while New Jersey
fell to 8-17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  