-- Netanyahu Says Only Military Strength Guarantees Security in Middle East
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-02-06T12:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/netanyahu-says-only-military-strength-guarantees-security-in-middle-east.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ,
who yesterday announced plans to visit the U.S. in March, said
turmoil in neighboring Arab states and threats from  Iran  show
that Israel must build up its military.  “In such a region, the only thing that ensures our
existence, security and prosperity is our strength,” Netanyahu
told his Cabinet in  Jerusalem  in remarks broadcast on Israel
Radio. “We are obligated to continue to develop the military,
economic and social strength of the state of Israel.”  Israeli leaders have been warning publicly that time is
running out for a military strike that could stop Iran from
developing nuclear weapons. U.S. President  Barack Obama  said on
NBC News yesterday that “our preferred solution is diplomatic
but we’re not going to take any actions off the table.”  “I don’t think that Israel has made a decision on what
they need to do,” Obama told NBC. Obama said the two countries
have “closer military and intelligence consultation than ever
before” and “we are going to work in lockstep to try to solve
this, hopefully diplomatically.”  Netanyahu will visit  Washington  in early March and speak at
the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee, according to an announcement. Foreign Minister
Avigdor Liberman arrives in the U.S. today for a series of
meetings with government officials, his office said.  The Israeli prime minister clashed with Obama during a
visit to the White House last May over the issue of negotiating
borders with the Palestinians. He was later given 29 standing
ovations when he addressed a joint meeting of Congress.  Iranian Cruise Missile  Iran has said it won’t give up its nuclear program, which
it says is for civilian purposes and not for developing weapons.
The country’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  warned Feb.
3 that a strike would damage U.S. interests in the Middle East
“10 times over,” the  Associated Press  reported.  Iran will never be the initiator of a war though its
response to aggression will be “crushing,” Brigadier-General
Mohammad Pakpour, the head of ground forces for Iran’s
Revolutionary Guard Corps, said yesterday, according to state-
run  Press TV  news channel.  Iran has been developing its arsenal of conventional
weapons and has started to mass produce a new, short-range,
naval cruise missile, the Zafar,  Tehran Times  reported, citing
Defense Minister Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi.  The Zafar is a short-range, anti-ship, radar-guided cruise
missile which can be installed on various types of vessels and
is able to hit small- and medium-size targets with high
precision, Vahidi said, according to the newspaper.  ‘Will Help’  Referring to Israel as a “cancerous tumor” that will be
cut, Khamenei said in his Friday, Feb. 3, sermon that “if any
nation or any group confronts the Zionist regime, we will
help.”  The acting commander of the Guards, Brigadier-General
Hossein Salami, said yesterday that “any location that may be
used by the enemies to launch an attack against Iran will face
retaliatory aggression by units of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard
Corps.” His remarks were reported by the state-run  Fars news
agency .  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told a political journal
that Iran may face military action by Israel if it doesn’t stop
its threats and nuclear program.  “We know that some in Israel are seriously considering”
military intervention, Sarkozy said in an interview with the
quarterly  Politique Internationale  published yesterday. “If
Iran continues its senseless race to get the bomb and continues
to threaten its neighbors, we are facing the risk of a military
intervention,” he said.  ‘A Disaster’  At a security conference in Munich,  Germany ,  Turkey ’s
Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu yesterday said a military
strike against Iran’s nuclear installations “will create a
disaster.” Davutoglu said negotiations between Iran and the
West would be preferable to military action.  Netanyahu told his Cabinet that  Middle East  peace efforts
also require Israel to bolster its military.  “This is the only guarantee for the existence of peace and
the only defense for Israel should the peace unravel,”
Netanyahu said. “Developing Israel’s strength is this
government’s main issue.”  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Feb. 2 that Israel
must consider conducting “an operation” before Iran reaches an
“immunity zone,” referring to Iran’s goal of protecting its
 uranium enrichment  and other nuclear operations by moving them
to deep underground facilities.  U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta declined to comment
directly on a report by Washington Post columnist David Ignatius
that Panetta believes there is a strong likelihood Israel will
strike Iran in April, May or June. Panetta and other U.S.
officials have repeatedly warned  Israel  not to act alone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  