-- Eni Nigeria Pipeline Struck by Delta Militants in ‘Sign of Things to Come’
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2012-02-05T15:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/nigerian-militant-group-mend-says-it-attacked-and-damaged-eni-pipeline.html
The Movement for the Emancipation of
the  Niger Delta , the main armed group in Nigeria’s oil-rich
southern region, attacked and damaged a pipeline belonging to a
unit of Italy’s  Eni SpA. (ENI)   The pipeline carries crude to an export terminal in the
coastal town of Brass, about 250 kilometers (155 miles)
southwest of the oil-industry hub of Port Harcourt, said  Jomo Gbomo , spokesman for the group also known as MEND. “This
relatively insignificant attack is a reminder of our presence in
the creeks of the Niger delta and a sign of things to come,” he
said in an e-mailed statement after yesterday’s incident.  Eni lost “around 4,000” barrels per day of “equity
production” from the incident, the Rome-based company said in
an e-mailed statement today confirming the attack.  MEND will also attack the Nigerian investments of South
African companies including  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  SacOil Holding
Ltd. (SCL) , Gbomo said, accusing South African President  Jacob Zuma  of
interfering “in the legitimate fight for justice” in the Niger
River delta region.  Threat to Output  Attacks by MEND and other militant groups in the delta,
home to Nigeria’s oil industry, cut the nation’s crude output by
more than 28 percent from 2006 to 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Disruptions eased after thousands of
fighters, seeking a greater share of oil revenue for the
region’s inhabitants, dropped their weapons and accepted an
official amnesty. MEND refuses to disarm, saying the government
hasn’t met its demands for control of the delta’s oil.  “Our silence thus far has been strategic, and at the right
time we will reduce Nigerian oil production to zero,” Gbomo
said.  Nigeria is Africa’s top oil producer and the fifth-biggest
source of U.S. crude imports.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and Eni run joint ventures with
the state oil company Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that
pump more than 90 percent of the country’s crude.  Renewed violence in the oil-rich delta, which is President
Goodluck Jonathan’s home region, is coming at a time the
Nigerian leader is grappling with a surge of bombings and gun
attacks by the Islamist Boko Haram group in the mainly Muslim
north in which hundreds of people have died this year.  South African Probe  Henry Okah, a suspected MEND leader, faces trial in South
Africa on terrorism charges related to car bombings on Oct. 1,
2010, that killed 12 people in the Nigerian capital, Abuja. MEND
claimed responsibility for the blasts.  South Africa’s Ministry of International Relations and
Cooperation said it will investigate the threat against the
country’s investments in  Nigeria .  “It’s a matter we’ll look into definitely; terrorism has
to be rooted out,” Clayson Monyela, spokesman for the Ministry
of International Relations and Cooperation, said by cell phone
today. “The authorities in Nigeria have always been responsive
to acts that are unlawful and will deal with this as they always
have dealt with such threats.”  MTN is leaving security matters to the Nigerian and South
African authorities and has no further comment, Rich Mkhondo, a
spokesman for the Johannesburg-based company, said in an e-
mailed response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  