-- Ex-Panama Dictator Noriega Moved to Hospital on Concern He Suffered Stroke
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-02-06T21:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/noriega-moved-to-hospital-on-stroke-concern.html
Former Panamanian dictator  Manuel Noriega , who was ousted by a U.S. invasion in 1989, is in a
stable condition after being transferred from prison to a
hospital in Panama City on concern he may suffer a stroke.  Noriega, 77, was moved yesterday to Hospital Santo Tomas
following a rise in his  blood pressure , Health Minister Franklin
Vergara said today in an e-mailed statement.  The ex-general has no initial signs of stroke damage and
the hospital will continue to monitor his condition over the
next 48 hours, Vergara said. “At this moment, Noriega is
conscious and alert,” he said.  Noriega returned to the Central American country in
December after spending 22 years in U.S. and French jails to
serve a separate prison sentence at home. He held power for six
years before U.S. forces invaded in December 1989, surrendering
a month later.  Convicted for drug trafficking, racketeering and  money
laundering  in 1992 by a U.S. court, Noriega was extradited to
 France  in 2010 to serve a separate money-laundering sentence. As
head of the military, he gathered information for the Central
Intelligence Agency while also taking money from Colombian drug
cartels, according to 1988 U.S. congressional hearings.  ‘Dignity Battalions’  Officials from Noriega’s Democratic Revolutionary Party,
now the largest opposition group, have distanced themselves from
the former dictator. His rule still provokes fear among
Panamanians who remember his so-called “Dignity Battalions”
attacking opponents with baseball bats.  A court has yet to decide whether Noriega should stand
trial to contest a 60-year sentence on charges of murder and
embezzlement handed down in Panama while he was imprisoned in
Miami. President Ricardo Martinelli said upon Noriega’s return
that the government was putting him in jail instead of under
house arrest because the former dictator “must pay for all the
horror” he caused.  Panama ’s 2011 economic expansion will probably be 10
percent, the fastest pace in three years, Finance Minister Frank De Lima said on Nov. 30. Citing the country’s emergence as a
regional banking hub, as well as its political stability, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a Nov. 21 report that the
economy expanded about 8.5 percent last year, making Panama
“among the fastest-growing countries in the Western
Hemisphere.”  Moody’s Investors Service in June 2010 raised Panama to
Baa3, its lowest investment grade rating. A month earlier,
 Standard & Poor’s  had raised Panama one level to an investment
grade rating of BBB-.  Fitch Ratings  also rates Panama as an
investment grade credit. The government plans to cut debt to 40
percent of gross domestic product by 2014 from 43 percent last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net . 