-- Obama: Israel Hasn’t Decided on Iran Strike
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-02-05T23:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/obama-doesn-t-think-israel-has-decided-on-iran-strike.html
(Corrects January jobs numbers in eighth paragraph.)  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he
doesn’t think  Israel  has “made a decision on what they need to
do” about  Iran ’s nuclear ambitions, and referred to a “big
effect on oil prices” of military activity in the  Persian Gulf .  “Our preferred solution is diplomatic but we’re not going
to take any actions off the table,” Obama said in an interview
with NBC television before the Super Bowl football game. “I
don’t think that Israel has made a decision on what they need to
do.”  Israeli leaders have been warning publicly that time is
running out for a military strike that could stop Iran from
developing nuclear weapons. Obama said the two countries have
“closer military and intelligence consultation” than ever
before and said “we are going to work in lockstep to try to
solve this, hopefully diplomatically.”  “Obviously, any kind of additional military activity
inside the Gulf is disruptive and has a big effect on us,” he
said. “It has a big effect on  oil prices .”  The president discounted the possibility that Iran was
planning an attack against the U.S.  “We don’t see any evidence that they have those intensions
or capabilities right now,” he said.  On domestic politics, Obama said “I deserve a second term
but we are not done” in restoring the  U.S. economy  to its pre-
recession levels.  Three years ago, in a pre-game prediction in a similar
interview, Obama conceded that he could be looking at a “one-
term proposition” if he didn’t turn the economy around. Today,
he drew on January’s employment numbers, when the U.S. economy
added 243,000 jobs, as proof that the economy was improving.  In January 2009, “we were losing 750,000 jobs a month,”
he said. “Now we are creating 250,000.”  “We have made progress and the key right now is to make
sure we don’t start turning in a new direction that could throw
that progress off,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  