-- Olympus Sets Special Shareholders Meeting April 20, Says Agenda Undecided
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-02-05T16:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/olympus-to-hold-special-shareholders-meeting-april-20.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera
maker suing 19 current and former executives over accounting
fraud, will hold an emergency shareholders meeting on April 20,
it said yesterday in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  President Shuichi Takayama said last month a committee
selected by current officials will nominate a new board by mid-
March and  investors  would vote on new management in April. The
agenda for the April 20 meeting hasn’t been decided, Yasutoshi Fujiwara, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based company, said
yesterday by telephone.  Olympus, the world’s biggest maker of endoscopes, has lost
about $4 billion of market value since  Michael Woodford  was
fired as chief executive officer on Oct. 14 and blew the whistle
on inflated takeover costs. The plunge is attracting investors
including TPG Capital, the private-equity firm run by
billionaire  David Bonderman , and Fujifilm Holdings Corp.  “My intention is currently to exercise my right to
attend” the April meeting, Woodford said today in a statement.
“This will be the first formal opportunity for all of the
company’s shareholders to question and hold its management to
account” after the fraud crisis occurred.  No decision on a strategic alliance to boost capital will
be made until a new board takes over, and no specific talks have
been held on a partner, Takayama said last month.  TPG, Fujifilm  TPG is weighing whether to join with a strategic partner to
invest as much as $1 billion in Olympus, a person familiar with
the matter said on Jan. 14. While  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG
has spoken to potential partners, it’s not clear whether they
will pursue a deal, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Fujifilm proposed a partnership and investment in Olympus,
saying on Jan. 30 its X-ray and ultrasound technologies make it
the best partner for the endoscope maker’s medical business. The
two companies together would control about 85 percent of the
global market for the tiny cameras doctors use to peer inside
the body, according to Fujifilm Chief Executive Officer
Shigetaka Komori.  Olympus was fined 10 million yen ($130,000) and told to
submit annual reports on efforts to improve management, the
stock exchange said Jan. 20. The exchange put the company on a
watchlist for delisting last year after it admitted inflating
fees to advisers on the $2.1 billion acquisition of Gyrus Group
Plc in 2008 and overpaying for three Japanese companies.  The company is seeking as much as 3.6 billion yen in
damages from executives including Takayama and ex-Chairman
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, and a combined 1 billion yen in damages from
corporate auditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  