-- Australians Flee Homes as Floods Threaten to Engulf Parts of the Northeast
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-02-06T06:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/thousands-evacuated-from-queensland-floods.html
Thousands of Australians fled their
homes as floodwaters engulfed parts of the country’s northeast,
damaging properties and ravaging crops a year after natural
disasters cost the economy about A$9 billion ($9.6 billion).  St George , a town of about 3,000 people located 500
kilometers (311 miles) west of the Queensland state capital,
Brisbane, was being evacuated, a spokeswoman for the  Queensland
Police Service  said by phone. The deluge may damage as much as
10 percent of the cotton crop in Australia, the world’s third-
biggest shipper, according to Olam International Ltd.  “The next week will be quite important to see how high the
water gets,” Richard Haire, Olam’s managing director and
regional head for Australia and  New Zealand , said today in a
phone interview from Brisbane. “There is potential for damage
to up to 10 percent of the crop.”  Floods in Queensland and the neighboring state of New South
Wales have caused an estimated A$50 million of damage, New South
Wales Minister for Emergency Management  Robert McClelland  said
in a Feb. 3 statement. About 30,000 properties were affected in
Queensland last year by flooding that left dozens of people dead
and disrupted trade as coal mines were shut.  This year the mines “are not experiencing any
difficulties,” Queensland Resources Council Chief Executive
 Michael Roche  said. “So far, the Queensland coal industry, as
far as we are aware, has missed the flooding.”  Queensland’s Bowen Basin, located in the state’s northeast,
is the biggest shipper of coking coal, used to make steel.
Prices of the fuel hit a record last year after rain and
flooding disrupted production and railroads.  Cotton Crops  The extent of the damage to crops this year is difficult to
determine as floodwaters are receding in some areas while
worsening in others, Cotton  Australia  Chief Executive Officer
Adam Kay said today in a telephone interview.  While the 2010-11 harvest reached a record of more than
four million bales, about 10 percent was lost as some regions
were hit with the worst flooding in a century, according to the
industry body’s annual report.  Mandatory evacuations were ordered in St George after
forecasts showed upstream waterways rising quickly, with the
Balonne River possibly peaking at 15 meters (49 feet), according
to a government  statement  yesterday. That compares to a previous
peak of 13.4 meters in 2010.  Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology is forecasting scattered
showers and some thunderstorms over parts of Queensland, while
conditions will be mostly fine elsewhere, according to
information on the bureau’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  