-- Rodgers Is NFL MVP, Harbaugh Is Coach of Year
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-05T05:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/packers-rodgers-named-nfl-mvp-49ers-harbaugh-is-coach-of-year.html
Green Bay Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  earned the  National Football League ’s Most Valuable
Player award while San Francisco 49ers coach  Jim Harbaugh  was
named Coach of the Year.  New Orleans quarterback Drew Brees was named Offensive
Player of the Year, Baltimore Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs
was Defensive Player of the Year and Detroit Lions quarterback
 Matthew Stafford  earned the Comeback Player of the Year award.
Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton won the Offensive
Rookie of the Year award and Denver Broncos rookie linebacker
 Von Miller  got defensive honors.  The awards were presented last night on the televised “NFL
Honors” show.  Rodgers, 28, the first Packers’ player to win the MVP since
 Brett Favre  in 1997, had 45 touchdown passes, six interceptions
and a 68.3 completion percentage to lead  Green Bay  to a 15-1
record that topped the National Football Conference North
division.  “I’m honored to be here with so many of my childhood
idols,” said Rodgers who was introduced by four-time MVP
quarterback Peyton Manning of the  Indianapolis Colts  who missed
this season after neck surgery.  ‘Well-Deserved’  Harbaugh, 48, took the 49ers to a 13-3 record and the NFC
West championship game in his first season as an NFL head coach.  “He probably would say he doesn’t deserve this,” said
quarterback  Alex Smith , accepting the award on Harbaugh’s behalf.
“That’s the kind of guy he is. But I’ve known a lot of coaches
and this is well-deserved.”  Brees, 33, had a record-breaking year, surpassing  Dan Marino ’s record by passing for 5,476 yards and  Peyton Manning ’s
record for completions with 468. For 13 games during the season,
he threw for more than 300 yards. He beat out Rodgers in the
voting by a panel of 50 media members who regularly cover the
NFL.  “There are not only wins and losses, there are moments
that will live forever,” Brees said. “As years go by those
moments will become more special.”  Suggs, 29, had 70 tackles, including 14 sacks, caused seven
fumbles and had two interceptions for the Ravens who went 12-4
and won the American Football Conference North. He plays next to
earlier winners, safety Ed Reed (2004) and linebacker Ray Lewis
(2003, 2000).  Play for Fans  “I’ve always said that I play for our fans, and this honor
is a tribute to them,” Suggs said in a statement. “I’m very
appreciative of Ravens Nation and their love and support
throughout the past nine years.”  Stafford, 23, whose first two seasons were hampered by
shoulder and knee injuries, directed the Lions to their first
playoff spot in 12 years as he passed for 5,038 yards and 41
touchdowns.  “This is an honor,” Stafford said after receiving the
award. “To win something like this, it takes all 53 guys in the
locker room.”  Newton, 22, set an NFL record for touchdowns rushing in a
season by a quarterback with 14 and became the first player in
league history to throw for 4,000 yards and rush for 500.  “I want to thank the man upstairs,” Newton said.  Miller, 22, the second overall pick in the  NFL Draft ,
helped quarterback Tim Tebow turn around the Broncos from a 2-5
record to the American Conference West championship and a
playoff win.  “It’s special because you only get one rookie season,”
Miller told reporters. “That was probably the most special
thing about it, you only get one shot to accomplish this feat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  