-- Greece Wrestles With Needed Spending Cuts
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s ,   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-02-06T10:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/papademos-greek-leaders-agree-to-cuts-equal-to-1-5-of-gdp-as-talks-set.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
struck a tentative deal with political parties on austerity
measures demanded by international creditors as European leaders
maintained pressure to complete terms for a 130 billion-euro
($171 billion) rescue package.  Chiefs of the three parties supporting Papademos’s interim
government were due to meet with the premier at about midday to
hammer out details after setting a framework for recapitalizing
banks, ensuring the viability of pension funds and reducing
wages and non-wage costs to boost competitiveness. They agreed
in a five-hour meeting yesterday to make additional reductions
this year equal to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product.  With the country’s stability at stake, the accord marked a
step forward as Athens played host to parallel negotiations over
the weekend to secure the domestic consensus needed to win a
second bailout while persuading  Greece ’s private creditors to
accept bigger writedowns on their debt holdings.  This week, “Greece will be left, right and center taking
it right down to the wire,” said  Erik Nielsen , chief global
economist at UniCredit SpA in  London .  ‘Make or Break’  Euro-area finance chiefs told Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos in a Feb. 4 conference call that an increase
in the bailout package wasn’t forthcoming, underscoring their
frustration at a lack of progress on fixing the economy. The
effort to keep Greece from tumbling into default presents what
Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  called
a “make or break” moment.  The euro fell, losing 0.8 percent to $1.3048 as of noon in
 Athens  amid the political wrangling.  Papademos was meeting the three party leaders today to
hammer out the details of the measures. Antonis Samaras, the
head of the second-biggest party,  New Democracy , indicated he
would oppose some measures that the so-called troika of
international creditors have put forward.  “They are asking us for greater recession, which the
country can’t take,” Samaras said as he left the meeting with
Papademos. “I will fight to avoid that.”  Greece’s biggest public-sector and private-sector union
groups, ADEDY and GSEE, called a 24-hour general strike for
tomorrow to protest austerity measures.  Greece’s efforts to win a second bailout from the so-called
troika -- the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and
the  International Monetary Fund  -- have hung in the balance over
the past three days as negotiations in Athens failed to clinch
an agreement. Venizelos said on Feb. 4 the talks were “on
razor’s edge.”  Bond Redemption  Facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20 and
general elections as soon as April, Papademos must heed
international demands for greater austerity to complete the
talks on a second aid package in time. Open questions involve
how much more aid Greece needs, how much more austerity is
required, and how to involve the European Central Bank in the
private-sector creditor debt swap.  “If we determine that it’s all going wrong in Greece, then
there won’t be a new program -- and that means in March you’ll
have a declaration of bankruptcy,” Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs euro finance meetings, told Der Spiegel
magazine in an interview published yesterday.  Next Election  Guarantees from Greek political leaders such as Samaras,
who leads in opinion polls, are key to securing the funds from
the EU and IMF. International lenders want assurances that
whoever wins the next election, which could be held in April,
will stick to pledges made now to receive financing.  George Papandreou , the former prime minister who still
leads the Pasok socialist party, the biggest in the Greek
parliament, met with party members after the meeting to discuss
the party’s response.  In a letter sent separately to Papademos, he proposed that
Papademos’s mandate be extended to boost confidence among
lenders the pledges will be implemented. That is an option
likely to be opposed by Samaras, who has called for elections as
soon as the new financing is agreed.  Agreement on a new plan, which includes a writedown of
Greek debt held by private creditors, has been held up by
insistence on the part of the EU and IMF on structural reforms
that will underpin a return to competitiveness for the Greek
economy as well as new fiscal measures for this year.  Rescue Blueprint  The rescue blueprint includes a loss of more than 70
percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt exchange and loans
that will probably exceed the 130 billion euros now on the
table. A formal offer for the debt swap must be made by Feb. 13
to allow all procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond
comes due.  “One thing is clear: the Greek drama continues to
unfold,”  Joachim Fels , chief economist at Morgan Stanley wrote
in a note yesterday. “A really, really bad scenario for the
euro area -- a Greek default and departure from the euro area --
simply cannot be excluded.”  Greece has lagged behind budget targets set when it won an
initial, taxpayer-funded rescue of 110 billion euros in May
2010, prompting euro-area threats to cut off aid and hastening a
German push to make bondholders contribute. The country’s
economy shrank 6 percent last year, according to the most recent
IMF estimates, the  budget deficit  is still close to 10 percent
of GDP and unemployment is about 18 percent.  Even after a second bailout, Greece may be saddled with too
much debt, too little growth and too large a budget hole to do
without even more money, which euro nations led by  Germany  are
increasingly reluctant to offer.  Troika Measures  The troika wants the country to detail over 4 billion euros
of measures to meet targets for 2011 and 2012 because wage cuts
will deepen the recession and cause a shortfall this year, one
government official told reporters in Athens.  The troika argues that cutting private-sector holiday
allowances is among reforms necessary to boost competitiveness
in the country. Those opposed say the cuts would deepen the
country’s recession, now in its fifth year.  Papademos met yesterday with the lead negotiators on the
debt accord with Greece,  Charles Dallara , managing director of
the International Institute of Finance, and  Jean Lemierre , a
senior adviser to the chairman of BNP Paribas SA. The debt swap,
Venizelos said on Feb. 4 “is now the easiest part of the
process.”  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  