-- Qantas Warns of Cuts If Job Rules Changed
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-06T05:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/qantas-warns-of-cuts-if-job-rules-changed.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
biggest carrier, said it may lose its investment-grade credit
rating and be forced to sell its Jetstar unit if Australia
changes laws affecting the company.  The airline must “adapt or die” in the face of global
economic weakness, Alan Joyce, chief executive officer, told the
Australian Senate’s Rural Affairs and Transportation committee.
Qantas faces an “unsustainable” situation as  capital spending 
to renew its fleet was running ahead of operating cash flows, he
said in Canberra today.  Qantas was  downgraded  one level by Moody’s Investors
Services to Baa3, the lowest investment grade, on Jan. 31
because of concerns about rising competition and fuel prices.
The airline, trying to turn around its international operations,
is being challenged by Emirates Airlines and other Middle
Eastern carriers on European routes.  “Carriers in the region have been facing challenging
conditions from high fuel prices, fierce international
competition and ongoing  capital requirements ,” said Ian Lewis,
an analyst at Moody’s in Sydney. “As a result, a number of them
have increased their leverage in recent years, and that’s in
turn had an effect on their ratings.”  Amending the Act  Formerly state-owned, the company was privatized in 1993
under the Qantas Sale Act, intended to preserve the airline’s
status as an Australian carrier. Joyce was testifying before
members of parliament who are seeking to  amend  the act to
stipulate the majority of the carrier’s maintenance facilities
must be in Australia rather than overseas.  Forcing the airline to move parts of the maintenance
facilities onshore would weaken its position, Joyce said.  Qantas rose 0.6 percent to close at A$1.62 in Sydney
trading. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index was up 1.1 percent. The
stock lost 43 percent last year.  “It Qantas cannot get its operating cash flows up to A$2.5
billion, it will go into a vicious circle of losing its
investment grade  credit rating , of not being able to fund that
fleet replacement,” Joyce told the committee.  The changes “would strangle our capacity to run our
business,” he said, forcing it to cut jobs and routes and
consider selling off Jetstar, which Joyce founded in 2003 as a
division of Qantas.  “Those of us running Qantas would have to face a choice:
allow Jetstar to fail within the confines of the Qantas Sale
Act, or sell it to allow it to succeed outside it,” he said.  Fuel Costs  Qantas’s operating  cash flow  of A$1.7 billion in the year
through last June fell A$700 million short of its A$2.4 billion
capital spending in the period. Fuel costs in the six months
through December rose 26 percent from a year earlier, prompting
the airline to levy surcharges of as much A$350 each way on the
carrier’s longest routes, Qantas said Feb. 2.  Qantas is one of two airlines worldwide that are rated
investment grade by two of the three major credit-rating
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The other is
Dallas-based  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)   The northern cities of Darwin and Cairns in particular
would suffer if changes to the law were passed forcing Qantas to
bring some aircraft operating costs on-shore, Joyce said.  “The proposed amendments would quite simply force the
Qantas Group to withdraw from services connecting Darwin and
Cairns to the tourism and trade markets of Asia and  Europe ,” he
said. “The impact on regional tourism and development would be
immediate and negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  