-- Trade Gap Probably Widened as Imports Grew: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-05T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-widened-as-imports-increased-more-than-exports.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S.
probably widened in December to a six-month high as imports
climbed faster than exports, economists said a report this week
will show.  The gap grew to $48.5 billion from the $47.8 billion
shortfall in November, according to the  median  of 61 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce Department figures
on Feb. 10. Consumer sentiment held close to a one-year high and
firings were little changed, other reports may show.  Imports will probably keep rising as an improving job
market underpins  consumer spending , and businesses rebuild
inventories and replace outdated equipment. At the same time,
demand from emerging markets is boosting sales at companies like
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , buffering the fallout
from Europe’s debt crisis and helping to sustain exports.  “We should see a bit of a pickup in imports as the economy
and the consumer are doing better,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“A lot of our exports are going to places such as  Asia , where
the economies are growing.”  Payrolls climbed by 243,000 workers in January, the biggest
increase in nine months, Labor Department figures showed on Feb.
3. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.3 percent, the lowest since
February 2009.  Stocks Rally  Stocks rallied after the report fueled optimism the economy
will withstand the European debt crisis. The  Standard & Poor’s
500  Index has increased for five straight weeks, the longest
winning streak in a year. The gauge is off to the best start to
a year since 1987.  Rising oil costs may lift the import bill this year. The
price of  Brent crude  traded on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange
in  London  was $114.54 as of last week, up 6.6 percent from
$107.38 at the end of December.  Exporters may continue to see gains. Caterpillar, the
largest construction and mining equipment maker, posted fourth-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said prospects
for global growth have improved. It also projects more orders as
pent-up demand is released and customers replace older products.  “We’re expecting 2012 to be another year of good growth,”
 Doug Oberhelman , chairman and chief executive officer of the
Peoria, Illinois-based company, said in a Jan. 26 statement.
“2011 was a record-breaking year for U.S. exports,” which
“supported thousands of jobs in the  United States .”  Asian Economies  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, expanded 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, exceeding the
Bloomberg survey median forecast. An index of  India ’s services
industry rose in January at the fastest pace in six months, and
manufacturing accelerated.  “The  emerging markets  continue to be very strong,”
 Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive officer of General Electric,
said on a Jan. 20 conference call with investors. “There are a
few challenged markets like Europe and appliances, but on
balance, we have a positive outlook.”  A weaker dollar will help keep U.S. goods competitive.
Since a recent high on Dec. 14, the dollar has declined 3
percent against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from the
country’s biggest trading partners.  The trade deficit with China remains a thorny issue as the
U.S. presses the Asian country to allow the yuan to rise against
the dollar. President  Barack Obama , in his State of the Union
address, said last month he is creating a trade enforcement
group that would use investigators and other federal resources
to combat unfair trade practices by nations including  China .  Jobless Claims  Among other reports this week, Labor Department figures due
on Feb. 9 may indicate the improvement in the job market
extended into this month. Initial  jobless claims  were little
changed last week at 370,000 after 367,000 in the prior period,
according to the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.
Unemployment insurance claims averaged 409,000 a week in 2011.  The improvement in the labor market is bolstering
confidence. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary  consumer sentiment  index for February eased to 74
from January’s one-year high of 75, economists in the Bloomberg
survey forecast ahead of Feb. 10 data.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  