-- Romania, IMF Agree on $664 Million Tranche as Balkan Nation’s Growth Slows
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-02-05T14:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/romania-imf-agree-on-664-million-tranche-as-balkan-nation-s-growth-slows.html
Romania and the  International
Monetary Fund  reached a staff-level agreement to unlock about
505 million euros ($664 million) in funds from its standby loan,
IMF Mission Chief Jeffrey Franks said.  The eastern European country met the terms of its 5
billion-euro accord by narrowing its budget deficit to 4.35
percent of gross domestic product last year from 6.5 percent in
2010, Franks said at the end of a two-week visit to the capital
Bucharest to conduct the fourth review of Romania’s accord.  “The Romanian government must continue reforms,
considering the upcoming elections and higher uncertainties in
the  euro zone ,” Franks said. “It will be crucial for Romania
to keep a good track record and attract more investments.”  Romania  turned last year to the IMF and the European Union
for a second agreement from which it doesn’t want to draw funds,
after completing a two-year 20 billion-euro bailout needed to
prevent a collapse. The government pledged to narrow its budget
to 1.9 percent of GDP this year from 4.35 percent in 2011 to
keep its international backstop.  The Washington-based fund lowered its economic growth
forecast for Romania this year to between 1.5 percent to 2
percent from a previous outlook of between 1.8 percent and 2.3
percent on slowing exports to western  Europe , the country’s
major trading partner, amid the sovereign-debt crisis, Franks
said.  Market Rewards  “Despite a deterioration of our growth forecast, we don’t
see now any problem in meeting the  budget deficit  target, ”
European Commission Mission Chief Istvan Szekely said. “Markets
are rewarding Romania for the progress made as shown in the sale
of dollar bonds last week.”  The country sold $1.5 billion in 10-year bonds at a 6.875
yield, in its first debt offering denominated in dollars under a
medium-term notes program of 7 billion euros until 2013.  Romania, which exited a two-year recession in 2011, saw
economic growth accelerating to the fastest in three years in
the third quarter, sparked by a bumper harvest and a recovery in
domestic consumption. The country suffered its worst contraction
on record from 2009 until 2011, when its GDP probably grew 2.5
percent.  The lenders agreed to a government plan to delay the
liberalization of electricity prices for households until 2017
and maintained the deregulation deadline for the prices paid by
corporates of 2013, Franks said.  Frank also said the IMF and Romania will discuss possible
spending increases later this year.  Health-Care Warning  “Further discussions are needed in April for the schedule
to liberalize natural gas prices,” he said.  The IMF warned Romania about implementing a new health-care
law aimed at securing long-term financing for the current
underfunded system, Franks said. The country must also make more
efforts to reduce the unpaid overdue debts of local authorities
to private companies, Franks also said.  The  Washington  based lender urged the government to speed-
up state-owned companies reforms by selling minority and
majority stakes and naming independent managers for the
companies.  The government plans to sell 15 percent stakes in
 Transelectrica SA (TEL) , Transgaz SA and Romgaz SA and 10 percent
stakes in Hidroelectrica SA and Nuclearelectrica SA. It will
also seek to sell a majority stake in Oltchim SA and Cupru Min
SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  