-- Romney Wins Nevada; Gingrich to Stay in
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-05T13:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/romney-wins-nevada-republican-party-caucuses-for-second-straight-victory.html
Mitt Romney won yesterday’s  Nevada 
caucuses, solidifying his front-runner status in the Republican
presidential race and gaining fresh momentum heading into a
series of state contests over the next month, even as his main
rival vowed to continue fighting.  Romney now has won three of the first five nomination
contests and maintains financial and organizational advantages
over his three remaining rivals.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who has been his
main competitor, last night dismissed any suggestion he is close
to ending his candidacy, calling such speculation the “greatest
fantasy” on the part of the Romney campaign.  Romney had 48 percent of the vote, with 71 percent of
precincts reporting, according to an Associated Press tally
today. Gingrich had 23 percent, followed by U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of Texas with 19 percent and former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania with 11 percent.  “Thank you, Nevada,” Romney told supporters gathered for
his victory celebration last night at a Las Vegas resort and
casino.  “This is not the first time you gave me your vote of
confidence and this time I’m going to take it to the White
House,” the former Massachusetts governor said, referring to
his 2008 caucus victory in Nevada during his failed bid for his
party’s nomination.  U.S. Employment  Romney, 64, focused his speech on President Barack Obama, who
he said didn’t deserve credit for a decline in the U.S.
 unemployment rate  to 8.3 percent in January, the lowest in three
years, from 8.5 percent in December.  “Mr. President, we welcome any good news on the jobs
front,” Romney said. “But it is thanks to the innovation of
the American people in the private sector and not to you.”  Gingrich, 68, speaking at a news conference in  Las Vegas 
after Romney’s appearance, pledged to campaign all the way to
the party’s national convention in Tampa,  Florida , in August.  “There are some very big differences evolving in this
campaign as we move forward,” he said. “I also believe that
the vast majority of Republicans across the country are going to
want an alternative to a Massachusetts moderate who has in his
career been pro-abortion, pro-gun control, pro-tax increase.”  ‘Dishonest’ in Debate  While saying he planned “a series of positive speeches”
as he goes forward, he also laced into Romney. He termed his
rival “substantially dishonest” in a Jan. 26 debate in
Jacksonville, Florida, in which Romney attacked Gingrich
repeatedly.  “If you can’t tell the truth as a candidate for president,
how can the country possibly expect you to lead as president?”
Gingrich asked.  He will respond to Romney as the campaign proceeds “much”
differently, Gingrich said, without providing details. He said
by the next debate, he would have “mechanisms” to challenge
Romney on false claims.  Also working against Gingrich is a decrease in nationally
televised debates, forums that helped boost his candidacy. So
far in February, just one debate is scheduled, making it harder
for Gingrich to keep his name in front of the media and voters.  Gingrich last night repeatedly sought to link Romney to
billionaire  George Soros , who in the past has been a major
financier of Democratic causes and candidates, including Obama.  Soros Link  Soros, who has expressed ambivalence about a second term
for Obama, said in a Reuters interview in Davos,  Switzerland , on
Jan. 25 that if the 2012 contest were between the president and
Romney, “there isn’t that much difference, except for the crowd
that they bring with him.”  Gingrich said last night he doubted voters wanted a general
election contest featuring “two George Soros-approved
candidates.”  He also called it “bizarre” that the coach who helped
Romney improve his debate performance in two forums leading up
to the Jan. 31 Florida primary is no longer working for the
campaign. No reason was given for the departure of Brett
O’Donnell, the  Associated Press  reported.  Discussing the Nevada contest, Gingrich said Romney
benefited from running in a “heavily Mormon state.”  Entrance polls  showed 26 percent of the Republican caucus-
goers were Mormons, as is Romney, and he won 91 percent of that
vote. The polling also showed he won support from three-quarters
of those who listed the ability to beat Obama in November’s
general election as the most important candidate quality for
them, a group that was 44 percent of the electorate.  Two in a Row  Romney became the first candidate in the Republican race to
win two states in a row, with the Nevada victory following his
14-percentage-point triumph over Gingrich in the Florida
primary. His Nevada vote was running behind the 51 percent he
won in the 2008 caucuses.  Gingrich scaled back his campaign schedule in Nevada to
make more time for fundraising calls. He will need more money to
keep his campaign fueled through early March, when there are
contests in southern states where he may have greater appeal
because he once represented  Georgia  in Congress.  At the end of 2011, Romney reported having $20 million in
his campaign bank account, while Gingrich had $2.1 million as
well as $1.2 million in reported debts.  Adelson  Gingrich has remained viable in part because of $10 million
contributed to a political action committee supporting his
candidacy by  Sheldon Adelson  and his wife. Adelson, a casino
executive based in Las Vegas, hasn’t said whether he plans to
make additional donations.  The New York Times reported that Adelson has assured
Romney’s campaign he will provide even more financial support
for his effort, should he become the nominee. Phone calls and e-
mails to an Adelson aide weren’t immediately returned.  Asked about the report, Gingrich said it made sense Adelson
would support Romney as the Republican standard-bearer.  “Look, Sheldon’s primary driving force is the survival of
the  United States  and  Israel  in the face of an Iranian nuclear
weapon,” he said. “And compared to  Barack Obama , virtually
anybody is a better candidate. So that does not bother me at
all.”  Following Nevada, there are five nomination contests in
February, including caucuses in Maine that started this weekend
and will culminate later this week. Caucuses in Colorado and
Minnesota on Feb. 7 are followed by primaries in  Arizona  and
 Michigan  on Feb. 28. A non-binding primary will be held Feb. 7
in  Missouri , with delegate allocation based on the state’s
caucuses in March.  February’s Contests  The primaries at February’s end will garner the most
attention because of the size of Michigan, the nation’s eighth
most populous state, and Arizona, the 16th. Romney has potential
advantages in both states.  Born in Michigan, he was raised in a Detroit suburb and his
father, George, served as the state’s governor. The tough stance
 Mitt Romney  has taken on combating illegal immigration should
help in Arizona, where Republican officials pushed into law a
crackdown measure that the federal government is suing to block.  The 11 primaries and caucuses on March 6 are known as Super
Tuesday because of the more than 400 delegates at stake. At
least 1,144 delegates are needed to win the nomination.  Gingrich, along with Santorum, failed to meet the
qualification requirements to appear on Virginia’s March 6
primary ballot, so that’s one state where they won’t compete.  Super Tuesday  Many of the contests will award delegates on a proportional
basis, rather than winner-take-all as was the case in Florida,
which gives Romney’s rivals an incentive to stay in the race.  Romney won the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary, then lost
South Carolina’s Jan. 21 primary to Gingrich. Santorum beat
Romney by 34 votes in the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses.  Signaling confidence about his prospects in Nevada, Romney
left the state yesterday for a rally in Colorado Springs,
Colorado, before flying back to Las Vegas to await the results.  Romney dominated his rivals in  television advertising  in
Nevada. His campaign spent about $488,460 on broadcast ads in
the state through Feb. 2, according to New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. Restore Our Future, a
political super-committee that is independently supporting
Romney’s campaign, spent $73,240 through Feb. 2.  Paul, who finished second to Romney in the 2008 Nevada
caucuses, spent $158,590 to air ads last summer and again in
late January in the state. Gingrich and Santorum and their
allied political committees didn’t air broadcast ads in Nevada.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Las Vegas, Nevada, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Las Vegas, Nevada, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  