-- Russia Joins China to Block UN Action on Syria as Homs Assault Kills 330
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-05T01:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/russia-joins-china-to-block-un-action-on-syria-as-homs-assault-kills-330.html
Russia  and  China  vetoed a  United
Nations  Security Council resolution that backed an Arab League
plan to “facilitate” a political transition in  Syria .  Thirteen of the council’s 15 members voted in favor today
of a proposal by Western and Arab countries to end the bloodshed
in Syria. Russia and China, two of the five permanent council
members with veto power, blocked its passage.  Almost a year after the uprising against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad began, Russia has now blocked two attempts to
take action against its top Mideast ally. The vote came a day
after reports that Assad’s security forces in the city of Homs
killed about 330 people in one of the bloodiest days of protest
in the 11-month uprising.  U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said she was “disgusted” by
the vetoes that “prop up desperate dictators.” French
Ambassador  Gerard Araud  said “history will judge harshly”
those who protected the Assad regime.  The Russian ambassador to the UN,  Vitaly Churkin , said
that, while he “would certainly agree tragic events are
happening” in Syria, his country had “made an honest effort.”
He said the resolution put to a vote “did not adequately
reflect the real state of affairs in Syria.”  China said it voted against the resolution because the
declaration may further complicate events in Syria.  Any move to “put undue emphasis on pressuring the Syrian
government, prejudge the result of the dialogue or impose any
solution” won’t help resolve the Syrian issue, China’s Ministry
of  Foreign Affairs  said in a statement posted on its website
today.  Terrorist Opposition  Syrian Ambassador Bashar al-Jafari told the council after
the vote that the killings yesterday and today in Homs were
“carried out by terrorist opposition to send you a misleading
message in an attempt to influence the vote.”  The UN says Assad’s regime has killed more than 5,400
people and that the uprising is evolving into a civil war.  Russia and China blocked a Security Council resolution in
October, when Western powers sought to hold the Syrian president
responsible for violence. Russia’s only military base outside
the former  Soviet Union  is in Syria, and it sells weapons to
Assad’s government.  “Vetoes by Moscow and Beijing four months ago were
irresponsible,” said Philippe Bolopion, UN director at  Human
Rights Watch . “Today, after weeks of Russian diplomatic games-
playing and in the middle of a bloodbath in Homs, they are
simply incendiary.”  In a final effort to win Russian acceptance, Arab and
European Union negotiators made concessions in response to
objections that the proposal endorsed regime change.  Concessions Ignored  The draft that was voted on by the council said there
should be no “prejudging the outcome” of the political process
and that “nothing in this resolution authorizes” military
action, responding to Russian concern that last March’s UN
authorization of all necessary measures to protect civilians was
used to bring down Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime.  Arab and EU diplomats refused to barter on the degree of
support to give for the Arab League plan, a sticking point in
weeklong negotiations.  “For Russia and China to double veto after the regime’s
brutal assault on Homs last eve, after the West diluted the
resolution language to suit Russia’s demands, effectively means
they were helping Assad play for time and ensure his rule,”
said Andrew J. Tabler, a fellow at the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy and an expert on Syria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  