-- S. Africa to Probe Threats Against MTN, SacOil Nigeria Holdings
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-05T14:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/s-africa-to-probe-threats-against-mtn-sacoil-nigeria-holdings.html
South Africa’s Ministry of
International Relations and Cooperation will investigate threats
against South African companies with investments in Nigeria by
the Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger Delta .  The movement, known as MEND, has threatened to attack the
holdings of companies including  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest
cell phone operator, and  SacOil Holding Ltd. (SCL) , an oil and gas
exploration company, saying South African President  Jacob Zuma 
is interfering “in the legitimate fight for justice” in the
Niger River delta region. MEND yesterday said it attacked and
damaged a pipeline belonging to a unit of  Eni SpA (ENI)  of Italy.  “It’s a matter we’ll look into definitely; terrorism has
to be rooted out,” Clayson Monyela, spokesman for the Ministry
of International Relations and Cooperation, said by mobile phone
today. “The authorities in Nigeria have always been responsive
to acts that are unlawful and will deal with this as they always
have dealt with such threats.”  MTN is leaving security matters to the Nigerian and South
African authorities and has no further comment,  Rich Mkhondo , a
spokesman for the Johannesburg-based company, said in an e-
mailed response to Bloomberg. On Jan. 4 the company announced
plans to spend more than $1 billion this year to improve its
network in Nigeria after the nation’s phone regulator demanded
better service.  Shares in MTN have dropped 5.5 percent since Jan. 3 after
Nigeria’s government removed fuel subsidies, cutting consumer
spending power in the company’s largest market, and after saying
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, Turkey’s biggest mobile phone
company, may sue MTN over the acquisition of an operating
license in  Iran .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  