-- Sugar May Fall to 18 Cents a Pound This Year With Surplus, Macquarie Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-05T07:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/sugar-may-fall-to-18-cents-a-pound-this-year-with-surplus-macquarie-says.html
Sugar prices may fall to as low as 18
cents a pound this year as a forecast surplus for the 2011-12
season becomes available, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  Sugar supplies are set to outpace demand by 9 million
metric tons in the 2011-12 season that began in October,
according to trader Olam International Ltd. The estimated
surplus has started to reach the market and will increase
throughout the year, said Carlos Murilo Barros de Mello,
managing director at Macquarie Brasil Participacoes Ltda.  “The surplus has started to reach the market and we see
potential for more downside until the end of the year,” he said
in an interview in Dubai today, as an annual sugar conference
organized by broker and researcher Kingsman SA opens.  Raw sugar traded in  New York  closed on Feb. 3 at 23.94
cents a pound. Prices are up 2.8 percent this year.  Prices are likely to fall the most after supplies from the
next harvest in top global producer  Brazil  start to become
available for sales in the second and third quarters, he said.  The sugar cane crop in Brazil will rise to 520 million tons
in the harvest starting in April, Mello said. Output for the
current season was 492.7 million tons as of Jan. 15, according
to industry group Unica. Production of the sweetener will total
33 million tons, he said. That compares with 31.2 million tons
so far this season, Unica data show.  Credit Lines  Sugar prices are under pressure because European banks are
pulling money out of raw materials, limiting credit lines to
trade commodities, he said.  “The crisis in  Europe  is impacting banks there as they
have to move money back to their home countries to cover losses
that are appearing in their balance sheets,” Mello said.
“National governments are pressuring European banks to finance
their local economies and therefore they take money out of
commodities and  emerging markets .”  That ends up with consumers limited in their ability to buy
materials and producers unable to store as much supply, adding
to selling pressure, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in Dubai at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  