-- Sugar Production May Result in a Second Surplus Next Season, Olam Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/sugar-production-may-result-in-a-second-surplus-next-season-olam-says.html
Sugar production may outpace demand
by as much as 8 million metric tons next season, a second
consecutive surplus that could help send prices down further,
according to commodities trader Olam International Ltd.  Output will be 6 million to 8 million tons higher than
consumption in the 2012-13 season starting in October, Piero Carello, general manager of the Singapore-based company’s sugar
division in  Europe , and John Stansfield, a senior analyst, said
in an interview in Dubai yesterday before an annual sugar
conference organized by Kingsman SA. That compares with a 9
million-ton surplus in 2011-12, they said.  “Two consecutive surpluses is bearish,” Stansfield said.
“The fact that the second surplus is smaller than the first is
irrelevant.”  The price of raw sugar traded in New York slumped 27
percent last year, the most in a decade, as a glut emerged after
three consecutive annual shortages and prices touched a 30-year
high of 36.08 cents a pound on Feb. 2, 2011. Those high prices
helped dent demand, with consumption retreating in the 2010-11
season, according to Carello. “When you see prices at 30-year
highs, consumption is hit,” Stansfield said.  Output in  India , the world’s second-largest producer
after  Brazil  and the biggest consumer, will climb by 1 million
tons to 27 million tons in 2012-13, according to Olam, which has
two mills in the South Asian country. That compares with a crop
of 24 million tons forecast by a Bloomberg survey of 14
analysts.  Brazil Cane Crop  The cane crop in Brazil’s Center-South, the main growing
region of the world’s biggest producer, will climb to 520
million tons in 2012-13, Olam said. That compares with 492.7
million tons in the current season, data from industry group
Unica show. Harvesting of the 2012-13 crop in Brazil starts in
April. In most countries the season begins in October.  Sugar production in the region will jump to 33.2 million
tons, according to Olam’s estimates. Output reached 31.2 million
tons this season, Unica data show.  This season’s 9-million ton surplus is likely to begin
reaching the market at the end of the second quarter and expand
in the third, after harvesting in  Thailand , the world’s
second-largest exporter, is completed in April and the new crop
in Brazil starts, Stansfield and Carello said.  “What we really need to remove the surplus is lower prices
to remove some of the production,” Carello said.  Prices below 20 cents to 21 cents a pound would encourage
millers in Brazil to favor producing ethanol over sugar and that
could help reduce the surplus, the executives said. Both the
sweetener and the biofuel are made from cane in the South
American country.  Ethanol-Sugar Mix  “Our analysis currently suggests that you can lose around
3 million tons of sugar production” if 5 percent of cane
production is switched to producing ethanol from sugar,
Stansfield said.  Raw sugar for March delivery rose 2 percent to settle at
23.94 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  on Feb. 3,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Jan. 19, as
 commodities  advanced. The sweetener still fell 1.1 in the week,
the second straight loss. Prices slumped 5.1 percent in the
previous five sessions, capping the longest slide since Aug. 3.  Al Khaleej Sugar Co. , the world’s largest sugar refinery
based in Dubai, will expand purchases of sugar from India in the
first half of this year, according to Jamal Al Ghurair, the
company’s managing director.  Record Attendance  The refinery has already bought 80,000 tons of the
sweetener from India and that number may climb to as much as
100,000 tons in the next two weeks, Al Ghurair said in an
interview before the Dubai conference.  Al Khaleej  last tapped
Indian supplies three to four years ago, he said.  A record 545 people are scheduled to attend the four-day
conference, according to  Jonathan Kingsman , managing director
and founder of Lausanne, Switzerland-based broker and researcher
Kingsman, which will release its first forecast for the 2012-13
sugar season during the event, on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  