-- Global Aviation Seeks to Cut Planes as Military Missions End
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-06T22:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/u-s-troop-transporter-global-aviation-files-for-bankruptcy-in-new-york.html
Global Aviation Holdings Inc. , the
biggest charter-flight company for U.S. military troops, plans
to reorganize by getting rid of more than half of its aircraft,
citing the end of flying missions to  Iraq  and  Afghanistan .  Of 30 aircraft leases, the company would like to reject 16
“excess aircraft” to save about $40 million a year. The leases
are all for planes made by Boeing Co. and include six MD-11
freight aircraft, three MD-11 passenger aircraft, two 747-400
freight aircrafts and five 757-200 passenger planes. Engines are
made by  General Electric Co .,  Pratt & Whitney  and  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc , according to papers filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in  Brooklyn , New York.  Global Aviation, airlifting for the U.S. military since the
Korean conflict in 1951, began military passenger flights in
1990 and provided charter services for the presidential
campaigns of  George W. Bush , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and President  Barack Obama . A decline in flights to Iraq, the
anticipated withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and a
reduction in rates paid by the military led to the bankruptcy
filing, Chief Financial Officer William A. Garrett said.  “While Global Aviation has navigated fluctuations in
demand in the past, the current decrease, coupled with high
labor and fixed costs, excess aircraft and an over-leveraged
balance sheet, requires Global Aviation to restructure,”
William said in court papers.  Relocate Airline  Global Aviation, based in Peachtree,  Georgia , sought court
protection yesterday with affiliates including its two airlines,
World Airways and North American Airlines. To cut costs, the
company plans to relocate North American Airlines, now based at
 New York ’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, to Peachtree.
It also plans to renegotiate labor contracts with unionized
employees and expand government contracts.  At a hearing in Brooklyn today, the company plans to seek
court permission to use lenders’ cash collateral. Global
Aviation has $29 million of cash on hand and failed to get a
loan before filing for bankruptcy, according to court papers.  “Circumstances leading up to the commencement of these
Chapter 11 cases require interim approval of cash collateral to
act as a bridge” until Global Aviation can get a post-
bankruptcy loan, the company said in a filing.  A customer withheld a $20 million payment before the
bankruptcy, reducing its cash, and the company didn’t have
enough time to negotiate a loan before entering bankruptcy,
Global Aviation said.  First-Day Hearing  Global, with annual sales of more than $1 billion and more
than 1,800 employees, listed assets of $589.8 million and debt
of $493.2 million as of Dec. 31. Chapter 11 allows companies to
continue operating and either reorganize or sell assets through
a court-supervised auction.  At a first-day hearing, which started this afternoon,
Global Aviation also plans to ask a judge for permission to
continue its insurance policies, honor pre-bankruptcy
obligations, pay employees and take other steps to ensure it
remains in operation.  Separately, the company faces an adversary case filed today
in  bankruptcy court  by an employee who says she and other
workers were fired without cause around Jan. 3 without receiving
60 days’ notice, as required under the Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification, or WARN, act.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP was hired as the company’s bankruptcy
counsel, and Rothschild Inc. is a proposed financial adviser.  Global Aviation’s 14 percent notes, which had last traded
at 44.44 cents on the dollar Jan. 25, jumped 1.2 percent to 45
cents on the dollar at 12 p.m. today, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. They traded as high as 118.5 cents on the dollar in
the past year.  The case is In re Global Aviation Holdings Inc., 12-40783,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  