-- Hyundai-Kia Growth Weakened With Collision at Similar Price Points: Cars
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-02-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-05/hyundai-kia-growth-pared-in-collision-at-same-price-points-cars.html
When  General Motors Co .,  Volkswagen
AG  and  Toyota Motor Corp . look into their rear-view mirrors,
they see  Hyundai Motor Co . When Hyundai looks behind, it sees
its own smaller affiliate,  Kia Motors Corp .  Kia’s deliveries of the midsize Optima sedan -- called K5
in South Korea -- more than tripled last year, partly at the
expense of Hyundai’s Sonata, whose increase was limited to 5.2
percent. Kia says it plans to introduce the K9 in April to
challenge Hyundai’s Equus and Genesis models among luxury-minded
customers.  The two Seoul-based companies sold a record number of
vehicles in 2011 and their shares outperformed all other major
carmakers. With both Hyundai and Kia increasingly fighting for
customers at all the same price points, the competition still
may take a toll, said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager .  “Sales growth without cannibalization is impossible under
their current corporate structure,” said Im, at Shinhan BNP
Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion,
including Hyundai and Kia shares. “The two companies’ target
markets are almost identical, which makes cannibalization
unavoidable, and difficult to solve anytime soon.”  For  Chung Mong Koo , chairman of both Hyundai and Kia, the
internal rivalry is heating up as Toyota and  Honda Motor Co . are
recovering from last year’s natural disasters in  Japan  and
 Thailand . This year, all four carmakers will be pushing to
increase sales to customers seeking high quality at a good
value.  ‘Head-to-head’  Frank Ahrens, a spokesman at Hyundai, says the intensity of
the sibling competition is “car-to-car” across segments. His
Kia counterpart,  Michael Choo , who refers to Hyundai as an
affiliate instead of the parent company of his employer, says
the two compete “head-to-head” in most of the world’s auto
markets and vehicle categories.  Both spokesmen declined to say whether the competition is
by design, saying any such strategic decisions are made by
Chairman Chung, who was unavailable for an interview.  Intended or not, the rivalry didn’t hurt Chung’s two
automakers last year. Combined operating income, or sales minus
the cost of goods sold and administrative expenses, at Hyundai
and Kia rose 38 percent to 11.6 trillion won ($10.3 billion) in
2011, overtaking the amount earned at  Ford Motor Co ., according
to reported data.  Saving Kia  Hyundai and Kia rose 23 percent and 32 percent,
respectively, in Seoul trading during 2011, the only two
companies to gain on the 28-member  Bloomberg World Auto
Manufacturers Index .  The relationship started as a hierarchical one in 1998,
when Hyundai Motor led the 1.18 trillion won purchase of a 51
percent stake in bankrupt Kia. Chung, the eldest living son of
 Hyundai Group ’s founder, placed his own son, Eui Sun, as
president at Kia in 2005.  Kia’s ascent was helped by Hyundai, which shared its
technologies and automotive platforms, Shinhan BNP’s Im said.
Over the years, Kia became increasingly competitive as its
Optima and Rio cars gained popularity in Korea and overseas.
Chung’s son was summoned back to Hyundai Motor in 2009.  Spokesmen at both companies now say that aside from their
common chairman, the joint research center and adjoining twin
headquarters buildings in Seoul, the two are rivals.  Hindering Growth?  While the competition helped the two carmakers improve the
quality of their vehicles when they were focusing on the South
Korean market, the strategy may now risk hindering growth as the
two carmakers seek to gain market share worldwide, said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co.  By contrast,  Renault SA  and  Nissan Motor  Co., who share the
same chairman in  Carlos Ghosn , generally target different
markets and segments, Shin said.  Some officials at the Korean carmakers say changes are
already afoot.  “Product differentiation needs to increase” and has
started to become evident in Kia’s tiger-nose grill and
Hyundai’s fluid styling, Paul Philpott, Kia’s chief operating
officer in  Europe , said in an interview on Jan. 20. “Hyundai
will become the mainstream brand with Kia the sportier, dynamic
little brother,” he said.  Going Upscale  Efforts to differentiate the brands will take a step
backward as Kia prepares to introduce the K9, its first major
push into the luxury sedan market since the flop of the Opirus -
- also known as the Amanti -- whose lack of popularity outside
of  Korea  forced the company to discontinue exporting the vehicle
in 2010.  Kia’s push toward luxury coincides with Hyundai’s plans to
boost sales of its top-of-the line Equus and Genesis vehicles.
The K9 will be priced between the two Hyundai luxury models, Lee Jae Rok, Kia’s chief financial officer, said last week. The
Genesis starts at $34,200 and Equus at $59,000 in the U.S.,
according to the company’s  website .  “Both brands seem to be going upscale rather than just
one,” said Christian Yang, an analyst at IHS Automotive, an
industry researcher. “The K9 will again represent problems if
Hyundai and Kia’s plans of alignment does not go as planned.”  The rivalry may be most intense at home. While Hyundai
grabbed market share in the U.S. last year, led by a 41 percent
surge in deliveries of the Elantra -- winner of the North
American Car of the Year award -- its Sonata midsize sedan was
outsold by Kia’s K5 for the second time in October last year.
Deliveries of Kia’s Sportage sport-utility vehicle jumped 16
percent in 2011, versus the 7 percent drop in Hyundai’s rival
Tucson, according to the Korea Automotive Manufacturers
Association.  Tougher Competition  South Korea  made up 17 percent and 19 percent of the total
number of vehicles sold by Hyundai and Kia, respectively, last
year, according to data from the companies.  External competition may also be getting tougher. Toyota,
 Asia ’s largest carmaker, last week forecast record group sales 
for 2012, a year Honda President Takanobu Ito said he expects to 
be “the year of the complete rebound” for his company as Japan’s
auto industry regains its confidence after reeling from natural
disasters throughout 2011.  In the U.S.,  Ford Motor Co . is counting on its Fusion
midsize sedan to help it boost automotive profit this year,
while GM plans a revamped Chevrolet Malibu to help protect its
lead as the world’s largest automaker.  Such intensifying competition globally means more reason
for the Hyundai and Kia to battle each other, KB’s Shin said.  “As Hyundai and Kia gain global presence and market share,
the need for segmentation will intensify in order for the two to
avoid cannibalization,” Shin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  