-- 
The Socialist Push Behind India’s Capitalist Rise: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-09-23T00:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/a-socialist-push-behind-india-capitalist-rise-commentary-by-pankaj-mishra.html
Twenty years ago,  India  faced
a fiscal crisis caused by profligate public spending and
rising oil prices after the first Persian  Gulf War . There
was a risk it would default on its international payments.  The finance minister, an English-educated Sikh
economist named Manmohan Singh, responded to an almost
unmanageable situation by liberalizing trade and industrial
policies.  So India entered a bright world of market-driven
capitalism after years of socialist darkness, and was set
on its current path of almost 8 percent annual growth in
gross domestic product.  Or so the story goes. Like all historical watersheds,
India’s economic liberalization in 1991 has generated its
own share of heroes and myths. Few books or articles in the
mainstream press about Indian politics and economy in the
past two decades have been judicious with their praise for
 Manmohan Singh , the apparent slayer of India’s socialist
fantasies, the prophet of free-market logic, and for the
past seven years prime minister of India.  But things are never so simple, and for Singh they
have gotten vastly more complicated in recent years.  Singh, a technocrat in the style of former Brazilian
President Fernando Henrique Cardoso and former Thai Prime
Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , has no base of his own in
Indian politics. He really serves at the pleasure of  Sonia Gandhi , the leader of the Congress Party. Uncharismatic and
a poor communicator, he was always a slightly incongruous
icon of the bold New India.  A Global Darling  The elites of Davos nevertheless love him. Pakistani
President Asif Ali Zardari called him “the architect of
modern India,” while the writer Fareed Zakaria said he was
“a man of immense intelligence, unimpeachable integrity,
and deep experience.”  Yet in less than a year, Singh, tainted by a series of
corruption scandals and fiascos -- the latest being the
arrest of the anticorruption campaigner  Anna Hazare  -- has
seen his domestic popularity collapse.  The myths about Manmohan Singh lie shattered. However,
cliches about the Indian economy continue to proliferate,
conveniently summarized by a  recent book review  in the Wall
Street Journal: “The roots of continued poverty lie in four
decades of socialism, not in two decades of half-hearted
capitalism that, for all its flaws, has lifted more Indians
out of poverty than any other force in history.”  Wisdom about India doesn’t get more conventional than
this. But is it true?  Ideologues of the right as well as the left have a
fondness for sharp polarities: socialism versus capitalism,
free markets versus the state. They also like clean
historical breaks: In 1991, a glorious new era of
revolutionary growth and development began -- that sort of
thing.  But as the case of India reveals, historical periods
aren’t so neatly divided, and ideological prejudices, such
as those that have distorted the current economic debate in
the U.S., are a poor guide to a complex and endlessly
dynamic reality. One can’t understand modern India without
appreciating its unique socio-economic trajectory in recent
decades.  To credit Manmohan Singh for having effected a
Superman-like rescue from socialism is to ignore many other
factors and long-term causes, many dating back to the first
years of India’s independence, such as Jawaharlal Nehru’s
investment in heavy industries and technical training.  A 1970s Boom  To give an example of the many variables governing GDP
growth:  India’s economy  expanded by an astonishing 9
percent in 1975 and 1976, thanks to a big increase in
savings and investment rates, spurred by the
nationalization of banks in the late 1960s and their rapid
expansion across India. Poverty rates dropped to less than
40 percent from more than 50 percent, and per-capita
incomes rose to unprecedented levels, in India in the 1980s
-- long before most Indians had heard of Manmohan Singh.  Growing up in India in the 1970s, I was constantly
made aware of the complex interplay of economic systems and
ideas. I found it impossible to avoid the quasi-socialist
slogans of Indira Gandhi, then prime minister. But I also
heard a great deal about the crony capitalism of her son,
Sanjay Gandhi, the aggressive trailblazer for such Third
World businessmen-scions as Tommy Suharto in  Indonesia  and
 Gamal Mubarak  in  Egypt .  Kaushik Basu , a Cornell University economist and
adviser to Singh, is only one of the many respected
observers of the Indian economy to refute simple-minded
claims that the end of socialism in 1991 was the main
cause of subsequent high growth. “India never had
socialism,” he  asserts .  Nehru was deeply influenced by the worldwide backlash
to unregulated capitalism in the 1930s. He spoke of the
importance of the state controlling the “commanding heights
of the economy.” In actual practice, this meant exercising
state control over banking, railways and airlines, and
rigorously regulating the private sector. These
restrictions on business, which spawned the “license-permit
Raj” that so enriched corrupt politicians and officials,
were often irrational.  But socialist, India was not. Unlike  China , there was
always a large private industry, dating from the colonial
era, whose manufacturing output exceeded, despite the
restrictive regime, that of the public sector.  While ridiculing the notion that India was socialist
in any consequential way, the Oxford History of Indian
Business  claims  that there was no “explicit opposition from
organized business” to Nehru’s policies because they
created “much greater scope for expansion and progress to
private enterprise than was possible under the hands-off
policy of the colonial regime.”  Houses of Business  This assessment is verified by the expansion in the
post-1947 era of many long-established business families,
such as the Tatas, Birlas, Thapars, Singhanias and
Kirloskars, and the emergence and consolidation of many new
houses, including Mahindra, Bajaj, Godrej, Ranbaxy and, now
most famously, Ambani.  Until 1969, India didn’t even have anti-monopoly
legislation of the kind the U.S. has had since the Sherman
Antitrust Act. As the Economist magazine  noted recently ,
“Before liberalisation, many Indian firms enjoyed a quiet
life in concentrated industries, where a coterie of
licensed firms divided the market between them.”  And, as happened under other severely protectionist
economic regimes -- such as the U.S. and  Germany  in the 19th
century and  South Korea ,  Japan  and  Thailand  after World War
II, nascent industries in India benefited from the lack of
international rivals.  Narayan Murthy, the founder of Infosys Ltd. and the
poster child of the New India, acknowledges that India’s
expulsion of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 1977
was as crucial to his modest beginnings in 1981 as the
liberalization of the Indian economy in 1991.  India’s economy before liberalization suffered from
many maladies. While creating a small middle class and
lavishing subsidies on the rich peasantry, it did little
for the bulk of India’s poor majority. But insisting today
that India should have opened up its economy in the 1950s
is rather like saying that the U.S. should have lowered its
steep tariffs in the 1880s before its manufacturers in the
North and farmers in the Midwest were ready for
international competition.  Certainly, you need an indifference to history as well
as great ideological certainty to insist that India should
have embraced global capitalism immediately after it had
liberated itself from the successors of the British East
India Company.  "Socialist” China has, as the Nobel laureate Amartya Sen  has written , consistently fared much better than India
in all major human-development indices, despite its many
self-inflicted disasters under Mao Zedong. It is far from
embracing Western-style capitalism today, and its success
seems to prove that having the public sector control the
commanding heights of the economy is no bar to economic
growth.  Left-wing ideologues might take all this as a reason
to mourn India’s half-hearted embrace of socialism. But
they would be as blind to India’s unique history and
political and socioeconomic conditions as their
counterparts on the right, who think that unadulterated
capitalism, presently the problem rather than the solution
in its American and European heartlands, is the only way
forward for India.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the
West: How to be Modern in India,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and
Beyond,” is a Bloomberg View columnist based in  London  and
Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  