-- 
Defiant Abbas Disappointed in Obama, Pursues UN Membership

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-23T10:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/abbas-faces-disappointment-in-quest-for-un-acceptance-of-palestinian-state.html
When  Mahmoud Abbas  walks to the
podium of the General Assembly today to ask for United Nations
acceptance of  Palestine  for membership, he knows his bid cannot
succeed. He’s going ahead anyway.  Scheduled to speak an hour before Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu , the address by the 76-year-old Palestinian
Authority president will be the climax of a week that has seen
his quest for international recognition suffer repeated
setbacks. The U.S. and Israel leaned on Security Council members
that back the Palestinian statehood initiative to abstain from
voting, leaving Abbas fighting to retain support in the 15-
member body.  Two days ago, Abbas was the picture of dejection, grabbing
his head in his hands as he listened to U.S. President  Barack Obama  tell the same audience of global leaders that his pursuit
was misguided.  “Peace will not come through statements and resolutions at
the UN,” Obama said, as the U.S. deployed its diplomatic might
to block the Palestinian’s efforts.  Still, for Abbas, who has talked of retiring next year,
this has been a rare moment when the Palestinian situation has
received world attention, putting him at the center of a swirl
of high-level diplomacy. Abbas has staked out a legacy as father
of a Palestinian state, if and when it is accepted as a UN
member nation.  Improving Administration  The Palestinian leadership has been actively preparing to
seek UN-sanctioned statehood for almost two years, actions that
have included improving the administration needed for the
economy of a state under Prime Minister Salam Fayyad.  The timing for this week’s bid follows the collapse of
peace talks last September after Netanyahu’s decision not to
extend a 10-month partial freeze on construction in Jewish
settlements in the  West Bank . Abbas has been unwilling to resume
talks while building continues and Netanyahu hasn’t offered to
resume the freeze.  Faced with a negotiating stalemate and emboldened by a wave
of popular uprisings in the Arab world, the Palestinians said
the timing was right to force the issue of an independent state
outside of the route of direct talks with the Israeli
government.  “It never occurred to me that the Palestinian move for UN
endorsement of its statehood was a sign of strength,” Robert Zelnick, a Boston University professor and Middle East analyst
for the Hoover Institution at  Stanford University , said in an
interview. “They are misreading the political situation.”  Israeli ‘Precautions’  Israeli police bolstered forces around the country by
several thousand officers as security was heightened before
Abbas’s speech at the UN, anticipating Palestinian
demonstrations following the Muslim midday prayers and
throughout the rest of today and tomorrow.  “We are hoping the demonstrations will be peaceful and
that forces won’t have to respond, but we are taking steps and
precautions,” the  Israel  Police spokesman,  Micky Rosenfeld ,
said today by telephone.  During his 53 hours in  New York , Obama met with Netanyahu
and Abbas on the same day. With reporters and TV cameras briefly
present, he told the Israeli leader Sept. 21 that “the bonds
between the U.S. and Israel are unbreakable.” Netanyahu
responded in kind, saying Obama’s support was a “badge of
honor.” The Abbas meeting was shorter, less than an hour, and
the White House said little about it afterward.  ‘Disappointed in Obama’  Obama’s concern at being re-elected next autumn is
preventing him from backing the Palestinian request for UN
membership, the Palestinian envoy to the European Union said.  “Obama is in an election year, so he isn’t free to act,”
Leila Shahid, the Palestinian Authority’s general delegate to
the EU, said today in an interview with France Info radio. “We
are disappointed in Obama. The world was expecting a discourse
more coherent with the winds of freedom that are blowing
throughout the Arab world.”  While Palestinian officials were under no illusion that
Obama would change his mind, they nevertheless were hoping for a
speech that would forcefully repeat his May 20 call for Israel
to agree to borders of a Palestinian state “based on the 1967
lines” before the Six-Day War. That didn’t happen, nor did
Obama unveil a new peace initiative.  ‘People Under Occupation’  “The serious gaps in his speech have to do with what we
consider the absolute minimum for continuing through the  peace
process  and that is the people under occupation that started in
1967,” Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath said in New York
Sept. 21. He was referring to Palestinian residents of the West
Bank,  Gaza Strip  and east  Jerusalem , territory that Israel
captured in the 1967 Six-Day War.  For Palestinian membership to come to a vote, a country on
the  Security Council  has to prepare a formal draft resolution.
Lebanon, which presides this month over the decision-making body
and is also its only Arab member, is the most likely candidate
for that task. The procedures permit any council member to ask
for a vote any time, after giving 24 hours’ notice.  The council can delay the process. For South  Sudan , it took
just three days to make the African country the UN’s 193rd
member, while Jordan had to wait five years before receiving
membership in December 1955. After U.S. pressure, the
Palestinians may not have the nine votes they need which, in any
event, would lead to a promised U.S. veto.  ‘Strategy in Place’  “They will not be jerked around here,” a legal adviser to
Abbas, Francis Boyle, a professor of international law at the
 University of Illinois  College of Law, said in an interview.
“This strategy has been in place for a year and it’s been
carefully prepared.”  The Palestinians can seek to overrule the Security Council
by taking their case directly to the General Assembly, where
they can count on more than the 129 votes needed in the 193-
member assembly to pass the measures, according to Boyle.  The route would involve attempting to invoke Resolution
377, known as Uniting for Peace, a U.S. initiative adopted in
1950 during the  Korean War  to circumvent the  Soviet Union ’s
blocking action on  South Korea .  It is a rarely used mechanism by which a two-thirds
majority in the General Assembly can override the Security
Council -- and its veto-wielding members -- when the 15-member
decision-making body “fails to exercise its primary
responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security in any case where there appears to be a threat to the
peace, breach of the peace, or act of aggression.”  Abbas’s prospects for success in the UN may be little
better than those for successful peace negotiations.  According to an International Court of Justice advisory
opinion, this resolution cannot be used to override U.S.
opposition to the Palestinian membership application. The UN
Charter’s rulebook also states that the General Assembly shall
consider membership applications “if the Security Council
recommends the applicant state for membership.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at   fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 