-- 
Abbas Rules Out ‘Business as Usual’ in Starting Peace Talks With Israel

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-24T19:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/abbas-breaks-with-business-as-usual-in-bid-for-palestinian-state-at-un.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  ruled out a return to “business as usual” in
peace negotiations with  Israel  as he presented his case for
recognition of Palestine as a member state to a cheering  United
Nations  audience.  A minute-long standing ovation erupted when Abbas arrived
at the podium in the General Assembly. He was halted at least 10
times by applause, most thunderously when he said “enough,
enough, enough” and when he evoked his deceased predecessor,
Palestine Liberation Organization founder  Yasser Arafat .  “It is neither possible, nor practical, nor acceptable to
return to conducting business as usual, as if everything is
fine,” said Abbas, shortly after giving his application letter
to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon for Security Council
consideration. “I do not believe anyone with a shred of
conscience can reject our application for full admission.”  Israeli leader  Benjamin Netanyahu , speaking an hour
afterwards, asked his counterpart to meet him while both leaders
were in  New York . Calling on the Palestinians to drop their
demand for Israel to freeze new Jewish settlements in the West
Bank, Netanyahu said the UN is a “theater of the absurd” for
its anti-Israel bias.  For the 76-year-old Abbas, the application for UN
membership -- which the U.S. is adamant about blocking -- gave
him leverage to focus the attention of world leaders on what has
been a moribund peace process. It triggered intense diplomacy
over future moves to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Middle East Quartet  The so-called Middle East Quartet mediating group yesterday
released a statement laying out a new timeline for peace talks,
in which Israelis and Palestinians would reach a final status
agreement that would end the conflict by December 2012. Neither
side has said publicly whether it supports the plan.  Netanyahu said if the proposal meant going to direct
negotiations without preconditions, he welcomed it. “I’ve been
calling for this for 2 1/2 years,” he said in an interview with
Israel’s Channel Two television.  The Israeli leader also expressed satisfaction at the
failure of the Palestinians to win a quick vote in the  Security
Council , and confidence that talks will eventually be resumed.  “I will be the one who reaches a peace agreement between
two nations, one of which will be a demilitarized Palestinian
state that recognizes a Jewish state,” Netanyahu said.  Studying Proposal  The Palestinians indicated they were unlikely to accept the
Quartet proposal. Speaking to reporters on his flight back home,
Abbas said that while he was still studying the proposal he
“will not deal with any initiative” that doesn’t demand a halt
to Israeli settlement construction, AP reported. The Quartet
statement makes no reference to settlement building.  “Going to the UN Security Council was always going to be
high risk, not least because it unavoidably meant confronting
the U.S. administration,” said Yezid Sayigh, an analyst at the
Washington-based Carnegie Middle East Center. “It was valid as
a means of seeking to change the rules of the game in which the
‘ peace process ,’ 20 years old this year, has been all process
and no peace.”  Ahead of his arrival at the start of the week, Abbas’s
mission was clear. His UN envoy,  Riyad Mansour , said his boss
was going to be the “most significant game in town.” Even
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who typically grabs
headlines by hurling insults at Israel, was overshadowed this
week.  Stuck to Plan  Often described as indecisive, Abbas stuck to his plan this
week even as the U.S. and Israel leaned on those Security
Council members favoring the statehood initiative to abstain
from voting. The U.S. veto pledge notwithstanding, the
Palestinians are still at least one vote short of the nine
needed for membership.  “There is a little hope now, a little national respect,”
Fares Kadouri, a senior official in Abbas’s Fatah party, told
Israel’s Channel 2 television as people gathered in a main
square of  Ramallah  to listen to the UN speech.  Undeterred, Abbas’s application was submitted yesterday and
the Security Council will hold consultations on Sept. 26 under
the presidency of Lebanon, the only Arab nation in the 15-member
body. Once lodged, it could come to a vote in a matter of days,
weeks or months.  In the center of Ramallah, people waved flags and held up
posters of Abbas. As the Palestinian leader finished his speech,
mosque preachers chanted “God is Great” as drivers honked
their car horns, revelers danced in the streets and fireworks
went off.  Palestinian Poll  Eighty-three percent of Palestinians in the  West Bank  and
 Gaza Strip  support Abbas’s initiative, according to a poll
released by the independent Palestinian Center for Policy and
Survey Research in Ramallah.  Fifty percent of those surveyed expect the UN effort to
succeed while 43 percent believe it will fail, according to the
poll. By a 2-1 margin, Palestinians said they oppose starting an
armed uprising against Israel, according to the poll of 1,200
people, which had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  For the Palestinians, the UN bid was also about testing
American might and breaking U.S. dominance of the peace process.
The European Union, though divided, has emerged as a viable
interlocutor, as has  France .  For Abbas, who may retire next year, it’s also a chance to
carve out a legacy as father of a Palestinian state if it is
accepted as a UN member nation. His bureaucratic style,
described by al-Omari as “deliberate and methodical,” has
suffered by comparison with the animated, provocative approach
of Arafat, a born orator.  West Bank Rally  Palestinians rallied in Ramallah on the West Bank in
support of Abbas’s UN address.  “It’s a historic speech,” said Mohammed Shaltaf, 25, a
student at Birzeit University. “The Palestinians told the world
that no one can blackmail them and they have nothing to lose. We
all must be behind Abbas and his leadership because for the
first time we have challenged the U.S. and President Obama and
his threats.”  Ultimately, it remains to be seen whether Abbas’s move will
revive diplomacy and force Israeli concessions, of which the
most pressing is renewal of a freeze on construction in Jewish
settlements in the West Bank. Abbas said he won’t budge on that.  Having provoked the Obama administration by repeatedly
rejecting calls to not force the issue of UN membership, the
Palestinians have reaped mixed results.  They were never under any illusion that this week they
could become the 194th member of the world body. Yet, by pushing
the debate center stage, Abbas got an unprecedented number of
nations in the General Assembly to publicly speak out in support
of  Palestine  as a state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  