-- 
Madoff Trustee Renews $91 Million Suit Against Partner to N.Y. Mets Owners

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/madoff-trustee-renews-91-million-sterling-partner-suit-1-.html
American Securities Management LP,
a business partner of the owners of the  New York  Mets, was
targeted in a revised lawsuit by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm demanding $91.9 million that allegedly was taken
out of the con man’s firm since January 2000.  After meeting  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, owners of  Major
League Baseball ’s Mets, the company, formerly known as American
Securities LP, joined with the Mets owners’ Sterling Equities
Inc. in 1991 to create a $4.5 billion-asset real-estate
investment company, Sterling American Property Inc., according
to Madoff trustee  Irving Picard . Madoff was among the investors,
Picard said in a bankruptcy court filing yesterday in  Manhattan .  Closely held American Securities and its executives had
access to the con man and should have responded to so-called red
flags warning of fraud, Picard said in an amended complaint.  Charles Klein, a founder and managing director of American
Securities, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the complaint. Funds bearing his name are among the more than 30
defendants in the suit, along with funds and foundations of the
late William Rosenwald, an American Securities founder who used
the company to invest his share of his family’s Sears Roebuck &
Co. fortune, according to Sterling American’s website.  In his $1 billion suit against the Mets owners, Picard says
they shopped for fraud insurance in 2001 and were well aware
that Madoff may have been fraudulent, which they have denied.
American Securities “hedged its bets” on funds it invested
with Madoff by buying fraud insurance as early as 2000, or eight
years before Madoff’s arrest, Picard said.  ‘Six-Figure Premium’  The company and its insiders paid “a six-figure annual
premium” for what they described in internal e-mails as a
Madoff policy “designed to cover dishonest acts by Madoff” and
protect against fraud, Picard said.  The company had about $27 million with Madoff at the time
and bought the insurance even though Klein considered the
investment “low risk,” the trustee said.  American Securities referred the Mets owners to an
insurance agent who offered them a fraud policy with a $500,000
deductible that cost 30 cents per $100 of investment, according
to Picard’s court filings. Wilpon and Katz have said they didn’t
buy any insurance.  Of the money Picard is demanding from American Securities,
about $10 million was fake profit, he said.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina .  The case is Picard v. American Securities, 1:10-ap-05415,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  