-- 
Afghans Say Taliban Top Leadership Sent Bomber to Kill Peace Envoy Rabbani

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-23T13:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/afghans-say-taliban-top-leadership-sent-bomber-to-kill-peace-envoy-rabbani.html
The suicide bomber who killed
 Afghanistan ’s top peace envoy this week was sent by someone in
the Taliban’s Pakistan-based leadership, said the Afghan
official who arranged the bomber’s visit to Kabul.  The killing Sept. 20 of Burhanuddin Rabbani, chairman of
the Afghan government’s High Peace Council, came after secret
contacts between the council and the Quetta Shura, the main
leadership committee of the Taliban, said Rahmatullah Wahidyar,
the council member who instigated talks. Afghanistan’s
intelligence agency spokesman, Shafiqullah Tahiri, told a news
conference with Wahidyar that “the Quetta Shura is involved in
this killing,” and that investigations were continuing into who
else might have participated.  While other Afghan officials said it’s unclear who sent the
assassin, evidence pointing to the Taliban’s inner circle will
further complicate a  peace process  the U.S. needs to ease its
planned withdrawal of major combat forces by 2014. “If it is
proved that the Quetta Shura is behind this attack, it will mean
that they want to kill peace negotiators and there is no chance
for talks,” said Arsala Rahmani, a senior peace council member.  U.S. Ambassador  Ryan Crocker  told reporters in Kabul
yesterday that “the brutal murder of a national statesman who
sought to promote outreach in the interest of bringing peace to
his country raises very serious questions as to whether the
Taliban and those who support them have any real interest in
reconciliation.”  U.S.,  Pakistan  Channels  While the exact makeup of the Quetta Shura, or council, is
not known, it operates under the authority of the Taliban
supreme leader,  Mullah Omar , U.S. and Afghan officials say.
When U.S. forces led the overthrow of the Taliban government in
2001, Omar and other top Taliban officials fled their base in
the southern Afghan city of Kandahar to Quetta in Pakistan,
where they have been based for years, say officials including
U.S. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers.  Pakistan denies that the Taliban leadership operates from
its soil.  The U.S., Pakistani and Afghan governments are competing to
establish channels for talks with the Taliban, each hoping to
shape any eventual negotiations in its own interest, said
Waliullah Rahmani, director of the  Kabul Center for Strategic
Studies . The U.S. and Afghan efforts to engage Taliban leaders
led officials last year to fly a man they thought was an Omar
deputy to Kabul for talks only to discover he was an impostor.  Pakistan arrested a Omar lieutenant, Mullah Abdul Ghani
Baradar, in 2010 after he had held discussions with mediators
from the  United Nations , former U.N. envoy to Afghanistan Kai Eide told the  BBC . A third conciliation effort, in which U.S.
officials met Tayeb Agha, a former assistant to Omar, stalled
after news of the contacts was published, the New York Times
reported last month.  Haqqani Faction  The Taliban movement’s two regular spokesmen said in phone
interviews they are awaiting information from the leadership’s
cultural and information committee on whether the group played
any role in Rabbani’s killing. Spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed,
whom Reuters quoted Sept. 20 as saying the Taliban conducted the
attack, called that report incorrect.  Wahidyar’s accusing of the Quetta Shura shifted attention
from a distinct faction of the Taliban, the Haqqani group based
in Pakistan and eastern Afghanistan. U.S. and Afghan officials
say that group, backed by Pakistan’s main military intelligence
agency, carried out recent high-profile attacks in Kabul,
including the Sept. 13 assault that hit the U.S. Embassy with
rocket-propelled grenades.  U.S. Attacks  About 30 of the Taliban’s most prominent leaders have
served on the shura in recent years, and many of the group’s
members may have dispersed to Karachi or other cities to escape
possible U.S. attack, according to the  Long War Journal , a U.S.-
based monitoring group on the Afghan war.  While the  Taliban movement  includes distinct factions,
analysts say it is unclear how unified or divided the leadership
may be on talking peace with the U.S. or President Hamid Karzai’s government.  The Quetta Shura is fragmented enough that it “precludes
the possibility of the Taliban making a definitive break with
the Pakistani military and its other allies,” to negotiate
peace, wrote analyst  Candace Rondeaux  of the  International
Crisis Group , a policy research organization.  Wahidyar, who was injured in the bombing, had cuts and
bruises on his face and spoke in a near whisper to reporters. He
said in May he sent a former Taliban commander named Abdul
Sattar to the Pakistani border town of Chaman, north of Quetta,
to make contact with the Quetta Shura.  Turban Bomb  Sattar “called me from Chaman and told me that a Mullah
Hamidullah would call me and then come from the Quetta Shura to
Kabul” for meetings, Wahidyar said. Two rounds of talks with
Hamidullah led to the arrival last week of a Mullah Esmatullah,
who carried conciliatory audio messages on a flash drive for
Rabbani and the peace council that he said were from the Quetta
Shura, Wahidyar said.  Karzai said yesterday he heard one of the messages, which
seemed authentic, greeting Rabbani and his colleagues with
respectful titles. “We came to see that this was not a peace
message but was deception,” Karzai told a news conference.  On Sept. 20, when Wahidyar escorted Esmatullah to meet
Rabbani, guards deferentially avoided a scrupulous body search
of the visitor, and as he hugged Rabbani in greeting, he
detonated a bomb hidden in his turban, police said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  