-- 
Ahmadinejad Seeks New Nuclear Plants in Iran, Talks on Dispute

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-23T22:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/ahmadinejad-seeks-new-nuclear-plants-in-iran-talks-on-dispute.html
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad today invited foreign companies to build nuclear
 power plants  in Iran to supply 19,000 megawatts of electricity
and said he’s ready to negotiate an end to the dispute over his
nation’s nuclear aspirations.  Noting that a 1,000-megawatt, Russian-built power station
was linked to Iran’s power grid earlier this month, Ahmadinejad
said he wants “other firms and other entities” to build more
plants. Iran needs 20,000 megawatts of electricity, he said at a
news conference in  New York .  Power generation at the plant near Bushehr, which officials
had estimated would start as early as 2009, was repeatedly
delayed because of technical problems and the international
dispute over  Iran’s nuclear program .  The U.S. and the European Union say four sets of  United
Nations  sanctions against Iran are justified because its nuclear
program may be a cover for the development of nuclear weapons.
Iran says it needs nuclear power to meet the energy needs of its
growing population.  Talks between Iran and the five permanent members of the UN
Security Council, plus  Germany , remain stalled since January.
The UN’s  International Atomic Energy Agency  has been probing
Iran’s nuclear work since 2003, when it was disclosed the
government had hidden atomic research for two decades.  Ahmadinejad said he informed the EU foreign policy chief,
 Catherine Ashton , yesterday that Iran is prepared to resume
negotiations.  ‘Ready Today’  “We are ready today,” Ahmadinejad said. “We have always
supported the chance at dialogue. We believe that in these
historic times the only way to resolve differences in positions
is through dialogue.”  Ahmadinejad said Iran would agree to stop producing the 20-
percent-enriched uranium needed for a medical research facility
in Tehran, that manufactures medicine for cancer patients, if it
were guaranteed a foreign source of the enriched uranium.  Iran ’s
enrichment wouldn’t stop, he said, until the uranium was in the
country.  “Twenty-percent-enriched uranium is only for the needs of
a reactor that produces medicine,” he said. “In Iran, there
are 800,000 that need this medication. The fuel for the Tehran
reactor that produces this medicine is nearing an end.”  He said the West has set illegal “conditions and
preconditions” for such an agreement.  A tentative deal for a fuel swap brokered by the IAEA in
2009 fell apart after Iran backed out. The U.S. and its European
allies have since said they want Iran to send out most of the
enriched uranium produced since then, rather than the smaller
amount that was part of the package two years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  