-- 
Hair Shows Aborigine Ancestors Were First to Explore World

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-23T15:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/hair-shows-aborigine-ancestors-as-first-humans-to-explore-world.html
Scientists are rewriting the
history of human migration based on a 100-year-old hair sample.  Genetic analysis by Danish researchers of curly, dark-
colored locks indicates that Australian Aborigines are direct
descendants of the first people to migrate out of  Africa ,
according to  findings  published in the journal Science. The
Aborigines’ forebears probably made their way across the world
24,000 years before another wave led  Europe ’s and  Asia ’s
settlement, the scientists said.  The analysis of the hair, donated by an Aborigine man to a
British anthropologist a century ago, shows that Aborigines’
ancestors split from the first populations in Africa 62,000 to
75,000 years ago, moving east and eventually to Australia.
Europe and Asia were first settled as many as 38,000 years ago,
the researchers said.  “Our findings support the hypothesis that present-day
Aboriginal Australians descend from the earliest humans to
occupy Australia, likely representing one of the oldest
continuous populations outside Africa,” the researchers wrote
in the study.  The findings contradict the view of a single exodus from
Africa that populated the rest of the world yet fits better with
archeological findings that show human inhabitation of  Australia 
as long as 50,000 years ago, according to the study’s authors.  Mapping DNA  “There will obviously be people who continue to fight for
the single dispersion theory, but I think the data now fits with
the archeological records better,” Morten Rasmussen, the
study’s lead author and an expert in evolutionary biology, said
by phone. “We’ll probably need a few more studies.”  Eske Willerslev , a professor at the University of
Copenhagen, and other researchers mapped the DNA in the 100-
year-old hair and found no evidence of genes from modern
immigrants to Australia.  “While Europeans’ and Asians’ descendants sat in one or
another place in Africa or the  Middle East  and had yet to start
exploring, the forefathers of the Aborigines spread out
quickly,” Willerslev said in a  statement  from the University of
Copenhagen. “It is really an amazing journey that demanded
exceptional survival skills and courage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  