-- 
Air France-KLM Said Likely to Name Juniac to Succeed CEO

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-09-23T17:18:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/air-france-said-likely-to-name-juniac-to-succeed-ceo-gourgeon.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group will likely
pick a high-ranking government official as Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon’s successor-in-waiting, defying
its pilots’ backing for an internal candidate, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Gourgeon plans to name Alexandre de Juniac as a deputy CEO
later this month before appointing him to take over as Air
France brand chief in January, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified discussing personnel appointments.
Juniac, who served as former finance minister  Christine Lagarde ’s chief of staff, emerged as the preferred candidate at
a Sept. 21 board meeting, the people said.  Gourgeon, 65, had his contract renewed by shareholders in
July and has said he plans to serve the full four-year term
before handing over to a successor to be designated this year
and appointed first as head of the Air France unit. Pilots’
representatives at the airline, in which the government owns a
15.7 percent stake, support the candidacy of Lionel Guerin, head
of the company’s Transavia charter division, the people said.  Air France spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand declined to comment
on the succession plans. A spokeswoman for the airline’s main
SNPL pilot union also declined to comment.  Air France-KLM,  Europe ’s largest airline, has plunged 61
percent this year, the worst performance on the Bloomberg EMEA
Airlines Index, as the carrier struggles with high fuel costs
and sluggish business-class demand. The stock rose 9 cents, or
1.7 percent, to 5.34 euros in Paris today.  Low-Cost Operations  The French airline is rolling out lower-cost regional
operations at provincial bases and demanding more savings from
managers to fend off no-frills competition and narrow the
profitability gap with full-service rivals such as  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   The regional base plan, due to start next month, aims to
use locally based pilots and crews and shorter turnarounds
between flights to keep aircraft airborne for longer each day.
The strategy involves shifting part of Air France’s single-aisle
Airbus A320 fleet from Paris to Marseille, Nice and Toulouse,
opening up dozens of new routes including services to north
 Africa , eastern Europe and Scandinavia.  Juniac has served as an advisor to Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin  since Lagarde stepped down in June to head the
 International Monetary Fund . Gourgeon has said he plans to name
managing directors for Air France and KLM next year as the
company pursues closer integration of the two carriers’
management.  Juniac, 48, cited as Gourgeon’s likely successor in French
media reports since June, was backed by the board this week,  Les
Echos  reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  