-- 
Alexion Wins Broader Approval of Drug for Rare Blood Disease

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-09-23T20:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/alexion-wins-expanded-approval-for-drug-for-rare-organ-disease.html
Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN)  won
U.S. regulatory approval today for the first drug to treat
children and adults with a rare genetic blood disease that
progressively damages vital organs.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the medicine
Soliris, chemically known as eculizumab, for atypical hemolytic
uremic syndrome on the condition the company conducts additional
clinical trials to confirm the medicine’s benefit, the Cheshire,
Connecticut-based company said in a  statement . More than half of
all patients with the disease die, require dialysis or have
kidney damage within a year of diagnosis, Alexion said.  A European Union advisory panel also recommended Soliris to
treat the disease in adults and children, the company said
today. Alexion raised its revenue forecast to $760 million to
$768 million from $745 million to $755 million, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Soliris is the treatment advance that the aHUS community
has been seeking for decades,” Bill Biermann, co-founder of the
Foundation for Children with Atypical HUS, said in the
statement.  Alexion rose $2.78, or 4.4 percent, to $66.15 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
increased 64 percent this year.  Blood Clots  Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome  affects one in 500,000
people per year in the  United States , according to the  National
Institutes of Health . The disease causes blood clots in the
small blood vessels throughout the body. It disproportionately
affects children, the FDA said in a statement.  Soliris was first approved in 2007 in the U.S. and European
Union to treat a rare blood disorder, Alexion said. A European
Union decision on the drug in atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome
is expected in two months, the company said.  Alexion said it raised its forecast “based on continued
strength” of Soliris sales in the U.S., Western Europe and
 Japan  for the already approved disorder, called paroxysmal
nocturnal hemoglobinuria, or PNH. Today’s new approval wasn’t a
reason for the increased sales estimate, the company said in its
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 