-- 
Amazon’s Next Kindle Threatens to Challenge IPad Tablet Reign

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-09-23T18:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/amazon-s-next-kindle-threatens-to-challenge-ipad-s-dominance.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s latest Kindle
device, which may be unveiled next week, is poised to become the
biggest threat to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad this holiday season.  Amazon has announced plans for a press conference Sept. 28
in  New York , raising speculation that the company will provide
its first glimpse of the new Kindle. The latest iteration of the
e-book reader will have an improved interface and double as a
tablet computer, with a touch screen in full color, said Anupam Palit, an analyst at GreenCrest Capital Management in New York.  By taking advantage of its ties with media and publishing
companies to pack the Kindle tablet with songs, books and
videos, Amazon may succeed where companies such as  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  have failed. Amazon Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Bezos will probably set a price that’s
near the cost of production, Palit said. That way, the company
can attract users who balk at the $499 to $829 cost of the iPad.  “You’re going to get the first tablet that functions as
well as the iPad,” Palit said. “You’re going to get the first
major competitor for the iPad that has a full media and e-
commerce platform.”  While Amazon didn’t reveal details about the Sept. 28 press
conference, the event will likely showcase the new Kindle, said
Herman Leung, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group in San
Francisco.  First Look  “It’s got to be,” he said. “This holiday season everyone
wants to start earlier and earlier. Why not educate people at
the end of September?”  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based Amazon, didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Sarah Epps, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc. in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , predicts that Amazon will “ easily ”
sell 3 million to 5 million tablets in the fourth quarter. That
assumes a price of $299, she said in a report last month.  Apple shipped 9.25 million iPads in its most recent
quarter, which ended June 25. Though the product is less than
two years old, it’s already the company’s biggest source of
revenue after the iPhone. Apple also leads the market for mobile
applications, with more than 425,000. Over 100,000 of those apps
are custom-designed for the iPad.  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment on competition with Amazon.  Google’s Android  The Amazon tablet will run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
platform, which already supports Amazon’s application store,
said Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York.
Amazon will have 5 percent of the total tablet market and about
16 percent of the Android tablet market this year, based on
units sold, Sena said in July.  Even if it makes rapid gains, Amazon will have a fraction
of Apple’s market share. The iPad accounted for 68 percent of
all tablets  shipped  worldwide in the second quarter, according
to Framingham, Massachusetts-based research firm IDC. Android
tablets, including models from Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
and Samsung Electronics Co., accounted for 27 percent.  Two other tablets have failed to make a dent so far. RIM’s
PlayBook, introduced in the second quarter, sold 200,000 units,
less than half of what analysts predicted. Analysts had already
cut estimates for full-year PlayBook shipments to an average of
2.2 million, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Doomed TouchPad  Hewlett-Packard, meanwhile, discontinued its TouchPad in
August -- only about a month after its debut. And  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  may not have its  Windows operating system  for tablets
ready until next year.  Amazon’s store attracts millions of customers a month,
which would help it promote a new tablet, said  Colin Sebastian ,
an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco. Total
revenue is projected to rise 32 percent next year to $64.4
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s tablet “has a pretty good chance at emerging
as a leader,” Sebastian said. “Amazon is likely the only one
that’s going to produce something that’s close to the iPad that
you would get with Android.”  The company can outpace other iPad competitors if it
simplifies the tablet and makes the device intuitive to users,
he said.  While price competition may take a toll on Amazon’s profit
margins, the company hasn’t shied away from that in the past,
Palit said. To challenge Apple’s iTunes music service, Amazon
sold Lady Gaga’s album in its MP3 store for 99 cents.  Hardware Reliance  Apple gets more than 90 percent of its revenue from
hardware. That may leave it vulnerable to an assault from
Amazon, which could lose money on the device and then try to
recoup the cost by selling more books and media.  The tablet also could set the stage for another source of
revenue. Amazon has approached book publishers about starting a
rental service for digital libraries that would require an
annual fee, Palit said. Amazon would pay publishers a fee to
participate, he said.  The retailer also may use video and book rentals on its
tablet to promote its Prime membership program, which gives
subscribers discounts on shipping and lets them watch movies for
$79 a year, Sebastian said.  “It’s a way of enticing the content owners to leverage
Amazon’s customer base,” he said. “They hope that there’s a
payoff in terms of more velocity.”  Making it easy to get their books, movies and music will
help Amazon stand out from failed tablet offerings, said Michael Norris, an analyst for  Simba Information , a consulting firm
based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The thing that Amazon has done really, really well is
they understand the relationship a consumer has with
entertainment and content,” he said. “It’s all about the
content that Amazon hopes to deliver with the tablet. If it’s
seamless and easy, it could be attractive to a whole lot of
people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  