-- 
Amazon’s California Sales-Tax Reprieve Is Approved by Brown

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-23T20:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/amazon-s-california-sales-tax-reprieve-is-approved-by-brown.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
signed a bill in a compromise with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  that gives
the world’s largest online retailer a one-year reprieve from
collecting sales taxes on Internet transactions in the state.  In return, Seattle-based Amazon agreed to drop efforts to
repeal the tax measure through a referendum drive that had cost
it at least $5.25 million. The company and the state agreed to
work together for a national standard on taxing online sales.  Brown’s signature on the bill ends a stare-down with Amazon
over a June law treating Internet retailers the same as brick-
and-mortar stores that collect the state’s 7.25 percent levy.
Today’s agreement will cost California $200 million in revenue
it planned to use to help balance this year’s budget.  “It is the beginning of the end of the war between online
retailers and brick-and-mortar retailers,” state Assemblywoman
Nancy Skinner, a Berkeley Democrat, said at a news conference at
 Gap Inc. (GPS)  headquarters in San Francisco.  Under the  bill  signed by Brown in San Francisco today,
Amazon will begin turning over taxes on California transactions
in September 2012 if no national standard is in place by then.  “The sales tax issue must be resolved in Congress,”
Amazon Vice President Paul Misener said in San Francisco. “It’s
the appropriate way and the only way California will be able to
collect all of the sales tax owed by customers.”  Misener said Amazon plans to hire 10,000 workers in
California and spend $500 million on facilities, including
distribution centers, in the state. He said Amazon envisions “a
variety of different kinds of facilities” across  California 
over the next few years, though he would not elaborate.  Amazon Affiliates  Amazon severed its relationship with 10,000 California-
based website operators who get fees from the company after the
sales-tax requirement was imposed in June. The company then
contended it no longer had a physical presence in the state,
citing a 1992 U.S. Supreme Court decision that exempted
businesses from collecting the levies unless they had a
“nexus” to the tax state.  The Performance Marketing Association, a trade group for
25,000 Internet marketers, urged Brown to sign the bill. About
35 percent of its members lost at least half of their income due
to California’s sales-tax law, Rebecca Madigan, the
association’s executive director, said in a Sept. 22 letter to
the governor.  “Once the legislation is signed into law, these 25,000
web-based entrepreneurs will be able to get back in business,”
Madigan wrote.  Retailer Support  The deal with Amazon also was backed by the California
Retailers Association, a trade group ranging from  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  to local bookstores. Bill Dombrowski, the
association’s president, said local sellers of music, books and
other products have sustained huge losses to online merchants.  “We had to stop the bleeding,” he said in an interview.
“We firmly believe this starts to stop it.”  The agreement with Amazon is projected to deprive
California of $200 million in revenue from online sales taxes
the state expected to receive between July 2011 and September
2012. In July, California revenue was $541 million short of
projections, according to the state finance department,
enhancing the prospect of major budget cuts early next year.  “The $200 million is a small part of the overall
problem,” Brown said today. “We’ll handle this relatively
easily. We’ll be hearing more about problems and challenges in
the months ahead.”  Amazon rose 38 cents to $223.61 as of 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  San Francisco  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  