-- 
American Superconductor Surges After Announcing New Contracts

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-09-23T16:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/american-superconductor-surges-after-announcing-new-contracts.html
American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , the
wind turbine component maker that’s suing its largest customer,
surged the most in almost two years after announcing $100
million in new sales.  The shares gained 70 cents, or 16 percent, to $5.17 at
11:46 a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. They earlier rose as
much as 22 percent, the most since October 2009.  American Superconductor has sold almost $100 million of
wind power and electric grid equipment to customers in China,
 India ,  Korea , the U.S. and  Europe  since April 1, the company
said today in a statement. It also said it has $166.2 million in
cash and marketable securities.  Those figures allayed investors’ fears that the company was
experiencing cash-flow problems, said Theodore O’Neill, an
analyst at Wunderlich Securities in  New York .  “It’s a better starting point than people were expecting
them to be reborn from,” he said. “There was a lot of concern
that these guys were going to run out of dough.”  American Superconductor expects a net loss of less than $38
million on sales of at least $18 million in the current quarter,
the company said today.  Former Employee Guilty  Revenue in the company’s first fiscal quarter ended June 30
was $9.1 million, compared with $97.2 million a year earlier.
Net loss was $37.7 million, or 74 cents a share, compared with
net income of $9.2 million, or 20 cents a share, the previous
year. It attributed the slumping sales and the shift to a loss
“primarily to a lack of revenue from Sinovel.”  Sinovel Wind Group Co. refused March 31 to accept or pay
for shipments, and American Superconductor’s shares have dropped
79 percent since then. Sinovel, of Beijing, generated about 70
percent of the company’s revenue in fiscal 2009.  American Superconductor said Sept. 15 it filed criminal and
civil suits against Sinovel, claiming that  China ’s largest wind-
turbine maker stole its intellectual property.  A former American Superconductor employee accused of
passing software and source code to Sinovel pleaded guilty to
charges including economic espionage in an Austrian court today,
Chief Executive Officer Daniel McGahn said on a conference call
with analysts. The employee said Sinovel paid him for the
information, according to McGahn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  