-- 
Tampa Bay Rays Beat Yankees to Gain on Red Sox, Cardinals Lose in Ninth

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-23T05:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/tampa-bay-rays-beat-yankees-to-gain-on-red-sox-cardinals-lose-in-ninth.html
Tampa Bay  scored 13 unanswered runs
and then held on for a 15-8 win against the  New York  Yankees
that pulled the Rays within two games of Boston in the chase for
the American League wild-card spot.  B.J. Upton,  Johnny Damon  and Ben Zobrist each hit a home
run and drove in three runs for the Rays, who had lost the three
previous games in the series at Yankee Stadium.  The Yankees had clinched the AL East division title a day
earlier by sweeping Tampa Bay in a doubleheader. Several New
York regulars had last night off as Matt Moore struck out 11 in
five scoreless innings in his first Major League Baseball start.  “Obviously it wasn’t all their lineup, but there was a lot
of good hitters in that lineup and he attacked them,” Rays
manager Joe Maddon told reporters. “His composure, Yankee
Stadium, throwing strikes, all those things speak to the makeup
of Matt Moore.”  The  Red Sox  (88-68), who were off yesterday, have six games
left -- three at New York starting tonight, followed by three at
Baltimore. The Rays (86-70) also have six remaining, all at home
-- three against Toronto this weekend, followed by a three-game
visit from the Yankees.  The Los Angeles Angels lost 4-3 at Toronto in 12 innings
and remained three games behind the Red Sox for the wild card.
The Angels ( 85-71 ) also have six games remaining.  The Texas Rangers, who lost 4-3 at Oakland yesterday, lead
the Angels by five games in the AL West. The  Detroit Tigers , who
already clinched the AL Central title, lost 6-5 against the
 Baltimore Orioles .  Cardinals Blow Lead  The  St. Louis Cardinals  blew a four-run lead in the ninth
inning in an 8-6 loss at home to the  New York Mets , and fell two
games behind Atlanta in the chase for the National League’s
wild-card spot. The Braves, who have lost 13 of their last 20
games, had the day off.  The Cardinals led 6-2 entering the ninth inning at Busch
Stadium before three St. Louis relievers allowed the Mets to
score six runs on four walks, three hits and two errors. Willie
Harris’s two-out, two-run single broke a 6-6 tie.  “Don’t make a mistake and say we’re heartbroken,”
Cardinals manager Tony La Russa told reporters. “Our heart’s
beating. We won the series, get ready for tomorrow.”  The San Francisco Giants lost 8-2 at the  Los Angeles
Dodgers  and trail the Braves by four games for the wild card.
The Giants are six games back in the NL West of the Arizona
Diamondbacks, who didn’t play yesterday.  The Philadelphia Phillies, who already have clinched the NL
East title, lost their sixth straight game, falling 6-1 at home
against the Washington Nationals. The Milwaukee Brewers, who
lead the NL Central by five games over  St. Louis , were off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  