-- 
Anthrax Spreads in Southern Italy as 10 More Farms Infected

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-23T09:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/anthrax-spreads-in-southern-italy-as-10-more-farms-infected.html
Anthrax, a deadly animal disease
used in biological warfare, is spreading in southern Italy,
killing livestock on farms as far as 50 kilometers (31 miles)
from where three outbreaks were reported a week ago.  The illness killed cattle, sheep and horses on a further 10
farms southeast of Naples in the Basilicata and Campania
regions, the Italian Ministry of Health said in an  alert  dated
yesterday and published online by the Paris-based World
Organization of  Animal Health , or OIE.  Anthrax  is caused by spores of the bacterium Bacillus
anthracis, which can survive in soil years after an outbreak and
be brought to the surface by wet weather or deep tilling, the
OIE says. Livestock typically become infected by ingesting
spores from the soil or in feed, according to the group.  The disease killed livestock on five farms near the town of
Corleto Perticara, three farms in the nearby village of
Pietrapertosa and one in the town of Accettura, with the
outbreaks ranging from between 30 to 50 kilometers northeast of
last week’s, according to the notice.  Italy also reported a new outbreak in Montesano sulla
Marcellana, in addition to the two farms reported as infected
previously. Last week’s  notice  also included a farm in Padula,
about 10 kilometers northwest of Montesano.  In the 10 newly reported cases, anthrax killed a total of
12 cattle, 4 horses or donkeys and 10 sheep, the OIE said.  The origin of the infection is linked to the introduction
of new live animals,  Italy  reported in last week’s notice,
without providing details. French microbiologist Louis Pasteur
developed an effective vaccine against the disease in 1881,
according to the OIE.  Sweden Outbreak  The anthrax cases reported last week were the first in
Italy since September 2008, according to the OIE. The outbreak
is continuing and measures in place include movement controls
for livestock and disinfection of infected premises, the animal-
health group said.  Sweden reported two outbreaks of anthrax in cattle on
adjacent farms this year, with the source of the disease assumed
to be contaminated carcasses that had been buried in the 1940s.  Proper disposal of dead animals is critical, and carcasses
should not be opened because exposure to oxygen will allow
anthrax bacteria to form spores, according to the OIE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 