-- 
Apple, Mylan, Marks & Spencer, PETA: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-23T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/apple-mylan-marks-spencer-peta-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc., the world’s biggest
technology company by value, was sued by  Taiwan ’s  Via
Technologies Inc. (2388)  for allegedly infringing three U.S. patents
for microprocessors used in mobile phones and tablet computers.  Via, a semiconductor maker based in Taipei, seeks a jury
trial and an order to prohibit Cupertino, California-based Apple
from selling products containing the inventions in the U.S.,
according to a complaint filed Sept. 21 in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  “The products at issue generally concern microprocessors
included in a variety of electronic products such as certain
smartphones, tablet computers, portable media players and other
computing devices,” Via said in the complaint.  In dispute are patents 6,253,311 and 6,253,312, both issued
in June 2001; and 6,754 810, issued in June 2004.  Apple will dominate tablet-computer sales this holiday
season, and global media tablet sales this year may reach more
than 63 million units, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Apple officials didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Via Technologies v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 1:11-cv-00857,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Warner Chilcott Wins Ruling Blocking Mylan’s Copy of Doryx  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  said it won a court ruling blocking
Mylan Inc. from selling a generic version of its Doryx
antibiotic.  Warner Chilcott, based in Dublin, sued Mylan in federal
court in Newark,  New Jersey , in 2009, claiming infringement of
various patents, including one issued in 2008 on its 150-
milligram tablets.  In granting a preliminary injunction against Mylan, based
in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , U.S. District Judge William Martini
ruled that Warner Chilcott had shown a reasonable likelihood of
success on its claim that its 150-milligram patent was valid and
had been infringed, the Irish drugmaker said yesterday in a
statement.  “Mylan believes that the district court erred in its
decision to grant plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary
injunction and we intend to seek an expedited trial or other
expedited relief from the order,” Mylan spokewoman Nina Devlin
said in an e-mail. “Mylan remains confident in its position in
the case.”  The case is Warner Chilcott Laboratories v. Mylan
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 09-cv-2073, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  M&S, Interflora Both Claim Victory in Case Over Internet Ads  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  and florist network Interflora
both claimed victory following a European Union court ruling on
whether companies can use rival’s trademarked terms to trigger
advertisements on search engines.  While Marks & Spencer and Interflora argued a ruling by the
EU Court of Justice yesterday is in their favor, a U.K. national
court will have to make the final decision on whether Marks &
Spencer’s use of the Interflora trademarks “jeopardizes” the
reputation of Interflora’s intellectual property.  Interflora, which has operated a flower-delivery network in
the U.K. since the 1950s, is suing Marks & Spencer in the U.K.
for violating its trademark rights by using keywords, such as
Interflora, Intaflora and Interflora Delivery, to trigger ads on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search engine.  “This ruling is a score-draw,” said Nick Rose, head of
intellectual property litigation at law firm Field Fisher
Waterhouse LLP. “This is helpful for brand owners” such as
Interflora “and it leaves some room for Marks & Spencer to
claim they’re not liable in this case.”  The  High Court  in  London  in 2009 referred the case to the
EU’s top tribunal for guidance on how to interpret the bloc’s
trademark rules in such cases.  Interflora will be pleased “because they have a lot more
scope to argue that what Marks & Spencer did has infringed,”
Rose said in a telephone interview. “However, Marks & Spencer
still got some wiggle room and some arguments they can raise.”  The EU court said the U.K. tribunal can consider the
general knowledge of the English public as to whether Marks &
Spencer is part of the Interflora network, said Rose.  “It’s a long way from being an open and shut case for
Interflora,” said Rose.  London-based Marks & Spencer said in an e-mailed statement
it was “encouraged” by the judgment “as we have always
believed this is fair competition.”  Interflora said it was “delighted” by the decision “in
their favor.”  In a ruling last year in a dispute between Google and  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the EU court ruled that brand
owners can sue advertisers who buy protected keywords and
display ads on the search engine’s website that make it
difficult for users to see whether they sell original or fake
products.  FTD Group Inc., the florist whose symbol is the winged god
Mercury delivering flowers, bought Interflora in 2006 to enter
the European market. FTD Group was acquired by Internet retailer
 United Online Inc. (UNTD)  in 2008.  The EU court clarified that trademark owners can prevent a
company from using a trademarked term as a keyword to trigger
adverts where the competitor “takes unfair advantage of the
distinctive character or repute of the trademark, free-riding,
or where the advertising is detrimental to that distinctive
character.”  The case is C-323/09, Interflora Inc, Interflora British
Unit v. Marks & Spencer Plc, Flowers Direct Online Limited.  AB InBev, Budvar Can Both Keep U.K. Budweiser Right, Court Says  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and Czech competitor Budejovicky
Budvar NP can both use U.K. trademarks for the word Budweiser,
the European Union’s top court said.  U.K. consumers “are well aware of the difference” between
the products of AB InBev and Budvar, the EU Court of Justice
said in a statement after its ruling yesterday.  “A long period of honest concurrent use of the two
identical trademarks concerned neither has, nor is liable to
have an adverse effect” on AB InBev’s trademark, which was
filed earlier than Budvar’s, the Luxembourg-based EU court said.
Budvar’s “later Budweiser trademark need not be declared
invalid.”  While AB InBev, the world’s largest brewer, and Budvar were
both granted U.K. trademark rights to Budweiser by an English
court in 2000, AB InBev argues that its right is the only one
that should prevail. AB InBev told the EU court at a hearing
last year that its market for Budweiser was 10 times bigger,
rejecting Budvar’s arguments of a long co-existence.  Budvar has been active in the British market since 1973 and
Anheuser-Busch since 1974, according to the EU court. Anheuser-
Busch applied in 1979 to get a trademark for Budweiser, covering
beer and ale. Budvar opposed that step and several years later
also applied for the trademark.  “The case will now be returned to the U.K. Court of
Appeals where it will be determined whether the doctrine of
honest concurrent use should prevent cancellation of Budejovicky
Budvar’s Budweiser trademark registration,” Leuven, Belgium-
based AB InBev said in a statement.  “Even if we are unsuccessful before the U.K. Court of
Appeals, it will not negatively impact our Budweiser trademark
in the U.K. which remains valid and can no longer be challenged
by Budvar or other third parties,” AB InBev said.  Following a decision by a U.K. court of appeal, both
companies were able to register the trademark Budweiser in the
country on May 19, 2000. Almost five years later, Anheuser-Busch
filed for a declaration of invalidity of Budvar’s trademark.  The two brewers have been entangled in a fight going back
to the early 1900s over the right to the Bud or Budweiser names
for beer, merchandising and other products.  Budvar claims the rights because its beer comes from Ceske
Budejovice, which is called Budweis in German. Anheuser-Busch,
founded by German-born immigrant to the U.S. Adolphus Busch,
says it started using the Budweiser trademark in 1876, 19 years
before Budvar was formed.  The case is C-482/09, Budejovicky Budvar, narodni podnik v
Anheuser-Busch, Inc.  PETA Will Set up Pornography Site to Discourage Animal Abuse  People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals , the Norfolk,
Virginia-based group focused on animal cruelty, will have a
website on the new .xxx top level Internet domain, the
VentureBeat.com news website  reported .  PETA said it will use sexually explicit content on its
PETA.XXX site, as well as animal cruelty awareness, according to
VentureBeat.  When potential viewers land on the site they’ll find
“those tantalizing images they’ll be hoping for,” Lindsay
Rajit, director of PETA campaigns, told VentureBeat.  When visitors go deeper into the site, they will find
graphic images of animal abuse, calculated to “grab people’s
attention, get them talking, and ultimately get them to ask
questions,” Rajit told VentureBeat.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Speedy Singhs’ Producers Get Pre-Release Non-Infringement Order  The producers of the Bollywood film “ Speedy Singhs ” went
to the Delhi High Court to get orders against potential
infringers even before the film’s release, the Times of  India 
 reported .  The court issued an order barring any showing, downloading,
displaying or releasing of the film without a license from its
producers, according to the Times of India.  The order, which is valid until Dec. 19, also bars
unauthorized release in such formats as tapes, CDs, DVDs and
cable television, the newspaper reported.  The orders are against “John Doe” defendants whose names
are not presently known to the producers, according to the
Times.  Oracle Says Damages in Android Dispute May Be $1.2 Billion  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  estimated its damages in a patent and
copyright infringement lawsuit against Google Inc. over Android
software may be as much as $1.2 billion.  Oracle said its patent damages could be as much as $202
million and its copyright damages could be as much as $136
million, and that Google’s profit from copyright infringement
are $823.9 million, according to a filing yesterday in federal
court in  San Francisco .  Google mischaracterized Oracle’s damage estimate when it
said in a filing yesterday that Oracle was seeking $2 billion,
including $1.2 billion in unjust enrichment damages for 2012
alone, Oracle attorney Steve Holtzman said yesterday in a letter
to U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who is presiding over the
case. Google can try to show that some of its profits aren’t
attributable to Oracle’s copyrights, Holtzman said.  While the $1.2 billion figure “certainly illustrates some
of the enormous profits enabled by Google’s infringement, it is
not part of” the damage estimate, Holtzman said in the letter.  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the letter.  Oracle, the largest maker of database software, sued
Google last year alleging the search engine company didn’t
obtain a license to use Java technology patents it claims are
infringed by the Android mobile-device operating system, now
running on more than 150 million mobile devices. A trial is
scheduled for Oct. 31.  In July, Alsup threw out Redwood City, California-based
Oracle’s earlier estimate that it was entitled to as much as
$6.1 billion in damages in the lawsuit.  Oracle “intends to strenuously pursue” an injunction “to
resolve a key issue in this case: Whether Google can use
Oracle’s intellectual property to create an incompatible clone
of Java and thereby undermine Oracle’s and many others’
investments in ‘write once, run anywhere,’” the letter says. An
injunction could order the destruction of all products that
violate its copyright.  Google Chief Executive Officer Larry Page and Oracle CEO
Larry Ellison met for two days of settlement discussions this
week before a magistrate judge in  San Jose ,  California . The
companies were ordered to contact the judge yesterday to discuss
when further discussions will take place and whether Page and
Ellison would have to attend, according to a court filing.  New Zealand’s New Copyright Law Draws Bomb-Threat Protest  A New Zealand teenager who posted a bomb threat on Google
Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing site as a protest against his
nation’s new copyright law has been charged with threatening to
harm people or property, the New Zealand Herald  reported.   The teenager, a resident of South Auckland, suggested in
his video there would be explosions in municipal buildings,
according to the Herald.  The video, posted on YouTube Sept. 6, also warned that
government and media websites would be hacked as part of the
protest, according to the newspaper.  One of the conditions of the teenager’s bail was a ban on
Internet access, the newspaper reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 