-- 
Arab Governments May Buy Egyptian Debt to Reduce Highest Yield Since 2008

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-23T15:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/arabs-may-buy-egyptian-debt-to-cut-highest-yield-since-2008-1-.html
Arab governments or their
investment arms may soon buy Egyptian treasury bills to help the
government reduce the highest borrowing costs since 2008,
 Egypt ’s Deputy Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi said.  Egypt is in talks with  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab
Emirates  to buy the instruments, El Beblawi, who is also the
country’s finance minister, said in an interview in  Washington 
yesterday, where he is attending the annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  and the World Bank.  “It can materialize anytime but we have not yet finalized
the agreement,” he said. “We are really concerned about
increasing interest rates.”  The chaos accompanying this year’s popular revolt that
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  has battered tourism revenue,
weakened the pound and prompted foreign investors to cut
holdings of government debt. The Central Bank of Egypt canceled
the sale of two- and three-year bonds on Sept. 19 after domestic
investors demanded yields that authorities deemed high,
according to a government official who declined to be
identified.  Egypt raised 7.5 billion pounds ($1.3 billion) through the
sale of six-month and one-year treasury bills on Sept. 22. The
average yield on 182-day notes advanced 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 13.338 percent, the highest since October
2008, according to  central bank  data on Bloomberg. The average
yield on one-year securities rose six basis points to 13.882
percent, the data show.  Insufficient Competition  Foreign investors sold a net $7.1 billion of mainly
treasury bills in the first half of the year according to
central bank data. That left domestic banks to finance a  budget
deficit  that the government is aiming to shrink to 8.6 percent
of gross domestic product in the fiscal year through June 2012,
from an estimated 9.5 percent in the previous 12 months.  “There isn’t enough competition,” El Beblawi said.  The government isn’t planning to sell international bonds
because of public “apprehension when it comes to foreign
borrowing, though economically speaking it might be wise,” El
Beblawi said.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due in April
2020 has tumbled since it peaked at 7.07 percent at the height
of the anti-Mubarak revolt on Jan. 31.  It surged 40 basis points today, the most since January, to
5.89 percent at 4:14 p.m. in  London  according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, amid investor concerns about global economic
slowdown. The pound was unchanged at 5.9730 per dollar.  Saudi Talks  The country is now in the final stages of talks with Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates for about $5 billion in
loans to support the budget and finance projects, El Beblawi
said. The finance minister’s predecessor turned down a $3
billion loan from the IMF in June within three weeks of
negotiating it.  While Egypt hasn’t requested a new loan from the IMF, El
Beblawi said he told the fund the government has no
“inhibitions” and will consider “all their ideas on how to
help.” The government has completed agreements to borrow $400
million from the  World Bank  to finance railway and irrigation
projects, El Beblawi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Washington at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  