-- 
Marcellus Gas Drillers Face Potential ‘Chaos’ in Pennsylvania Legal Ruling

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-09-23T21:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/marcellus-gas-drillers-face-potential-chaos-in-land-law-ruling.html
A  Pennsylvania  appeals court ruling
has raised questions about who can claim ownership of natural
gas embedded in the  Marcellus shale  formation, potentially
putting in doubt the legitimacy of thousands of drilling leases.  The state’s Superior Court said Pennsylvania law governing
ownership of oil and gas rights isn’t clear and a lower-court
judge should solicit expert opinions in a case pitting current
landowners against the heirs to an 1881 deed.  “Dozens of energy companies have invested billions of
dollars in leasing shale gas production rights in
Pennsylvania,” Larry Nettles, an attorney with the Houston-
based law firm Vinson & Elkins LLP, said in a telephone
interview. “This opinion calls into question whether they have
those rights.”  For more than a century, Pennsylvania has required
landowners to consider oil and gas rights separate from more
general “mineral rights” when transferring ownership of
resources beneath the surface of their property. The defendants
in the title dispute argued shale gas is different and should be
considered part of the mineral rights because it is contained
inside rock.  The Superior Court, the second-highest court in the state,
 ruled Sept. 7  that current law doesn’t sufficiently address
whether “Marcellus shale constitutes a mineral,” the question
that’s now to be hashed out by the lower court.  Wrong Owner?  Until the case is decided, oil and gas companies will face
uncertainty about whether they’ve signed drilling leases with
the right people, legal experts say. Owners of oil and gas
rights who signed leases with gas producers could find that they
don’t own the gas after all.  “If, somehow, shale gas is different, that would be a sea
change in Pennsylvania law,” David Fine, a Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania-based attorney for K&L Gates LLP, said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “The issue is whether they’ve entered
into a lease with someone and somebody else is going to find a
problem with the title.”  The case may take as long as two years to wind through the
courts, Fine said.  “There could be waves of litigation,” said Nettles, the
Vinson & Elkins attorney, who predicted the opinion would be
overturned or set aside.  Creating ‘Chaos’  Oil and gas companies may need to check the title to
thousands of oil and gas properties they’ve leased, said David Poole, general counsel of  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  Range, based in
 Fort Worth ,  Texas , drilled one of the first Marcellus wells in
2004 and has leased 1.2 million acres in Pennsylvania. Poole
said the Pennsylvania legislature may have to act if the courts
don’t clear up the question.  “If the courts keep changing the rules in a property law
area, it creates chaos,” Poole said in an interview.  The gas industry, which has leased millions of acres in the
state to drill wells, is monitoring progress of the case through
Pennsylvania’s courts, Kathryn Z. Klaber, president of the
Marcellus Shale Coalition, a 200-company group that includes
producers  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) , and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  An 1881 deed for 244 acres in Susquehanna County is at the
heart of the lawsuit. The deed transferred “half the minerals
and petroleum oils” under the land to Charles Powers, whose
heirs say that entitles them to half of the gas. The current
landowners, John E. and Mary Josephine Butler, say they own all
the gas because the deed transferring minerals to Powers’s heirs
failed to mention gas.  Lower Court Ruling  A lower court sided with the Butlers, relying on previous
rulings that established ownership of oil or gas doesn’t change
hands unless it’s specified in a deed. Powers’s heirs argued in
court that the deed gave them the right to other minerals such
as coal -- and that they own the gas trapped in the shale the
same way they would own the gas trapped in a coal seam.  John Butler, 73, a retired dairy farmer and land surveyor,
said in an interview that he is discussing with his attorney
whether to appeal the Superior Court decision to the state
 Supreme Court . Michael John Giangrieco, a Montrose,
Pennsylvania-based attorney representing the Butlers, wasn’t
available for comment yesterday, according to his office.  Laurence M. Kelly, a Montrose, Pennsylvania, attorney for
the Powers’s heirs, didn’t immediately return a telephone
message seeking comment on the case.  Talisman Lease  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  holds the gas lease on his land,
Butler said in the interview. The Butlers leased the property
about two years ago with a coalition of neighbors, he said.
Talisman believes the lease is valid, Phoebe Buckland, a company
spokeswoman for the Calgary-based company, said in an e-mail
today. The company hasn’t started drilling on the lease, she
said.  The effect of the case “is only uncertainty,” Russell L.
Schetroma, a Meadville, Pennsylvania-based attorney for Steptoe
& Johnson PLLC wrote in a  Sept. 16 note  on the firm’s web site.  One option would be for a trade association or gas producer
to petition the Pennsylvania Supreme Court to hear an expedited
appeal of the case, Ken Komoroski, an attorney in Pittsburgh
with Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, said in an interview.  Gas production in Pennsylvania increased to about 2.8
billion cubic feet a day in July, up from about 0.6 billion
cubic feet in January 2010, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. About 218,000 Pennsylvanians worked
in Marcellus Shale-related industries at year-end, helping drive
the state’s unemployment rate below the national average, the
Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry said in a
September  report.   The case is John E. and Mary Josephine Butler v. Charles
Powers Estate et al, 1795-mda-2010, Superior Court of
Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  