-- 
Markey Calls for Scrutiny of Nuclear-Power Loan Guarantees

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-09-23T19:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/markey-calls-for-scrutiny-of-nuclear-power-loan-guarantees-1-.html
Congress should examine whether the
U.S. nuclear industry pressed lawmakers and the Energy
Department to alter loan-guarantee requirements for reactors,
Representative  Edward Markey  said.  “I urge you to commence hearings into the implementation
of the nuclear power plant loan-guarantee program,” including
an $8.3 billion award to a subsidiary of Atlanta-based  Southern
Co. (SO) , Markey said today in a letter to House Energy and Commerce
Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican.  The nuclear industry successfully pushed to put
reimbursement for private investors ahead of taxpayers in the
event of a bankruptcy or liquidation, said Markey, a
Massachusetts Democrat. The Energy Department agreed in 2009, he
said.  House Republicans  are investigating a $535 million loan
guarantee for solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, which filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6. In February, Solyndra
persuaded the Energy Department to accept refinancing that put
the U.S. behind new investors to keep the company going.  All government loan-guarantee programs may be the subject
of an investigation by the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, Representative  Darrell Issa , the panel’s chairman and
a California Republican, said on Sept. 20.  The Energy Department awarded Southern’s  Georgia  Power a
conditional guarantee in February 2010 to build two nuclear
reactors at its Vogtle plant near Waynesboro, Georgia. The U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission is scheduled to hold a Sept. 27
hearing on Southern’s license application for the reactors.  ‘Rigorous Scrutiny’  “We should subject the nuclear loan-guarantee program to
the same level of rigorous scrutiny as we are now insisting the
solar loan-guarantee program undergo,” Markey said in a
statement.  Fallout from the collapse of Solyndra after getting a loan
guarantee isn’t likely to affect Southern’s federal backing,
Steve Higginbottom, a company spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Southern, the largest U.S. utility by market value, plans
to make a financing commitment to the Energy Department after it
obtains final federal licensing approval early next year to
build the reactors, Higginbottom said.  The Energy Department would have a first claim on
Southern’s new reactors and wouldn’t take a back seat to other
lenders, Higginbottom said, refuting Markey’s comments.  “Our exceptional financial strength and 30-year history of
operating nuclear plants makes Southern Company a solid, credit-
worthy candidate” for a guarantee, Higginbottom said.  Southern’s $14 billion expansion at Vogtle is the largest
of 23 power-generation projects the federal government has
pledged to assist, with total project costs of almost $41
billion, according to the Energy Department’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  