-- 
Markets Pound South America as Leaders Proclaim Strength in Face of Crisis

-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 
2011-09-23T13:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/markets-pound-south-america-as-leaders-proclaim-strength-in-face-of-crisis.html
Leaders from South America came to
 New York  this week to tout their combined economic strength in
the face of financial turmoil in developed nations. They’ll
return home with their armor dented after investors dumped the
region’s stocks, bonds and currencies.  The presidents of Brazil,  Colombia , Peru and Chile -- the
region’s four investment-grade economies -- rattled off a list
of accomplishments in speeches this week while attending the
United Nations General Assembly: record foreign currency
reserves, falling debt levels and economic growth above 4
percent. While criticizing policy makers in  Europe  and the U.S.
for acting slowly to address their debt challenges, they vowed
to work together to protect their own economies from turmoil.  “No offense to the Greeks but I think your investment
would be safer in Peru,” President  Ollanta Humala  said last
night during a Council of the Americas dinner in New York.  The MSCI EM  Latin America  Index extended a weekly slump to
14 percent, the most since November 2008, while the MSCI World
Index lost 7.6 percent. In Brazil, the Bovespa stock index fell
for fifth day while the real rebounded after the central bank
sold dollars in the futures market for the first time in two
years to stem a 17 percent tumble this month.  Chile ’s peso
rebounded from the biggest drop among global currencies as
speculation the central bank will cease its dollar-buying
program overshadowed copper’s tumble to a one-year low.  Boost Coordination  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  told investors
yesterday that he and his Brazilian counterpart, Dilma Rousseff,
discussed at the UN the need to boost coordination within South
America. Resisting a global recession won’t be easy, said
Claudio Loser, a former International Monetary Fund official.
Policy makers in many countries have less room to increase
spending and slash  interest rates  like they did following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, he said.  “You can coordinate policies, but I don’t think you can
perform miracles,” said Loser, who oversaw Latin America at the
IMF from 1994 to 2002 and now runs the Centennial Latin America
research company based in  Washington . “If there is a deep
shock, all the countries in Latin America will see a sharp
decline.”  While trade among South American nations has soared in
recent years, together with cross-border deals like Chilean
carrier Lan Airlines SA’s planned takeover of  Brazil ’s Tam SA,
announced last year, the region is far more dependent on world
demand for its raw materials.  ‘All About Commodities’  The  World Bank  estimates that net private inflows to Latin
America surged $203 billion in 2010 from $57 billion in 2003
amid China-led demand for Chile’s copper, Brazil’s  iron ore  and
 Argentina ’s soy. In 2008, the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of 19 commodities tumbled 36 percent; so far this year
prices are down 7.7 percent.  “It’s all about commodities for those economies,” Simon Nocera, co-founder of San Francisco-based hedge fund Lumen
Advisors LLC and a former economist at the IMF, said by phone.
“Prices are coming down in reaction to the slowdown in  China .”  Falling borrowing costs have been another underpinning of
what the IMF in April called a “bonanza” for the region’s
economies. Average Brazilian dollar yields dropped to 4.71
percent from 6.46 percent since July 2008, while Colombian
yields fell to 4.16 percent from 6.32 percent, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Average yields on Latin American corporate
dollar bonds have fallen to 6.32 percent from 7.58 percent.  Forecast Maintained  Brazil, the region’s largest economy and the world’s
second-biggest exporter of iron ore, has so far been little
affected by the global slowdown, Rousseff said this week. The
IMF maintained its forecast for Brazilian growth next year at
3.6 percent in a Sept. 20 report.  “But we know that our capacity to resist isn’t
unlimited,” Rousseff told the UN General Assembly Sept. 21, the
same day the real tumbled 4.8 percent to the lowest level in 15
months. “We’re confronting an economic crisis that, if it isn’t
overcome, may produce a serious political and social rupture.”  Peru ’s currency will probably rebound from a three-month
low as central banks loosen monetary policy worldwide, spurring
flows into the Andean country as investors hunt for yield, said
Finance Minister Miguel Castilla. Peru will see “large”
amounts of investment, leading to increased demand for the sol,
he told the Bloomberg Mila conference in New York yesterday.  “Unfavorable external conditions may slow down some of
those flows, perhaps, but the president is absolutely committed
to keep the economy growing at fast rates,” Castilla said.  Declining Budgets  While the IMF cut its forecast this week for economic
growth in Latin America and the Caribbean, the region’s
economies are still forecast to expand 4.5 percent this year
compared with 1.6 percent growth in advanced nations. Peru is
expected to grow 6.2 percent this year and 5.6 percent in 2012,
outpacing the rest of the region, according to the IMF.  Other regional strengths against a potential recession
include record levels of foreign reserves and declining budget
deficits. Peru and Chile are even running surpluses.  “I’m still bullish for the region,” said  Zeina Latif , a
senior economist in Sao Paulo for RBS Securities. “There are
some cushions now that weren’t there before.”  At Santos’ urging, finance officials from  South America 
have met twice since August to discuss ways to protect their
economies. Developing countries should rely on “South-South
cooperation” given the failure of developed nations to contain
the global crisis, he said yesterday, adding that the Northern
Hemisphere is “running out of ammunition.”  Trade Barriers  While Rousseff at the UN warned against a return to
protectionism that she says could deepen a global slump, Brazil
has led the region in erecting trade barriers. Last week, it
raised by 30 percentage points a tax on foreign-made cars in a
bid to protect carmakers from a surge in imports from China and
 South Korea .  Should the real extend a decline this month, losing
competitiveness will be the least of Brazil’s worries. After
rallying 46 percent from the end of 2008 through August, the
real has tumbled 17 percent this month, more than any other
currency.  In 2008, when the real slid 38 percent from a 10-year high
in the span of four months, companies including Sadia SA, then
the country’s second-biggest food company, reported billions of
dollars in losses on bad bets the currency would continue to
rally. In July, the real strengthened even more, as 12-month
foreign direct investment climbed to a record $72 billion.  The JPMorgan Latin American Index of currencies, which
slumped 19 percent in 2008, has lost 10 percent this year. The
 MSCI EM Latin America (MXLA)  Index of equities plummeted 53 percent in
2008, its worst year in at least two decades. The same gauge has
lost 28 percent this year.  “We were not expecting this,” Chilean Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain told reporters in Washington yesterday referring
to the peso’s tumble, adding that until now the currency had
been stable. “We are well-prepared, but not bullet-proof.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
kporzecanski1@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 