-- 
Hasenstab’s Top-Selling Bond Fund Slumps 7.2%

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/hasenstab-s-templeton-global-bond-fund-loses-7-7-as-asian-currencies-fall.html
Michael Hasenstab ’s $59 billion
Templeton Global Bond Fund, the best-selling mutual fund this
year, declined 7.2 percent in the past month as Asian currencies
slumped.  Templeton Global Bond Fund helped  San Mateo , California-
based  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  quadruple its global bond assets
since June 2009. The fund, which beat 98 percent of rivals over
five years, is down 3.3 percent since the start of 2011, and it
trailed 99 percent of peers this year through Sept. 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Franklin, which had $212 billion in global stocks and $197
in global bonds at the end of August, out of a total of $716
billion under management, fell the most in almost three years on
Sept. 22 amid concern the fund’s recent performance may hurt
earnings. Hasenstab said in a statement that the losses resulted
from selloffs in  currency markets  caused by speculative
investors and don’t reflect fundamental problems.  The decline in currencies such as the South Korean won and
Australian dollar was the “result of temporary panic and
contagion as opposed to fundamental problems,” Hasenstab said
in a statement posted on the firm’s website.  Hasenstab, 38, invests mainly in bonds and currencies in
countries with strong growth prospects and limited budget
deficits. That philosophy, he wrote in a November regulatory
filing, leads him to favor developing markets over developed
ones. He holds no U.S. Treasuries or Japanese debt and his
European holdings are concentrated in countries including
Sweden, Norway and  Poland , he said.  Asian Bonds  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell to its lowest
level of the year on Sept. 22, driven by concerns that  Europe ’s
debt crisis and slowing growth around the world could lead to a
global recession.  The fund had 41 percent of its assets in the Asia-Pacific
region as of Feb. 28, according to a May regulatory filing. On
the currency side, his largest positions in the region were in
the won, with 15 percent, the Australian dollar, with 11
percent, and the Malaysian ringgit, with 9.4 percent.  In September, the won dropped 8.6 percent, the Australian
dollar 8.7 percent percent and the ringgit 6.2 percent against
the  U.S. dollar , Bloomberg data show.  Hasenstab, who oversees $150 billion in investments for
Franklin, said in an interview published on the Franklin website
that Asian currency levels were not consistent “with long-term
fundamentals,” and that he has been buying beaten-down
currencies, without specifying which ones.  ‘At the Bottom’  Hasenstab declined to comment, Matthew Walsh, a spokesman
for Franklin said in an e-mail.  “Hasenstab has backed himself into a corner with
currencies and he is living at the bottom of the pile,” Jeff Tjornehoj, an analyst at Denver-based Lipper, said in a
telephone interview. Tjornehoj called Hasenstab a “very
talented bond manager” and said the fund’s recent poor
performance shouldn’t cause investors to lose faith in the
manager.  In his interview on the website, Hasenstab said missing out
on the rally in U.S. Treasuries has also hurt performance. The
10-year Treasury note gained 4.7 percent this month through
Sept. 22 amid signs of weakness in the  U.S. economy  and the
 Federal Reserve ’s Sept. 21 decision to buy $400 billion of long-
term debt.  Treasuries, at current yields, are not attractive,
Hasenstab said. The 10-year note yields 1.83 percent, Bloomberg
data show.  $14.4 Billion  Templeton Global Bond attracted $14.4 billion in the first
eight months of 2011, more than any other U.S. mutual fund,
according to data from Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc . A $49
billion Luxembourg-based version of the fund won deposits of
$5.9 billion through May, the most among long-term funds outside
the U.S., according to New York-based researcher Strategic
Insight.  A native of Buffalo,  New York , Hasenstab holds a doctorate
and a master’s degree in economics from  Australian National
University  in Canberra,  Australia . He has a bachelor’s degree
from Carleton College in Northfield,  Minnesota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  