-- 
Asian Currencies Have Worst Week Since 1998 on Concern Over Global Economy

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-23T22:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/asian-currencies-have-worst-week-since-1998-on-concern-over-global-economy.html
Asian currencies had their biggest
weekly drop since 1998 as concern the global economy is headed
for a recession dimmed the outlook for exports and prompted
investors to favor safer bets than emerging-market assets.  South Korea ’s won and  India ’s rupee rose yesterday after
policy makers in the two nations said they were prepared to
intervene, while dollar sales by  Bank Indonesia  helped
strengthen the rupiah. All 10 most-traded Asian currencies
weakened this week as the  Federal Reserve  warned of
“significant downside risks” to the  U.S. economy  and a Chinese
purchasing managers’ index showed export orders and production
declined.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell 2.6 percent
in the week to 114.58 yesterday, the biggest drop since January
1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won lost 4.7
percent to 1,167.31 per dollar and the rupee retreated 4.6
percent to 49.4338. Malaysia’s ringgit depreciated 3.3 percent
to 3.1848 and the rupiah weakened 2.6 percent to 9,033,
Bloomberg data show.  “Concern about slowing global growth is intensifying and
investors are increasingly becoming risk averse,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok.
“This is hurting the export outlook for the region, weighing on
regional currencies. Some of the central banks may be in the
market, but downward pressure remains quite strong.”  Global funds sold $1.4 billion more Indonesian, South
Korean and Taiwanese equities than they bought this week through
Sept. 22, according to exchange data. The  International Monetary
Fund  lowered its forecast for 2011 global economic growth this
week to 4 percent from 4.3 percent, and for 2012 to 4 percent
from 4.5 percent, predicting a “severe” fallout if Europe
fails to contain its debt crisis.  Won Rebounds  The won rebounded 1.1 percent yesterday in the biggest gain
in four months, reversing the day’s losses in the final two
minutes of trading. South Korea will expand monitoring of
overseas investment trends in the country and capital outflows
amid rising financial market volatility caused by the European
fiscal crisis, the Financial Supervisory Service said yesterday.  Authorities seemed to have intervened “much more
strongly” than in previous days, said Kim Seong Soo, a Seoul-
based trader with Kyongnam Bank. “It looks as if the government
waited until there was a lot of dollar demand in the market, and
then pushed the won up by selling dollars.”  India’s rupee strengthened 0.3 percent yesterday, erasing
losses after touching the weakest level since 2009, as central
bank Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told the CNBC television
channel that policy makers may intervene in the market to curb
volatility.  Central Bank Intervention  The  Reserve Bank  of India may intervene in the foreign
exchange market should the rupee fall to 2008 levels, a finance
ministry official told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday,
requesting not to be identified as he’s not authorized to speak
on the matter.  The rupiah rose 0.8 percent yesterday, after touching a 16-
month low of 9,365 on Sept. 22, as Bank  Indonesia  said it will
remain in the market to boost confidence in the currency,
according to a mobile-phone text message from Perry Warjiyo,
director of economic research at the central bank.  The monetary authority will maintain the rupiah’s movements
in line with regional currencies, Hendar, the central bank’s
director of monetary policy who goes by only one name, said on
Sept. 22. The country’s economic fundamentals remain solid, he
added.  “There was some intervention by the central bank,” said
Wiling Bolung, head of treasury at ANZ Panin Bank in Jakarta.
“They will try to make the currency not too volatile.”  ‘Not Supportive’  The ringgit had its biggest weekly decline in 16 months
after stocks and commodities tumbled. The currency touched its
weakest level since July 2010 after reports this week showed
Americans filed more jobless claims than economists predicted
and manufacturing in  China  as well as  Europe  contracted.
Suspected market intervention around the region is stemming
losses for Asian currencies, according to Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd.  “Economic data is not supportive of the market, so we can
expect more ringgit weakness next week,” said Akira Banno, a
treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in  Kuala Lumpur .
“Central banks in the region don’t want to see such a rapid
depreciation.”  Elsewhere,  Taiwan ’s dollar dropped 2.7 percent from a week
ago to NT$30.388 against the greenback, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The Philippine peso weakened 0.7 percent to 43.585,
the  Thai baht  declined 1.7 percent to 30.90 and China’s yuan
fell 0.08 percent to 6.3885.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  