-- 
Asian Currencies Drop to 10-Month Low Prompting Central Bank Intervention

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-23T10:19:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/asian-currencies-fall-central-banks-intervene.html
Asian currencies had their biggest
weekly drop since 2008 as concern the global economy is headed
for a recession dimmed the outlook for exports and prompted
investors to favor safer bets than emerging-market assets.  South Korea ’s won and India’s rupee rose today after policy
makers in the two nations said they were prepared to intervene,
while dollar sales by Bank  Indonesia  helped strengthen the
rupiah. All 10 most-traded Asian currencies weakened this week
as the  Federal Reserve  warned of “significant downside risks”
to the  U.S. economy  and a Chinese purchasing managers’ index
showed export orders and production declined.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell 2 percent in
the week to 115.24 as of 5:45 p.m. in  Hong Kong , the biggest
drop since October 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won lost 4.7 percent to 1,167.31 per dollar and
the rupee retreated 4.1 percent to 48.285. Malaysia’s ringgit
depreciated 3 percent to 3.1735 and the rupiah weakened 2.3
percent to 9,004, Bloomberg data show.  “Concern about slowing global growth is intensifying and
investors are increasingly becoming risk averse,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok.
“This is hurting the export outlook for the region, weighing on
regional currencies. Some of the central banks may be in the
market, but downward pressure remains quite strong.”  Global funds sold $1.4 billion more Indonesian, South
Korean and Taiwanese equities than they bought this week through
yesterday, according to exchange data. The  International
Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for 2011 global economic
growth this week to 4 percent from 4.3 percent, and for 2012 to
4 percent from 4.5 percent, predicting a “severe” fallout if
Europe fails to contain its debt crisis.  Won Rebounds  The won rebounded 1.1 percent today in the biggest gain in
four months, reversing the day’s losses in the final two minutes
of trading. South Korea will expand monitoring of overseas
investment trends in the country and capital outflows amid
rising financial market volatility caused by the European fiscal
crisis, the Financial Supervisory Service said today.  Authorities seemed to have intervened “much more
strongly” than in previous days, said Kim Seong Soo, a Seoul-
based trader with Kyongnam Bank. “It looks as if the government
waited until there was a lot of dollar demand in the market, and
then pushed the won up by selling dollars.”  India ’s rupee strengthened 0.5 percent today, paring losses
after touching the weakest level since 2009, as central bank
Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told the CNBC television channel
that policy makers may intervene in the market to curb
volatility.  Central Bank Intervention  The  Reserve Bank  of India may intervene in the foreign
exchange market should the rupee fall to 2008 levels, a finance
ministry official told reporters in  New Delhi  today, requesting
not to be identified as he’s not authorized to speak on the
matter.  The rupiah rose 1.1 percent today, after touching a 16-
month low of 9,365 yesterday, as  Bank Indonesia  said it will
remain in the market to boost confidence in the currency,
according to a mobile-phone text message from Perry Warjiyo,
director of economic research at the central bank.  The monetary authority will maintain the rupiah’s movements
in line with regional currencies, Hendar, the central bank’s
director of monetary policy who goes by only one name, said
yesterday. The country’s economic fundamentals remain solid, he
added.  “There was some intervention by the central bank,” said
Wiling Bolung, head of treasury at ANZ Panin Bank in Jakarta.
“They will try to make the currency not too volatile.”  ’Not Supportive’  The ringgit had its biggest weekly decline in 16 months
after stocks and commodities tumbled. The currency touched its
weakest level since July 2010 after reports this week showed
Americans filed more jobless claims than economists predicted
and manufacturing in  China  as well as  Europe  contracted.
Suspected market intervention around the region is stemming
losses for Asian currencies, according to Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd.  “Economic data is not supportive of the market, so we can
expect more ringgit weakness next week,” said Akira Banno, a
treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in  Kuala Lumpur .
“Central banks in the region don’t want to see such a rapid
depreciation.”  Elsewhere,  Taiwan ’s dollar dropped 2.7 percent from a week
ago to NT$30.388 against the greenback, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The Philippine peso weakened 0.7 percent to 43.588,
the Thai baht declined 1.5 percent to 30.84 and China’s yuan
fell 0.09 percent to 6.3890.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  