-- 
Asian Stocks Decline for Third Week on Global Recession Concern

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-23T23:51:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/asian-stocks-decline-for-third-week-on-global-economic-recession-concerns.html
Asian stocks tumbled this week,
with a regional index falling by the most in almost three years,
amid intensifying concern that the global economy is headed for
a recession.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer
that gets most of its sales in Europe, tumbled 33 percent this
week as the currency union’s risk watchdog warned of growing
threats to global financial markets. Honda Motor Co., Japan’s
second-largest carmaker, sank 7.1 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s No. 1 mining company by market value, slid 9.6
percent, and Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s largest offshore oil producer,
tumbled 15 percent as commodity prices tumbled after the U.S.
Federal Reserve warned of “significant” risks to the economy.  “It would be flippant to suggest this is just a blip,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “The aggressive selling of
equity markets seems to reflect a heightened probability that
the world is moving toward a recession. There’s also a sense
that policy makers globally are limited in their ability to
alleviate the situation because of the need for fiscal
austerity.”  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific excluding  Japan  Index fell 10.3
percent this week to 371.85. Japanese markets were closed Sept.
19 and Sept. 23 for public holidays.  Bear Markets  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which is heavily weighted to
Japanese stocks, dropped 7.1 percent this week, taking its
losses from a May 2 high to more than 20 percent. The gauge
joined other global indexes in entering bear markets for the
first time in more than two years amid concern the worsening
European debt crisis and a slowdown in the  U.S. economy  will
stall global growth and hurt earnings.  Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at about 11.4
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 11.4 times
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 9.1 times for the Stoxx
600.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  tumbled 9.2 percent, and the
MSCI China Index sank 11 percent, their third-worst weekly
declines since at least August 2001, after a report showed
China’s manufacturing may contract for a third month in
September.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index, which through Sept. 22 was the
only developed market benchmark index to have recorded any gain
this year, fell 0.3 percent, erasing its advance for 2011 and
joining a global bear market that has wiped more than $8
trillion from equities in the past two months.  Regional Benchmarks  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average sank 3.4 percent for its
holiday-shortened trading week. South Korea’s Kospi Index
dropped 7.8 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 5.9
percent, and  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index retreated 3.2
percent. Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index tumbled 11 percent,
the worst performance of any benchmark index in Asia.  Esprit tumbled 33 percent to HK$8.23, and  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a
supplier of toys and clothes to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., slid 12
percent to HK$12.52 this week in Hong Kong. Honda dropped 7.1
percent to 2,275 yen in  Tokyo .  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , a
surfwear maker that gets about 70 percent of sales from the
Americas and Europe, fell 8.5 percent to A$3 in Sydney.  Volatility Soars  Market fluctuations have driven gauges of volatility up
across the region, with Hong Kong’s HSI Volatility Index jumping
29 percent this week and a similar measure in Korea advancing 30
percent. Five-day implied volatility on the Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index jumped 45 percent this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Federal Open Market Committee said on Sept. 21. The central bank
will buy securities with maturities of six to 30 years through
June while selling an equal amount of debt maturing in three
years or less, it also said.  “The Fed delivered exactly what had been expected,” said
 Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “All underlying measures of credit risk
are rising and there are numerous examples of banks having to
resort to unusual measures to obtain funding. Under the surface,
we are moving quickly into a secondary credit crisis.”  Threats Increase  The European Systemic Risk Board said threats to the
financial system have increased “considerably” amid a
worsening debt crisis in  Europe . The  International Monetary Fund 
said the sovereign-debt issue has generated as much as 300
billion euros ($406 billion) in credit risk for European banks
that will face “funding challenges.”  Italy’s credit rating was cut by Standard & Poor’s this
week, the country’s first downgrade in five years, as Greece’s
worsening fiscal crisis fans concern that contagion will engulf
countries such as Spain and Italy.  Commodity producers slid after oil and metal prices fell as
investors speculated that demand will falter amid a plunge in
financial markets and signs of a weakening global economy.  BHP fell 9.6 percent to A$34.55, and Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s second-largest mining company by sales, tumbled 12
percent to A$62.65 this week in Sydney. Cnooc sank 15 percent to
HK$11.84 in Hong Kong, while  Inpex Corp. (1605) , Japan’s largest oil
explorer, retreated 6.9 percent to 482,500 yen in Tokyo.  Crude Oil Declines  Crude for November delivery fell 66 cents to $79.85 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the first settlement
below $80 since Aug. 9. The London Metal Exchange Index of
prices for six metals including copper and aluminum sank 10
percent.  Lynas Corp., an Australian rare earth developer, tumbled 33
percent to A$1.055 this week in Sydney, following declines in
prices for the elements used in electronics and magnets. The
stock had the biggest five-day drop among the companies in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Asian stocks pared declines during the day on Sept. 23
after finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations said they
would address “heightened downside risks” from sovereign debt
and a slowing global economy.  “A renewed commitment to supporting the global financial
system has buoyed expectations of a meaningful, coordinated
response to the world’s financial stresses,” said Pengana’s
Schroeders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  