-- 
AT&T Judge Sets Expert Reports Deadlines in Antitrust Case

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-23T22:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/at-t-judge-sets-deadlines-for-expert-witnesses-reports-in-antitrust-case.html
The judge overseeing the U.S.
 Justice Department ’s antitrust lawsuit seeking to block  AT&T
Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. gave both sides
until Dec. 28 to file reports by expert witnesses.  Responses to those reports must be filed by Jan. 9,
according to the order issued today by U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle. Rebuttal reports must be delivered by Jan. 16,
according to the order.  The judge’s order resolved a dispute between the government
and AT&T over deadlines for the expert reports. Earlier today
the U.S. Justice Department asked Huvelle to give it until
Jan. 5 to prepare its reports, while AT&T had pressed for a
Nov. 15 deadline. The trial is set to begin Feb. 13.  The expert reports will likely be central to the case, said
Howard University law professor Andrew Gavil.  “The government will have to lay out how the merger will
be anticompetitive and the only way to present those models is
with economists,” Gavil said in a phone interview. “To the
extent there is a difference of opinion between the government
and AT&T, this is the area that is likely to heat up and be
critical ground for discussion.”  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Last week, seven states joined the government’s
effort to block the deal.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at  sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  