-- 
AT&T Clashes With U.S. Over Expert Deadline in T-Mobile Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-09-23T19:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/at-t-u-s-clash-over-deadline-for-expert-reports-in-lawsuit.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and the U.S. clashed over
the deadline for submitting reports by government economists and
other experts in the  Justice Department ’s lawsuit to block the
wireless carrier’s $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc.  The Justice Department asked U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in Washington today to give it until Jan. 5 to
prepare its expert reports. AT&T, in its filing today, said that
would leave the company “in the dark” on the analysis underlying
the U.S. antitrust case, less than six weeks before a Feb. 13
trial.  “This proposal simply makes no sense and would allow the
plaintiffs, notwithstanding their burden of proof, to hide the
ball until the last possible second,” Mark Hansen, of Kellogg,
Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans & Figel PLLC in  Washington , a lawyer
for AT&T, said in the filing. AT&T asked Huvelle to set a Nov.
15 deadline for the expert reports.  The U.S. said the reports will address complex technical,
economic and competitive issues requiring analysis of
“voluminous documents and data concerning the nature, scope and
effect of competition” in the mobile-phone industry.  “Although the government obtained a substantial volume of
investigative material, critical materials were not produced
until late in the investigation,” the Justice Department said
in its filing. Evidence gathering before the lawsuit was filed
was aimed at deciding whether to bring an antitrust enforcement
case, not preparing for a trial, the U.S. said.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Last week, seven states joined the government’s
effort to block the deal.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  