-- 
Australia Beats U.S. 67-5 at Rugby World Cup to Recover from Ireland Loss

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-23T13:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/australia-beats-u-s-67-5-at-rugby-world-cup-to-recover-from-ireland-loss.html
Australia ran in 11 tries to rout
the U.S. 67-5 at the  Rugby World Cup  and rebound from last
week’s upset loss to Ireland.  The Wallabies got two tries in the last 10 minutes of the
first half and two in the first 10 minutes of the second last
night to pull away after the Americans had closed to within 10-5
on J.J. Gagiano’s 22nd-minute try at Wellington Regional
Stadium.  Adam Ashley-Cooper touched down three times in less than 10
minutes in the second half as the Wallabies extended their
perfect record against the Eagles to seven Test matches. The
victory puts Australia at the top of Pool C, with 10 points.
Ireland, which beat the Australians Sept. 17, has 8, having
played one fewer match.  “It was important for us because we were very disappointed
after the last game,”  Australia  hooker Tatafu Polota-Nau told
reporters. “We needed to set out the standard. The objective
was to have structure and go according to our plan, and we did
that.”  The Americans have four points, and rested some players to
prepare for their Sept. 27 game with Italy, which is in third
place in the group with 5 points after two games.  By losing to Ireland, Australia set itself up for a
potential quarterfinal matchup with fellow two-time world
champion  South Africa .  Injuries  Australia may find itself short in the midfield after
injuries to Anthony Faingaa, who suffered a concussion; Rob
Horne, who fractured his cheekbone; and Pat McCabe, who
dislocated his shoulder. Wycliff Palu also injured his hamstring
in the game.  The Wallabies entered rugby’s four-yearly championship
after winning their first Tri-Nations title since 2001 and are
rated the second favorite to lift the Webb Ellis Cup behind host
 New Zealand . No team has lost a pool match and gone on to take
the trophy in six previous edition.  “It was more about convincing ourselves that we are
genuine contender,” Australia wing  Drew Mitchell  said. “We
have got to look at it now like we can be the first team to win
it from second in our pool.”  Australia, led by Will Genia in the absence of rested
captain  James Horwill , dominated a U.S. team rated 14 places
below it in the International Rugby Board  rankings . The Eagles
also featured 14 starting changes from their 13-6 win over
 Russia  on Sept. 15.  ‘Out of Steam’  “The boys showed a lot of intensity, showed what was asked
of them,” U.S. captain Tim Usasz said. “We ran out of steam at
the end. That’s the difference when you play the best sides in
the world, they really punish you for your mistakes and that’s
what we learned tonight. We came here to be measured against the
best and we learned from it.”  Having managed just six points against Ireland for their
lowest score in a  World Cup  match, the Wallabies took 11 minutes
to surpass that total, with Horne scoring in the 8th minute and
 Rocky Elsom  touching down three minutes later. Both conversions
were missed.  The Americans kept the pressure up, keeping the ball in the
Australians half. Gagiano touched down off a scrum near the try
line as the crowd started to get into the game.  The U.S., which had 53 percent of overall possession, was
able to pressure the Australians, who made 12 handling errors to
six for the Americans.  Kurtley Beale and Faingaa scored within four minutes of
each other just before halftime to put give Australia a 22-5
lead.  Pulling Away  Mitchell and  Pat McCabe  then scored early in the second
half as the two-time champions started to run at the Americans,
who began to tire. Ashley-Cooper scored his first try in the
58th minute, and touched down again in the 63rd and 65th
minutes.  Faingaa, who was injured just before the final whistle,
went across the line five minutes later, and Radike Samo
finished the scoring in the 77th minute.  Australian coach  Robbie Deans  said his team will look at
the injuries before deciding whether to bring in replacements
for the squad.  “We’ll see what the medics say before we make that sort of
decision,” Deans said. “We have an eight-day turnaround now.
Obviously Horne will require some attention and we’ll wait till
we know the full extent of it before we make any decisions.”  Australia, which won the title in 1991 and 1999, finishes
pool play against Russia on Oct. 1. The U.S. will be eliminated
if Ireland beats last-place Russia this weekend.  “Our World Cup’s not over,”  Usasz said. “We’ve got a
big match against  Italy . Our final match of the pool so we’re
really looking forward to that and hopefully we can come away
with a win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 