-- 
Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch Will Stay, Says HP Deal Wasn’t Explained Clearly

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-23T15:53:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/autonomy-ceo-mike-lynch-will-stay-says-hp-deal-wasn-t-explained-clearly.html
Autonomy Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Mike Lynch said the logic behind his company’s $10.3
billion takeover by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  hadn’t been clearly
communicated and he plans to stay in his current position for at
least a couple of years.  Hewlett-Packard’s Chairman  Ray Lane  and new CEO  Meg Whitman 
informed Lynch of plans to replace her predecessor  Leo Apotheker 
“a couple of days before it became formal,” Lynch said today
in an interview. HP, which ousted Apotheker this week after less
than 11 months as CEO following three sales forecast cuts and
strategy shifts, is prioritizing the completion of the Autonomy
acquisition, he said.  “It was a shame that the rationale hadn’t been clearly
communicated,” Lynch said of the takeover of the U.K.’s second-
largest software company. “It’s not just another software
acquisition.”  Pressure on Apotheker intensified on Aug. 18, when he
announced an overhaul that included the acquisition of Autonomy
and a possible spinoff of the personal-computer business. He
also killed off the company’s WebOS tablets and smartphones.
Apotheker was unaware that his position was being questioned
until news broke on Sept. 21, according to a person close to the
situation.  Lynch’s Strategy  Lynch, who founded Autonomy in 1996 and owns 8 percent of
the software maker’s shares, will report directly to Whitman, he
said. Whitman, the former CEO of EBay Inc., said yesterday she
planned to continue with Apotheker’s strategy to avoid
alienating shareholders unsettled by changes in course under the
previous tenure.  Lynch “is closely associated with the success” of
Autonomy, Milan Radia, a managing director of equities research
at Jefferies International Ltd., said today in an interview on
Bloomberg TV. “He’ll have had a meeting of minds with Leo, and
suddenly Leo’s not there anymore.”  There’s a risk that Autonomy would “become an orphaned
asset within HP if the strategy doesn’t come together,” Radia
said.  Hewlett-Packard cares more about hardware than the software
business, Hewlett-Packard’s Lane said today on CNBC.  Autonomy, based in Cambridge, England, will give Hewlett-
Packard software that searches a broad range of information,
known as unstructured data, including e-mails, music, video and
posts on social networks such as Facebook Inc.  Hardware, Software  Lynch will also work with Lane, who takes on a full-time
role as executive chairman, to focus on tying Autonomy’s
software to Hewlett-Packard’s hardware, he said. “The real home
run is hardware and software working together.”  Hewlett-Packard fell to its lowest price in more than six
years today, declining 4.2 percent to $21.85 at 11:39 a.m. in
 New York . Autonomy rose 0.2 percent to 2,523 pence in  London .  Lynch refuted comments by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  CEO  Larry Ellison 
this week, who had said Autonomy had been “shopped” to Oracle.
Autonomy’s management never offered the company to Oracle,
preferring the fact that Hewlett-Packard “doesn’t have a legacy
position it has to protect,” he said.  Ellison, speaking on an analyst call this week, showed he
“was out of touch with what is the real problem,” Lynch said.
Ellison “confused the ability to store data” with
understanding and processing it, he said.  On the analyst call, Ellison, who called the Autonomy
purchase price “absurdly high,” said he didn’t want to “have
two separate databases, kind of an Autonomy-like unstructured
database and an Oracle structured database.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  