-- 
Tax-Exempt Bonds Penalized in Sales Wave as Treasuries Rally: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/tax-exempt-bonds-penalized-in-sales-wave-as-treasuries-rally-muni-credit.html
The biggest wave of tax-exempt
borrowing in 2011 is widening the gap between municipal yields
and Treasury rates to the most in more than two years as
investors extract concessions after a 10-month sales slump.  Municipal issuers led by New York City,  Minnesota  and the
 District of Columbia  are selling about $20 billion from Sept. 12
through Sept. 30, the biggest three-week total since December,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference between
yields on 10- and 30-year municipals and Treasuries is the
greatest since April 2009.  “The supply’s taking some kind of a toll on relative
 interest rates ,” said Alan Schankel, director of fixed income
research at Philadelphia-based brokerage Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC.  Muni borrowing costs are “not falling maybe as sharply as
they would have otherwise,” he said. “At least part of that
reason is the increased supply.”  Yields on 10-year municipals reached 117 percent of
Treasury rates yesterday, compared with the average in the past
five years of 94 percent. As a result, states facing a combined
$125 billion of budget gaps in fiscal 2012, according to the
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , aren’t able to gain the
full savings on relative borrowing costs as Treasuries rally.  Ten-year U.S. government bond yields fell to 1.72 percent
yesterday, the lowest since January 1962 as stocks fell
worldwide on concern the global economy is sliding into
recession.  Yields on tax-exempt debt maturing in 30 years were 126
percent of Treasuries yesterday, higher than the five-year
average of 107 percent.  Record Low  Even with the wider spread over Treasuries, tax-exempt bond
issuers are paying some of the lowest absolute borrowing costs
in more than two years. Yields on top-rated 10-year municipals
were 2.01 percent yesterday, the lowest level since January
2009, when Bloomberg data for the securities begins. That rate
for tax-exempt bonds is still 29 basis points higher than
comparable Treasury yields. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Yields on top-rated 30-year municipals were 3.52 percent
yesterday, also the lowest since Bloomberg records start. The
yield is 72 basis points higher than the 2.80 percent 30-year
Treasury yield.  Municipal yields may rise later this year to compensate for
further increases in issuance as states and municipalities
complete borrowing plans, said Chris Ihlefeld, who helps manage
about $6.7 billion in municipal holdings for Thornburg
Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . The spread
over Treasuries may also widen, he said.  ‘Supply Pick Up’  “We often see supply pick up in the later part of the year
and I would expect that as we continue to see an uptick, that
muni rates would go up,” Ihlefeld said in a telephone
interview. “And if all other things held constant, that would
potentially increase the ratio of munis to Treasuries.”  While income from debt redemptions propelled purchases in
recent months, the total from bondholders reinvesting proceeds
of matured securities is expected to fall to a combined $55
billion in October and November from $61 billion in the previous
two months, said Peter DeGroot, head of municipal research at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Investors added about $296 million to U.S. municipal-bond
mutual funds in the week through Sept. 21, Lipper US Fund Flows
said. It was the third straight week of inflows.  Issuance this year has been slow compared with 2010, when
states and cities took advantage of the taxable Build America
Bond program and its 35 percent federal subsidy of interest.
Total municipal sales in 2011 were $156 billion as of Sept. 16,
according to Bloomberg data, compared with $269 billion sold
during the same time in 2010.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  NEW YORK CITY , the most populous U.S. city, is to borrow
$818 million of tax-exempt and taxable bonds as soon as Sept.
27. The transaction will finance capital projects and convert
$168 million of variable-rate bonds into fixed-rate debt. The
city is rated AA, Fitch Rating’s third-highest grade. Siebert
Brandford Shank & Co. LLC will lead a syndicate of banks
marketing the sale. (Added Sept. 23)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  