-- 
Axa Said to Hire Credit Suisse for Buyout Fund Unit Sale

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-09-23T13:16:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/axa-said-to-hire-credit-suisse-for-buyout-fund-unit-sale-1-.html
Axa SA (CS) , France’s largest insurer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG to explore a sale of its private
equity fund manager, as it seeks to focus on insurance,
according to a person with knowledge of the discussions.  The unit,  Axa Private Equity , may be valued at about 500
million euros ($672 million), said the person, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private. Axa may decide to
retain a stake in the operation and the management of Axa
Private Equity may also buy a stake, the person said.  Axa said last month that first-half profit more than
quadrupled on gains from asset sales in  China , Australia and  New
Zealand . Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries, who is
preparing for a regulatory shake-up with the implementation of
more stringent rules in 2013, is banking on Asia to drive growth
and scaling back in regions including Canada and the U.K. It
sold most of its U.K. life-insurance businesses last year at a
loss.  Emmanuel Touzeau, a Paris-based spokesman at Axa, declined
to comment, as did a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in London.
Sky News reported the discussions earlier today.  Axa Private Equity, based in Paris, manages about $28
billion of assets for mostly third-party investors including
pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. It holds stakes in
U.S. and European buyout funds run by firms including  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co. and BC Partners Ltd. It also invests
directly in mid-sized companies and infrastructure projects in
 Europe .  Coding Error  Axa Private Equity employs 251 people in Europe,  New York 
and Singapore and was started by CEO Dominique Senequier 15
years ago with the support of Axa’s founder, Claude Bebear.  In January, Carlyle Group agreed to buy AlpInvest Partners
NV, a Dutch money manager that oversees about 32 billion euros
in private-equity funds, to expand its asset-management
operations.  Axa has had issues with its fund-management business,
unrelated to Axa Private Equity, with clients withdrawing 64
billion euros of assets in 2010 following a coding error at
U.S.-based Axa Rosenberg Group LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  