-- 
Banco do Brasil Says Trade Loan Terms Unharmed by Europe Credit Crunch

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-09-23T20:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/banco-do-brasil-says-trade-loan-terms-unharmed-by-europe-credit-crunch.html
Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , the country’s
biggest lender by assets, is maintaining the price and the
maturity of its trade finance lines even after a global crisis
prompted some European banks to retreat from the market.  Banco do Brasil is increasing its borrowing for trade loans
from Asian and North American banks to offset declining credit
supply from  Europe , said Allan Toledo, president of the lender’s
wholesale area.  “We have a very diversified source of funding and this is
great in a moment like this in the markets,” Toledo said.  European banks are withdrawing credit as a deepening debt
crisis threatens to tip the region back into recession.
Brazilian exporters took $38.9 billion of short-term trade loans
this year through Sept. 16, surpassing the $37.6 billion they
borrowed all of last year, according to central bank data.  Banco do Brasil SA, the biggest supplier of such loans in
the country, has enough dollars to meet the needs of exporters,
Chief Executive Officer Aldemir Bendine said in an interview in
 Sao Paulo  yesterday. Bendine said he expects the state-run bank
to lend record volumes to exporters this year. The bank has
$35.7 billion of such loans outstanding, he said.  This year, the bank has already lent $13.6 billion through
the short-term facilities backed by export receipts, known as
ACCs, more than the $12.6 billion for all of last year, Toledo
said.  The international interbank market accounts for about one
third of Banco do Brasil’s dollar funding, Toledo said. At the
end of June, the bank had $31.7 billion that could be used to
fund exports, he said. About $3 billion of that total came from
personal deposits, $6.5 billion from company deposits and $10
billion was obtained from bonds the bank sold and other
structured funding operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  