-- 
Bank of America Is Said to Hire Ex-Goldman Sachs Chemical Banker Regulla

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-09-23T14:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/bank-of-america-said-to-hire-ex-goldman-chemical-banker-regulla.html
Bank of America Merrill Lynch has
hired former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  chemicals-and-steel banker
Marc-Olivier Regulla, two people with knowledge of the situation
said.  Regulla will join Bank of America’s industrial investment
banking team as a senior banker next month, said the people who
declined to be identified because the move hasn’t been formally
announced yet.  During Regulla’s years at Goldman, the  U.S. bank  oversaw
the sale of cosmetics-ingredient maker Cognis to  BASF SE (BAS)  for
about $3.8 billion as well as the $609 million initial public
offering of AZ Electronic Materials SA.  His arrival coincides with Bank of America’s dismissal of
13 investment bankers in its industrials group, including
managing directors David Iwan and Egan Antill, two people with
direct knowledge of the actions said Sept. 20. Bank of America
is ranked second in the U.S. and globally in industrial-firm
fees, according to Dealogic, an information and consulting
service.  Mergers and acquisitions of industrial companies accounted
for about 15 percent of all M&A activity in the last decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe ’s debt woes have led to a pause in chemical mergers
and acquisitions as chief executives take extra time to decide
whether to pursue takeover targets and private equity firms
suffer stiffer constraints on fund-raising. By mid-year,
chemical makers in Europe alone had accumulated $25 billion in
cash after instigating cost cuts during the recession, according
to Bloomberg data.  Strategic buyers dominated in the $14 billion of chemical
dealmaking in the second quarter, PricewaterhouseCoopers said in
an August report. Private equity accounted for only 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  