-- 
Banxico Rate-Cut Bets Tossed Out as Peso Plunges: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-09-23T22:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/banxico-rate-cut-bets-tossed-out-as-peso-plunges-mexico-credit.html
The  Mexican peso ’s longest losing
streak on record is fueling concern inflation will quicken and
prompting traders to scrap bets on interest-rate cuts.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day  interbank rate 
due September 2012 fell 11 basis points today to 5.00 percent, a
level that indicates traders expect policy makers’ next move
will be an increase rather than a reduction. As recently as last
week, investors were expecting Mexico to follow  Brazil  and cut
its 4.5 percent key rate at next month’s meeting.  The peso sunk 12 percent during a stretch of 11 straight
daily declines through yesterday amid speculation that the
worldwide economic slump will curb demand for Mexican exports
and slow investment into the country. While traders had begun
anticipating in August that the global slump would prompt
Mexican central bankers to shore up growth by lowering rates,
the peso’s plunge this month to a two-year low is squelching
that speculation by fueling concern import prices will surge.  The peso “is the main reason that the market no longer
expects a reduction,” Alejandro Padilla, a  Mexico  City-based
debt strategist at Grupo Financiero Banorte-Ixe, said in a
telephone interview. “If this weakening continues, we could
clearly see a pass-through that could have a negative effect on
inflation.”  Mexico’s currency has fallen 14 percent in the past two
months to 13.5600 per dollar as of 5 p.m. in New York as
 Europe ’s deepening debt crisis added to concern the global
economy was sinking into recession. The decline is the fourth-
biggest in emerging markets after the South African rand’s 17
percent drop, the Brazilian real’s 15 percent decline and the
Polish Zloty’s 14 percent fall. The peso today jumped 3.9
percent, the most since May 2009.  Canada Comparison  Elsewhere in  North America , odds that the  Bank of Canada 
will cut rates at least once by January have soared past 80
percent in the past two days, overnight index swaps indicate.  Brazil’s central bank trimmed its benchmark rate 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 12 percent on Aug. 31 after
five straight rate increases. Swaps traders in the South
American country predict another 100 basis points of cuts by
year-end, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey  also
lowered  interest rates  last month, reducing them to a record low
of 5.75 percent on Aug. 4.  Banco de Mexico , known as Banxico, has left its rate at a
record low for 21 straight meetings, making it the only major
country in  Latin America  to not have changed borrowing costs in
the past year.  Banorte-Ixe forecasts policy makers will stay on hold until
raising rates in November 2012. According to the median estimate
of 15 economists in a survey released Sept. 20 by Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit, the bank’s next move will be to raise rates
by 25 basis points in June 2012. The peso will end the year at
12.05 per U.S. dollar, the survey showed.  Fed’s Warning  Mexico’s annual inflation rate slowed to a five-year low in
March and has never exceeded the bank’s target range of 2
percent to 4 percent this year.  The peso’s slide quickened after the  Federal Reserve  said
on Sept. 21 that there are “significant downside risks” to
growth in the  U.S. economy , the destination for 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports. The Fed said it plans to buy long-term debt in
an effort to shore up the expansion.  Mexico’s economy will probably grow 4 percent this year and
a “little less” than that in 2012, central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens said in an interview with Mexico City-based
Radio Formula on Sept. 8.  Carstens said a week later at the Bloomberg Markets 50
Summit in  New York  that he doesn’t think the peso’s slump “is a
permanent situation.”  Mexican Fundamentals  “The peso is a currency that should follow in the next
months the performance of the fundamentals in the Mexican
economy,” Carstens said.  A central bank press official in Mexico City declined to
comment on the peso and rates yesterday.  Carstens said in an interview today in  Washington  that the
fundamentals of Mexico’s economy should support the peso and
“the market is operating well.”  The Fed’s Sept. 21 statement also sparked a tumble in
global equities as investors worried that policy makers are
running out of options to support global growth. Mexico’s
benchmark IPC index sank 7.4 percent this week, following a 6.5
percent plunge in the  S&P 500 index. (SPX)   “We’re still facing important risks,” said Mauro Roca, an
emerging-market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, in a telephone
interview from New York. “The Mexican peso could be affected
not only from the events in Europe but also from movement in
U.S. equities and expectations regarding U.S. growth. It’s too
early to call it a floor” on the peso, he said.  Default Swaps  The peso’s losing streak was the longest since the
government reset its nominal value in 1993 following years of
annual inflation over 10 percent.  A rate cut is still possible if growth keeps slowing, said
Aryam Vazquez, an emerging-markets economist at  Wells Fargo &
Co . in New York.  “If we continue to see the deterioration in economic
activity both abroad and locally and inflation remains in target
ranges, they definitely have enough justification to cut
rates,” Vazquez said in a phone interview from New York. “It’s
an option. It’s not my base-case scenario, but it’s certainly
there.”  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 rose 37
basis points this week to 6.91 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points
today to 271, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 12 basis points today to 206, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  “There is some justification to confirm that there is a
slowdown in economic activity,” Vazquez said. “When you add
that to the global outlook, that certainly could lead to
expectations of a softer monetary stance.”  Buying the peso with funds borrowed in the U.S., a practice
known as the carry trade, resulted in a 13 percent loss since
the end of June, the third-worst performance among major
currencies after the rand and the real. The peso touched 14.0945
per dollar yesterday and closed at 14.0944, the lowest since
March 31, 2009.  Carry Trade  A rate cut would weaken the peso further as the carry trade
becomes less attractive, said Javier Belaunzaran, who helps
manage about 40 billion pesos ($2.9 billion) at Interacciones
Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. He projects no possibility of a
cut at the Oct. 14 policy meeting unless the peso appreciates to
stronger than 13 per dollar by then.  “The  exchange rate  is an obstacle to cutting rates,”
Belaunzaran said. “It’s too weak right now and cutting rates
would weaken it even more. It would be a counterproductive sign
at this moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  