-- 
Mexican Peso ‘Clearly Undervalued,’ Central Bank Head Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-09-23T16:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/banxico-rate-cut-bets-tossed-out-as-peso-posts-record-slide-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s peso is “clearly
undervalued” after tumbling 11 percent against the dollar in
the past month, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in
an interview.  Carstens commented as the peso stabilized after tumbling
for 11 consecutive days on concern slower economic growth will
undermine commodity prices. The Mexican currency appreciated
2.25 percent to 13.7895 to the dollar as of 12:42 p.m.  New York 
time.  “At this stage the peso is clearly undervalued,” Carstens
said in the interview in  Washington  today. “Today, we are
seeing an important correction in the exchange rate and I would
expect it to continue. The fundamentals of the Mexican economy
are very strong and will anchor the  exchange rate .”  The peso’s longest losing streak on record is fueling
concern inflation will quicken and prompting traders to scrap
bets on interest-rate cuts. Yields on futures contracts for the
28-day  interbank rate  due August 2012 rose 13 basis points
yesterday to 5.04 percent, compared with the current benchmark
rate of 4.5 percent.  The central bank will continue to apply a firm monetary
policy to maintain control over inflation, Carstens told the
newspaper Excelsior yesterday.  The weaker peso will have an impact on inflation if it is
sustained, though the impact won’t be significant, the central
bank governor said today.  Global Weakness  The peso has tumbled along with other emerging markets on
speculation that the worldwide economic slump will curb demand
for Mexican exports and slow investment into the country. While
traders had begun anticipating in August that the global slump
would prompt Mexican central bankers to shore up growth by
lowering rates, the peso’s plunge this month to a two-year low
is squelching that speculation by fueling concern import prices
will surge.  “The peso has depreciated pretty much in parallel with
other emerging-market currencies,” Carstens said. “As a matter
of fact, it has depreciated less than other important currencies
like the real or the Chilean peso.”  The peso’s slide quickened after the  Federal Reserve  said
on Sept. 21 that there are “significant downside risks” to
growth in the U.S. economy, the destination for 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports. The Fed said it plans to buy long-term debt in
an effort to shore up the expansion.  U.S. Growth  “My belief is that the policy measures that the U.S. has
put forward will do their work and at the beginning of next year
we will start seeing a rebound in the U.S. economy,” Carstens
said. “Mexico’s economy is more correlated to industrial
production in the U.S. and the projections for the future are
that industrial production in the U.S. will be more resilient
than overall GDP, so the impact of the slowdown in the  U.S.
economy  will not be mapped one to one to Mexico.”  The growth in exports to markets other than the U.S. will
also help sustain the Mexican economy, he said, adding that
there was no need for additional fiscal stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 