-- 
G-20 Making Progress on Greater Role for Yuan, Baroin Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-23T05:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/baroin-says-g-20-advancing-on-inclusion-of-yuan-in-imf-s-sdr.html
Group of 20 nations are making
progress on finding a greater role for  China ’s currency in the
global monetary system, French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin 
said.  “We’re advancing in the discussions” about the yuan and
its inclusion in the International Monetary Fund’s special
drawing rights, Baroin said at a press conference in Washington
after meeting with his G-20 counterparts. “There is a plan to
advance to progressive convertibility” and France is readying
proposals for a timetable, he added.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has been trying to coax China
into accepting a greater role for its currency during France’s
chairmanship of the G-20 that will culminate in a summit in
Cannes in November. The discussions are part of efforts to limit
global economic imbalances and avoid another financial crisis.  The SDR is an artificial unit valued against a basket of
currencies that includes the dollar, euro, pound and yen. It is
used by IMF members to settle accounts with each other and can
be converted into hard currency.  Broadening the basket to include currencies such as the
Chinese yuan or increasing the number of SDRs in circulation
could help dilute the dollar’s power in international reserve
management. Potential obstacles to such a move include U.S.
objections to undermining its  exchange rate  and the fact that
the rights account for just 5 percent of reserves and have a
negligible role in financial markets.  China may also balk at making the yuan more flexible in
return for its inclusion. The IMF is studying the composition of
the SDR basket having kept it unchanged last year when it
decided the yuan didn’t satisfy the entry criteria because it’s
not “freely usable.”  Two years ago, China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
said the IMF should increase the role of SDRs and aim to create
a “super-sovereign reserve currency” over the long term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Washington at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  