-- 
Basel Said to Weigh Bank Criticisms of Too-Big-to-Fail Levy

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-23T10:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/basel-said-to-weigh-bank-criticisms-of-too-big-to-fail-surcharge.html
The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  will next week consider the need for changes
to capital surcharges on the biggest banks amid warnings from
lenders that the measures may stymie the financial system’s
recovery, according to two people familiar with the talks.  The Basel group will weigh the criticisms from banks
including BNP Paribas SA and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as it seeks to agree
on the final version of the surcharge proposals, according to
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Reserves that banks must hold to guard against the risk
of a derivatives clearinghouse default and ensuring new capital
requirements don’t hurt global trade also will be discussed
at the Sept. 27-28 meeting in the Swiss city, they said.  Regulators in the committee “would be well advised to
completely ignore the bank lobby that is using the current
weakness of the global economy and the fragility of the banking
system as levers to water down” the surcharge plans, said Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy group Re-Define  Europe  in
 London .  The Basel group agreed in June to impose stricter minimum
 capital requirements  of as much as 2.5 percentage points of core
reserves on banks whose failure could send shock waves
throughout the financial system. Since then, sentiment toward
European banks has been eroded by fears of a Greek default and
speculation that Italy and  Spain  will be forced to seek
international bailouts.  Euro-Region Crisis  The euro-region crisis has left European lenders with as
much as 300 billion euros ($404.4 billion) of credit risk,
according to an International Monetary Fund report on Sept. 21.
The turmoil may prompt governments to inject more capital into
some lenders, according to  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s
antitrust chief.  Twenty-eight lenders would face surcharges if the rules
were already in force, the Basel committee has said, without
naming the companies. At least four banks would qualify for the
top 2.5 percentage-point requirement, it said.  Some banks have warned that the Basel measures are
excessive, would force them to curtail their lending, and have
been poorly designed, with too much attention focused on firms’
size.  “Elementary wisdom would dictate delaying it for review
once all other highly demanding regulatory measures have been
implemented,”  BNP Paribas (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, said in its
 response  to the Basel committee.  The surcharge proposals could discourage banks “from
facilitating global trade,” Citigroup said in its response to
the Basel consultation.  Global Reach  Banks should be categorized according to their size,
interconnectedness, global reach and the scope for other firms
to take over their functions should they fail, the committee
said in June.  The Basel group released the plans for  public
comment  in July, and said it anticipates phasing in the rules
between 2016 and the end of 2018.  Even though the timelines seem “fairly long,” there will
be “market pressure for firms to move more quickly to the
higher levels,” as soon as the Basel surcharge levels are
finalized, Patricia Jackson, head of prudential advisory at
Ernst & Young LLP in London, said in a phone interview.  “That’s why it starts raising a question of whether or not
the Basel committee should go ahead now,” Jackson said.  Sovereign-Debt Crisis  The effects of Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis on its banks,
the $2.3 billion trading loss that  UBS AG (UBSN)  disclosed this month,
and the proposals on how to regulate U.K. banks made by a panel
headed by former Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers 
have “if anything” strengthened the case for “a bigger
capital surcharge in the medium term,” said Re-Define Europe’s
Kapoor.  The “fragile economic situation could be used as an
argument to lower” the proposed surcharges, said Jesper Berg,
senior vice president at Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest
mortgage bank. “On the other hand, I think that these numbers
are not horrendous.”  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
regulators, central bankers and financial ministry officials
from the Group of 20 countries,  has said  that work on the rules
should be finished in time for them to be approved at a summit
of leaders from the G20 in Cannes,  France , on Nov. 3 to 4.  The FSB last year instructed the Basel committee, which
includes regulators from 27 nations, to draw up the rules.  The
FSB will review the measures at a meeting on Oct. 3, the people
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 