-- 
Bayer’s Xarelto Wins EU Drug Panel Backing for Added Uses

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-09-23T15:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/bayer-s-xarelto-wins-eu-drug-panel-backing-for-additional-use.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Xarelto won the backing
of a European drug advisory panel for use in irregular-heartbeat
patients, putting the blood thinner in line for approval in a
market that may reach $9 billion in annual sales worldwide.  The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use also
recommended Xarelto to treat deep vein thrombosis, or clots in
the legs or lungs, the European Medicines Agency said in a
 statement  on its website today.  Bayer and its U.S. marketing partner  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  are
battling  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH to sell a replacement for warfarin, an old and
difficult-to-use blood thinner for people with the most common
type of abnormal heart rhythm. A U.S. regulatory panel this
month backed the Bayer drug for atrial fibrillation against the
recommendation of Food and Drug Administration workers.  “It looks like a smoother ride in  Europe  than in the
U.S.,” Alistair Campbell, an analyst with Berenberg Bank, said
in a telephone interview today. “Now it all comes down to
marketing.”  Bayer expects a decision from the European Commission
during the fourth quarter, the Leverkusen, Germany-based company
said in an e-mailed statement. In the U.S., the FDA is scheduled
to decide whether to approve Xarelto by Nov. 5 and doesn’t have
to follow the recommendation.  Bayer rose 7.1 percent, the most since March 20, 2009, to
close at 39.42 euros at 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Surgery Patients  Bayer already sells Xarelto in Europe, where it won
approval in 2008 for use in knee- and hip-surgery patients.  The market for warfarin replacements may reach $7 billion
to $9 billion a year, according to analysts for ISI Group and
Leerink Swann & Co.  The irregular heartbeat patient group may contribute about
600 million euros ($811 million) of an estimated 2.2 billion
euros in peak Xarelto sales, Daniel Wendorff, a Frankfurt-based
analyst for Commerzbank AG, wrote in a note to clients before
the decision. Wendorff has a “buy” recommendation on Bayer
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  