-- 
Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe Exits as Battered Conference Seeks Survival

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/big-12-commissioner-dan-beebe-exits-as-battered-conference-seeks-survival.html
Dan Beebe is out as commissioner of
the  Big 12 , which is working to stave off collapse for the
second straight year by persuading member schools not to desert
the conference.  The University of Oklahoma and the  University of Texas 
three days ago gave their presidents approval to defect from the
Big 12, while  Texas A&M  University this month accepted an
invitation to join the  Southeastern Conference  in 2012. Last
year, the University of  Colorado  and the University of  Nebraska 
abandoned the Big 12.  “The Big 12 board of directors has reached a mutual
agreement with Commissioner Dan Beebe that he will leave his
position effective today,” Big 12 Chairman Brady J. Deaton said
in an e-mailed statement last night.  Beebe will be replaced from next week on an interim basis
by Chuck Neinas, who was commissioner of the Big Eight from
1971-80, University of Missouri Chancellor Deaton said. The Big
12 formed in 1994 when the Big Eight joined with the four Texas
schools in the Southwest Conference.  Oklahoma  officials who weren’t identified said Sept. 20
that they would only consider staying in the Big 12 if Beebe
left, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported.  Texas and Oklahoma will remain in the Big 12 for now after
Pacific-12 Commissioner Larry Scott said two days ago that the
conference won’t expand further for the time being. The Pac-12
previously discussed adding the  Longhorns  and  Sooners , along
with Oklahoma State and Texas Tech, ESPN reported Sept. 4.  Big East  Merger Talks  The Big East, in response to the Sept. 18 decisions by
 Syracuse University  and the  University of Pittsburgh  to leave
for the Atlantic Coast Conference, is talking with the Irving,
Texas-based Big 12 about a merger, the  Associated Press  said
Sept. 19, citing people it didn’t identify.  Beebe in September 2007 became the Big 12’s third
commissioner, succeeding Kevin Weiberg. He joined as a senior
associate commissioner in 2003 and prior to his promotion he
coordinated day-to-day business at the conference office and was
involved in the selection of championship sites and securing
television and football bowl game contracts.  “It is satisfying to know the Big 12 Conference will
survive,” Beebe said in the statement announcing his departure.
“I congratulate the members for taking strong action to ensure
a bright future as a premier intercollegiate athletics
conference.”  Beebe in April completed a 13-year cable television rights
agreement with Fox Sports Media for 40 football games per season
and other sports that the Sports Business Journal said is worth
$90 million a year to the conference, which is entering its 16th
season of competition.  “We sincerely thank Dan, who has always demonstrated a
total commitment to what is in the best interest of the Big
12,” Deaton said. “His energy, devotion and skill in
negotiating on our behalf have been tremendous assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 