-- 
Biggest Yield Surge in 16 Months Spurred by Real: Brazil Credit

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-09-23T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/biggest-yield-surge-in-16-months-spurred-by-real-s-tumble-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian policy makers took steps
to prop up the real for the first time since 2009 and scaled
back a local debt auction after the currency’s tumble helped
drive yields up by the most in 16 months.  Yields on the government’s debt due in 2021 soared 59 basis
points in the past five days, the biggest jump since the period
ended May 6, 2010, to 12.26 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield on similar-maturity Mexican peso bonds
rose 38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, during the same
period, while that on 10-year U.S. Treasuries sank 22 and
touched a record low of 1.6961 percent yesterday.  Investors are dumping Brazilian bonds after the real sank
10.4 percent in the past five days, fueling speculation
inflation may quicken from a six-year high and exacerbating a
sell-off spurred by faltering global growth. Traders are betting
the central bank will lower  interest rates  at its next meeting
after a surprise cut on Aug. 31 helped make the real the worst
performer among major currencies in the past month.  “Real weakness and aggressive rate cuts added to inflation
risk premium on the long end of curve,” said  Siobhan Morden ,
head of Latin America strategy at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Longer tenors are also more sensitive
to generalized external  risk aversion .”  The 15.6 percent decline in the real in the past month
handed investors in Brazilian local bonds a 15.3 percent loss in
dollar terms, the biggest decline in emerging markets, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Emerging-market debt lost 8.4 percent
this month, wiping out the gain for the year. U.S. Treasuries
returned 1.7 percent in September, extending their gain this
year to 8.9 percent.  Currency Swaps  The central bank sold 55,075 currency swap contracts in
auctions, which was equivalent to selling dollars in the futures
market. The last time policy makers entered the  derivatives
market  to weaken the dollar was in June 26, 2009, according to
the central bank. Yesterday’s measure marked a reversal of a 28-
month-old strategy of buying dollars to weaken the currency.  “The central bank intends to keep acting in the dollar
futures market as long as liquidity conditions demand,” Aldo Mendes, the director of monetary policy at the central bank,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s no limit.”  Brazil sold 1.07 billion reais of fixed-rate bonds
yesterday, the smallest amount this year. The total compares
with 4.9 billion reais in the previous fixed-rate bond auction
on Sept. 15.  “The moment is of volatility and the Treasury always seeks
to act in a conservative way when this happens,” Deputy
Treasury Secretary  Paulo Valle  said in a telephone interview
from Brasilia. “The Treasury needs to pay more to sell fixed-
income bonds when there is volatility.”  Rate Outlook  Traders expect the central bank to reduce borrowing costs
by at least 50 basis points at its meeting on Oct. 18-19,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil joined  Turkey  on
Aug. 31 as the only Group of 20 nations to lower rates in the
past two months to shore up growth. Central bank President
Alexandre Tombini cut the benchmark rate a half point to 12
percent, after raising it at the previous five policy meetings.  Consumer prices climbed 7.23 percent in the year through
August, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range for a fifth straight month. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  The rate cut followed tax increases and trading
restrictions aimed at curbing a 46 percent rally in the currency
from the end of 2008 through August that eroded exporters’
profits.  ‘Stronger’  “The bet the currency will fuel inflation is also
impacting the rates,” Ures Folchini, head of fixed income at
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in a telephone interview from
 Sao Paulo . “In  Brazil , the move is stronger because of the
impact of the measures the government took to weaken the
currency in the past.”  Inflation in Brazil is unlikely to quicken as global growth
slows and  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens, said Pablo Cisilino, who
helps manage about $28 billion of emerging-market assets at
Stone Harbor Investment Partners LP in New York.  Stocks around the world entered a  bear market  with the MSCI
All-Country World Index down more than 20 percent from its peak
in May amid concern central banks are running out of tools to
prevent a recession. The world is on the eve of the next
financial crisis, with sovereign debt at its epicenter, said
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co.  The  Federal Reserve  said this week it saw “significant
downside risks” in the economy and it will replace $400 billion
of short-term debt with longer-term Treasuries to spur growth as
the recovery flags.  ‘Facing Deflation’  “Why people in Brazil are worried about inflation beats
me,” Cisilino said in a telephone interview. “The whole planet
is facing deflation right now. Look at what is going on in the
world. The U.S. is hardly recovering. Europe is facing a
potential financial crisis. Brazilians are too focused on what
is happening in Brazil and the central bank is correctly
understanding what is going on outside Brazil.”  The real fell 1.6 percent yesterday to 1.9055 per dollar.
It touched a two-year low of 1.9549.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  swelled 29
basis points to 285, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Today’s ‘Mantra’  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default
climbed 23 basis points yesterday to 219, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on Brazil’s real-denominated bonds due in 2021 rose
23 basis points yesterday, the most since Sept. 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “What we are seeing is a flight to quality and this means
today to put your money under the mattress,” WestLB’s Folchini
said. “The mantra today is to take no risk, to leave your money
in cash and this impacts mostly the long end of the curve
because it’s mainly financed by foreigners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  