-- 
Blackstone Said to Sell Shanghai Shopping Mall to New World

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-09-23T16:53:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/blackstone-said-to-sell-mall-in-shanghai-to-new-world-for-229-million.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, agreed to sell its 95 percent stake
in Shanghai’s Channel 1 shopping mall to New World Development
Co. in  Hong Kong  for 1.46 billion yuan ($229 million), according
to three people briefed on the transaction.  Blackstone bought the mall vacant for about 1 billion yuan
in 2008, the year it opened an office in Beijing, and has
increased occupancy of the 42,000-square-meter (452,000-square-
foot) property to more than 90 percent, said one of the people,
who asked not to be named because the sale hasn’t been
completed. The deal is scheduled to be completed in early
November.  The sale of Channel 1 marks Blackstone’s first exit from a
real estate investment in China, according to the person. The
New York-based firm is raising 5 billion yuan for its debut
Chinese currency-denominated buyout fund.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone in New
York, declined to comment. New World, controlled by Hong Kong
billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , didn’t immediately return a call for
comment made after regular business hours.  China is stepping up efforts to expand its private-equity
industry as the government seeks to foster corporate governance
and strengthen capital markets. Foreign private-equity investors
have been faced with restrictions on buying assets in China,
which limits access to industries it designates as strategic and
imposes capital controls.  Blackstone bought the mall from  VXL Capital Ltd. (727) , a Hong
Kong-based property-investment and financial-services company.
VXL kept a 5 percent stake in the mall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  