-- 
Blame-China Imports Chorus Grows as Solyndra Falls

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-09-28T22:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/blame-china-chorus-grows-as-solyndra-fails-amid-cheap-imports.html
(Corrects number of employees in penultimate paragraph of
story published Sept. 23.)  The collapse of Solyndra LLC has
renewed demands from U.S. lawmakers and union leaders that the
Obama administration pursue unfair-trade complaints against
China for out-sized subsidies to its clean-energy companies.  “The American solar industry is facing unparalleled
challenges, and without the leadership of your administration
this industry may disappear,” Senator  Ron Wyden , an  Oregon 
Democrat, said in a Sept. 8 letter urging President  Barack Obama 
to file a complaint against China with the  World Trade
Organization .  Wyden wrote two days after Solyndra, which received $535
million in loan guarantees from the Energy Department, filed for
 bankruptcy protection . China provided $30 billion in credit to
its biggest solar manufacturers last year, about 20 times the
U.S. effort, Jonathan Silver, executive director of the Energy
Department’s loan program, told a congressional panel Sept. 14.  China “frequently provides both zero-cost financing,
occasionally free land and other kinds of incentives and
subsidies” to its wind and solar companies, Silver said. Silver
called for the U.S. “to take on this challenge” for a global
market that will be “worth trillions of dollars.” He didn’t
join critics such as Wyden and the  United Steelworkers  union who
say China’s subsidies should be challenged as unfair.  ‘Trade War’  “We should not sit back and say we are afraid to start a
trade war,”  Thomas Conway , international vice president for the
Pittsburgh-based United Steelworkers said in an interview. “We
are in a trade war, and we are losing.”  The 1.2 million-member union petitioned the administration
last year to investigate China’s aid to clean-energy companies.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s Office responded by filing
a complaint in December with the WTO saying China violated rules
of the Geneva-based trade arbiter. China’s Special Fund for Wind
Power Manufacturing required recipients of aid to use Chinese-
made parts and amounted to a prohibited subsidy, the U.S. said.
Before the WTO acted on the complaint,  China  made it moot by
ending that aid in June, according to the U.S.  Solyndra Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison and Chief
Financial Officer W.A. Stover today invoked their constitutional
right against self-incrimination and refused to testify at a
hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee investigation
panel.  California state officials applied Sept. 2 for U.S. Trade
Adjustment Assistance for 1,100 former Solyndra employees. The
aid is available to workers whose jobs are lost to overseas
competition. The Labor Department said it is weighing the
application.  ‘Failed Business Model’  Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  questioned the
request, saying the high cost of Solyndra’s solar devices
compared with its U.S. competitors undermined the rationale that
the company was done in by Chinese competition.  “If you cannot even out-compete U.S. companies, it wasn’t
foreign competition that ruined your business, it was simply a
failed business model,” Hatch said in a statement Sept. 20.  Solyndra built a $733 million manufacturing plant on the
bet that demand for its product would increase. Last year it
received a warning from its auditor questioning whether it would
remain a “going concern” and withdrew plans for an initial
public offering.  Production Costs  Solyndra was producing panels at a cost of $4 a watt and
selling them for $3.24 a watt, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission before the public offering
was canceled.  The administration hasn’t taken action on the union’s
complaints about other wind-power subsidies or aid to the solar
industry. The Steelworkers cited China for providing export
credits, preferences in bidding and forced transfers of
technology and said China discriminated against companies based
in other nations.  “The environment-friendly green-technology policies
introduced by the Chinese government are for the purpose of
energy protection and ensuring sustainable development, which
are in conformity with WTO rules,”  Wang Baodong , the spokesman
for the Chinese Embassy in  Washington , said in October. Wang
said yesterday that the debate over subsidies “is not a new
issue.”  Officials from the U.S. Trade Representative’s office
didn’t return e-mails or calls seeking comment on the status of
the remaining complaints.  ‘Challenged Aggressively’  China’s violations “should be challenged aggressively,”
 Scott Paul , executive director of the Alliance for American
Manufacturing in Washington, with members such as U.S. Steel
Corp., said in an interview. Without U.S. efforts to challenge
unfair trade, it “would be an uphill battle.”  Erin DiPietro, a spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based U.S.
Steel, referred questions to the trade group.  Solyndra of Fremont, California, ceased operations on Aug.
31, the third U.S. solar manufacturer in a month to fail in the
face of lower-cost Chinese panels and weak global demand. The
other two,  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  and SpectraWatt Inc., hadn’t
received U.S. guarantees.  Not all U.S. companies complain about competition from low-
wage nations such as China.  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. of St. Peters,  Missouri ,
exports most of its polisilicon used for solar panels to China,
contributing to an 83 percent increase in U.S. solar-product
exports to $5.63 billion last year. American Superconductor
Corp. of Devens,  Massachusetts , generated most of its revenue
last year selling electrical systems to China’s wind-turbine
manufacturers.  First Solar  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  of Tempe, Arizona, the world’s largest
thin-film solar producer, fell 9 percent in New York trading
yesterday, the most in almost two years, after saying it’s in
talks to sell a 550-megawatt project in  California  that failed
to win a U.S. loan guarantee.  Alan Bernheimer , a spokesman for the company, referred
calls about competition from China to the Solar Energy
Industries Association.  Clean-energy companies that failed should be “a wake-up
call” that the U.S. needs to do more to aid manufacturing,
Rhone Resch, president of the Washington-based solar
association, said in an interview. The U.S. Trade
Representative’s office should make sure China hasn’t gone too
far, he said.  ‘Held Accountable’  “It is very important that the petition be fully
investigated, and if China is found to break the rules, they
need to be held accountable,” Resch said.  Elizabeth Salerno, director of industry data and analysis
for the  American Wind Energy Association  in Washington, which
has 2,500 member companies globally, declined to speak about
Chinese competition. She said the U.S. needs consistent energy
policies that would attract international investment.  Operators of U.S. solar and wind factories and
installations that face Chinese competition often have their own
international connections.  SolarWorld USA, which is lobbying lawmakers such as Wyden
to help protect its 1,000 jobs in Oregon, is owned by  SolarWorld
AG (SWV)  of Bonn, the biggest German maker of solar modules. The
company said Sept. 2 that it was cutting almost 200 jobs at its
facility in Camarillo, California.  “We can compete with any company from any country in the
world, but it becomes difficult to compete with the communist
government of China,” Ben Santarris, a spokesman for SolarWorld
USA, said in an interview. “The subsidies run across every
aspect of a company’s life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  