-- 
BNP Paribas, SocGen Jump on Speculation France May Move to Bolster Banks

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-23T17:26:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/bnp-paribas-socgen-jump-on-speculation-france-may-bolster-banks.html
BNP Paribas SA and  Societe Generale (GLE) 
SA,  France ’s biggest banks by market value, rose in Paris
trading on speculation the French government will take steps to
bolster their capital.  BNP Paribas jumped 2.26 euros, or 9.8 percent, to 25.32
euros in Paris trading. Societe Generale gained 8.8 percent to
16.65 euros and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , the country’s third-largest
lender, gained 4.8 percent to 4.43 euros. All three banks
slumped more than 50 percent in the past three months as
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis intensified.  “Increasingly nervous wholesale funding and equity markets
may trigger short-term French government action to support its
banks,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts Jorge Mayo
and Stefan Stalmann wrote in a note today. “The French
government would be more likely to resort once more to loss-
absorbing instruments other than common equity.”  The capital injections would amount to 16 billion euros
($21.6 billion) for  BNP Paribas (BNP) , 4 billion euros for Societe
Generale and 14 billion euros for Credit Agricole, according to
the RBS note.  This level of recapitalization for the three banks would
represent about 2 percent of France’s gross domestic product,
the RBS analysts said. “Its debt/GDP would rise from 87 percent
to about 89 percent, which looks broadly manageable and may
avoid a rating downgrade,” they wrote.  Measures the banks have already announced to shrink their
balance sheets “would allow for repayment of government capital
out of internally freed-up capital, and any issuance of common
equity could be executed in a much less stressed market place at
higher prices,” the RBS analysts said.  A Paris-based spokeswoman at BNP Paribas SA declined to
comment when reached by phone, as did spokeswomen at Societe
Generale and at  Credit Agricole .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  