-- 
Boehner Says Trade Accords Must Move in Tandem With Worker Aid

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-23T04:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/boehner-says-trade-accords-must-move-in-tandem-with-worker-aid.html
Speaker  John Boehner  predicts the
U.S. House can renew worker aid backed by the Senate and approve
three free-trade accords in the next month, as long as President
 Barack Obama  sends the delayed accords first.  The Senate voted to renew trade preferences for developing
nations yesterday after adding benefits for employees who lose
their jobs to overseas competition. The aid, which Obama set as
a condition for sending the accords, heads to the House, and
Boehner said debate will begin only when Congress gets the deals
with South Korea, Colombia and Panama.  “We await the president’s submission of the three trade
agreements sitting on his desk so the House can consider them in
tandem” with the aid and preference programs, Boehner, an  Ohio 
Republican, said in a statement yesterday. “If the president
submits these agreements promptly, I’m confident that all four
bills can be signed into law by mid-October.”  Obama has taken a different approach, saying he would send
lawmakers the trade agreements reached under President George W. Bush once Congress commits to renew the worker aid. The split in
the order for advancing the bills may block swift passage,
 William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign Trade Council 
and a Commerce Department official in the Clinton
administration, said in an interview.  “Somebody has to decide they’re going to be first and have
the confidence the next guy will act and do what he says he’s
going to do,” Reinsch said.  The Senate yesterday passed, on a 70-27 vote, the renewal
of trade preferences along with a scaled-back version of Trade
Adjustment Assistance negotiated by Senator  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat, and Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican. Seventeen Republicans joined majority Democrats in
backing the measure.  Trade Aid  Trade Adjustment Assistance augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of stimulus legislation in 2009,
it was expanded beyond manufacturing to include service workers
such as call-center employees. Republicans say renewing the
extended aid would be too costly when lawmakers are struggling
to reduce the federal deficit.  The proposal to renew aid for service workers, estimated by
the Senate Finance Committee to cost $320 million annually,
would continue most of the assistance through 2013 and provide
retroactive benefits to those left out so far this year.  “Discussions continue with congressional leadership on how
these bills will move through the legislative process,” U.S.
Trade Representative Ron Kirk said last night in a statement.
“The trade agreements, along with Trade Adjustment Assistance,
are an integral part of the president’s plan to create jobs here
at home. The president looks forward to their prompt passage.”  Obama, Republicans  Obama and Senate Republicans deadlocked over the aid issue
in June and July. Republicans led by Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah
said the assistance, which was expanded in the 2009 stimulus
measure, was unaffordable and inefficient.  Senate leaders from both parties ended the impasse on Aug.
3, agreeing to vote on the aid and then take up the trade deals.  The South Korea trade deal, the biggest for the U.S. since
the  North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994, would boost
U.S. exports by as much as $10.9 billion in the first year it’s
in full effect, according to the U.S. International Trade
Commission. The accord with Colombia would increase exports by
as much as $1.1 billion a year.  South Korea, Colombia  Companies such as  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
have led the effort to get the South Korea deal passed, while
Caterpillar Inc.,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , have
been among the biggest backers of the accord with Colombia.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce in  Washington  welcomed the
Senate vote, Myron Brilliant, senior vice president for
international policy at the largest business lobbying group,
said in a statement.  “It clears the way for approval of the job-creating trade
agreements, and not a moment too soon,” he said.  The Chamber estimates the trade agreements will prevent the
loss of 380,000 jobs.  The amendment to add worker aid to the trade preferences
bill passed 69-28, with 16 Republicans including Rob Portman of
Ohio and Roy Blunt of Missouri joining the Democrats. The two
senators in July said they had gathered enough Republican
support to limit debate on worker aid by preventing a filibuster
if Democrats brought it to the floor.  “It’s one step on an incredibly long path to get these
agreements finally passed,” Phil Levy, a fellow at the American
Enterprise Institute in Washington and a trade economist in the
 George W. Bush  administration, said in an interview.  The bill is H.R. 2832.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  