-- 
Boeing Seeks Lift With 787 Debut After 747-8 Jumbo Setback

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-09-23T20:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/boeing-seeks-lift-with-787-debut-after-747-8-jumbo-jet-setback.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s newest, biggest plane
has cast a shadow over ceremonies to mark the three-years-late
first delivery of its smaller cousin, the composite-plastic 787
Dreamliner.  Handing over the initial 747-8 jumbo jet on Sept. 19 was
supposed to open a week of public-relations victories as Boeing
delivered the first of its two beleaguered aircraft models.
Instead, Boeing had to cancel three days of events as the launch
customer for the 747-8 balked at the last minute.  The planemaker now heads into a weekend of celebrations for
the 787, the jet being counted on to return Boeing to the top
spot in industry sales lost to Airbus SAS in 2003. Chicago-based
Boeing is trying to boost monthly Dreamliner output fivefold in
the next two years to help make up for the delays.  “Boeing is not only facing issues on the 747, they need
the 787 production ramp-up to go smoothly,” said Heidi Wood, a
Morgan Stanley analyst in  New York  who recommends holding the
stock. “But at the moment, it isn’t going real well.”  Speeding up final assembly will be pivotal for Boeing.
Planemakers receive most of their payments as jets move through
the production cycle before delivery, and airlines’ contracts
generally provide for penalties upon delays. Boeing’s aim is to
reach 10 Dreamliners a month by 2013, a record level for wide-
body aircraft, as it works off a backlog for 821 orders.  “The aerospace supply base is working overtime just to
produce two airplanes a month,” Wood said in an interview. “We
are convinced that the ramp-up is going to be longer and more
arduous than Boeing is describing.”  First Customer  Japan ’s All Nippon Airways Co. will be the first airline to
get the 787. The events for the handover begin on Sept. 25 near
the wide-body jet factory in Everett,  Washington , where Boeing
builds the Dreamliner and the 747-8.  Scott Fancher, the 787 program chief, said Boeing is
working “very hard” with customers to make sure the plane will
meet their needs and resolve any concerns. Boeing has said the
initial Dreamliners are overweight, as are the first 747-8s, and
the company is working to make them lighter.  “We feel pretty good about this airplane and getting it
ready to deliver to ANA,” Fancher said this week in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  The 747-8 was already two years behind schedule before the
freighter version’s entry into service was delayed indefinitely
Sept. 16 by Cargolux Airlines International SA’s “unresolved
issues.” On Sept. 21,  Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. (AAWW)  said it
was dropping orders for three of its 12 747-8s, citing delays
and “performance considerations.”  Multiple Models  That leaves Boeing tweaking that plane, starting work on a
new U.S. Air Force tanker based on the 767 jet and developing an
upgraded version of its top-selling single-aisle 737 model -- as
well as ending the manufacturing setbacks that stalled the 787
by 2013 while unveiling a larger variant the same year.  “They really need to get it going like a Swiss watch,”
Steven Udvar-Hazy, chief executive officer of jet lessor Air
Lease Corp., said in an interview this week.  Udvar-Hazy, who has been buying planes from Boeing for four
decades, predicted that delays on the Dreamliner may lengthen as
the company tries to increase the production tempo. The 787 is
the first airliner to be made out of carbon fibers spun around a
barrel mold and baked, instead of traditional riveted aluminum,
so its assembly is more complicated.  ‘Financial Dimension’  “The financial dimension of this is critical,” Udvar-Hazy
said. “The faster they can ramp up, the more revenue they can
produce.”  Boeing rose 79 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $59.51 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, paring its
decline for this year to 8.8 percent. The shares have tumbled 41
percent since the first 787 delay in October 2007.  Boeing had been counting on design changes in the next
 Dreamliner variant , the 787-9, to apply to the first model, the
787-8, and help simplify manufacturing, Wood said. The
engineering on the newer version isn’t done yet and its
introduction is likely to be delayed a year until 2014, which
would crimp 787-8 output, she said.  Boeing is sticking to its 2013 targets, said  Lori Gunter , a
spokeswoman in Everett.  The Dreamliner uses a new production system in which 65
percent of the jet is built by suppliers and flown to Boeing
plants for assembly. Contractors struggled with new materials
and responsibilities, contributing to the seven delays to the
plane, originally due to enter service in May 2008.  Fighting Congestion  Boeing designed the 787 to counter rising congestion at hub
airports. Lighter-weight plastics help reduce fuel consumption,
increasing the range to as much as 9,800 miles (about 15,800
kilometers), more than any similar-sized jet.  That will let airlines add routes between smaller cities
that lack the traffic to fill jumbo jets like the passenger
version of the 747-8, rather than having to fly travelers
through hubs. All Nippon plans to familiarize crews with the 787
on domestic trips, then put it on long-haul routes in 2012.  Carriers will still be clamoring for as many 787s as Boeing
can build each month, Morgan Stanley’s Wood said. “As the world
economies are under pressure, airlines might review parking
their bigger airplanes and want to fly a smaller, mid-sized,
twin-engine plane instead,” she said.  The challenge for Boeing is reaching production targets on
its most-complicated plane while having so many other projects
under development, she said.  “They’re craving engineering resources,” Wood said.
“That issue on resources is what helped contribute to the 747-8
and 787 delays. It’s not a small problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  