-- 
Boeing Papers Show South Carolina 787 Site Picked to Gain Edge Over Unions

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-09-24T06:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/boeing-papers-show-south-carolina-787-site-picked-to-gain-edge-over-unions.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  told directors two years
ago that locating a 787 Dreamliner plant outside the Seattle
area would help gain the upper hand with unions even as it
brought extra costs and risks, corporate documents show.  Executives in 2009 assessed the idea of a new factory in
Charleston, South Carolina as having the highest danger of
failing and worst consequences if it did. Their findings on the
new plant and a proposed second assembly line in Everett,
Washington, are outlined in  presentations submitted as evidence 
in a National Labor Relations Board suit against the planemaker.  The slides covered studies reviewed by Boeing’s board
starting in April 2009, five months after a two-month strike by
Machinists, and detail the company’s plans to build a
commercial-jet assembly line outside of  Washington  state for the
first time. The union had struck three other times since 1989.  Adding the South Carolina plant “creates a non-union,
competitive labor choice, lowers labor costs and avoids current
hostage situation,” Boeing said in the documents.  Boeing said today the documents underscore its stance that
the move was the best for the Chicago-based company.  “Far from supporting the NLRB’s claims, these documents
confirm what Boeing has said from the outset,” Tim Neale, a
spokesman in Washington, D.C., said in a statement. “We made a
legitimate business decision based upon a variety of factors,
including the need to ensure our future competitiveness and
provide delivery stability for our customers.”  Retaliation Claim  The new plant, which opened in June and will produce its
first 787 next year, is at the heart of the NLRB’s claim that
Boeing illegally retaliated against striking unions. The case is
being heard before an administrative law judge in  Seattle , and
some related documents were released today by the Machinists
union.  The presentations show that as of April 2009, five months
after the last strike was settled, Boeing had already started
“Project Gemini” as a “solution for establishing long-term
manufacturing capability outside of Puget Sound, starting with a
second 787 final assembly line and progressing to the next new
airplane program.”  That was three months before the union says it had any
inkling that the 787 assembly work wasn’t guaranteed for
Everett, since Washington state had approved a $3 billion tax-
incentive package to secure the  production line  in 2003. There
had been “low-level talks” about fitting a second line in the
Everett factory in 2007, before the 2008 strike, said Bryan
Corliss, a Machinists spokesman.  ‘Already Hearing It’  Boeing says it never promised to build all the Dreamliners
at the manufacturing hub, which was established when Bill Boeing
formed the planemaker on the shores of Seattle’s Lake Union in
1916.  The NLRB investigated, at the Machinists’ behest, and
accused Boeing in April 2011 of violating employees’ federally
protected right to strike, saying public comments made by
executives showed the decision was meant to chill future
walkouts.  “I’m already hearing it from managers on the line, saying
‘Hurry up and get it done; if you don’t get it done, we’ll move
this to  South Carolina ,’” Patrick Bertucci, a fuel-cell
mechanic on the 737 program, said at a press conference hosted
by the union today.  The NLRB is demanding that Boeing provide restitution by
adding another line at its Everett plant to produce an
additional three 787s a month -- the same amount planned in
Charleston.  The hearing began in June, and lawyers are still wrangling
before the judge over pre-evidentiary matters such as subpoenas
and access, though some documents have been submitted.  Boeing Production  The company has continued to hire union workers in the
Seattle area, adding more than 4,000, since deciding on the
second plant, Boeing said in the statement.  The union has said those workers are mainly on other
programs as Boeing boosts production to a record over the next
three years, and that 1,800 to 3,000 of them will be fired once
a temporary second line is shut down in mid-2014.  Boeing is trying to ramp up production on its two new jets
after delays that have grown to three years for the 787 and two
years for the 747-8, the latest version of Boeing’s largest
plane. The smaller, composite-plastic 787 is the planemaker’s
most important project, with orders valued at more than $152
billion at list prices.  Opening a plant in South Carolina, almost 3,000 miles
(4,800 kilometers) away from the original line and its
experienced workers in Everett, “risks achieving timely rate
requirements,” Boeing said in an August 2009 presentation. At
the same time, keeping the work in Everett “would not create
long-term change in union leverage.”  Republican Support  The documents also cite gaining “important political
support from a key state” as a goal with the new factory. With
the backing of South Carolina’s Republican governor, Nikki
Haley, the plant has become a litmus test for Republican
presidential candidates and congressional delegations over their
support of businesses’ rights.  Three objectives for the South Carolina plant were given in
an Oct. 19, 2009, presentation, just before Boeing’s board
approved the facility. The first two were regaining a reputation
for reliability and improving cost competitiveness.  Some Boeing customers had threatened to consider buying
jets elsewhere in the future, after deliveries were held up
during the 2008 strike. And Boeing is facing rising competition
as companies in countries including  China ,  Canada  and  Brazil 
enter the commercial-jet market.  The third objective was to “leverage 787 final assembly
placement decision by rebalancing an unbalanced and
uncompetitive labor relationship.”  Startup Costs  Startup costs in South Carolina, where the company had to
clear swampland to build a new factory, would be “significantly
greater” than the expense of increasing capacity in Everett,
the presentation notes.  Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh , in a
presentation on Oct. 26, 2009, two days before the decision was
announced, said the Charleston plant would cost $1.5 billion in
cash and would reduce earnings on one third of the 787 backlog.  That’s about how many of the 821 planes on order are
expected to be built at the facility once total production ramps
up to 10 a month. The documents don’t provide specific cost
estimates for adding capacity in Everett. Many financial figures
were considered proprietary and blacked out by Boeing lawyers.  ‘Payback’ Strike  None of the documents released today mentioned past
strikes. One cites the possibility of a “payback” strike in
2012, when the Machinists’ contract expires, as being a high
risk in locating the new plant in Charleston.  South Carolina is among the  least-unionized states , with 6
percent of workers covered by collective bargaining in 2010,
compared with 21 percent in Washington, according to U.S. Census
data. A “right-to-work” state, South Carolina forbids
requiring union membership as a condition of employment.  The national average for union membership is 12 percent.
About 36 percent of Boeing’s 157,000-person global workforce
belongs to unions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  