-- 
Bank of America Leads Lenders Higher on Asset Sales, Possible ECB Action

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-09-23T16:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/bofa-leads-lenders-higher-on-asset-sales-possible-ecb-action.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender, led the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  higher as the
company prepared more asset sales to bolster capital and
international officials vowed to head off a financial crisis.  The bank rose 27 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $6.33 at 12:16
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Bank of
America is in exclusive talks to sell its stake in NPC
International Inc., the biggest U.S. Pizza Hut franchisee, for
more than $800 million, said two people with knowledge of
discussions. The lender also agreed to sell about $880 million
in commercial mortgages at a discount of as much as 25 percent,
said another person.  Bank stocks gained in  Europe  and the U.S., aided by a
statement from Group of 20 officials who said after talks in
Washington they’re “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response” to help the global economy. The
 European Central Bank  may step up efforts to boost growth and
ease financial-market tensions as early as next month, Governing
Council members said.  “Bank of America can’t help what happens in the broad
economic environment or in Europe, which is driving the market
right now,” said Marty Mosby, a Nashville, Tennessee-based
analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC, which manages more than
$100 billion, including Bank of America shares. “What they can
control is selling some of their non-core businesses and
generating as much capital as they can to cover the
uncertainties.”  Banking Indexes  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S.-based lenders gained as much
as 2.1 percent, while Bloomberg’s Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index representing 46 companies jumped 3.4 percent.
U.S. gainers included  Comerica Inc. (CMA) , which advanced 4.3 percent,
and New York-based Citigroup Inc., ranked third by assets, which
added 3.5 percent. In Europe, Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA
advanced 9.9 percent and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA added 8.8 percent.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan
has agreed to sell almost $50 billion in assets and units. The
company lost more than half its market value this year amid
concern that losses from soured mortgages will force the CEO to
issue stock to bolster capital.  Moynihan, 51, has said repeatedly that the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank can reach capital targets by divesting
assets deemed less important to customers, rather than issuing
shares or divesting core units. He is shrinking the firm through
an initiative known as Project New BAC, which involves slashing
30,000 jobs from consumer banking and back-office operations.  Bank of America agreed last week to sell its stake in U.S.
hospital operator HCA Holdings Inc., which like NPC was acquired
by Merrill Lynch & Co.’s private-equity arm in 2006. Merrill
sold itself to Bank of America in 2008.  Last month, the bank announced deals to divest a Canadian
credit-card unit for C$7.5 billion ($7.3 billion) and sell about
half its stake in China Construction Bank Corp., the world’s
second-biggest lender by market value, for $8.3 billion in
proceeds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  