-- 
Brazilian Stocks Fall Most in Week Since August as Commodity Prices Slump

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-09-23T21:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/bovespa-index-declines-on-commodities-drop-recession-concern.html
The Bovespa stock index posted its
biggest weekly drop since early August as recession concerns
drove down prices of  Brazil ’s commodity exports and outweighed
speculation policy makers will take steps to boost the global
economy.  Miner Vale SA and oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA
followed metals and crude prices lower. Banco Industrial e
Comercial SA, the Sao Paulo-based lender known as BicBanco, fell
after the stock’s rating was cut at Bank of America Corp. Lojas
Americanas SA, Brazil’s biggest discount retailer, jumped the
most in more than four months as traders raised bets for lower
borrowing costs.  The Bovespa slid 0.1 percent to 53,230.36 at the close of
trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. It tumbled 7 percent for the
week, the most since the period ended Aug. 5. Forty-two stocks
fell on the index while 26 climbed. The real strengthened 4.1
percent to 1.8320 per  U.S. dollar .  “Volatility is still very high,”  Felipe Casotti , who
helps manage 1.2 billion reais ($638 million) at Maxima Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro.
“Investors are still very cautious. We’re not in a recession
yet, but the risks are increasing.”  The Bovespa earlier rose as much as 1.1 percent and
fluctuated between gains and losses at least seven times.  Commodities fell to a nine-month low on increasing concern
that policy makers are running out of tools to avert another
global recession, hurting demand for metals, fuel and food.  Oil fell as much as 3.7 percent on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and soybeans for November delivery dropped as much as
2.6 percent on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Vale, Petrobras  Vale declined 1.4 percent to 41 reais. Petrobras, as
Petroleo Brasileiro is known, declined 1.7 percent to 19.16
reais.  BicBanco fell 1.2 percent to 7.46 reais after it as cut to
“underperform” from “neutral” at Bank of America. Brazil’s
smaller banks are more likely to be hurt by the global economic
slump than larger lenders, Bank of America’s analysts including
Jorg Friedemann wrote in a note to clients today.  Central bankers and finance ministers are discussing the
economic outlook today at the annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  in Washington.  G-20 Meeting  Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a statement late yesterday in Washington. Many
urged  Europe  to implement a July promise to expand the powers of
its rescue fund, Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  G-20 nations are making progress on finding a greater role
for  China ’s currency in the global monetary system, French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said.  The real pared its biggest weekly sell-off since November
2008 on speculation the government may revoke a tax on foreign-
exchange derivatives and modify other restrictions to lure
investment and stem the rout.  Homebuilder Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes, advanced 2.1 percent to 12.20 reais. Retailer
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar slid 0.4
percent to 58.12 reais after earlier rising as much as 2.5
percent. The companies plan to build a block of residential
apartments and offices, which will include a hotel, shop and
Extra drugstore, O Estado de S.Paulo reported, citing Pao de
Acucar’s Vice-President of Corporate Affairs Hugo Bethlem.  Yields Fall  Lojas Americanas gained 8.5 percent to 14.60 reais, the
most since May 6. Yields on interest-rate futures fell as lower
commodities prices and a stronger real eased inflation concern,
said  Luciano Rostagno , head strategist of CM Capital Markets, in
a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  “The external outlook is getting worse, with rumors that
 Greece  is getting closer and closer to a default. In this
scenario, the central bank will probably keep cutting  interest
rates ,” said Rostagno.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
unexpectedly lowered the benchmark Selic rate 50 basis points,
or 0.5 percentage point, to 12 percent on Aug. 31 in an attempt
to safeguard the Brazilian economy against a global slowdown.  The government may adjust or retract a tax, known as IOF,
that it imposed on some currency derivatives transactions, scrap
limits on  bank transactions  in dollars and modify a tax on
foreign loans, Folha de S.Paulo reported, without saying how it
obtained the information. Finance Minister Guido Mantega said at
an event in  Washington  today that the government “for now”
isn’t planning to withdraw measures it took earlier this year
that aim at weaken the real.  Bear Market   The yields on the contract due in January 2013, the most
traded in Sao Paulo today, slid 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 10.46 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge entered a bear market on
July 27 after plunging 20 percent from its bull-market peak in
November. The measure has since extended that drop to 27 percent
and trades at 9.8 times analysts’ earnings estimates, according
to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio
of 11.2 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 5.5 for  Russia ’s Micex
and 14.1 for  India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 5.9 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily
average this year of 6.53 billion reais through Sept. 14,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  