-- 
BP Plans Full Return to Gulf Drilling This Year as Output Sags

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-09-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/bp-plans-full-return-to-gulf-drilling-this-year.html
  BP Plc (BP/)  is preparing its rigs and
workers to resume full drilling operations in the Gulf of
 Mexico , seeking to end a 17-month production slump following the
worst U.S. oil spill.  The company has returned two rigs to the region’s deep
waters and aims to get three more drilling by the end of the
year, according to people with knowledge of BP’s plans, who
declined to be identified because the program hinges on gaining
approval from regulators.  For Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley, who took the helm a
year ago this week, reviving Gulf production is vital because
they are the company’s most profitable fields. BP has lagged
behind rivals in resuming drilling in the region and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. downgraded its recommendation because of lack
of progress in the Gulf.  “Nothing else BP is doing in the world offers as much
growth potential as the  Gulf of Mexico ,” said Colin McLean,
chief executive officer of SVM Asset Management Ltd. in
Edinburgh, which has about 700 million pounds ($1 billion) of
assets under management and has sold all its BP shares.
“Prospects in the Gulf are probably improving, but BP needs to
be able to get production up.”  Spokesman Robert Wine declined to comment on BP’s drilling
plans in the Gulf of Mexico.  A return to the Gulf is part of Dudley’s campaign to repair
BP’s standing with investors, regulators and the U.S. public.
The company took a $41 billion charge after the spill  and has
yet to get approval to drill new wells after the blowout on the
Deepwater Horizon that killed 11 and started the leak.  Green Canyon  BP received permission to plug a well in the Green Canyon
basin on Sept. 8 with the Development Driller II rig, owned by
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , according to data on the website of the U.S.
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement,
or BOERME. The Development Driller III started an abandonment
procedure in July in the same block near the Atlantis platform.
The jobs are scheduled to last into October, the permits show.  The Discoverer Enterprise, also owned by Transocean, is set
to work near the Thunder Horse platform. Ensco Plc’s DS-3 is
slated to drill development wells in the Na Kika prospect, and
Seadrill Ltd.’s West Sirius rig is scheduled for work on
Kaskida, according to two people with knowledge of the plans. BP
hopes all three rigs will be operating this year, another person
said.  BOEMRE spokeswoman Melissa Schwartz confirmed in an e-mail
that BP had received permission to modify wells at the Atlantis
field. She declined to comment further on any permit
applications.  Global Slump  BP’s problems in the Gulf have contributed to a global
slump in output, which sank 11 percent in the second quarter
after the company sold off $25 billion of assets in mostly
producing fields. It also had longer turnarounds and maintenance
periods as it implements higher safety standards and said
production is likely to average 3.4 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day this year, the lowest since 2001.  Gulf of Mexico oil is more than twice as profitable as
production from the rest of BP’s portfolio, yielding about $60
in profit to the company when  oil prices  are $100 a barrel. In
2010, the Gulf of Mexico accounted for 28 percent of the
company’s cash flow and just 10 percent of production, according
to research by Citigroup Inc. analyst Alastair Syme.  The company’s payments into the $20 billion fund for spill
victims demanded by President  Barack Obama  uses Gulf production
as collateral. BP’s output in the Gulf has dropped to about
250,000 barrels a day from about 390,000 barrels a day before
the spill, according to the company.  ‘Drilling Backlog’  “BP may be able to start getting rid of its drilling
backlog in the Gulf by the end of the year,” said Iain Armstrong, analyst at broker Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in  London .
“The market will get excited when BP starts getting drilling
permits in its own name.”  BP on July 15 said it will implement a higher standard of
safety in its drilling than regulations require. It will now
only use blowout preventers on the Gulf floor with at least two
so-called blind shear rams, which seal wellbores by cutting
through the drill pipe. The blowout preventer for the Deepwater
Horizon had one blind shear ram that failed to cut off oil and
gas from the well. BP will also set up a real-time drilling
operations center in Houston.  Dudley said July 26 that BP is eager to “get back to
work” in the Gulf, working closely with regulators, and that
the pace of BP’s return depends on getting approvals for new
wells. He said the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Management says BP won’t
be held to a higher standard than its peers in its applications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  