-- 
Brazil Exporters Said to See Cost of Trade Finance Double

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-09-23T20:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/brazil-exporters-said-to-see-cost-of-trade-finance-line-double.html
The cost of short-term trade
finance for Brazilian investment-grade companies more than
doubled this month as European banks retreat from the dollar
loan market, according to three people familiar with the matter.  A one-year  credit line  backed by export contracts costs now
as much as 2.85 percent, compared with 1.35 percent in the
beginning of September, according to two bankers who asked not
to be identified because the terms of the loans are private.
It’s the first increase in the cost of trade finance for
Brazil’s biggest exporters since the 2008 global credit crunch.  The credit tightening comes at a time when demand for trade
finance is rising in Brazil as major exporters seek to sell
dollars for reais after the currency slumped 10 percent in five
days, hitting a two-year low yesterday. Exporters took $38.9
billion of ACCs, as the short-term trade loans are known in
 Brazil , this year through Sept. 16, surpassing the $37.6 billion
they borrowed all of last year, according to central bank data.  Brazilian companies get as much as 40 percent of their
trade financing from banks in  Europe , where parliaments are
seeking to expand a 440 billion-euro ($592 billion) plan to
rescue troubled lenders and stressed euro-area governments, one
of the bankers said. Loans from Asian and North American banks
are not enough to supply all the funding needed for the short-
term trade facilities, they said.  The Brazilian central bank may need to provide trade lines
as it did in 2008 to help weather the funding shortage, one of
the bankers said.  Central Bank  For now, the central bank isn’t considering using reserves
to offer banks credit lines in dollars to finance exports, an
official familiar with the discussion about anti-crisis measures
said. The drop in credit from Europe is being compensated by
more loans from the U.S. and  Asia , said the official, who asked
not to be named because the discussions are private. Should the
situation deteriorate, the central bank stands ready to use
reserves, as in 2008, to provide dollar loans to Brazilian
companies and banks, he said.  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , the biggest supplier of ACC loans in
Brazil, is maintaining the price and the maturity of its trade
finance lines even as some European banks retreat from the
market, said Allan Toledo, president of the lender’s wholesale
area. The bank is increasing its borrowing for trade loans from
Asian and North American banks to offset declining credit supply
from Europe, he said.  Funding Sources  This year, the bank has already lent $13.6 billion through
ACCs, more than the $12.6 billion for all of last year, Toledo
said.  The international interbank market accounts for about one
third of Banco do Brasil’s dollar funding, Toledo said. At the
end of June, the bank had $31.7 billion that could be used to
fund exports, he said. About $3 billion of that total came from
personal deposits, $6.5 billion from company deposits and $10
billion was obtained from bonds the bank sold and other
structured funding operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  