-- 
Brazil Real Gains, Paring Weekly Rout, on Currency Tax Removal Speculation

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-23T22:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/brazilian-real-advances-paring-biggest-weekly-sell-off-since-2008-crisis.html
Brazil ’s real rose, paring its
biggest weekly sell-off since November 2008, on speculation the
government may revoke a tax on foreign-exchange derivatives and
modify other restrictions to lure investment and stem the rout.  The real advanced 3.9 percent, the most in almost three
years, to 1.8339 per dollar at 5 p.m. New York time, from 1.9055
yesterday. The currency touched the weakest level since July
2009 yesterday, prompting the central bank to shore up the real
in the futures market for the first time in two years.  The government may adjust or retract the tax, known as IOF,
that it imposed on some currency derivatives transactions, scrap
limits on  bank transactions  in dollars and modify a tax on
foreign loans, Folha de S.Paulo reported, without saying how it
obtained the information. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said at
an event in  Washington  today that the government “for now”
isn’t planning to withdraw measures it took earlier this year
that aim at weaken the real.  “The tax has created so much confusion and was one of the
reasons behind the real’s recent sell-off,” said Mauricio
Junqueira, who helps manage about $300 million at Squanto
Investimentos in  Sao Paulo . “The best thing to do is to just
eliminate it and now they have an excuse to do so.”  The real lost 5.5 percent this week, the third-worst
performer after  South Africa ’s rand and Chilean peso among
emerging-market currencies, as  Europe ’s debt crisis and the
global economic slump eroded demand for higher-yielding assets.  Derivatives Tax  This week’s plunge extends the real’s slide to 15.2 percent
since July 27, when the government imposed the 1 percent tax on
derivatives to weaken the real from a 12-year high. The tax
reduced  currency trading  and prevented buyers from coming to the
market, said Junqueira.  “We established regulatory measures exactly for that, to
add and take away,” Mantega told reporters. “The IOF is one of
those, we introduced it, then we can take it away when it’s no
longer needed. We are always looking at all the possibilities,
but there is no decision.”  More than $3.5 trillion has been erased from equity markets
across the world this week, driving global stocks into a  bear
market  as concern mounted that the global economy is sinking
into recession. Brazil’s central bank sold currency swaps
yesterday, which is the equivalent of selling dollars in the
futures market, helping the real rebound from a two-year low.  The South African rand, the Polish zloty and Hungarian
forint, which have lost more than 11 percent this month as the
worst emerging-market performers, also gained against the dollar
today. U.S. stocks rose after The European Central Bank
Governing Council members said policy makers may step up efforts
to boost growth and ease financial-market tensions as early as
next month.  Foreigner Bets  Foreigners have cut their bets on the real’s gain by 85
percent from a record high in July, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg based on trading at BM&FBovespa SA,  Latin America ’s
largest securities exchange. The bullish bets in the futures and
dollar spread contracts, known as DDI, have dropped to $3.7
billion from $24.6 billion on July 7.  Brazil’s banks held a long dollar position, or bets that
the U.S. currency will rise, in the spot market of $3.1 billion
on Sept. 21, Tulio Maciel, the central bank’s economic
department chief, said to reporters in Brasilia. The banks held
$12.7 billion shorts in February. Policy makers took measures to
limit lenders’ short-dollar positions in January and July to
reduce the risk in the banking system.  Brazil stands ready to provide the necessary liquidity to
make sure the foreign exchange markets work “properly,”
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said at an event in
Washington. Policy makers were correct to reduce leveraged bets
against the dollar earlier this year, Tombini said.  Yields Fall  Yields on Brazil’s interest rate futures contracts fell as
falling commodity prices reduced concern that the recent
currency weakness may limit the room for the central bank to cut
 interest rates  to support economic growth.  Yields on the contract due in January 2013 fell 23 basis
points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 10.46 percent. Futures show
the central bank will cut the benchmark interest rate about 175
basis points by July, from 12 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank cut the benchmark interest rate a half
point to 12 percent on Aug. 31, after raising it at the previous
five policy meetings, citing a “substantial deterioration” in
the global economy. Inflation rose to a six-year high of 7.3
percent in the year through mid-September, above the central
bank’s target ceiling of 6.5 percent for a fifth month.  Currency Fluctuations  Yields on contracts maturing in January 2013 jumped 10
basis points on Sept. 21, amid concern that currency weakness
may increase prices of imports, preventing the central bank from
lowering borrowing costs.  Currency fluctuations have less of an impact on Brazilian
consumer prices than they did previously, Tombini said today.  The cost of short-term trade finance for Brazilian
investment-grade companies more than doubled this month as
European banks retreat from the dollar loan market, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  A one-year  credit line  backed by export contracts costs as
much as 2.85 percent now, compared with 1.35 percent in the
beginning of September, according to two bankers who asked not
to be identified because the terms of the loans are private.
It’s the first increase in the cost of trade finance for
Brazil’s biggest exporters since the 2008 global credit crunch.
The Brazilian central bank may need to provide trade lines as it
did in 2008 to help weather the funding shortage, one of the
bankers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ; 