-- 
Brazil’s August Current Account Deficit Widens Unexpectedly

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-23T16:44:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/brazil-august-current-account-gap-widens-unexpectedly-correct-.html
Brazil ’s current account deficit
unexpectedly widened in August as domestic demand fueled a jump
in service imports and companies stepped up remittances of
profits and dividends.  The deficit in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade and services, increased to $4.9 billion in August from
$3.5 billion in July, the central bank said in a report today in
Brasilia. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a $3
billion gap, according to the median estimate of 17 analysts.  Brazil’s foreign direct investment more than compensated
for the deficit as heated consumer demand with unemployment at
record lows attracts foreign companies to  Latin America ’s
largest economy, said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao
Paulo-based Gradual Investimentos. While the August number
precedes the recent market turmoil, it does show investment
inertia that probably won’t be reversed in September, he said.  “Money didn’t stop coming into Brazil, much the opposite,
there were strong inflows,” said Perfeito. “It’s evident that
people are coming to Brazil and it’s likely that the real
decline was more market positioning than an intense pullout by
foreign investors.”  The real strengthened 2.5 percent to 1.8592 per dollar at
11:42 a.m. New York time. The currency has declined 14 percent
this month, the second-most behind the South African rand among
25 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Foreign Investment  Brazil’s foreign direct investment declined to $5.6 billion
in August from $6 billion in June, exceeding the $4.2 billion
median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  unemployment rate  was unchanged at 6 percent in August,
a record low for the month, undercutting speculation that the
global market selloff had already begun to hurt the nation’s job
market.  Tulio Maciel, head of the central bank’s economic research
department, told reporters today that foreign investment will
begin to slow because of the global market selloff. Still, the
bank raised its estimate for 2011 foreign direct investment to
$60 billion from $55 billion because of inflows earlier this
year.  The bank narrowed its forecast for this year’s current
account deficit to $54 billion from $60 billion, largely due to
rising exports fueled by higher commodity prices in previous
months.  Stocks Slump  Markets around the world erased more than $3.4 trillion
from equity values this week, and emerging market currencies
sank on concern investors will sell higher-yielding assets as
 Europe ’s debt crisis hurts the world economy.  In Brazil, the yield on the interest rate futures contract
maturing in January 2013 declined 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 10.52 percent at 12:04 p.m. New York time.  The real’s drop this month prompted Brazil to use
derivatives to shore up the currency. The decline in the real is
a reversal of a 46 percent rally from the end of 2008 through
August that prompted policy makers to buy dollars, raise taxes
on bond investors and impose trading restrictions to stem the
appreciation and protect exporters.  The central bank said yesterday it would auction as many as
112,290 currency swaps maturing between November and January.
Swaps pay investors a fixed  interest rate  in dollars in exchange
for the overnight  interbank rate  in reais, a move that’s akin to
selling the greenback in the futures market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 