-- 
Brazilian Stock Movers: BicBanco, BM&FBovespa, Embraer, Tam

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-09-23T20:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/brazilian-stock-movers-cyrela-pao-de-acucar-rise-tam-falls.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in  Sao Paulo  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4:15 p.m. New York time.
Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock.  The Bovespa Index fell 0.1 percent to 53,230.36.  Banco Industrial & Comercial SA (BICB4 BS) fell 1.2 percent
to 7.46 reais. The bank known as BicBanco was cut to
“underperform” from “neutral” at Bank of America Corp.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  (BVMF3 BS), the operator of  Latin America ’s
biggest securities exchange, gained 4.8 percent to 9.21 reais.
To contain the slide in the real, the government may adjust or
retract a tax, known as the IOF, that it imposed on some
currency derivatives transactions, Folha de S.Paulo reported,
without saying how it obtained the information. Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said at an event in  Washington  today that the
government “for now” isn’t planning to withdraw measures it
took earlier this year that aim to weaken the real.  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  (EMBR3 BS) gained 1 percent to 11.45 reais and
was one of two stocks on the 68-member Bovespa to post a weekly
advance. The world’s fourth-largest aircraft maker “benefits
from a weaker Brazilian real since most sales are denominated in
dollars while approximately 20 percent of costs are real-
denominated,” analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., led by Ben Laidler, wrote in a note to clients dated yesterday. The real
has declined 13 percent this month.  Tam SA (TAMM4)  (TAMM4 BS) dropped 0.8 percent to 33.40 reais. Lan
Airlines SA aims to complete the takeover of Tam in the first
quarter of 2012,  El Mercurio  reported, citing Ignacio Cueto,
Lan’s president. Lan hasn’t decided whether it will appeal the
Chilean antitrust regulator’s conditions for the takeover to the
country’s  Supreme Court , Cueto told the Santiago-based
newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  