-- 
Bundesbank Said to Plan Selloff of Lehman Brother Real-Estate Collateral

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-09-23T15:15:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/bundesbank-said-to-plan-selloff-of-lehman-brother-real-estate-collateral.html
The Bundesbank,  Germany ’s central
bank, plans to sell property-related assets remaining from the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The sale will involve securities used as collateral by
Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG, the German arm of the defunct U.S.
bank, in refinancing conducted through the Bundesbank as part of
the Eurosystem, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the sale is confidential. The bank appointed AgFe Ltd.,
a structured finance adviser, to manage the transaction, the
person said.  “The realization of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collateral is an ongoing process, in which the Bundesbank is
being advised by AgFe,” a bank spokesman said, declining to
provide further details.  The value of the assets may exceed 4 billion euros ($5.4
billion), U.K.-based  Property Week  magazine reported today.  The Eurosystem is made up of the  European Central Bank  and
the 17 national central banks that use the euro.  The Bundesbank holds 2.1 billion euros of debt in Excalibur
Funding No. 1, a Lehman-created vehicle containing packaged
property loans, according to a lawsuit filed in  London .  The notes passed to the Bundesbank as collateral for a loan
when the German subsidiary of Lehman followed its parent into
bankruptcy.  In a U.K. court hearing, lawyers for the Bundesbank tried
to seize control of the assets in Excalibur, which are
controlled by a Lehman unit, saying it was in default. A London
judge rejected the claim in July.  The German central bank has been trying to sell the
Excalibur notes “for some time,” Wayne McArdle, an attorney at
law firm Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP representing Lehman, said
today. The senior notes it holds are listed on the Irish Stock
Exchange and can be sold at any time, even though Lehman
controls the underlying assets, he said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 