-- 
Calpers Puts $100 Million of ‘Seed’ Money in Toronto Hedge Fund

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/calpers-puts-100-million-of-seed-money-in-toronto-hedge-fund.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension, invested for the
first time in a hedge-fund startup, putting $100 million into a
Toronto-based firm.  The deal with  Breton Hill Capital , which invests in
equities and currencies as well as commodity and financial
futures, represents Calpers’ first foray into seed funding for a
 money manager ,  Brad Pacheco , a Calpers spokesman, said yesterday
in a telephone interview.  Calpers, with $223.8 billion in assets, earned almost 21
percent on its investments in the 12 months through June, its
largest gain in 14 years. The fund invests $5.3 billion, or 2.4
percent of its portfolio, in hedge funds, according to a
 statement .  “This is pretty unique,” said Don Steinbrugge, managing
partner of Agecroft Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based
firm that advises hedge funds and investors. “There is a
significant opportunity for pension funds that have the right
expertise and management to provide strong returns by doing
this.”  Breton Hill principals had no comment on the Calpers
investment, Ray Carroll, the fund’s chief investment officer,
said in an e-mail.  Calpers began working with hedge funds in April 2002 and
has an annualized return of almost 5.5 percent in that category,
according to an Aug. 15  report  by Craig Dandurand, who manages
Calpers’ hedge fund portfolio. The  S&P 500 index (SPX)  gained 3.6
percent in the same period, Calpers spokesman  Wayne Davis  said
in an e-mail.  New York Investment  The New York State Common Retirement Fund, the third-
largest U.S. pension, provided $250 million in  seed capital  for
an emerging-market hedge fund run by London-based Finisterre
Capital LLP in January 2010.  “There’s been a very strong trend toward more pension
funds investing in hedge funds and the average amount they
invest is up sharply,” Steinbrugge said.  Pacheco said Calpers selected Breton Hill for its initial
investment in a startup after an “extensive review” of the
firm’s principals and investment process.  “Another key element in this review was determining that
Breton Hill’s systems and infrastructure were well-prepared for
institutional investment,” Pacheco said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  