-- 
Carbon Market Loses ‘Mojo,’ Tracks EU Economic Health, IdeaCarbon Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-09-23T09:48:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/carbon-market-loses-mojo-tracks-eu-economic-health-ideacarbon-says.html
The European carbon market is
increasingly becoming an indicator of European Union economic
output, rather than being fixed by supply and demand for the
permits, IdeaCarbon said.  EU permits for December were correlated yesterday with the
Euro STOXX 50 index at 76 percent, the highest since Aug. 10,
2009, according to Bloomberg data. It’s been correlated with the
10-year German bond at 66 percent since July, said  Matthew Gray ,
an analyst in  London  at IdeaCarbon, which rates emission credit
projects.  “Carbon is increasingly becoming an indicator for European
economic health,” Gray said yesterday in a report. “It’s lost
its mojo,” he said today by telephone, explaining that carbon
is not being driven by its own supply and demand.  The EU will probably have economic growth of 1 percent next
year, compared with 1.6 percent this year, Barclays Plc forecast
yesterday in a report. There’s a probability of as much as 20
percent that European authorities fail to contain the sovereign
debt crisis and a second major financial crisis and recession
ensue, the bank said.  Europe ’s emissions-trading program, the world’s largest,
imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000 utilities and
factories. The economic slow-down since 2008 left forecast
emissions below that limit in the years through 2012, causing an
oversupply of permits in the market. A mechanism to re-establish
price tension during macroeconomic events is needed to ensure
the carbon market drives cleaner investments, according to
IdeaCarbon.  Carbon permits dropped as much as 0.9 percent to 11.25
euros ($15.24) a metric ton, the lowest since Aug. 9. Contracts
have lost 21 percent so far this year. Investors are dumping
riskier assets for those deemed safer, Gray said.  Emission allowances are deemed risky in part because they
are a security derived wholly from a market created by EU
politicians, said  James Cameron , vice chairman of Climate Change
Capital in London, who helped write the 1997  Kyoto Protocol  on
behalf of small-island states. “It’s got to do with the
dependability of governments to stick to policies,” Cameron
said Sept. 1 by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  