-- 
Carl Lewis Ending Bid for N.J. Senate After Defeat of Appeal

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-09-23T17:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/carl-lewis-ending-bid-for-new-jersey-senate-after-appeal-defeat.html
Carl Lewis , the nine-time Olympic
gold medalist, said he’s ending his bid for the New Jersey state
Senate, a day after a federal appeals court stripped his name
from the ballot.  “I let the spirit move me into this and now I’m going to
move from there,” he told reporters today in  Mount Laurel . “I
think the average person is a little frustrated with politics.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia yesterday
reversed an earlier decision and barred Lewis, a 50-year-old
Democrat, from the race. Lewis said he has no plans to seek any
other elected office.  At issue was whether Lewis met New Jersey’s four-year
residency requirement for the Senate. Secretary of State Kim Guadagno, a Republican who is also lieutenant governor, in April
said Lewis didn’t meet the threshold, which triggered the legal
fight.  Guadagno said that while Lewis purchased a  New Jersey  home
four days prior to the cutoff on Nov. 16, 2007, he voted in
 California  in 2008 and 2009 and paid income taxes there in 2008,
disqualifying him.  Lewis, who represented the U.S. in track and field events,
had sought to represent New Jersey’s 8th District, held by
Republican Dawn Marie Addiego of Medford. His exit from the race
leaves the  Democratic Party  with no candidate on the ballot.  Lewis said another political campaign would be a
distraction from his charity work, product endorsements and
promoting physical fitness. The Carl Lewis Foundation helps the
College Fund and promotes organ donation, according to the
website of the Harry Walker Agency, his speaker’s bureau.  “I won nine gold medals, Lewis said. ‘‘I’m olympian of the
century. I’m a UN ambassador.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  