-- 
Cemex Bond Yield Soars on Concern Over Weaker Economy, Peso

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-23T22:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/cemex-bond-yield-soars-on-concern-over-weaker-economy-peso.html
Cemex SAB debt tumbled, sending the
yield on the benchmark bonds to a record high, as  Standard &
Poor’s  said it may cut the rating on the largest cement maker in
the Americas and a weaker peso dimmed the outlook for profit.  The yield on Cemex 9 percent dollar bonds maturing in 2018
surged 304 basis points this week, or 3.04 percentage points, to
16.83 percent today, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
The $1.65 billion of bonds were first sold in January.  S&P put Cemex’s B rating, five steps below investment
grade, on a watch for a possible downgrade, saying it expects
the company’s financial performance to remain “weak” because
of lower global economic growth. A 15 percent decline in the
Mexican peso since the beginning of August is putting pressure
on Cemex’s finances, said  Vanessa Quiroga , an analyst with
Credit Suisse Group AG in  Mexico  City, in a report today.  “Cemex is not in a favorable situation, generating only
$450 million of annual  cash flow  and a debt balance of $17
billion,” Quiroga said. “Doing a simple division, it would
take Cemex about 38 years to pay it off.”  The company is barred from entering currency hedges under a
financing agreement with banks, Quiroga said, reducing dollar
profits from Mexico, where Credit Suisse forecasts the company
will get 60 percent of its total earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2011.  Cemex reached a $15 billion financing agreement with banks
in August 2009 to avoid default after the recession reduced
profit. The company has paid about half the loan, which comes
due in 2014, by selling shares, bonds and assets.  Jorge Perez , a spokesman for Cemex in Monterrey, Mexico,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  