-- 
Chile Reviewing Dollar-Purchase Program as Peso Slumps, De Gregorio Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-23T13:05:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/chile-is-reviewing-dollar-purchase-program-after-peso-s-slump.html
Chile ’s central bank is reviewing
its dollar-purchase program after the peso slumped, bank
President Jose De Gregorio said yesterday, less than a month
after stating that policy makers had no plans to change the
program’s time line. The peso strengthened today.  “We will have to evaluate,” he said in an interview on a
day when the peso plunged against the dollar more than any other
currency. “As we announced since we started, we will continue
evaluating and look at what is really driving the market.”  Emerging market currencies tumbled yesterday after data
showed manufacturing contracted in  China  and the U.S. Federal
Reserve warned of “significant” risks to the world’s largest
economy. The real’s decline prompted  Brazil ’s central bank to
enter the derivatives markets for the first time in two years to
prop up the currency.  Chile’s central bank has been buying $50 million a day
since Jan. 5 in a bid to weaken the peso and boost international
reserves. De Gregorio told lawmakers on Sept. 7 the bank had no
plans to change the policy and the market expected the program
to end in December as scheduled.  The bank had to cut short its previous dollar-purchase
program in September 2008 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed, triggering a slump in emerging market currencies. The
peso fell to 638.50 per  U.S. dollar  by the end of 2008 from
439.50 on April 1.  The peso erased a loss earlier today and gained 0.5 percent
to 518.35 per dollar as of 8:57 a.m. New York time, after
tumbling 4 percent yesterday. The currency has lost 11 percent
since  De Gregorio  said policy makers didn’t intend to change the
intervention schedule on Sept. 7.  Copper Slump  The peso was hit yesterday as the price of copper, which
accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports, fell 8.3 percent
to a one-year low of $3.4535 a pound for December delivery. The
metal is down another 5.4 percent today.  “Conditions in the last few weeks have been pointing
toward a depreciation of currencies of countries that are
commodity exporters,” De Gregorio said in  Washington  yesterday.
“If you look at weekly or monthly data, the Chilean currency is
behaving as many other currencies from emerging markets.”  The  Mexican peso  fell 2.8 percent against the dollar
yesterday, followed by a 1.9 percent decline in the Colombian
peso and a 1.6 percent deterioration in Brazil’s real.  Dollar Strength  “We don’t know how far this will go,” Brazil’s Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Washington after a
meeting of finance officials from Brazil,  Russia ,  India , China
and  South Africa . “There’s a depreciation of all currencies
against the dollar.”  Chile’s dollar-buying program limited the peso’s gains
earlier this year even as the central bank raised its key
interest rate five times. Policy makers now have room to follow
Brazil’s lead by reducing rates after keeping borrowing costs
unchanged at 5.25 percent in the past three meetings, De
Gregorio said.  “We are a country with a lot of space to cut rates, but
whether we cut or not will depend on economic conditions,” he
said. “We are flexible enough and proactive enough to make the
appropriate decisions in the face of a bad world scenario.”  Chilean policy makers reduced their 2011 global growth
estimate to 3.9 percent this month from 4.1 percent in June on
the European debt crisis and weak labor markets.  ‘Room for Maneuver’  “We are, both in monetary policy and in fiscal policy,
among the economies that have more room for maneuver” in the
face of global turmoil, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said
yesterday. “We are well-prepared, but not bullet-proof.”  The central bank may not immediately move to lower interest
rates, which are the third-highest among major Latin American
economies, De Gregorio said. Policy makers may decide to keep
rates unchanged until they have a better idea what direction the
global economy will take.  One-year  interest rate  swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of borrowing costs, fell 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 4.60 percent at 8:58 a.m. from yesterday.  “Perhaps there is no need to raise or to cut given the
current world scenario,” De Gregorio said. “It’s very
difficult to say which way we should go, but of course we have
space because inflation is on target. We have a lot of
flexibility on the monetary policy side to respond to different
scenarios in the world economy.”  Inflation was 3.2 percent in August and 2.9 percent in
July, according to the National Statistics Institute. The
central bank targets 3 percent annual inflation plus or minus 1
percentage point over two years.  De Gregorio, who earned his doctorate in economics at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , has been central bank
president since December 2007 and is scheduled to step down this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 