-- 
Chile Peso Rebounds From World’s Biggest Tumble on Review of Dollar Buying

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-09-23T18:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/chile-peso-rebounds-from-world-s-biggest-tumble-on-review-of-dollar-buying.html
Chile ’s peso rebounded from the
biggest drop among global currencies yesterday as speculation
the central bank will cease its dollar-buying program
overshadowed copper’s plunge to a one-year low.  The currency snapped a five-day losing streak, including a
4 percent decline yesterday, to advance 0.7 percent to 517.36
per  U.S. dollar . The decline this week was the biggest since
February 2009.  Central bank President Jose De Gregorio said yesterday the
institution will evaluate its $12 billion dollar-buying program.
Investors have fled emerging-market currencies and commodities
amid concern of a new recession in developed countries. Copper,
which accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports, slumped to
a one-year low in New York today.  “Just look how copper is falling,” said Eugenio Cortes,
head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA
in Santiago. “The market is a little cautious though, expecting
a signal from authorities, otherwise the dollar would be higher.
The central bank could suspend its dollar buying.”  The central bank is reviewing its dollar purchases,  De
Gregorio  said in an interview in  Washington . Were the central
bank to suspend its $50-million-a-day program the dollar might
fall by 10 to 15 pesos, Cortes said. The bank has so far bought
$9.2 billion.  “In the statement where it announced its intervention in
January, it said it was a policy that it would be permanently
evaluating,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters  by
phone from Washington about the dollar-purchase program. “I
think it´s reasonable for that policy to be evaluated.”  Copper Tumbles  Suspending or decelerating the intervention would be a
decision for De Gregorio, Larrain said.  Copper for December delivery declined 6 percent to $3.2815
a pound by 12:59 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . Prices reached
$3.215, the lowest level since Aug. 25, 2010. The metal is down
17 percent this week, on course for the biggest retreat since
December 2008.  Pressure from foreign investors selling pesos to buy
dollars diminished today as stocks in the U.S. gained and the
euro stabilized.  “There were a lot of external dollar buyers and local
stop-loss orders that had been forcing the peso down,” said
Andres de la Cerda, a trader at Bice Inversiones in Santiago.
“That factor has gone.”  All the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
fell this week, led by those of  South Africa ,  Brazil  and Chile.  Brazil Rally  Today’s rally in the Brazilian real has helped buoy the
Chilean currency, said  Diego Donadio , a strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in  Sao Paulo . The real gained 2.9 percent against the
U.S. dollar on speculation the government may quash a tax on
foreign-exchange derivatives in a bid to stem the currency’s
rout.  “The real’s move contributed to easing pressure on the
peso,” he said in a phone interview. “There’s sentiment that
central banks will do something to stem currency volatility.”  Donadio, who yesterday wrote to clients that the peso could
fall to 550 per dollar, remains bearish. De Gregorio has always
said that the bank’s intervention is under constant review, he
said.  Ultimately, “the sharp fall in copper prices will be more
important than the hope that the central bank will do something
about its intervention,” Donadio said.  Chile’s interest-rate swap curve steepened this week as
traders priced in lower  interest rates  in the next two to three
years and investors shifted out of longer maturity positions in
emerging-market debt.  Curves Steepening  “The same thing has happened across  Latin America  and in
Eastern Europe: curves steepening because of asset liquidation
by foreigners who tend to crowd into longer maturities,”
Donadio said.  That steepening eased today in Chile as swap rates fell in
longer maturities.  Three-year interest-rate swap rates in pesos fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, today to 4.52 percent,
following a seven basis point decline yesterday. The two-year
swap dropped five basis points to 4.44 percent after slumping 12
basis points yesterday.  The five-year swap rate fell two basis points to 4.845
percent, a three basis point increase on the week. The 10-year
rate in pesos fell four basis points to 5.19 percent, from its
5.1 percent level of Sept. 16.  Breakeven Rates  Inflation-linked swap rates fell further still as traders
braced for faster-rising prices as the weaker peso may push up
the price of imports. Six-month breakeven inflation rose three
basis points today to 2.14 percent, up from 1.94 percent on
Sept. 16.  The yield on Chile’s 6 percent government bonds in pesos
due in 2020 was unchanged at 5.12 percent. The yield on a basket
of 10-year inflation-linked central bank bonds fell one basis
point to 2.28 percent, after declining 11 basis points
yesterday.  The spread investors demand to buy Chile’s 3.25 percent
dollar bonds due in 2021 instead of  U.S. Treasuries  climbed to
180 basis points, the widest since they were first sold on Sept.
7. The spread on its 3.875 percent bonds due in 2020 declined to
175 basis points from a record 179 reached yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  