-- 
China’s Comac Sees ‘Substantial’ C919 Plane Orders This Year

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-23T03:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/china-s-comac-sees-substantial-c919-plane-orders-this-year.html
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China ,
maker of the nation’s first large passenger jet, expects to
announce “substantial” new orders for the plane this year,
bolstering efforts to challenge  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS.  The company will announce deals for the C919 at “the most
appropriate time,” Chen Jin, general manager for sales and
marketing at the state-backed planemaker, said yesterday at the
Beijing air show. “We will have substantial new orders,” he
said, declining to elaborate.  ICBC Financial Leasing Co. , owned by  China ’s biggest bank
by market value, and China Aircraft Leasing Co. have said they
are nearing deals for the 168-seat C919, potentially ending a
near yearlong order drought. Shanghai-based Comac announced as
many as 100 C919 orders last year when it confirmed plans to
compete with Boeing and Airbus’s bestselling models.  “Chinese airlines and state-backed leasing firms need to
show their support by placing orders as the planemaker is also
owned by the government,” said David Wei, an analyst with
Shanghai Securities Co. “If Comac can win more orders,
especially from overseas customers, it means its product is
attractive.”  200-Jet Order  Comac’s chief designer, Wu Guanghui, said June 20 that the
C919 may attract 50 to 100 orders this year.  Ryanair Holdings
Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s biggest discount airline, said the next day that
it’s exploring an order for at least 200 single-aisle jets from
the planemaker. Ryanair also agreed to help develop the C919,
which is due to make its first flight in 2014.  Existing customers for the plane include General Electric
Co.’s leasing arm, domestic lessors and China’s big three
airlines,  Air China Ltd. (753) , China Southern Airlines Co. and China
Eastern Airlines Corp. ICBC Financial, a unit of Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., said Sept. 20 it may announce an
order for the jet next month. China Aircraft Leasing said in
August it was close to a deal for 20 planes.  China first announced plans for the jet in 2008 to help
develop a globally competitive  aerospace industry  and pare its
reliance on imports. The country will need as many as 5,000 new
aircraft through 2030, Boeing said this month, raising its 20-
year forecast by 15 percent. Comac has forecast that Chinese
airlines will receive 4,700 new planes over the next 20 years.  Comac is working with overseas suppliers to help develop
the C919. CFM International Inc., a GE-Safran SA venture, is set
to supply the aircraft’s engines.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ,
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and Parker Hannifin Corp. have agreed
to supply other components.  Comac and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  also said in March they would
explore working together in marketing, customer support and
procurement as they work to cut costs and challenge Boeing and
Airbus’s grip on the narrowbody plane market. The two sides are
nearing formal deals on cooperation, Benjamin Boehm,
Bombardier’s vice president for international business, said
this week.  --Jasmine Wang. Editors: Vipin V. Nair, Neil Denslow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  