-- 
China’s Property-Market Squeeze Is Nearing a ‘Tipping Point,’ Nomura Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-23T08:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/china-s-property-market-squeeze-is-nearing-a-tipping-point-nomura-says.html
The squeeze on  China ’s  property
market  may be reaching a “tipping point” that drives growth
lower just when exports are under threat from a global slowdown
and investor confidence is plunging, said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong
Kong-based chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Land transactions in 133 cities tracked by  Soufun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real-estate website, fell 14 percent
by area in August from a month earlier. Prices of new homes
declined in 16 of 70 cities last month compared with July,
according to government data.  Property construction is a mainstay of investment that last
year drove more than a half of economic growth while land sales
contributed 40 percent of revenues earned by local authorities
that have amassed 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.67 trillion) of debt. A
funding squeeze on developers risks a “domino effect” as
companies needing cash cut prices, forcing others to follow,
Credit Suisse Group AG said yesterday.  “We’re reaching a tipping point where land sales are
dropping much faster than before, developers are losing more
access to bank financing, and housing prices are showing
weakness,” Nomura’s Zhang said in an interview in Beijing
yesterday.  The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  five
times over the past year, curbed lending to property developers
and raised down payments on home loans as part of Premier Wen
Jiabao’s campaign to rein in surging consumer and property
prices. The government has also limited purchases of housing in
cities where gains have been deemed excessive.  Loan Approval Withdrawn  Real-estate development accounted for a fifth of China’s
urban fixed-asset investment last year, government data show.  Shanghai-based Shui On Land Ltd. had a loan approval from a
Chinese bank withdrawn after the lender changed its policy,
Vincent Lo, the company’s billionaire chairman, said in a Sept.
13 interview. Cancellations by that bank, which he wouldn’t name,
are “happening quite frequently” to other developers, he said,
adding that the credit squeeze may slow property development.  The price of land in Beijing slumped 76 percent in August
from a month earlier, while in Guangzhou it plummeted 53 percent,
according to Soufun. Land auction failures surged 242 percent
in the first seven months of this year because of government
curbs on the property market, the Beijing Times reported Aug. 3.  Debt Servicing Difficulties  The decline may make it more difficult for some of the
thousands of companies set up by local governments to service
debts taken on to fund infrastructure investment.  China Real
Estate Information Corp. (CRIC) , a Shanghai-based property information
and consulting firm, estimates 40 percent of overall local
government revenue came from land sales last year.  In a sign financing vehicles in some provinces are
struggling, the auditor of northeast Liaoning province estimated
in July that about 85 percent of such companies in the region
had insufficient income last year to cover all their debt
servicing payments.  Some developers have turned to trust firms for financing,
usually in the form of loans that are repackaged into investment
products and sold to retail investors. The debt is typically
funded by banks or investors themselves, according to Samsung
Securities Asia Ltd.  Many real-estate companies have received about half of
their new financing from trust firms over the past year,
according to Jinsong Du, an analyst with Credit Suisse in  Hong
Kong . New bank lending to property developers in the second
quarter of this year sank to 42 billion yuan from 169 billion
yuan in the first quarter, he said, citing central bank data.  Stocks Drop  Shares in China property companies slumped yesterday on
concern tightened access to loans will force them to cut prices.
Greentown China Holdings Ltd. plunged 16 percent in Hong Kong,
the most in almost three years, and was 6.5 percent lower at
HK$4.20 at 3:34 p.m. today.  Greentown, the largest builder in the eastern province of
Zhejiang, yesterday denied media reports the banking regulator
ordered trust companies to provide details of their business
dealings with the company and its units.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission is looking into
financing of developers through  trust companies  as part of a
broader evaluation of real-estate lending, a person familiar
with the matter said today. The inquiries are part of regular
monitoring and aren’t targeting any particular company, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the regulator’s
queries were meant to be private.  The “possibility of developers defaulting on debt has
definitely increased and towards the end of the year that’s
pretty likely,” Du said in a telephone interview yesterday.  ‘Tip of the Iceberg’  Developer Dalian Rightway Real Estate entered preliminary
restructuring talks with lenders after missing a loan repayment,
the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post newspaper reported
Sept. 9, citing three unidentified people involved in the
situation.  Funding problems are just “the tip of the iceberg” and
“sharp declines in property sales and prices are likely in the
next two to three months,” said Shen Jianguang, an economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Premier Wen reiterated this month that stabilizing consumer
prices remains the government’s top priority and that the
direction of government policies won’t change. The slowdown in
economic growth is “within expectations,” he said.  Too Complacent  Consumer-price increases in August slowed to 6.2 percent
from a year earlier, down from a three-year high of 6.5 percent
the previous month. Economists at Citigroup, Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. and Macquarie Securities Ltd. say inflation probably
peaked in July.  Policy makers may be too complacent about the economy’s
performance, Mizuho’s Shen said, pointing to the deteriorating
outlook for exports as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens and the U.S.
risks slipping back into recession.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week cut its forecasts
for global expansion this year and next and said downside risks
to growth are rising.  In signs  China’s economy  is cooling, a preliminary index of
purchasing managers released yesterday by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed manufacturing may shrink for a third
month in September, the longest contraction since 2009, as
measures of export orders and output decline.  “The risk of China replaying the hard landing of 2008 is
increasing as the property sector cools and exports weaken,”
Shen said. “ I fear that once the real economy deteriorates and
officials do loosen policies, it will already be too late.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  