-- 
Chinese Stocks to Extend Slump, Mizuho Securities Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 
2011-09-23T00:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/chinese-stocks-to-extend-slump-mizuho-securities-says-technical-analysis.html
Chinese stocks, as measured by the
 MSCI China (MXCN)  Index, may extend a slump that has made the nation’s
equities the worst-performing among the so-called BRIC nations,
according to  technical analysis  by Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  The MSCI China, which mostly tracks Hong Kong-traded shares
of Chinese companies, slid 6 percent yesterday to 50.12. The
gauge may fall to between 36 and 45 “to complete the bear
market,” Chris Roberts, a Hong Kong-based technical analyst,
wrote in a Sept. 22 report. The index’s moving average
convergence/divergence indicator, or MACD, had fallen below
zero, which is “normally bearish,” the report said.  “Given that for the past four years the October-November
period has either marked a top or a bottom, we would be alert
for at least an intermediate low in that time frame,” the
report said. Mizuho will “most likely” recommend investors
keep an “underweight” weighting on the MSCI  China  when it
issues its next report in October, Roberts wrote.  The MSCI China Index has tumbled 25 percent this year as
the Chinese government stepped up measures to cool inflation
that’s at the highest level in almost three years. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index, which tracks 40 companies traded in
Hong Kong, sank 28 percent.  Benchmark indexes in  Brazil , Russia and  India  have fallen
between 18 percent and 23 percent this year. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index, which is largely restricted to domestic
investors, has slumped 13 percent in 2011.  China’s stocks may extend declines in the fourth quarter as
economic and corporate earnings growth slows and liquidity
remains tight, Chen Li, head of China equity strategy at UBS AG,
wrote in a report dated Sept. 21. Fourth-quarter profit may drop
7.7 percent from a year earlier as companies clear inventories,
hurting margins, the report said.  In technical analysis, investors study charts of trading
patterns and prices to predict changes in a security.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at  
 dboey@bloomberg.net  