-- 
China’s Stocks Fall to 14-Month Low on Policy, Economy Outlook

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-23T07:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/china-stock-index-falls-to-14-month-low-on-policy-global-economic-outlook.html
China ’s stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index to its lowest level in more than 14 months, as
mounting concerns over the faltering global economy prompted
speculation the government will take steps to support markets.  Bank of Communications Co. dropped to the lowest level in
almost seven weeks after the central bank asked lenders to
maintain a stable loan-to-deposit ratio during public holidays
next month.  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  lost 1.7 percent after the banking
regulator was said to be looking into the financing of property
developers through  trust companies .  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.4 percent to 2,433.16
at the 3 p.m. local-time close, the lowest level since July 16,
2010. The CSI 300 Index sank 0.6 percent to 2,669.48. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of 45 nations entered a  bear market 
yesterday for the first time in more than two years, after the
European debt crisis and threat of a U.S. recession erased more
than $10 trillion from equities since May.  “The dim outlook for the global economy has made investors
extremely pessimistic,” said Wu Kan, a fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “There’s no good
news worldwide and the announced policies seem to be not strong
enough to save the economy from entering recession.”  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 2 percent this week,
extending this year’s loss to 13 percent as the government
increased measures to cool inflation that’s at the highest in
almost three years. The gauge is down 12 percent since June 30.  Government Support  The gauge has tumbled 20 percent from this year’s peak on
April 18, a decline that some investors define as a bear market.
Stocks in the gauge trade at 11.2 times estimated profit, the
lowest level on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai Composite pared an earlier 1.8 percent loss on
speculation the government would step in to support the market.
China’s social security fund plans to invest more than 10
billion yuan ($1.6 billion) in the nation’s stock market,
 Securities Times  reported today, citing an unidentified person.
Group of 20 nations pledged in a statement late yesterday in
Washington to tackle increasing risks to the global economy.  “Speculation on government’s support always works in
China’s market, no matter it’s true or not,” Dazhong’s Wu said.
“That would help lift the index for the short-term but the
market may need several rounds of injections to turn the
pessimistic sentiment around.”  European Turmoil  The MSCI All-Country World Index has lost 23 percent since
peaking on May 2. Stocks fell yesterday on a Federal Reserve
assessment that turmoil caused by  Europe ’s crisis is taking a
toll on the economy and as a measure of Chinese manufacturing
weakened. Central bankers and finance ministers will discuss the
economic outlook today at annual meetings of the  International
Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  in  Washington .  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
slumped 3.3 percent to 28.12 yuan, the lowest close since Aug.
12, 2010. Copper in  London  slumped as much as 7.3 percent to
$7,115.75 a metric ton, the lowest level since August 2010.  China Vanke retreated 0.8 percent to 7.40 yuan. Gemdale
slid 1.7 percent to 5.26 yuan. Inquiries on developers’
financing through trust firms by the China Banking Regulatory
Commission are part of regular monitoring and aren’t targeting
any individual company, a person familiar with the matter said,
who declined to be identified because the regulator’s queries
were meant to be private.  Shares of Chinese property developers plunged in  Hong Kong 
yesterday, led by  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900) , on concern
tightened access to loans will force them to cut prices.
Greentown, the largest builder in the eastern province of
Zhejiang, said it hasn’t received any notice following a Reuters
report that the banking regulator ordered trust companies to
report dealings with the developer.  Banks Decline  Bank of Communications slid 0.9 percent to 4.52 yuan, the
lowest level since Aug. 8.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) 
slipped 0.4 percent to 2.51 yuan.  China’s central bank has asked commercial banks to maintain
a stable loan-to-deposit ratio during the National Day holiday
which begins on Oct. 1, the Oriental Morning Post reported
today, citing unidentified people. The difference of banks’
outstanding deposits on Sept. 30 and on Oct. 8 must not exceed 5
percent, the newspaper said.  “The global economy has lost its balance since the
financial crisis,” said Yang Rui, a  fund manager  at Bosera
Asset Management Co., which oversees more than $29 billion.
“The market will suffer a hard time at the low levels in the
coming two-to-three years.”  Yang, whose $468 million Bosera Balanced Allocation Fund
beat 79 percent of its peers in the past five years, is avoiding
property, bank and cement shares, on expectations the government
is unlikely to ease monetary tightening.  Liquor Prices  Liquor producers fell after the Guangzhou Daily reported
the government had asked the companies to stop increasing
prices. China’s National Development and Reform Commission has
told Kweichow Moutai Co., Wuliangye Yibin Co. and other domestic
liquor makers to halt price increases for their products,
according to a Sept. 19 statement on the China Alcoholic Drinks
Industry Association’s website.  Kweichow Moutai declined 1.8 percent to 194.05 yuan, the
lowest since July 14. Wuliangye Yibin dropped 2 percent to 36.43
yuan. Luzhou Laojiao Co. sank 4.4 percent to 39.98 yuan, the
biggest drop since May 23.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. added 2 percent to 28.69 yuan.
China Shenhua Energy Co., the listed unit of China’s biggest
coal producer, gained 0.7 percent to 25.86 yuan.  Thermal coal at Qinhuangdao, the nation’s biggest port for
the fuel, advanced 0.6 percent last week, the first increase in
almost three months, according to the China Coal Transport and
Distribution Association. Prices may gain as much as 5 percent
by year-end, according to Helen Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  