-- 
China Resources Are Best Hedge Amid Growth Slowdown, Bosera Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-23T00:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/china-resources-are-best-hedge-amid-growth-slowdown-bosera-says.html
China’s resource companies are the
safest investments in the fourth quarter as global economic
growth will slow and the Chinese government is unlikely to
loosen its monetary policies, Bosera Asset Management Co. said.  Rare earth, gold and rubber producers are a good hedge
against a weakening world economy, Yang Rui, a  fund manager  at
Shenzhen-based Bosera, which oversees more than $29 billion,
said in an interview in  Shanghai  yesterday. Yang is avoiding
property, bank and cement companies as tight monetary policies
will make financing more difficult and curb earnings growth.  “The global economy has lost its balance since the
financial crisis and resources are the key to hedge an economic
imbalance in the next 10 years,” said Yang, whose $468 million
Bosera Balanced Allocation Fund beat 79 percent of its peers in
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“The debt crisis may lead to a currency crisis and investment
in resources may be the answer to the problem.”  Yang, 39, said he first started accumulating gold stocks
more than two years ago when the price of bullion was below $900
an ounce. Gold for December delivery fell 2.4 percent to
$1,740.13 on the Comex in  New York  yesterday. Gold touched a
record $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6 and is up 23 percent this
year, outperforming global stocks, commodities and Treasuries.  “I’ll still be bullish on the gold price even when it
breaks $1,800 an ounce,” said Yang. “The uncertainty in global
economy will support demand for the metal.”  ‘Downside Risks’  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.8 percent to
2,443.06 yesterday, as a measure of Chinese manufacturing
weakened and the  Federal Reserve  pointed to “significant
downside risks” to the U.S. growth outlook. The 13 percent
slump for the Shanghai gauge this year has pushed down estimated
profit to 11.2 times, matching the lowest level on record set on
Sept. 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inner Mongolian Baotou Steel Union Co., Zhongjin Gold Co.
and Shandong Gold Mining Co. were Yang’s top three holdings in
the  Bosera Balanced Allocation fund (BOSBALA)  at the end of the first
half, according to a semi-annual company report. Baotou Steel,
which develops rare earth mines, has gained 89 percent over the
past year, while Zhongjin has slipped 6.9 percent and Shandong
Gold has lost 1.9 percent. The Shanghai Composite has fallen 5.7
percent over that same time.  Yang said he expects China’s benchmark index to recover in
the fourth quarter and said concerns that initial public
offerings will drain market liquidity are overstated. Sinohydro
Group Ltd., the nation’s biggest builder of dams, plans to start
selling as many as 3.5 billion shares on Sept. 26.  “The market is driven more by sentiment than fundamentals
and the recent slump has boosted speculation that there will be
a technical rebound,” said Yang, declining to give a target.
“If history is any guide, there will be at least a short-term
rally by the year end.”  IPO Outlook  Sinohydro applied in July to raise funds for 17.3 billion
yuan ($2.7 billion) of projects in what may be  China ’s biggest
IPO in almost a year. Shaanxi Coal Industry Co., which also
plans a 17.3 billion yuan IPO, received approval last month,
according to a statement on the China Securities Regulatory
Commission website on Aug. 29.  “There’s no need to be too pessimistic over IPOs as
China’s stock market is big enough to digest it,” Yang said.  Yang is avoiding property and bank shares as the government
is unlikely to halt a policy tightening campaign aimed at taming
inflation. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer, and
Gemdale Corp. accounted for a combined 4.9 percent in the Bosera
Balanced Allocation Fund as of the end of June, according to the
fund report.  A gauge tracking banks and developers in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
has lost 11 percent this year, driving its valuation to a record
low of 8.6 times estimated earnings yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Low valuation isn’t a good enough reason to buy into
stocks as they may slide even lower,” Yang said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  