-- 
Cocoa Market May Have Small Surplus in 2011-12, ICCO Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-23T17:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/cocoa-market-may-have-small-surplus-in-2011-12-icco-says-1-.html
Global cocoa production may exceed
demand to leave a small surplus in the season starting in
October, according to the International Cocoa Organization.  Bean production will be about 12,000 metric tons higher
than consumption in 2011-12, according to the median in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 traders, brokers and analysts published
today. The new estimate reverses a shortage of 59,000 tons
forecast in a Bloomberg survey on Aug. 4.  “We are looking at next year’s production to be, if not
balanced, with a slight surplus,” Jean-Marc Anga, executive
director of the International Cocoa Organization, said at a
press conference in London.  Favorable weather conditions in West Africa should extend
into next year, helping sustain production levels in the region,
Anga said. Top grower  Ivory Coast  is expected to produce a
record 1.47 million tons in 2010-11 and second-ranking  Ghana ’s
crop is estimated at 1 million tons, according to ICCO data.  La Nina weather conditions helped boost crops in West
Africa and the potential return of the weather pattern may have
an impact in output for the 2011-12 season, Anga said.  La Nina weather conditions, a cooling of the  Pacific Ocean 
that can cause major climate fluctuations and affect rain
patterns, will strengthen and persist into the Northern
Hemisphere’s 2011-12 winter, the U.S. National Weather Service
said this month in an advisory.  Cocoa Consumption  The London-based organization is “seriously concerned”
about the impact an economic slowdown could have on cocoa
consumption, Anga said.  Cocoa consumption is likely to fall in 2011-12 as economic
growth slows, Edward George, a soft commodities specialist at
Lome, Togo-based lender Ecobank Transnational Inc., said by
phone today. The  Federal Reserve  signaled this week
“significant downside risks” in the  U.S. economy .  “We recall that in 2008 when we had the financial crisis
consumption was affected, but not drastically,” Anga said. “We
are hopeful the same attitude will continue.”  Cocoa prices are likely to trade between $2,800 a ton and
$3,000 a ton, Anga said, adding that it’s difficult to predict
prices as the outlook for the Ivory Coast is still uncertain
following the civil war earlier this year.  Cocoa prices have fallen 12 percent in London and 16
percent in  New York  over the past month as supplies improved.  “The security situation in the west of the Ivory Coast is
one that is worrying us as the opening of the new campaign is
approaching,” he said, referring to the next crop. “We are
wondering whether there will be the manpower to tend to the
cocoa crop.”  Market Transparency  The ICCO supports the introduction of position and delivery
limits on the  London  terminal market as a way to improve
transparency, Anga said.  NYSE Liffe, the derivatives arm of NYSE Euronext, said on
Sept. 13 that it may introduce delivery limits for its sugar,
cocoa and coffee contracts. It also announced it would start
publishing holdings within the market from this month.  “It is our understanding that the stakeholders, in
particular the group of 16, seem satisfied with the process that
Liffe is implementing at the moment,” he said.  A group of 16 cocoa consumers wrote to Liffe in July last
year to complain about a lack of transparency, warning that they
might transfer trading to ICE Futures U.S., according to a copy
of the letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  When asked whether the ICCO was satisfied with the actions
taken by the exchange, Anga said it was an ongoing process and
that ICCO would continue to work with Liffe on any “remaining
concerns relevant stakeholders may have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  