-- 
Commodities Fall to Nine-Month Low in ‘Downward Spiral’ on Economic Woes

-- B y   S h a r o n   L i n d o r e s
-- 
2011-09-23T22:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/commodities-poised-for-worst-week-in-4-months.html
Commodities fell to a nine-month
low, led by routs in metals, on deepening concern that
governments are running out of tools to avert a global
recession, eroding prospects for raw-material demand.  European officials may accelerate the setup of a permanent
rescue fund as the sovereign-debt crisis mounts. On Sept. 21,
the  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy  faces “significant
downside risks.” In the next two days, gold plunged the most
since 1983, and copper had the biggest slide in almost three
years. Today, silver posted the largest drop in 32 years.  “We’re in a downward spiral, and no one knows when it’s
going to end,” said  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Credit Agricole
SA in London. “There is a lot of uncertainty at this time as to
how demand will develop.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 of energy, metal and
agriculture prices fell 1.3 percent to settle at 599.25 at 3:47
p.m.  New York . Earlier, the gauge touched 594.12, the lowest
since Dec. 2. This week, the measure slumped 8.2 percent, the
most in four months. The benchmark has tumbled 21 percent since
touching a 32-month high in April.  The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and next,
the  International Monetary Fund  said on Sept. 20, cutting
forecasts made in June for a 4.3 percent expansion and 4.5
percent in 2012.  Economic ‘Fears’  “We are seeing commodity prices correcting, so they are
more compatible with the global economy,” said Christin Tuxen,
a senior analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “When we
have fears over the economic cycle as we have now and a higher
probability of contraction, it hits industrial metals and
commodities.”  Copper futures for December delivery declined 20.85 cents,
or 6 percent, to $3.28 a pound on the Comex in New York. In two
days, the price tumbled 13 percent, the most since October 2008.  Yesterday, a preliminary index of purchasing managers in
 China , the world’s top consumer of industrial metals, indicated
that manufacturing contracted.  “We are not predicting a recession in the Western world,
but low growth for the long term,” Tuxen said. “We are looking
for a rebound in China and  Asia  in the fourth quarter and in
2012, which will help copper and aluminum.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell $101.90, or 5.9
percent, to $1,639.80 an ounce on the Comex, the biggest decline
since March 2008. In two days, the metal dropped 9.3 percent,
the most since February 1983.  Fed Twist  This week, the Fed said it will increase holdings of
longer-maturity Treasuries in a bid to bolster the economy,
shifting from debt maturing in three years of less.  “Gold has to roll with the masses, as markets show their
disappointment in the Fed’s ‘Operation Twist’,”  Edel Tully , a
London-based analyst at UBS AG, said in a report.  The metal has dropped 15 percent since reaching a record
$1,923.70 on Sept. 6.  “Gold has become the source of liquidity for global-margin
calls,” said Michael A. Gayed, the chief investment strategist
at Pension Partners LLC. “Also, deflationary pressures are
acting on gold.”  Silver futures for December delivery fell $6.477, or 18
percent, to $30.101 an ounce on the Comex, the biggest drop
since October 1979.  “We’re in a ‘risk-off’ mentality,”  Bill O’Neill , a co-
founder of Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview. “Some of it certainly is a case
of sell the winning assets to meet the margin calls for the
losing assets. We’re seeing massive selling across the spectrum
in commodities.”  Today, CME Group Inc., the Comex owner, raised margins to
trade gold, silver and copper futures.  Crude oil and corn had the biggest weekly drops since May.
Coffee prices have tumbled 20 percent this month, and cocoa is
down to a one-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Lindores in  London  at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 