-- 
Commodity Rules Needed to Control Speculation, Chilton Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-09-23T10:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/commodities-markets-rules-needed-to-control-prices-chilton-says.html
Regulation of international
 commodities markets  will control price volatility and benefit
consumers by making trading more efficient and effective, said
 Bart Chilton , a commissioner at the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  The commission is writing rules on market regulation as
supply and demand fundamentals can’t explain the high price
volatility seen this year and in 2008, Chilton said in a speech
to the United Nations yesterday, according to transcript of his
comments on the CFTC’s website. Policy makers globally should
work together so regulations and position limits correspond
internationally, he said.  “We need to ensure that to the extent that we can,
respecting sovereignty of course, we do our best to harmonize
rules and regulations,” Chilton said. “Those nations that do
so will reap a reward in my judgment in that they will make
themselves more competitive, more efficient and effective.”  Price swings including those in oil futures in 2008 can’t
be attributed to supply and demand, Chilton said. Oil futures
rose to $114.83 in  New York  in May and are down 11.5 percent
this year. The price touched a record in 2008.  “There is no way anyone can explain  oil prices  going from
$147.27 a barrel in June of 2008 to $30.28 in December of the
same year based upon supply and demand,” he said. “It simply
can’t be done. The tremendous volatility we have seen in markets
in recent months just can’t be justified purely as typical
supply and demand fundamentals.”  Position Limits  People opposed to position limits will fight to ensure
they’re not established or find ways to avoid them, even saying
no studies exist to prove a link between speculative trading and
price swings, Chilton said.  Some people “violently oppose position limits,” Chilton
said. “They dance on the head of a legal pin trying to find a
way around them or they threaten lawsuits if we impose them. I
have accepted as self-evident the need for reasonable
speculative position limits. We have actually had them in some
agricultural markets for years. The world did not seem to end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  