-- 
Copper Drops to Lowest in a Year as Nickel, Tin Plunge on Recession Threat

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-23T08:03:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/copper-drops-to-lowest-in-a-year-as-nickel-tin-plunge-on-recession-threat.html
Copper dropped to the lowest in
more than a year while nickel and tin plunged as the deepening
European debt crisis and threat of a U.S. recession spurred
investor concerns that demand for raw materials will slow.  Copper for delivery in three months fell as much as 7.3
percent to $7,115.75 per metric ton on the  London  Metal
Exchange, the lowest price since August 2010, before trading at
$7,329.75 a ton by 3:56 p.m. in Singapore. The metal has lost 16
percent this week, the most since October 2008. Tin plunged as
much as 14.3 percent to $17,000 a ton and nickel by as much as
11 percent to $16,800 a ton.  The world is poised for a financial crisis, Mohamed El-
Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in  Washington  yesterday. The  Federal Reserve  said
Sept. 21 that there are “significant downside risks” in the
 U.S. economy , prompting the central bank to announce a $400
billion plan to spur growth as the recovery from the worst
contraction since the Great Depression falters.  “Base metals are probably most sensitive to economic
environment,” Chae Un Soo, a trader at Korea Exchange Bank
Futures Co., said by phone from Seoul. “ China ’s PMI number came
out pretty bad yesterday and now we have this Greek bank cut.”  Manufacturing in China, the world’s largest metals user,
may shrink for a third month in September, according to a
preliminary index of purchasing managers from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics released yesterday. National Bank of Greece
SA, the country’s biggest lender, and seven other Greek banks
had their long-term deposit and senior debt ratings cut by
Moody’s Investors Service and carry a negative outlook.  Bear Market  “Sentiment is bearish, so we can expect some more selling
pressure unless policy circuit breakers are enacted,” analysts
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. led by  Mark Pervan 
said today in an e-mailed report. “There is no doubt that
global growth has slowed, but a recession is still not our
central expectation at this stage.”  Copper has lost 28 percent from a Feb. 15 record, exceeding
the 20 percent fall viewed by some investors as a signal of a
bear market, on speculation that the global economy is slowing,
reducing demand for the commodity used to make cables.  President Barack Obama yesterday urged “coordinated
action” to prevent a return to recession as officials prepare
to discuss the global outlook today at the annual meetings of
the  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  in Washington.  G-20 officials said after talks they were “committed to a
strong and coordinated international response to address the
renewed challenges facing the global economy.” The  European
Central Bank  may act to address risks to growth as soon as next
month should economic data disappoint, Governing Council member
Luc Coene said.  Extend Declines  “Despite some comments from the G-20, overall sentiment is
pretty bearish and prices are more likely to extend declines for
the time being,” Korea Exchange Bank’s Chae said.  Copper for December delivery fell 7.8 percent to $3.2150
per pound on the Comex in  New York . On the Shanghai Futures
Exchange, the December delivery contract dropped by the daily 6
percent limit to 56,940 yuan ($8,910) a ton.  Price declines “came from a broader macro-economic
concern,” Chen Xin Yi, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore , said today by phone. “We have been advising clients
not to take specific directional risks.”  Zinc in London dropped 3.6 percent to $1,937.50 a ton, lead
retreated 3.2 percent to $2,037 per ton and aluminum fell 1.2
percent to $2,201 per ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  