-- 
Crude Oil May Fall Next Week on U.S., China Outlook, Survey Says

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-09-23T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/crude-oil-may-fall-next-week-on-u-s-china-outlook-survey-says.html
Oil may fall next week on concern
that economic growth will slow in the U.S. and  China , the fuel’s
top two consumers, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Twenty-two of 40 analysts, or 55 percent, forecast oil will
decline through Sept. 30, while nine respondents, or 23 percent,
predicted prices will increase. Nine estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 45 percent of the surveyed analysts
projected a drop.  The  Federal Reserve  this week cited “significant downside
risks” to the  U.S. economy  and said it will replace $400
billion of short-term debt with longer-term Treasuries in an
attempt to spur growth. A report yesterday showed manufacturing
in China may shrink for a third straight month in September, the
longest such contraction since 2009.  “With policy makers seemingly out of options to revive the
economy in the short-term, losses from this week will carry into
next week,”  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New
York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy, said in an e-mail.  Total products supplied, averaged over four weeks, fell 0.3
percent to 19.2 million barrels a day in the period to Sept. 16,
the fourth straight weekly decline, according to a U.S. Energy
Department report on Sept. 21.  “We are in a very bad way,”  Peter Beutel , the president
of Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , said in an
e-mail. He forecast oil to fall next week. “The economy is as
poor as it has ever been, and we are just not increasing the
number of people going to work each day,” he said.  Crude oil for November delivery tumbled $7.09, or 8.1
percent, to $80.87 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures have fallen 12 percent this year.  The oil survey has correctly predicted the direction of
futures 47 percent of the time since its start in April 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  