-- 
Crude Oil Falls to Six-Week Low on Fears of Global Recession

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-09-23T12:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/crude-oil-falls-to-six-week-low-on-fears-of-global-recession.html
Oil sank to its lowest in more than
six weeks, falling with other commodities and equities as a
pledge by Group of 20 nations to tackle risks failed to ease
concern the global economy is on the brink of another recession.  Futures fell as much as 3.3 percent in  New York , extending
yesterday’s 6.3 percent decline.  Brent crude  in London slid as
much as 1.9 percent as European equity markets reversed earlier
gains. Prices may fall next week on concern economic growth will
slow in the U.S. and  China , a Bloomberg News survey shows.  “ Oil prices  have reacted strongly to the deterioration of
the economic environment,”  Christophe Barret , a London-based
analyst at Credit Agricole SA, wrote in a report today.  Crude for November settlement on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  declined as much as $2.60 to $77.85 a barrel, the
lowest price since Aug. 9, and was at $77.91 at 1:02 p.m. London
time. Futures are down 11 percent this week, headed for their
biggest drop since the five days ended May 6.  Brent for November delivery fell $1.87, or 1.8 percent, to
$103.62 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at premium of
$25.71 to U.S. futures.  ‘Renewed Challenges’  G-20 finance chiefs pledged to address risks to the global
economy and pushed Europe to contain its sovereign debt crisis.
Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” group finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a statement late yesterday in  Washington .  Oil may fall next week, the Bloomberg survey showed.
Twenty-two of 40 analysts, or 55 percent, forecast oil will
decline through Sept. 30, while nine respondents, or 23 percent,
predicted prices will increase. Nine estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 45 percent of the surveyed analysts
projected a drop.  “Should we go into a recession, the downward trend for
Brent will continue,” said Wolfgang Pflueger, an economist at
Berenberg Bank with responsibility for commodities, said today
by phone from Hamburg. Brent may trade at $59 a barrel at the
end of the year, he said.  Maintenance is continuing at the North Sea Buzzard oil
field that includes commissioning of a fourth platform, Nexen
Inc. said. Loadings of benchmark Forties cargoes were reduced
and delayed as a result of the works.  “Ramp-up is under way,” Patti Lewis, a Calgary-based
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.
Nexen, which operates Buzzard, the biggest stream in the Forties
blend, previously expected production to return to full rates in
August, according to a statement on July 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  