-- 
Daimler’s Smart Starts U.S. Marketing Campaign to Improve Model’s Image

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-23T16:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/daimler-s-smart-starts-u-s-marketing-campaign-to-improve-image.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Smart plans to spend
as much as $35 million on a new marketing campaign as the small-
car brand seeks to remake its image in the U.S. after sales
plummeted 76 percent over two years.  Smart, which had been distributed through  Penske Automotive
Group Inc. (PAG)  in the U.S., switched to Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz U.S.
operations on July 1 with Tracey Matura as the general manager.
Sales of the brand fell to 5,927 last year from 24,622 in 2008,
according to Mercedes.  “With the marketing activities that we’re going to have,
we’ll see some positive momentum,” Ernst Lieb, head of Mercedes
U.S. operation, said in an interview this week in Montvale, New
Jersey. “The biggest problem the car has right now: Nobody
knows it.”  Daimler’s attempt to reverse the Smart sales slide comes as
competitors have introduced new small-car models in the U.S.,
including  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fiesta subcompact,  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Cruze and the Fiat 500, whose U.S. version is
produced and sold by Chrysler Group LLC.  New ads may do little for sales because Smart is too small
to succeed in the U.S., said  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst
with TrueCar.com, a website that tracks automotive sales.  “Their problem is not marketing or lack of awareness,” he
said. “Their problem is that their car as it stands now simply
doesn’t fit the U.S. driver’s needs. Unless they offer a new
product that is more practically fitted to U.S. driving habits,
there’re simply not going to do much.”  “Unbig, Uncar”  Smart began airing its first national television commercial
this week that emphasizes the model’s size. Its tagline:
“Unbig, uncar.”  J.D. Power & Associates found that 50 percent of customers
were unaware of the Smart brand, Matura said. The average for
other non-premium brands was about 18 percent, she said.  Mercedes has declined to provide a sales target for Smart.
Matura said it’s possible to reach 10,000 Smart sales in the
U.S. next year. The brand intends to spend $25 million to $35
million on its new marketing campaign, she said.  Matura inherited 75 Smart dealerships and has already
increased the total to 81, she said. She plans to have as many
as 100 by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Montvale,  New Jersey  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  