-- 
Deutsche Bank Aims to Stay in Polish Top Three as Rivals Circle

-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-23T08:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/deutsche-bank-aims-to-stay-in-polish-top-three-as-rivals-circle.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the No. 1
investment bank in Poland for acquisitions,  equity capital
markets  and debt this year, plans to remain among the top three
as rivals move into the central European country.  “Maintaining this position might not be so easy,” partly
because the market will become more competitive as “the
Treasury Ministry supports involvement in government
transactions of banks willing to establish a local presence,”
Piotr Olendski, head of corporate finance in Poland, said in an
interview in his Warsaw office.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank
of America Corp. are expanding equity coverage and opening
offices in Poland after share sales reached a record $10 billion
last year. The  Warsaw Stock Exchange  has been the fastest-
growing market in central  Europe  in the past 10 years, more than
doubling the number of traded companies and almost tripling
daily turnover, according to its website.  Germany ’s largest lender has about 200 corporate-banking
employees in Poland, including about 15 in  investment banking  in
Warsaw, Olendski said. Deutsche is working on “several
projects” in the country, he said, declining to name them.  The Polish government, which in 2010 initiated sales
through the bourse worth 23.4 billion zloty ($7 billion), is
seeking to raise 15 billion zloty from asset sales this year to
help finance the  budget deficit  and curb debt. The parliamentary
elections set for Oct. 9 make it “hard to speak” about 2012
prospects, Olendski said.  Polkomtel, Vattenfall, Eurobank  Deutsche Bank has worked on deals this year including the
$4.5 billion takeover of Polkomtel SA, the country’s second-
largest mobile-phone company, by billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak,
and the $2.3-billion sale of Vattenfall AB’s Polish units. Other
transactions in  Poland  include the $658 million disposal of
Greek EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA’s subsidiary.  This may further be boosted by sales of the Polish units of
Banco Comercial Portugues SA and KBC Groep NV. TVN SA, Poland’s
largest television network, is also being sold.  “If some of the large pending transactions are completed
this year, there may be a nominal drop on the M&A market next
year,” Olendski said. “Because of the unstable global
macroeconomic environment, the Polish M&A market might slow
down, though the market hasn’t dried out” and “valuations
don’t have to be worse than during more stable periods.”  Because of the crisis, Olendski says, the first deals will
most likely be done by a process known as “accelerated book
building,” which unlike a secondary public offering doesn’t
require the preparation of a prospectus.  PKO Sale Canceled  In August the government canceled plans to sell a stake in
PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s largest lender, citing turmoil
on the global markets. PGE Energia Odnawialna SA, the largest
Polish power utility’s renewable energy unit, suspended plans
for an initial public offering, following companies such as
ViOil Holding SA, a Ukrainian producer of sunflower oil; Valinor
Public Limited, a Russian agriculture producer; and Wittchen SA,
a Polish leather goods distributor.  Deutsche Bank sees “big chances” for an increased
presence of foreign companies on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.
Companies from  Ukraine , Hungary, Slovenia and  Israel  may be
interested in the Polish bourse as it is “relatively big,
liquid and gives access to good coverage,” Olendski said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  