-- 
Dexia Hasn’t Tapped ECB for Dollars in ‘Long Time,’ Coene Says

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-23T03:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/dexia-hasn-t-tapped-ecb-for-dollars-in-long-time-coene-says.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) ,  Belgium ’s biggest bank by
assets, is “not in trouble,” and has not sought dollars from
the European Central Bank in a “long time,”  Luc Coene , the
country’s central bank governor said.  “When the financing markets become more tight, it clearly
puts pressure on them, but it does not mean that there are
problems,” Coene said in an interview in Washington late
yesterday. “It has, of course, a huge Belgian presence -- we
follow it very closely.”  Dexia, which was bailed out in 2008, posted its largest
quarterly loss last month because of provisions to sell assets
and a writedown of Greek debt, bringing shareholder equity to a
two-year low. The bank said Aug. 4 its borrowings from the
 European Central Bank  had doubled to about 34 billion euros ($46
billion), and that it swapped a large part of those funds into
the U.S. currency to safeguard dollar funding.  “They have solved their dollar financing problems
clearly,” said Coene, who also sits on the ECB’s governing
council.  Paris- and Brussels-based Dexia took a 377 million-euro
pretax writedown on Greek  government bonds  in the second quarter
after signing the Institute of International Finance’s proposal
for a bond exchange and buyback program.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani said last week that
the bank could handle an additional Greek debt writedown of
about 1.5 billion euros. Any additional provisions will depend
on the outcome of the Greek bailout package agreed to on July
21, Mariani said.  “I have said few weeks ago that some of our banks are
still vulnerable and certainly under difficult circumstance and
this makes life for them not easy, but there is no reason for
concern they can continue to operate without any major
problems,” Coene said.  Dexia fell 11 percent to 1.28 euros in Brussels trading
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Washington  gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  