-- 
Dish ‘Could’ Buy, Partner With Wireless Company, CEO Says

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-23T20:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/dish-could-acquire-or-partner-with-wireless-company-ceo-clayton-says.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, may consider partnering with
or buying a wireless carrier such as  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  or
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said.  “We’ll look at partnerships, acquisitions, all of the
above,” Clayton said today in an interview in San Francisco.
Asked whether that could include buying or partnering with
Clearwire or Sprint, he said: “Could be.”  Dish needs a wireless network to utilize the spectrum it
has acquired in its deals for DBSD North America Inc. and
Terrestar Networks Inc. announced this year. Dish filed for U.S.
government permission to offer mobile high-speed Internet
service to its customers last month. Government approval would
allow the company to build a network.  “There are several missing pieces,” Clayton said.
“Wireless infrastructure, additional technology capabilities
and even distribution are pieces that we’re still working on.
Stay tuned.”  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, is
struggling to compete against larger rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and has lost money for 15
consecutive quarters. Sprint is in discussions with cable
companies, including Comcast Corp. and Time Warner Cable Inc.,
about an investment in the company, three people familiar with
the situation said last month.  Clearwire, the money-losing wireless broadband provider, is
searching for new partners as it looks to raise capital to
finance a shift to Long-Term Evolution. The company will spend
about $600 million to add LTE to its network. Dish is also
focused on LTE, said Clayton.  Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, jumped 17 cents, or
5.7 percent, to $3.18 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Clearwire, based in Kirkland,  Washington ,
fell 9 cents to $2.41 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Dish, based in
Englewood, Colorado, added $1.36, or 5.4 percent, to $26.76.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  