-- 
Dish Unveils Blockbuster Streaming Service to Rival Netflix

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-23T20:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/dish-to-start-blockbuster-online-subscription-service-to-challenge-netflix.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  is starting a
Blockbuster-branded subscription online movie-rental service to
challenge  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  for customers who buy streaming video.  The Blockbuster Movie Pass service is initially available
only to Dish’s satellite-TV subscribers for $10 a month and will
include renting DVDs and video games by mail, Dish executives
said today at an event in  San Francisco . New customers of Dish’s
$39.99-a-month pay-TV service will get the Blockbuster service
free for a year.  Dish, which bought most of Blockbuster’s assets in April
for $320 million, announced its service as Netflix’s 60 percent
price increase for customers who rent DVDs and stream videos
goes into effect. Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , purchased
Blockbuster to tap into the growing online video market and
steal some of Netflix’s 25 million customers.  “We think we’ve built a better mousetrap and can embrace
all consumer video needs,” said Dish Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Clayton in an interview.  Dish is planning to offer the Blockbuster service to anyone
in the U.S., including non-Dish subscribers, by the end of the
year, said Clayton.  Netflix began charging $15.98 this month for customers who
want to rent DVDs and stream videos. Streaming only is $7.99 a
month. Earlier this week, Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings announced the company will separate its DVD business
and rename it Qwikster. Blockbuster’s site will allow customers
to buy streaming videos and rent DVDs from the same website.  Combined Offerings  Blockbuster will not separate its DVD-by-mail business from
its streaming business, said Clayton.  “We were surprised by Netflix’s decision, and I sure like
our Blockbuster brand compared to the new company from
Netflix,” he said.  Netflix shares have tumbled since the  Los Gatos ,
California-based company cut its U.S. subscriber forecast on
Sept. 15, in part because of the price increase. Since then, the
shares had fallen 24 percent.  Blockbuster Movie Pass begins Oct. 1 and offers more than
4,000 movies streamed to personal computers. When put together
with Dish’s current television offerings, Dish will give
satellite-TV customers more than 130,000 titles. Blockbuster’s
current streaming service already allows customers to watch
movies for a one-time transaction fee. Netflix offers 100,000
movies and more than 31,000 streaming titles, according to Dish.  ‘Unbeatable Value’  Netflix does not release specific figures and streams
“well above 20,000” titles, spokesman  Steve Swasey , said in an
interview.  “Netflix is still unbeatable value,” said Swasey.  “You’ve got to be a Dish subscriber to get this deal, and
that’s at least $40 a month.”  The Blockbuster service will include movie rights from
Liberty Media Corp.’s Starz LLC, which decided not to renew its
contract talks with Netflix earlier this month. Movie Pass
subscribers will not need to sign up for premium channels
included in the service, such as Starz and Epix.  Clayton said Dish was still looking at acquiring Hulu LLC
and said he would consider buying or partnering with a wireless
company to take advantage of its recent acquisitions of
spectrum. When asked if a partnership or takeover could be for
Sprint Nextel Corp. or  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , Clayton said, “could
be.”  Dish rose $1.36, or 5.4 percent, to $26.76 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Netflix gained 83 cents to
$129.36.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  