-- 
Dow Falls Most Since October 2008 on Economic Growth Concerns

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/dow-average-declines-most-since-october-2008-on-economic-growth-concerns.html
U.S. stocks fell this week, sending
the Dow Jones Industrial Average to the biggest loss since 2008,
as the  Federal Reserve  said risks to the economy have increased
and concern grew that policy makers will fail to spur growth.  Equities rebounded yesterday, following a four-day rout
that erased $1.1 trillion in value, amid speculation governments
will act to prevent a financial crisis. For the week,  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
and DuPont Co. tumbled more than 14 percent to lead losses in
the Dow. Materials companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slipped 12 percent for the biggest drop among 10 industries as
every group declined at least 1.6 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
slumped 13 percent, while  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  tumbled 12 percent.  The S&P 500 dropped 6.5 percent to 1,136.43 this week, the
most since the period that ended Aug. 5. The index retreated
after posting the third-biggest weekly gain since 2009. The Dow
dropped 737.61 points, or 6.4 percent, to 10,771.48.  “The likelihood of a recession in the U.S. has clearly
risen this week,” Andrew Slimmon, the Chicago-based managing
director of global investment solutions at Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney LLC, which has about $1.7 trillion in client assets, said
in a telephone interview. “Although the economic data is still
inconclusive, the U.S. equity market is focused on the impact of
a global slowdown and we remain cautious.”  Stocks fell after the Federal Reserve said there are
“significant downside risks” to the economy and investors
speculated central banks are running out of tools to prevent a
recession. The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45
nations extended its slump since May 2 to more than 20 percent
this week, meeting the definition of a bear market. Benchmark
measures for 32 out of 45 nations in the index have also reached
that threshold. The  S&P 500  must fall 4 percent to get there.  Treasuries Shift  The S&P 500 fell 2.9 percent on Sept. 21 and 3.2 percent
the next day after the Fed said it will replace $400 billion of
short-term debt with longer-term Treasuries to spur growth.  “Confidence disappeared from the market this week after
the Fed’s statement,” Alex Tedder, who helps manage about $12
billion in global stocks at American Century Investments in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “People are realizing that
there are not a lot of options left.”  Stocks rose yesterday as Europe governments speed up the
creation of a permanent rescue fund, an internal working paper
showed. The  European Central Bank  may step up efforts to ease
financial-market tensions, including offering banks 12-month
loans, Governing Council members said. About $3.5 trillion was
erased from global equity values this week before yesterday.  Another Crisis  The world is poised for another financial crisis, with
sovereign debt its epicenter, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the biggest bond fund. The European Central Bank hasn’t put
in place a “circuit breaker” to contain the region’s debt
crisis, El-Erian, who is also Pimco’s co-chief investment
officer, said on Sept. 22 at an event in Washington.  Markets are telling policy makers that “they’ve got to
change and act or we’re going to go into a double-dip recession,
and we’re going to go down another 20 percent,” founder of
Traxis Partners LLC Barton Biggs said in a Sept. 22 interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with Matt Miller and
Carol Massar.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth lost 11 percent as all 30 of its stocks
retreated. The Dow Jones Transportation Average, also considered
a proxy for the economy, slumped 9.6 percent. Both gauges fell
the most since March 2009.  Alcoa, DuPont  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, dropped 16
percent to $10.07. DuPont, the biggest U.S. chemicals maker,
slipped 14 percent to $40.46.  Coal companies tumbled, prompting losses in railroad
stocks.  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  reduced its second-half sales
forecast, citing delays at mines in British Columbia and
Alberta.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  pared its outlook for
full-year production because of a drop in Asia demand and lower-
than-expected output at some mines.  Walter Energy slumped 22 percent to $64.50. It closed at
$64.10 on Sept. 22, the lowest since July 2010. Alpha decreased
32 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to $20.39.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the
biggest eastern U.S. railroad, slumped 10 percent to $19.25.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  lost 9.5 percent. Bank of America and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  had their long-term credit ratings downgraded
by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a decreasing
probability that the U.S. would support the lenders in an
emergency.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s short-term credit rating was cut.  Wells Fargo, Citigroup  Bank of America fell 13 percent to $6.31. Wells Fargo lost
5.1 percent to $23.69. Citigroup slipped 14 percent to $24.98.  FedEx tumbled 12 percent, the most since March 2009, to
$67.30. The world’s biggest cargo airline cut its full-year
profit forecast amid declining demand in the U.S. and Asia.  FedEx, an economic bellwether that delivers goods ranging
from mobile devices to financial documents, saw U.S. shipments
fall for the second quarter in a row as the economy grew at a
lower rate than it estimated. Demand dropped for Asian
technology products, especially from  China , hurting the express
international division.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  slumped 5.1 percent to $22.32, the
lowest price since May 2005. The company replaced Chief
Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  with Meg Whitman, asking the
former head of an e-commerce company to turn around a computer
maker plagued by slowing growth and management missteps.  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  surged 31 percent to $121.75 for the biggest
gain in the S&P 500.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  agreed to buy the
company for $16.5 billion, adding a maker of aircraft landing
gear and jet-turbine casings to take advantage of a record surge
in commercial plane orders.  Jet Engines  United Technologies, the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines, fell 8.7 percent to $68.92.  A pledge by Group of 20 nations to tackle rising risks
failed to ease investor concern the global economy is on the
brink of another recession as stocks continued their worldwide
slide. Benchmark indexes for the U.S., U.K., Canada, Singapore
and New Zealand are the only ones among 24 developed countries
that haven’t fallen at least 20 percent from their highs,
entering a  bear market .  Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a Sept. 22 statement.  “This market is like a touchy herd of wild beasts,”  Mike Shea , a managing partner at Direct Access Partners LLC in New
York, said in an e-mail. “In a news driven market, or in this
case, a comment-driven market, any one little thing could set
off a stampede.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  