-- 
Dutch Banks’ Compliance to Bonus Code Improved, Reports Show

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-09-23T15:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/dutch-banks-compliance-to-bonus-code-improved-report-shows-1-.html
Dutch banks including  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
and Rabobank Group are increasingly limiting bonus payments to
their top executives, according to a committee that monitors
compliance with an industry code of conduct.  “The important principle that the variable part of a board
member’s remuneration can’t exceed the fixed salary is fully
applied by all bigger Dutch banks,” the committee, led by
former Unilever NV Chief Executive Officer Antony Burgmans, said
today in a statement. Bonuses for management below the board
sometimes exceed fixed payouts, the committee’s report said.  While several issues still need attention, the committee
found overall Dutch banks’ observance of the pay rules is
“acceptable,” the report said. Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in March he would introduce legislation if banks fail
to meet the self-regulatory code. Lawmakers voiced their
concerns about the return of high bonuses after Burgmans said in
December banks hadn’t fully endorsed the risk-management and
executive-pay guidelines.  The Dutch central bank in a separate report said today big
banks and insurers largely conform to legal requirements on
remuneration. It plans to force institutions to be fully
compliant by the end of the year. The central bank will
participate in international discussions to ensure a “level
playing field” in supervision, it said.  ‘Serious Effort’  The reports indicate “the financial sector has made a
serious effort to meet remuneration rules,”  De Jager  said in a
letter today, “That is of the utmost importance to restore
trust in this important sector.” The finance minister will send
a letter to parliament with further comments next month.  The banking code took effect last year, following an
agreement between lenders and former Finance Minister Wouter Bos. The monitoring committee will report on other aspects of
the code, including the relationship between compensation policy
and risk management, in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  