-- 
London Metal Exchange Board to Begin Process That May Lead to Takeover Bid

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-23T19:46:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/lme-will-begin-formal-process-that-may-lead-to-purchase-offer-for-exchange.html
The  London  Metal Exchange, the 130
year-old exchange that says it handles 80 percent of global
trade in metals futures, told members it may get a takeover
offer after multiple approaches from potential bidders.  The board is being advised by U.S. investment bank Moelis &
Co., Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said in a notice
today to members. There are 92 members listed on the exchange’s
website, including units of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays
Plc and Citigroup Inc. LME Holdings Ltd., which owns London
Metal Exchange Ltd., made net income of 9.5 million pounds
($14.7 million) on sales of 50.7 million pounds last year,
according to a filing with  Companies House  in May.  Commodity prices jumped more than fourfold in the past
decade, attracting a surge of interest from investors. The LME
handled a record $11.6 trillion of contracts in copper and other
industrial metals last year.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures market, bought the  New York Mercantile Exchange  for $7.6
billion in August 2008, while IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
bought the New York Board of Trade in 2006 for $1.06 billion.  “The LME is an attractive asset class because it’s got an
assured revenue stream, low fixed costs and growth options,”
said Michael Rawlinson, a banker who is now head of resources at
Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. “They’re started to diversify
and they have new products, and all of this costs money.”  Ordinary Shares  LME Holdings issues both ordinary shares, which confer
ownership, and B shares. There are 1.34 million B shares, which
traded at 70 pounds in June, according to data on the exchange’s
website. The shares traded at 25 pounds in June 2006.  There are 12.9 million ordinary shares and they exchanged
hands at 4.925 pounds in July. London Metal Exchange Ltd.
owns 3.27 million shares of LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., according
to its annual filing.  Brokers trade LME contracts through the bourse’s Select
electronic platform, by telephone and through open outcry, where
brokers carry out transactions in a 6-meter-wide (20-foot)
trading ring. Its origins go back to the opening of the Royal
Exchange in London in 1571 and more than 95 percent of its
business now comes from overseas, according to its website.  `Acceptable Offer'  “The London Metal Exchange has received several
expressions of interest with regard to potential strategic
transactions,” the bourse said in today’s statement. The
exchange “will begin a formal process which may or may not lead
to an acceptable offer for the company being received.”  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the exchange, declined to
elaborate on the statement.  The LME’s 12 ring-dealing members are Amalgamated Metal
Trading Ltd., Barclays, ED&F Man Commodity Advisors Ltd.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Marex Financial Ltd., Metdist Trading
Ltd., MF Global UK Ltd., Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd., Newedge
Group, Societe Generale SA, Sucden Financial Ltd and Triland
Metals Ltd.  The LME is facing increased competition from other
exchanges. Trading in contracts such as copper, aluminum and
gold on the Shanghai Futures Exchange climbed 43 percent last
year compared with the 7.4 percent jump on the LME. The LME
started so-called mini-contracts in copper, aluminum and zinc in
 Singapore  in February to take advantage of more demand in  Asia .  Clearing Business  The bourse last week said it hired Moelis and was
considering proposals related to its clearing business. The LME
said in May it may have self-clearing to replace current
provider LCH.Clearnet as increased global regulation of
derivatives boosts trading.  The LME delisted its plastics contracts five years after
they were introduced, because of a lack of trading. It merged
its Far East steel contract with the Mediterranean contract last
year and suspended a silver contract in 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 