-- 
EarthRisk Technologies Predicts Weather Weeks in Advance

-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 
2011-09-23T00:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/earthrisk-technologies-predicts-weather-weeks-in-advance.html
     Sept. 22 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- A month before a late
July heat wave sent temperatures as high as 108F in  Newark , N.J.,
Stephen Bennett saw it coming. He was watching high pressure far
above  Canada ’s Hudson Bay, strong jet stream winds over northern
 Europe , and a low bubble of hot air in the upper Midwest. They’re
among the signals that historically precede extreme heat in the
Northeast.  While typical forecasts use computer models to simulate the
weather a week or two out, Bennett draws on 60 years of weather
data to identify conditions that could lead to big temperature
swings weeks later. The weather events in advance of a hot or
cold stretch are like “a series of dominoes that start to fall
over,” says Bennett, founder and chief scientist at EarthRisk
Technologies. The year-old startup makes software that tries to
predict the probability of each domino falling and sells it to
energy companies that want to lock in fuel prices before periods
of peak demand.  Bennett, 38, has been a weather geek since boyhood, when he
watched The Weather Channel instead of cartoons on Saturday
mornings. He graduated from the University of South Alabama’s
meteorology program in 1995 and began doing radio and TV
forecasts. He eventually became director of weather research at
hedge fund Citadel Investment Group, working with energy traders.  In 2008, Bennett agreed to take a pay cut to help the
Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the  University of
California  at  San Diego  find commercial uses for its academic
research. EarthRisk grew out of that effort, after Bennett spent
18 months mining weather data going back to 1950 for patterns
linked to extreme temperatures. He detailed the statistical
relationships he discovered in a 6,000-page data catalog in the
fall of 2009. “Other people could assemble these catalogs of
data,” says Scripps Director Tony Haymet. EarthRisk has figured
out how to “look at that data in a new way.”  While still at Scripps, Bennett worked with software design
shop Digital-Telepathy to build a program that lets
meteorologists navigate the data and discern early signs of
extreme weather. Together they launched EarthRisk in July 2010,
licensing the methodology from Scripps, and Bennett left the
university in June to run EarthRisk full-time. He won’t disclose
revenue but says he had clients from Day One. His next project:
detecting Atlantic storms such as  Hurricane Irene  as far as 10
days in advance by analyzing conditions such as ocean
temperatures, sea level pressures, and vertical wind shear.
Bennett also hopes to make his software intuitive enough to be
used by non-meteorologists at insurers and other businesses.  So what’s in store for the fall? In mid-September, Bennett
had his eye on cold air over the Midwest and high pressure in the
North Atlantic that, he says, raise the risk on the East Coast
for a late September chill.