-- 
East Africa Needs Money to Combat Parasitic Disease, Group Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-23T09:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/east-africa-needs-money-to-combat-parasitic-disease-group-says.html
East Africa ’s worst outbreak in a
decade of visceral leishmaniasis, the deadliest parasitic
disease after malaria, could ease if donors paid more attention
to the illness, a non-profit research group said.  Funding for wider access to treatment is needed to reduce
the number of deaths from the disease, which infects about
half a million people and kills as many as 60,000 a year in
70 countries,  Leishmaniasis East Africa Platform , or LEAP, said
in a statement from Nairobi today. Most cases of visceral
leishmaniasis, or kala azar, are in  India  and South  Sudan .  A combination therapy recently developed by LEAP and
Geneva-based  Drugs for Neglected Diseases  is cheaper than usual
medicines and cuts treatment time by almost half to 17 days,
LEAP said.  “The poorest of the poor in the most remote villages are
the ones who are wasting away from kala azar and who could
benefit the most from a shorter, more affordable treatment,”
Monique Wasunna, assistant director of the  Kenya Medical
Research Institute , said in the statement.  The disease is spread through the bite of an infected sand-
fly and if left untreated usually kills within two years,
according to the  World Health Organization . A WHO committee
recommended the new drug, known as SSG&PM, as a “first-line”
treatment for East Africa and it is being distributed to
patients in Sudan and South Sudan, LEAP said.  Symptoms of the illness include fever,  weight loss ,
swelling of the spleen and liver, and anemia. Some forms of
leishmaniasis cause skin ulcers and lesions, and destroy mucous
membranes in the nose, mouth and throat.  Malaria causes about  a million deaths  a year, most of them
African children under age 5, according to the WHO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 