-- 
EasyJet Turns to The Wombats’ Music to Increase Share of Business Market

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-09-23T13:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/easyjet-turns-to-the-wombats-music-to-increase-share-of-business-market.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  will next month begin
its first major television advertising campaign to lure
passengers from carriers such as British Airways and Air France-
KLM Group and boost its share of the business travel market.  “We’re very keen to get the message out that EasyJet is
flying more and more business people into  Europe ,” Peter Duffy,
EasyJet’s marketing chief, said in a telephone interview today.  EasyJet will air a series of three 20-second clips,
featuring music from Liverpool band  The Wombats , starting Oct. 5
on television in the U.K. and then in countries in continental
Europe, including France and  Switzerland .  Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall has made raising
EasyJet’s share of the business-passenger market a cornerstone
of her strategy since taking the helm in July 2010. The carrier
said yesterday that it will log record pretax earnings this year
as demand for business flights and short-haul travel lifts
revenue.  Passengers buying flexible tickets for travel in October
and November will be offered a free flight if their plane
arrives more than 15 minutes late. The so-called Flexi fares
have been on sale since November and are targeted at business
passengers who need to change their flights at short notice.  EasyJet surged yesterday after it said it would make a one-
off dividend payment of 150 million pounds ($232 million), in
addition to paying its first-ever regular dividend payment worth
about 40 million pounds. The company said it will report record
pretax earnings of 240 million to 250 million pounds for the
year ending Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  