-- 
Hedge Fund Sues Morgan Stanley Over Sino-Forest Options Deal

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-09-23T09:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/hedge-fund-sues-morgan-stanley-over-sino-forest-options-deal.html
Hedge fund Oasis Management LLC
sued Morgan Stanley for C$9.5 million ($9.3 million) over
options in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  bought before the Toronto-listed
timber company’s stock plunged 71 percent in two days in June.  Morgan Stanley failed to settle the options contracts in an
effort to “limit its liability,” Oasis said in a lawsuit filed
in London in July. Hong Kong-based Oasis bought options to sell
Sino-Forest at C$19 on May 12, three weeks before shares fell to
C$5.22 on allegations it had overstated forestry holdings.  Shares in Sino-Forest have fallen 74 percent since June 1,
the day before short-seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC
research firm said the company had overstated its holdings.
While investors including hedge fund manager  John Paulson  and
billionaire  Richard Chandler  took losses when Sino-Forest shares
sank, holders of put contracts could reap returns from selling
stock at prices far above the present value.  The Oasis deal will cost  Morgan Stanley (MS)  C$7.5 million to
settle, the hedge fund said it its court filing. The put options
are valued at C$9.5 million, compared with C$2 million for the
equivalent shares, it said in the lawsuit. Oasis paid Morgan
Stanley a premium of C$770,000 for the options in May.  New York-based Morgan Stanley claimed the options were
terminated because trading in Sino-Forest’s shares was
suspended, Oasis lawyers said in the filing. The bank offered
Oasis C$3.8 million to cancel the deal, the hedge fund said in
the lawsuit.  Morgan Stanley spokesman  Michael Wang  declined to comment
yesterday. Katie Bolton, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for
Oasis, declined to comment.  The Ontario Securities Commission halted trading in Sino-
Forest on Aug. 26, saying the company appeared to have
misrepresented its sales and timber stocks.  Sino-forest, which last traded at C$4.81 on Aug. 25, has
set up an independent committee to examine the allegations in
the Muddy Waters report. The company’s chief executive officer
 Allen Chan  resigned on Aug 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  