-- 
Electronic Medical Records: A Silicon Valley Gold Rush

-- B y   C a r o l   E i s e n b e r g   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-23T01:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/electronic-medical-records-a-silicon-valley-gold-rush.html
     Sept. 22 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- Patients at Dr.
Surinder Saini’s  Newport Beach  (Calif.) office are no longer
given a clipboard upon arrival. Instead, they’re handed an iPad,
where they tick off symptoms and allergies with the touch of a
finger. A nurse uses her own iPad to plug in vital signs. In the
exam room, Saini summons the data by tapping on his tablet and is
aided by a list of likely diagnoses for, say, abdominal pain.
“Most patients are amazed,” says the gastroenterologist. After
the visit, Saini dictates his notes about the patient straight
into the iPad, where they’re instantly transcribed and stored
with other records.  Lured by new technologies and financial incentives from the
U.S. government, doctors are throwing out stacks of paper and
replacing them with handheld computers. The programs, made by
heavyweights such as Allscripts and Cerner as well as a raft of
scrappy Silicon Valley startups, promise to save physicians time
and help them make smarter decisions based on reliable data that
are accessible online. An extra nudge comes from the 2009
economic stimulus, which set aside $27.4 billion to jump-start
the switch to electronic records. The law offers doctors up to
$63,750 over five years to help pay for the change if they can
prove they’re making “meaningful use” of the systems by, say,
submitting prescriptions electronically.  Tech investors and entrepreneurs see a gold rush akin to the
social media boom. About 750 companies have jumped in, more than
doubling the number of vendors in two years, according to
investment bank Piper Jaffray. That surge has many in the
industry worried that consolidation is inevitable. “I call them
zombie electronic  record companies ,” says David J. Brailer,
chairman of Health Evolution Partners, a San Francisco private
equity firm, and health information technology coordinator for
the George W. Bush Administration. “They have a product. They
have money on their balance sheet. They have a few customers. And
they have no future.”  Through August, 90,000 of the roughly 530,000 eligible
Medicare and Medicaid providers—hospitals, clinics, and private
practices—had registered to participate, with about 7,000
receiving initial payments for demonstrating meaningful use of
digital records, government figures show. Spending on electronic
systems by health providers could grow 76 percent to $32 billion
by 2015, according to Kalorama Information, a Rockville (Md.)
research firm.  One problem is uncertainty about the technology. In an
attempt to create more innovation, the law didn’t specify how
electronic systems should talk with one another. It’s unclear
which ones will survive, which has some physicians holding back.
“There is a belief among many of us that somewhere in the 5- to
10-year range, many of the current products will become, in
essence, obsolete,” says Joseph Schneider, medical director of
clinical informatics at the Baylor Health Care System, a Dallas
hospital group.  The shakeout has already started. In July, McKesson picked
up insurance software supplier Portico Systems for $90 million;
insurer Aetna bought health information exchange company Medicity
in December for $500 million. Allscripts last year paid $1.3
billion for Eclipsys, which sells technology to hospitals.
“Industry consolidation is real, and it’s happening now,” says
Allscripts Chief Executive Officer Glen Tullman. That has
companies scrambling to lock in customers early. “Because the
switching costs are so high,” those with the biggest market share
have the best shot at surviving, says Sean Wieland, a technology
analyst at Piper Jaffray.  Some app developers aim to secure a place among the
survivors by selling doctors add-ons such as electronic billing
and digital prescriptions. Drchrono, the Mountain View (Calif.)
company that makes the iPad app Dr. Saini uses, offers its
software for free through Apple’s  App Store . The company, funded
by Facebook backer Yuri Milner and venture capital firm General
Catalyst Partners, has signed up more than 9,300 doctors.
Creating and maintaining medical records on Drchrono is free, but
some doctors pay monthly fees of $200 for transcriptions of their
notes and $400 for billing. The program was created in 2009 by
computer engineer Michael Nusimow, who saw the need to streamline
doctor visits while helping his father through treatment for
cancer. “In a 20-minute visit” to the oncologist, “over half the
time was spent looking at his medications list,” he says.  Many doctors who have made the shift to the new systems
aren’t tapping their full power. Only a fraction of physicians
use their software to exchange information with other providers
because of difficulties transmitting data, says Jonathan Bush,
CEO of athenahealth, which sells an Internet-based offering that
promises easier communication. “The average doctor,” Bush says,
“still receives 1,033 faxes a month even if they have an
electronic health record system.”