-- 
Emanuel Goffer Seeks Prison Term of Less Than 46 Months in Insider Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-23T19:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/emanuel-goffer-seeks-prison-term-of-less-than-46-months.html
Emanuel Goffer, convicted of
insider trading with his brother  Zvi Goffer , is seeking a prison
term of less than 46 months, saying he plays a critical role in
raising a 3-year-old son with developmental problems.  Emanuel Goffer is set to be sentenced Oct. 7 before U.S.
District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in Manhattan, who imposed a 10-
year prison term on his brother this week.  In court papers filed today, Emanuel Goffer asked for a
“tempered sentence” shorter than the 46- to 57-month federal
sentencing guidelines range calculated by U.S. probation
officials. Goffer said in the filings that his son isn’t meeting
“age appropriate gross motor milestones.”  “There are compelling reasons to impose a tempered
sentence upon Mr. Goffer,” according to the filings. “We ask
that the court take into consideration the deep and profound
needs of his son, who faces significant developmental
challenges.”  Goffer also disputes a U.S. finding that he earned more
than $2 million by  insider trading .  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for the office of U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Both Goffer brothers were convicted in June along with
Michael Kimelman. A jury found Zvi Goffer guilty of 14 counts of
conspiracy and  securities fraud , while Emanuel and Kimelman were
both convicted of one count of conspiracy and two counts of
securities fraud.  Law Firm Tips  Zvi Goffer led an insider ring that used information
misappropriated by two lawyers to make more than $10 million
trading in shares of 3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc.
and Hilton Hotels Corp., prosecutors said at trial.  The three men co-founded Incremental Capital LLC after Zvi
Goffer was fired from New York-based Galleon Group LLC in 2008,
the U.S. said. Testimony showed he used information from lawyers
at the Boston-based law firm Ropes & Gray LLP who had learned
about pending acquisitions through their work.  Zvi Goffer’s former boss, Galleon co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , was found guilty in May of directing the biggest
hedge fund insider-trading scheme in history. His sentencing is
scheduled for Oct. 13.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 