-- 
Emerging Stock Funds Post 8th Week of Outflows, Citi Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-09-23T03:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/emerging-stock-funds-post-8th-week-of-outflows-citigroup-says.html
Emerging-market equity funds
reported an eight week of withdrawals amid concern a stalemate
in European debt crisis will slow global economic growth  Funds investing in the developing-nation stocks recorded
$1.4 billion of outflows in the week ended Sept. 21, Citigroup
analysts Inc. led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report dated
today, citing figures compiled by EPFR Global.  “It is a continuation of the outflows trend, with no new
developments on European situations that investors were the most
focused on,” Kelly Kwok, one of the analysts in the Citigroup
report, wrote in an e-mail.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 2 percent to 860.2 at
11:29 a.m. in Singapore, increasing its weekly loss to 11.9
percent. The gauge has dropped 25 percent this year as the  U.S.
economy  faltered and the European sovereign-debt crisis spread,
and amid efforts by central banks from  China  to India to curb
inflation.  Italy was lowered to A from A+ on concern that weaker
growth and a “fragile” government mean the country won’t be
able to reduce the euro-region’s second-largest debt load,
 Standard & Poor’s  said Sept. 20.  The world is poised for a financial crisis, Mohamed El- Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in Washington yesterday. The  Federal Reserve  said
Sept. 21 that there are “significant downside risks” in the
U.S. economy, prompting the central bank to announce a $400
billion plan to spur growth as the recovery from the worst
contraction since the Great Depression falters.  Indonesia and Thailand funds had record withdrawals over
the last two weeks and the worst outflows this week. Indonesian
stocks may trail its neighbours as valuations deter investors
and inflation reaches an “alarming” level, Credit Suisse Group
AG said in a report on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  