-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Plunge, Posting Biggest Weekly Decline Since 2008

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-09-23T21:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/emerging-stocks-plunge-boosting-prospects-for-government-support-measures.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped,
with the benchmark index posting its biggest weekly loss since
2008, as concern deepened that the global economic slowdown will
overwhelm government efforts to support growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 2.2 percent to 861.53
at 5:11 p.m. in  New York , extending this week’s retreat to 12
percent. Indexes in Chile, Colombia and Peru declined. South
Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  tumbled 5.7 percent for the biggest drop
among global equity gauges, while Russia’s Micex Index fell 4.5
percent.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said
today that the global financial system risks repeating the
crisis of 2008 if Europe’s debt situation worsens and spreads to
the U.S. banking industry. The MSCI emerging stock gauge has
tumbled 29 percent from this year’s high on May 2 as European
leaders failed to find a solution for the region’s sovereign
debt woes and the U.S. economic recovery stalled.  “We’re witnessing a selling spree amid growing risk
aversion,” said Chung Yun Sik, chief investment officer for
equities at ING Investment Management Korea Ltd., which oversees
about $15 billion. “While we may see support moves in some
countries, I think drastic measures should be implemented to
address  Europe ’s troubles in order to stabilize sentiment.”  Most emerging-market currencies rallied, with both the
Mexican peso and the Brazilian real advancing 3.9 percent.  Crisis Valuations  The MSCI index tumbled as much as 66 percent during the
global financial crisis in 2008, with shares falling to 1.1
times net assets before they bottomed, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 21-country gauge is valued at 1.5
times net assets today, in line with the MSCI World Index of
advanced-nation stocks, the data show. The emerging market index
has dropped 25 percent this quarter, poised for the biggest
retreat since the fourth quarter of 2008.  Group of 20 finance chiefs said after talks in  Washington 
yesterday that they are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy.”  G20 nations are making progress on finding a greater role
for  China ’s currency in the global monetary system, French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said.  “We’re advancing in the discussions” about the yuan and
its inclusion in the International Monetary Fund’s special
drawing rights, Baroin said at a press conference in Washington
after meeting with his G-20 counterparts.  Brazil ,  Indonesia   Brazil’s Bovespa stock index posted its biggest weekly drop
since early August as recession concerns drove down prices of
Brazil’s commodity exports.  Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index advanced 1.7 percent,
rebounding from an 8.9 percent plunge yesterday, as officials
said they would take steps to support markets. The rupiah rose
0.9 percent against the dollar, while South Korea’s won reversed
losses in the last two minutes of trading to rise 1.1 percent.  China said today that the  International Monetary Fund 
“should further study the inherent defects of the international
monetary system.”  Finance Minister Xie Xuren, in a statement released at the
IMF meeting in Washington, said the IMF should also “promote
diversification of the international reserve currency system and
build the international reserve currency system into one with
stable value, rule-based issuance and manageable supply.”  Fund Outflows  Indian Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , in a statement
also released at the IMF meeting, said the outlook for a self-
sustaining global recovery has been “undermined,” and policy
makers in crisis-hit nations must speed up financial reform.  Emerging-market equity funds reported $1.4 billion of
withdrawals in the week ended Sept. 21, the eighth straight week
of outflows, Citigroup Inc. said, citing EPFR Global data.  “It is a continuation of the outflows trend, with no new
developments on European situations,” Kelly Kwok, a Citigroup
analyst, wrote in an e-mail.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa rose 53 basis
points, or 0.53 percentage point, to a record 398, according to
CMA in  London .  Poland’s WIG20 Index of shares sank 1 percent, while the
Czech PX Index lost 3.5 percent and Hungary’s BUX Index slipped
1.4 percent after retreating 6 percent yesterday.  The forint strengthened 0.8 percent against the euro, while
Poland’s zloty gained 3.1 percent and the Czech koruna
appreciated 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  