-- 
EU Denies Shift in Stress-Test Date for Bank Capital Raising

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-23T10:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/eu-denies-shift-in-deadline-for-bank-stress-test-capital-raising.html
The European Union said that there
were no plans to push banks such as  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) 
and HSH Nordbank AG to raise capital faster than previously
required after they came close to failing this year’s region-
wide stress tests.  The  April 2012  deadline for these lenders to recapitalize
hasn’t changed, Franca Congiu, a spokeswoman for the European
Banking Authority said today in a phone interview. HSH Nordbank
also denied it had been asked to accelerate efforts to bolster
its reserves. The  Financial Times  earlier reported that
European officials would speed up the recapitalization plans.  A total of  16 banks  passed this year’s stress tests with 1
percent or less of core reserves above the minimum needed. These
lenders should “take specific steps” to bolster their
reserves, the EBA said in July, suggesting measures including
deleveraging, issuing fresh capital or curbs on dividends.  “There has been no speeding up -- the EBA timetable holds
as it was then,” Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the European
Commission, told reporters at a briefing today. “You don’t need
to believe these rumors that all the European banking system
requires recapitalization,” he said. There are some banks that
the stress-tests have shown need more reserves, he said. “We
know who they are.”  Failed Tests  Eight banks failed the EBA tests, with a combined
shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion), a result hailed
at the time by policy makers as evidence lenders strengthened
reserves since the financial crisis that followed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse three years ago. Since then,
concerns  Europe ’s banks are struggling to cope with the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis have led the  International Monetary Fund 
to call for further efforts to strengthen their capital.  The EBA, which coordinates the work of national bank
regulators in the 27-nation EU, gave banks that failed the tests
until Oct. 15 to present plans for raising more capital, and
until the end of the year to execute the measures.  It is possible that “some other banks may need to be
recapitalized in the future,” Bailly said. The EU “has the
mechanisms” and “will be ready” to deal with it, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  