-- 
EU Plans Greek Buyback Program Open to All Debt, All Investors for Bailout

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-09-23T16:47:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/eu-plans-greek-buyback-program-open-to-all-debt-all-investors-for-bailout.html
The buyback of Greek debt, part of
the nation’s second bailout, should be broad-based and occur at
the same time as a bond swap now being negotiated, according to
a European Union planning document.  The document, which wasn’t intended for release to the
markets, says the operation would be open to all investors and
include all of  Greece ’s outstanding government bonds. It also
recommends making the buyback conditional on the debt swap, in
order to minimize the amount of time that rating companies
consider Greece to be in “selective default.”  Greece could buy back its debt through a modified Dutch
auction using short-term discount bills issued by the European
Financial Stability Facility. The document, dated Sept. 19 and 
obtained by Bloomberg News, envisions the EFSF as the only 
source of funding for the buyback operation.  “If the offer is for EFSF short-term paper rather than
cash, each bidder will make its own decision how to value the
EFSF bills,” the document says. “Bidding will simply be made
by reference to the principle amount of bills each bidder
requires in exchange for 100 euros” of Greek bonds.  The buyback, which EU and banking industry officials
estimate at 20 billion euros ($27 billion), is part of a rescue
package agreed upon by EU leaders on July 21, which includes 109
billion euros in public funds and the voluntary debt swap for
bondholders. The buyback is likely to offer more overall debt
reduction for Greece than the accompanying bond swap, the
internal EU document said.  Selective Default  Standard & Poor’s  has indicated that a conditional buyback
offer “will postpone a determination” that Greece is in
temporary default until the debt swap closes, the document said.
Without this condition, Greece would be placed in selective
default as soon as the buyback offer is announced.  Greece would have the ability to set a minimum price and
decide how to set the final clearing price for the auction.
Modified Dutch auctions are used in many countries, including
the U.S., for selling and buying back debt because they offer
flexibility in gauging demand and pricing.  “The principal objectives of the buyback are to reduce the
stock of Greece’s outstanding debt to the greatest extent
possible at the lowest possible price and to help reduce
Greece’s debt-service burden to sustainable levels,” the
document says.  By giving the buyback a broad scope, it will be available
to bondholders who aren’t eligible for the debt swap, according
to the document.  Eligible Debt  “The buyback offer should be addressed to all holders of
eligible debt, including retail holders,” the document said.
“The Hellenic Republic and its advisers believe that the
buyback should encompass all Greek  government bonds  and not be
limited to bonds maturing after 2020 or some other date.”  The debt swap and buyback were developed in coordination
with the  Institute of International Finance , a Washington-based
trade group whose members include more than 450 financial
institutions around the world. The effort, considered voluntary,
is aiming for a 90 percent take-up rate of eligible bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  