-- 
EU to Propose Broad, Low-Rate Financial-Transactions Tax

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-23T13:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/eu-to-propose-broad-range-low-rate-financial-transactions-tax.html
The European Commission said it
plans to propose soon a financial-transaction tax that targets a
broad range of trades with low rates.  “The commission should make a proposal in the coming
weeks,” David Boublil, a spokesman for the commission, told
reporters today in Brussels. “It should be a tax with a very
wide scope to cover a number of financial instruments but also
with a low rate.”  While the commission, the European Union’s executive arm,
hasn’t proposed an official date for such a tax to take effect,
2014 would be a “reasonable” time frame, Boublil said. The
commission’s goal is to have proceeds of the tax available for
the EU by 2018.  The tax rates will need to be high enough to apply
consistently across all 27 member states and low enough that
trades aren’t driven out of the region, according to a draft
commission document obtained by Bloomberg News. The proposal
will include different rates for various kinds of products.  Instruments covered by the proposal would include stocks,
bonds, structured products and derivatives, which would be
assessed based on their notional value.  Derivatives would be taxed at a lower rate than stock and
bond trading because the notional values of derivatives
contracts are so large, an EU official said today. In June, when
the proposal was first under discussion, the EU had used sample
rates of 0.1 percent for  stock trading  and 0.01 percent for
derivatives trading. Final proposed rates have not yet been set
and analysis is ongoing, the official said.  The financial industry opposes a transaction tax, saying it
would encourage shifts in global trading patterns. It also could
affect the overall economy as banks pass on costs to clients,
said Scott Talbott, senior vice president for government affairs
at the Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington-based trade
group.  “The tax would drive transactions to other countries,
thereby penalizing countries that adopt it,” Talbott said.
Also, because the proposal includes stock purchases, he said
“the tax would hit the average investor -- parents saving for
college, older citizens saving for retirement, and newlyweds
saving for a home.”  The EU announced plans for the transaction tax in August,
following a 2010 proposal that failed to draw agreement among
member nations. On Sept. 17, Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  and Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said the
euro area’s 17 governments should consider introducing their own
tax if no agreement were possible at the global or EU levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  