-- 
EU Tightens Sanctions on Syria as Nine Protesters Are Killed in Crackdown

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-09-23T14:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/eu-tightens-sanctions-on-syria-after-nine-protesters-killed-in-crackdown.html
European Union governments
stiffened sanctions on  Syria , banning investment in the
country’s  oil industry  as security forces extended a crackdown
on anti-government protests.  “The EU continues to aim at putting an end to the
repression and assisting the Syrian people to achieve their
legitimate aspirations,” the bloc’s foreign policy chief,
 Catherine Ashton , said in an  e-mailed statement  from Brussels.
Today’s decision, which follows an earlier move to halt oil
imports, also widens the range of Syrian officials subject to an
asset freeze and visa ban, and bars the delivery of banknotes to
the country’s central bank.  Nine protesters were killed today in demonstrations across
Syria following Friday prayers, Al Arabiya television reported.
Security forces are surrounding the southern city of Daraa,
where the unrest began in mid-March, and there were also
demonstrations in Deir al-Zour in eastern Syria and in the
central city of Homs,  Al Jazeera  said.  European leaders have followed the U.S. in imposing
sanctions including bans on oil exports and urging President
Bashar al-Assad to cede power. The Syrian government has called
the unrest foreign-backed terrorism.  Killed in Custody  Amnesty International confirmed today the discovery on
Sept. 13 of the mutilated body of Zainab al-Hosni, 18, who had
been in custody. The family was visiting a morgue to identify
the body of Zainab’s activist brother Mohammad, who had been
tortured and killed in custody, when they found her body
decapitated with her arms cut off and skin removed, the London-
based group said.  The killings bring the number of reported deaths in custody
recorded by  Amnesty International  to 103 since unrest began.  Before this week, more than 3,600 people had been reported
killed since the demonstrations began, according to Ammar Qurabi
of the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria, in
protests that have echoed uprisings that toppled the
longstanding leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .  The  International Energy Agency  estimates that Syria
exported about 127,000 barrels of oil a day in the first quarter
of this year to European members of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. The European Commission
says its Sept. 2 ban on Syrian oil will affect sales valued at
3.2 billion euros ($4.3 billion) last year.  As a result of the sanctions, Syria missed crude oil
deliveries this month, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 