-- 
European Stocks Rebound From Two-Year Low; BNP, SocGen Rally

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-23T17:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-after-yesterday-s-retreat.html
European stocks rose, rebounding
from a two-year low, as policy makers eased investor concern
that the region’s debt crisis is spreading and the global
economy is weakening.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and Societe General SA led a rally in banks,
surging more than 8 percent.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  climbed 7.1 percent as its
Xarelto blood thinner-drug won European backing for use in
irregular-heartbeat patients.  Adidas AG (ADS)  rose 2.8 percent as
competitor  Nike Inc. (NKE)  reported profit that topped estimates.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 0.6 percent to 216.19 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, erasing losses in the final hour
of trading after earlier falling as much as 2.6 percent. The
gauge slid to the lowest since July 2009 yesterday, extending
the decline from this year’s high on Feb. 17 to 26 percent, amid
concern the global economic recovery is stalling. The measure
has tumbled 6.1 percent this week, the most since Aug. 5.  “Risk assets seem very attractive,” said Dan Morris, a
global strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, which manages
$1.3 trillion for clients. “We appreciate there is a risk that
it’s not going to work out so we hedge any of our long term
positions.” He spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview in
London, saying he is “overweight” risk assets.  National benchmark indexes rose in 10 of the 18 western
European market today. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 0.6 percent,
France’s CAC 40 climbed 1 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
advanced 0.5 percent.  G-20 Support  Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to address rising risks
to the global economy and pushed Europe to contain its sovereign
debt crisis after concern the world is on the brink of another
recession sent stocks tumbling.  Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a statement late yesterday in  Washington . Many
urged Europe to implement a July promise to expand the powers of
a rescue fund, Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  The  European Central Bank  may act to address risks to
growth as soon as next month should economic data disappoint,
Governing Council member Luc Coene said.  “The ECB has never ruled out things beforehand,” Coene,
who heads the Belgian central bank, said in an interview in
Washington late yesterday when asked if an interest-rate cut
were warranted. “If the data in early October shows that things
are worse than we anticipated we will look at the kind of
decisions we have to take for that.”  Banks Rally  Societe Generale (GLE)  and BNP Paribas, France’s biggest banks,
soared 8.8 percent to 16.65 euros and 9.8 euros to 25.32 euros,
respectively, amid speculation that central banks will take
action to prevent another financial crisis.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
Europe’s second-biggest lender, rose 4.6 percent to 5.73 euros
in  Madrid .  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will consider
the need for changes to capital surcharges on the biggest banks
amid warnings from lenders that the measures may stymie the
financial system’s recovery, according to two people familiar
with the talks.  Bayer, Germany’s biggest drugmaker, rose 7.1 percent to
39.42 euros after winning the backing of a European drug
advisory panel for the use of its Xarelto drug with patients
with irregular heartbeat. The decision puts the blood thinner in
line for approval in a market that may reach $9 billion in
annual sales worldwide.  Adidas Advances  Adidas, the world’s second-biggest sporting goods company,
added 2.8 percent to 47.29 euros. Nike said net income in the
quarter ended Aug. 31 rose 15 percent to $645 million, or $1.36
a share. Analysts projected $1.21 a share, according to the
average of 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of luxury
cars, fell 1.5 percent to 52.18 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI)  retreated 1
percent to 32.41 euros.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  fell 7.4 percent to 2.76 euros
as the country’s biggest bank and seven other Greek lenders had
their credit ratings lowered by Moody’s Investors Service on
concern over their holdings of the nation’s government bonds.  “Moody’s believes that private creditors may incur
substantial economic losses on their Greek government bond
holdings beyond the terms of the current debt exchange,”
Moody’s analysts including Nicosia-based Nondas Nicolaides
wrote. Alpha Bank SA slumped 13 percent to 1.30 euros and  EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  tumbled 12 percent to 94 euro cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  