-- 
Euro Rebounds as G-20 Meets, Stock Rise; Yen at Almost Record

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-23T21:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/euro-erases-earlier-advance-versus-dollar-yen-as-european-stocks-decline.html
The euro rose against the yen and
dollar as global equities erased losses and  European Central
Bank  governing council members said the central bank may step up
efforts to ease market tensions.  The Japanese currency pared a weekly advance against its 16
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg after G-20 leaders
pledged to address risks in the global economy. Traders are net
long the dollar against its major counterparts for the first
time since July 2010.  South Korea ’s won rose against the dollar
after the government said it may intervene to stem its decline.
 Brazil ’s real also gained after the central bank sold dollars.  “People are a little fatigued on policy makers, which is
unfortunate because they hold a large portion of control over
 market sentiment ,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The euro is bouncing and chopping
around as stocks move up and down with risk sentiment.”  The euro rose 0.7 percent to 103.40 per yen at 5 p.m. in
New York. The shared currency gained 0.3 percent to $1.35, after
falling as much as 0.3 percent.  The yen weakened 0.5 percent to 76.61 per dollar and is up
0.2 percent this week. The Japanese currency reached a record
high of 75.95 on Aug. 19.  Futures Data  Aggregate bets the dollar will strengthen against the euro,
the yen, the Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, the
pound, the Swiss franc and the Mexican peso surged to 75,065
contracts in the week ended Sept. 20, according to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission Data as compiled by Bloomberg.
Foreign-exchange traders are net long the dollar for the first
time since July 2010.  The seven-day relative strength index for the euro versus
the dollar was 26.7, below the 30 level for the third day. A
reading below 30 indicates an asset’s price may have fallen too
quickly and may be due for a rebound.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent after
losing as much as 0.7 percent. The gauge is down 6.5 percent for
the week. U.S. 10-year note yields rose after touching a record
low.  The G-20 nations are “committed” to a strong and
coordinated international response to address the renewed
challenges facing the global economy,” finance chiefs said in a
statement released after talks yesterday in  Washington .  ECB governing council members,  Austria ’s Ewald Nowotny and
 Belgium ’s Luc Coene, said in Washington that potential measures
include the reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks. Asked if
an interest-rate cut is warranted, Coene said while that
wouldn’t help to bring down longer-term borrowing costs, “the
ECB has never ruled out things beforehand.”  “There is no immediate liquidity problem for banks, but
what we do see is a mismatch where banks have difficulties
refinancing themselves longer term,” Nowotny told reporters in
Washington today.  Yen Strength  Japan ’s currency traded at almost its post World War II
high against the dollar today and reached fresh decade-highs
against the euro yesterday.  The yen has appreciated 11.2 percent during the past three
months, the best performer among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
indexes. The dollar, the second-best performer, gained 5.3
percent while the euro has lost 1 percent.  The yen tends to strengthen during economic and financial
turmoil because Japan’s current account surplus makes it reliant
on foreign capital. The record reached on Aug. 19 spurred the
nation to sell 4.51 trillion yen ($59.2 billion) to stem the
currency’s appreciation.  The Korean  finance ministry  said it would “take action”
to stabilize the  currency market , after holding an emergency
meeting with the central bank before markets opened.  The won appreciated, paring its worst week in 16 months,
gaining 1.1 percent to 1,167.31 per dollar, paring its weekly
slump to 5 percent.  Rupiah Rise  Indonesia ’s rupiah climbed the most since May 2010 today
paring a weekly loss, on speculation the central bank is
intervening to curb volatility. The rupiah added 0.9 percent to
8.941 today, trimming its weekly loss to 1.6 percent.  “With all the G-20 policy makers essentially assembled in
Washington you’ve got enough prospect of comments coming out
that even if all the comments are not constructive for risk it
will give risk a little bit of support,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy in  New York 
at Deutsche Bank AG. “In the past 24 hours, you’ve had
significant Asian central bank intervention and Brazil reversing
currency measures so there’s a perception that emerging
currencies have plenty of firepower and reduce volatility.”  Brazil’s real gained against the dollar after the central
bank sold currency swap contracts in auctions yesterday, which
is equivalent to selling dollars in the futures market. The
move, meant to stem the decline of Brazil’s currency which has
fallen 5.8 percent this week.  The real rose 3.8 percent to 1.8339 per dollar, from 1.9055
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  