-- 
European Stocks Decline as Fed Sees ‘Significant’ Global Economic Risks

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-as-fed-sees-significant-economic-risks.html
European stocks had the biggest
weekly drop in seven as the  Federal Reserve  said it sees
“significant downside risks” for the economy and speculation
grew that policy makers will be unable to solve the debt crisis.  Mining companies led losses, with  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  posting
the biggest weekly decline in more than 11 years, as copper fell
to the lowest in a year. Stada Arzneimittel AG plunged 32
percent. Logitech International SA, the world’s largest maker of
computer mice, slid 17 percent after cuttings its forecasts for
the second time in two months.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 6.1 percent to 216.19
this past week as all of the 19 industry groups declined. The
gauge extended its decline from this year’s high on Feb. 17 to
26 percent amid growing concern that the global economic
recovery is faltering.  “The Fed’s prior announcements had a more optimistic tone,
but much has happened over the recent months,” said Nils Rosendahl, an analyst at  Nordea Markets  in  Stockholm . “They
signaled that things look bad, but that from a monetary horizon
not much more can be done. It’s time for politicians to start
acting as well.”  The Fed said it sees “significant downside risks to the
economic outlook, including strains in global financial
markets” as it unveiled plans to replace $400 billion of short-
term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries. The
program is known as “Operation Twist,” for its goal to bend
the yield curve.  DAX, CAC 40  National benchmark indexes retreated in all of the 18
western European markets.  Germany ’s DAX Index declined 6.8
percent and France’s CAC 40 dropped 7.3 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE
100 slid 5.6 percent.  The Stoxx 600 is trading at about 9 times the estimated
earnings of its constituent companies, near the lowest valuation
since March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut growth estimates for the U.S.,
the euro area and  Japan , and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
predicted a “full-blown recession” in  Europe . The world is
poised for a financial crisis, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said on Sept. 22.  China ’s manufacturing may shrink for a third month in
September, the longest contraction since 2009, after a
preliminary index of purchasing managers showed measures of
export orders and output declined. A report in Brussels showed
that European services and manufacturing growth contracted for
the first time in more than two years in September.  ‘Weak’ Indicators  “Indicators for growth are weak,” said  Trevor Greetham ,
head of  asset allocation  at Fidelity International in  London .
“Without a policy U-turn and action to restore confidence we
are likely to see a slowdown going into 2012.”  Greece  said it will accelerate budget cuts, targeting civil
servants’ wages and pensioners to keep emergency loans flowing
and avoid default, following two rounds of talks with the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The policies
were demanded by lenders to ensure Greece reaches deficit-
reduction targets in a 110 billion-euro ($148 billion) bailout
and receives a payment from the EU rescue fund, known as the
European Financial Stability Facility, due next month.  “Greece has failed to meet the austerity promised and
hence the chance of getting another slice of the EFSF
declines,” said Nordea’s Rosendahl. “All help to Greece
promised so far will just help to pay for the interest on the
national debt anyhow, so the default question is now just a
matter of time.”  Euro Bonds  Policy makers battling Europe’s debt crisis shouldn’t rule
out issuing joint euro-area bonds and must develop tools to make
that possible, even if German opposition means it can’t be done
immediately, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  “The commission believes we should look also at that
option,” Barroso said in an interview on Sept. 20 at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “We are not saying it is
immediately. This is a matter that must be discussed, but we
should not exclude that option either.”  Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to address rising risks
to the global economy. Policy makers are “committed to a strong
and coordinated international response to address the renewed
challenges facing the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers
and central bank governors said Sept. 22. Many urged Europe to
implement a July promise to expand the powers of a rescue fund,
Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  Mining Companies Sink  A gauge of mining companies in the Stoxx 600 tumbled the
most since December 2008 as copper fell to the lowest in a year.
Antofagasta dropped 25 percent for its largest drop since at
least 1989.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , the largest copper producer
in  India , dropped 22 percent. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
second-largest mining company, slid 18 percent and larger rival
BHP Billiton Ltd. fell 12 percent.  National Bank of Greece SA lost 13 percent and Alpha Bank
SA lost 24 percent to 1.30 euros, its lowest price since
November 1992. Piraeus Bank SA dropped 18 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the long-term deposit
and senior debt ratings of eight Greek banks by two levels. All
of the banks’ long-term deposit and debt ratings carry a
negative outlook.  Moody’s on Sept. 21 also downgraded the long-term credit
ratings of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co ., along
with  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s short-term rating, saying U.S. support has
become less likely if lenders get into financial trouble.  Barclays, Deutsche Bank  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets,
slipped 11 percent while Lloyds Banking Group Plc lost 4.6
percent. Deutsche Bank AG decreased 7.9 percent and Raiffeisen
Bank International AG retreated 20 percent, the most since
November 2008.  Stada Arzneimittel sank 32 percent, its biggest drop since
August 2008. The German generic-drug maker said it will post a
one-off charge of about 97 million euros in the third quarter
because of unpaid bills from Serbian drug wholesalers. Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler, cut the company’s
shares to “sell” from “buy.”  Logitech fell 17 percent, the most since January 2009. The
company cut its sales and operating profit forecasts for the
second time in two months after reassessing its business under
Chairman Guerrino De Luca acting as chief executive officer.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Europe’s second-biggest airline,
declined 16 percent after saying operating profit in 2011 will
fall short of last year’s 876 million euros. The company’s stock
was cut to “sell” from “hold” at Deutsche Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  