-- 
Europe Weighs Speedier Enactment of Permanent Rescue Fund to Stem Crisis

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-24T18:26:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/europe-weighs-speedier-enactment-of-permanent-rescue-fund-to-stem-crisis.html
European governments are exploring
speeding the start of a permanent rescue fund for their cash-
strapped economies amid fresh signs they may bolster efforts to
halt the worsening sovereign debt crisis.  Senior finance officials will examine next week the cost
advantages of setting up the fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, a year earlier than its currently planned
July 2013 start, according to a document prepared for the
meetings and obtained by Bloomberg News.  As Greece’s prospects darken and the 18-month debt crisis
threatens to tip Europe and the global economy back into
recession, the euro area’s managers are stepping up efforts to
identify measures that can stop it from spreading. Their
strategy to date has been criticized at the annual meetings of
the  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank , which continue
today in Washington.  “Patience is running out in the international community,”
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne told reporters
yesterday.  That pressure increased after concerns that a Greek default
may be inevitable helped push global stocks into their first
bear market in two years. Economists at Citigroup Inc. said
yesterday they now expect Greece to begin restructuring its debt
as soon as December, while those at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
the euro area will start shrinking in the fourth quarter.  Trimming Decline  U.S. stocks advanced yesterday, trimming the biggest weekly
decline since October 2008 for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
amid speculation that policy makers will act to prevent the
crisis from spiraling. Yields on 2-year Greek government notes
nevertheless rose to 70 percent.  Drawing on paid-in capital, the ESM will have a 500
billion-euro ($677 billion) war chest that could help shield
countries like  Italy . It also includes provisions for sharing
costs with bondholders for countries with “unsustainable”
debt.  Faster ESM enactment would yield a “more effective
financing structure” that cuts the extra debt of donor
countries by 38.5 billion euros, saving Germany alone 11.5
billion euros, the paper said. “This gain is to be considered
as a minimum,” it said.  Asked by Bloomberg Television about bringing forward the
ESM’s start date, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the focus for now is on upgrading
the temporary fund, the 440 billion-euro European Financial
Stability Facility.  Germany wouldn’t oppose a plan to bring forward the ESM
start date, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Revamped EFSF  Public debate increased this week over how to allow the
EFSF to buy bonds in markets and aid banks once it is revamped
about mid-October. European lawmakers may face opposition from
taxpayers balking at handing over even more cash to the
facility.  An alternative option, inspired by the U.S. response to the
2008 financial crisis, is for the EFSF to leverage is resources
to add to its firepower, according to Rehn and French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin .  While U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  pitched that
idea at a Sept. 16 meeting with euro-area finance chiefs in
 Poland , it met initial resistance from  Germany , Europe’s
dominant economy.  Like a Bank  One route, proposed by economists  Daniel Gros  and  Thomas Mayer , is for the EFSF to operate like a bank and borrow from
the  European Central Bank , using the bonds it purchases as
collateral. Other suggestions are for the EFSF to guarantee ECB
bond purchases or help the central bank make loans to investors
who buy stressed-country debt with the facility absorbing
initial losses.  Geithner told BBC Radio 4 today that it is essential for
governments to work “alongside” the ECB to resolve the crisis,
citing how the U.S. government and  Federal Reserve  united to
deal with the fallout from the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Boosting the EFSF is “unavoidable” in the long run and
may be followed by the issuance of joint euro bonds, Klaas Knot,
the Dutch representative on the ECB’s Governing Council, said in
a De Telegraaf interview published yesterday.  China ’s vice finance minister  Zhu Guangyao  said the EFSF
and ESM may end up functioning at the same time. Japanese
Finance Minister Jun Azumi told reporters that his nation may
provide aid for  Europe  if its banks need additional capital.  ECB Efforts  The ECB may also step up its own crisis-fighting as soon as
next month, Governing Council members  Luc Coene  and Ewald Nowotny said in Washington. Potential measures include the
revival of 12-month loans to banks and Coene didn’t rule out
cutting the 1.5 percent benchmark interest rate. JPMorgan Chase
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc predict a 50-basis point
reduction when policy makers gather Oct. 6.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet, attending his final IMF
meetings before retiring Oct. 31, said the ECB “stands ready”
to keep supplying unlimited liquidity to banks and pressed
lawmakers to ratify the EFSF.  Established in May 2010 after stopgap loans to  Greece 
failed to restore market confidence, the EFSF was given a three-
year lifespan amid expectations the crisis would run its course.  As Ireland and Portugal succumbed to speculative attacks,
Germany then pushed for a permanent fund. Its statutes need to
be approved by the 17 euro-area countries and it requires all 27
EU countries to pass a treaty amendment to become operational.  Vote Next Week  Ratification discussions have barely gotten under way.
Germany won’t consider a timetable for approving the ESM until
the reinforced EFSF is in place, the government said last week.
German lawmakers vote to ratify the package next week.  While speedier enactment of the ESM would require donor
countries to pay in as of 2012, those costs would be more than
offset by switching away from the EFSF’s guarantee system, the
working paper said. However, aid recipients would also have to
contribute.  In a separate planning document obtained by Bloomberg News,
EU officials said a buyback of Greek debt, part of the nation’s
second bailout, should be broad-based and occur at the same time
as a bond swap now being negotiated. The document says the
operation would be open to all investors and include all of
Greece’s outstanding government bonds. It also recommends making
the buyback conditional on the debt swap, in order to minimize
the amount of time that rating companies would consider Greece
to be in “selective default.”  Revised Terms  Germany’s Schaeuble suggested yesterday the terms of
Greece’s international rescue may need to be revised. “One has
to see whether what has been envisaged in June, July is still
sustainable in the light of more recent developments,”
Schaeuble told reporters in  Washington . At the same time, he
said that “to speculate on this at the current juncture would
be wrong.”  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou said yesterday his
government was determined to proceed with the implementation of
the July 21 decision for a second financing package.  “Since much is said and written, many scenarios, I want to
stress once again, that our decision is to complete the July
agreement,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Washington at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  