-- 
Mexican Peso ‘Clearly Undervalued,’ Central Bank Head Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-09-23T21:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/mexican-peso-clearly-undervalued-central-bank-head-says-2-.html
Mexico ’s peso is undervalued after
tumbling 11 percent against the dollar in the past month,
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said.  The peso rallied today after tumbling for 11 consecutive
days on concern slower economic growth will undermine commodity
prices. The Mexican currency appreciated 3.8 percent to 13.5630
to the dollar as of 4:58 p.m.  New York  time.  “At this stage the peso is clearly undervalued,” Carstens
said in an interview in  Washington . “Today, we are seeing an
important correction in the  exchange rate  and I would expect it
to continue. The fundamentals of the Mexican economy are very
strong and will anchor the exchange rate.”  The peso’s longest losing streak on record is fueling
concern inflation will quicken and prompting traders to scrap
bets on interest-rate cuts. Yields on futures contracts for the
28-day  interbank rate  due August 2012 rose 13 basis points
yesterday to 5.04 percent, compared with the current benchmark
rate of 4.5 percent.  The central bank will continue to apply a firm monetary
policy to maintain control over inflation, Carstens told the
newspaper Excelsior yesterday.  “What we want the market to understand is that what will
anchor the value of the peso is our commitment to strong
fundamentals and not just the possibility or not to intervene in
the market,” Carstens said today.  Inflation Outlook  Carstens played down the impact the weaker peso will have
on inflation. Even if the decline was sustained, the impact
won’t be significant “right now,” he said.  “We have to consider that there are other factors that are
working in favor of keeping inflation relatively low,” Carstens
said. “From the aggregate demand point of view, we will not be
facing inflationary pressures in the near term.” Falling
commodity prices will also “help the inflationary
environment.”  The inflation rate fell to 3.42 percent in August from 3.55
percent in July.  The peso has tumbled along with other emerging markets on
speculation that the worldwide economic slump will curb demand
for Mexican exports and slow investment into the country. While
traders had begun anticipating in August that the global slump
would prompt Mexican central bankers to shore up growth by
lowering rates, the peso’s plunge this month to a two-year low
is squelching that speculation by fueling concern import prices
will surge.  U.S. Growth  The Mexican peso’s slide quickened after the  Federal
Reserve  said on Sept. 21 that there are “significant downside
risks” to growth in the U.S. economy, the destination for 80
percent of Mexico’s exports. The Fed said it plans to buy long-
term debt in an effort to shore up the expansion.  “My belief is that the policy measures that the U.S. has
put forward will do their work and at the beginning of next year
we will start seeing a rebound in the U.S. economy,” Carstens
said. “Mexico’s economy is more correlated to industrial
production in the U.S. and the projections for the future are
that industrial production in the U.S. will be more resilient
than overall GDP, so the impact of the slowdown in the  U.S.
economy  will not be mapped one to one to Mexico.”  The growth in exports to markets other than the U.S. will
also help sustain the Mexican economy, he said, adding that
there was no need for additional fiscal stimulus.  “As the dust settles from this increase in volatility and
this process of adjusting portfolios, markets will be more
discriminating and will realize that Mexico, from a fundamental
point of view is a very good destination for investments ,”
Carstens said.  Peso Volatility  Concern that economic growth in the U.S. is slowing and
European nations will struggle to repay debt have roiled Mexican
markets, pushing the peso down 6.4 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the last two weeks. The loss was the fifth-biggest
among the 16-most traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg over
the period.  European nations need to follow through on measures by the
 European Central Bank  to contain the region’s sovereign debt
crisis, Carstens said today in a separate interview broadcast on
Bloomberg TV.  “I think the ECB for example has made very decisive moves
to keep markets working, to keep the interbank lines working to
get funding out there,” Carstens said.  “There needs to be some follow through from the other
European authorities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 