-- 
Experts Say ‘Strategy Game’ Makes Case for EU Rescue Leverage

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-23T18:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/experts-say-strategy-game-makes-case-for-eu-rescue-leverage.html
Europe’s debt crisis could be
contained by using the  European Central Bank  to make up to 5
trillion euros ($6.7 trillion) available through a euro-area
rescue fund, according to a “strategy game” conducted by about
50 experts and former government officials.  The  European Financial Stability Facility , the euro area’s
temporary bailout fund, would be on the hook for any losses
incurred by the rescue effort, according to scenarios explored
during a two-day meeting in Paris earlier this month. At the
same time, the EFSF could have a reserve of ECB cash to act
decisively when needed.  “What Europe needs is action,”  Edwin Truman , a former
U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve official who took part in the
exercise, wrote in an  article  about the event published on the
website of the Washington-based Peterson Institute for
International Economics. “The unpleasant fact of life is that
markets can mobilize almost unlimited financial firepower to
communicate their skepticism. The European authorities must
respond commensurately.”  Truman said the details of how the EU would leverage its
rescue plan are secondary to a clear commitment from policy
makers. The broader need is to transform the 440 billion-euro
EFSF into an “overwhelming financial force” to fight the
crisis.  German Objections  In the strategy game, participants played the roles of
countries, central banks, financial markets and voters. It was
organized by the Peterson Institute and the Brussels-based
Bruegel economic think tank.  “In a notable feature of the game, contrasting with some
of the discussing of the first day, no concerns surfaced among
the players about a possible breakup of the euro area,” the
Peterson Institute wrote in a summary posted on its web site.
“Lingering wariness over the economic outlook in  Europe  was
widespread, on the other hand.”  German officials have so far rejected using the ECB to
increase the power of the bailout fund, warning it could push
the central bank further into the realms of fiscal policy.
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on Sept. 17 that he also
attached “big question marks” to the idea of allowing the
facility to run like a bank.  Solvency Risk  A properly designed leverage program “does not amount to
monetary financing of government debt,” said Guntram Wolff,
Bruegel’s deputy director and a participant in the exercise. He
proposed a program in which the EFSF would buy government bonds
of countries affected by the crisis and then lend the bonds to
the ECB using  repurchase agreements .  The ECB would sterilize the liquidity it provided by
cutting back on direct lending to the banking system, Wolff
said. It also would set a haircut on the repurchase agreements
to limit its exposure to any solvency risk associated with the
bonds. A hypothetical 10 percent haircut would allow the EFSF to
leverage its resources by a factor of 10, putting the funds
capacity at 3.5 trillion euros.  Wolff said the mechanism, as envisioned during the
exercise, would put an end to market speculation that the euro
area might not support sovereigns under stress. It would thus
“buy time” for euro-area nations to put more lasting
structural reforms in place.  “Market participants in the simulation reacted positively
to the new mechanism when it was proposed in the simulation,”
Wolff said in an article on Bruegel’s web site. “Spreads to
 Germany  narrowed strongly and overall market stress was reduced.
In addition, the ECB could stop its costly securities markets
program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  