-- 
Fed’s Williams Says It’s Unclear If ‘Operation Twist’ or QE Works Better

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-23T18:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/fed-s-williams-says-it-s-unclear-if-operation-twist-or-qe-works-better.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President John C. Williams said it’s unclear whether
outright purchases of  Treasury securities  or lengthening their
duration such as in the plan announced this week is more
effective in boosting the economy.  “To what extent is it the size or the composition of the
central bank’s balance sheet that matters?” Williams said in a
speech in Zurich,  Switzerland . There is “uncertainty” on how
the moves work. “This question is no mere theoretical
curiosity, but has very real practical relevance.”  Williams is the first Federal Reserve policy maker to
comment on the central bank’s decision Sept. 21 to extend the
average maturities of the Treasuries in its portfolio by
purchasing $400 billion of long-term debt while selling an equal
amount of shorter-term securities. The operation is an attempt
to push down mortgage and other loan rates to spur growth.  Stocks fell for two days as investors weren’t persuaded the
so-called Operation Twist, similar to an action by that name in
1961, would help to lift growth. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
his policy-making colleagues also cited “significant downside
risks” to the outlook. Bond yields fell after the decision.  Williams, 49, didn’t discuss the outlook for monetary
policy or the economy in the text of his speech to the Swiss
National Bank Research Conference.  Williams said the Fed’s $600 billion in asset purchases,
completed in June, likely reduced the yield on 10-year Treasury
notes by 15-20 basis points. That was about the same impact as
cutting the federal funds target rate by three-quarters of a
percentage point, he said.  ‘Powerful Effects’  The Fed official said announcing future plans for monetary
policy, such as the Fed’s pledge last month to keep rates near
zero through mid-2013, can have “powerful effects,” citing
declines in Treasury yields.  The Fed this week maintained its pledge to hold its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero for two years so long as
unemployment stays high and the inflation outlook is
“subdued.” The rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  The experience of the last few years shows asset purchases
and forward guidance are “useful policy tools” when the Fed’s
benchmark rate is near zero, Williams said, raising the question
of whether they should be used as standard policies rather than
being reserved for “extraordinary times.”  Appetite for Risk  “These policies are still relatively unfamiliar to the
public,” he said. “Consequently, their effects on the public’s
inflation expectations, appetite for risk, and so forth are
difficult to predict. This adds an element of uncertainty and
raises concern about unintended consequences.”  Large-scale asset purchases “may create distortions to
asset prices or financial market functioning,” he said. “Of
course, these costs must be weighed against the value of asset
purchases for macroeconomic stabilization.”  Williams, who has worked in the Fed system since 1994, was
a senior economist for the  Council of Economic Advisers  during
the Clinton administration. The Sacramento native succeeded
 Janet Yellen , now the Fed board’s vice chairman, and will become
a voting member of the rate-setting FOMC next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net  