-- 
Fed’s Dudley Says Financial Stability Essential to Foster Economic Growth

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-23T19:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/fed-s-dudley-says-financial-stability-needed-to-foster-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the “unusually anemic” U.S.
economic recovery from the credit crisis highlights the need for
a regulatory overhaul to ensure financial stability.  “We must keep pushing this agenda forward and not be
deterred by those that defend the status quo,” Dudley, 58, said
today in a speech in Washington. “The extraordinarily poor
economic outcomes we see today underscore the importance of
building a financial system that is resilient in its ability to
provide credit to households and business throughout the
business cycle.”  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  this week
decided to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to further
reduce borrowing costs and counter rising risks of a recession.
The so-called Operation Twist drew three dissents as Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  struggled to find consensus to help an economy
plagued by 9.1 percent unemployment.  “A stable financial system is a prerequisite for
sustainable economic growth,” Dudley said. “We need to
continue to look to implement changes in systems and practices
that will help dampen the pro-cyclicality of the system, and
temper the amplitude of both booms and busts.”  Treasuries Fell  Stocks in the U.S. gained and Treasuries fell amid
speculation policy makers will act to prevent the European debt
crisis from worsening. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4
percent to 1,133.66 at 3:17 p.m. in New York, and 10-year
Treasury yields increased 10 basis points to 1.82 percent.  Dudley is a U.S. representative on the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , a group of regulators and central bankers
from 27 nations that released rules last year requiring banks to
bolster capital and reduce borrowing. The Fed is now writing its
own rules to reconcile the Basel mandates with requirements
under the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul legislation passed last
year.  Regulators have “made a good start, but there is a long
ways to go,” including improving cross-border coordination,
Dudley said.  “Without a level playing field what will happen is the
whole dialogue will shift,” Dudley said in response to audience
questions after his speech. Some regulators may focus on what’s
best for their institutions instead of overall financial
stability, he said. “You will have a race to the bottom.”  U.S. bank regulators also need access to “consolidated
global balance-sheet information of the foreign banks that
operate” in the U.S. to better assess their risk, he said.  ‘Signs of Distress’  Steps to boost liquidity have also “not progressed as far
as desired,” Dudley said. “Many banks remain dependent on
short-term funding to finance longer-term assets from
counterparties that tend to flee at the first signs of
distress,” Dudley said.  Money market funds  are especially
“vulnerable to runs,” he said.  Additional measures must also be taken to address flaws in
the market for tri-party  repurchase agreements , such as
“inadequate risk management practices and lack of resiliency to
a dealer default,” Dudley said.  “Experience suggests that it is not easy for market
participants to agree on measures that enhance financial
stability when this goal conflicts with the commercial and
business interests,” he said.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party acts as the agent
for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.  ‘Smart Solutions’  Private companies also have “responsibilities” in
ensuring financial stability, Dudley said.  “Banking leaders and industry trade groups should propose
smart solutions to achieve essential financial stability
objectives and not simply lobby against change,” Dudley said.
“More statesmen-like engagement is both warranted and
welcome.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
who sits on the New York Fed’s board of directors, in June
pressed Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in a public forum on
whether regulators have gone too far in reining in the U.S.
banking system and are slowing growth.  Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the FOMC, didn’t
comment on the outlook for the economy or monetary policy. He
voted in support of the additional stimulus measure.  The central bank has already purchased $2.3 trillion of
debt in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing and has kept
its target interest rate near zero since December 2008. In
August, it pledged to hold the rate there through at least mid-
2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 zumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  