-- 
Finnish Parliament’s Finance Committee Recommends EFSF Approval

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-23T13:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/finnish-parliament-s-finance-committee-recommends-efsf-approval.html
The Finnish parliament’s finance
committee urged lawmakers to pass enhancements to Europe’s
temporary rescue fund agreed in July and made recommendations
intended to ensure private investors share the risk of losses.  Expanding the scope of the European Financial Stability
Facility will support the euro area by increasing financial
market confidence and improving the credibility of political
efforts to stem the crisis, the finance committee said in a
report posted on the Helsinki-based parliament’s website today.  The committee recommended that lawmakers in future push to
ensure taxpayers aren’t left to foot the bill of rescue
measures. Investors must take responsibility for the risks they
incur, the committee said. Re-capitalizing financial
institutions should primarily be the responsibility of
shareholders while the state should be the second recourse, the
committee said.  Banks should only be eligible to receive EFSF funds via
their home country’s government and only if the lender’s failure
represents a threat to financial stability, the committee said.  It urged lawmakers to examine whether such loans should be
granted only if the bailed out bank can provide shares as
collateral. Lawmakers should consider giving governments the
power to force mergers on banks seeking rescues so that troubled
lenders can be absorbed by their healthier peers, it said.  Finland’s finance committee said allowing the EFSF to buy
sovereign debt in the secondary market will help the European
Central Bank to focus on its main monetary policy tasks. Other
roles assumed by the ECB since the debt crisis started, such as
buying sovereign bonds, “may weaken its position as a strong,
independent actor,” the committee said.  Opposition lawmakers in the committee filed objections to
its conclusions. Finland’s parliament is due to vote on the
expanded powers on Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  