-- 
Flaherty Says Europe Needs Decisive Action as Carney Seeks Political Will

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-23T23:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/flaherty-says-europe-needs-decisive-action-as-carney-seeks-political-will.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said European leaders must keep working to stem a
sovereign debt crisis, and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said the situation can be resolved if policy makers show
“political will.”  “Decisive action is needed and it’s important that it be
of sufficient scale to restore confidence,” Flaherty said in
Washington at meetings of the Group of 20 nations and
 International Monetary Fund . Europeans must “accelerate their
decision-making process,” and “get ahead of markets” he said.  Authorities have drawn criticism for failing to contain a
debt crisis that began in Greece two years ago and has brought
that country to the verge of default. The G-20 released a
previously unplanned statement Sept. 22 pledging to address
rising risks to the global economy and pushing  Europe  to contain
its crisis.  Flaherty said there has been “progress” made at the
Washington meetings. “This problem in Europe needs to be
overwhelmed,” he said, echoing calls for the expansion and
faster delivery of rescue funds for governments and banks.  He also repeated Canada can be “pragmatic” and “adjust
when required” if global growth slows the country’s economy
further. Flaherty’s current plan is to eliminate the  budget
deficit  in the fiscal year beginning April 2014.  Both Canadian policy makers said some emerging-market
countries need to allow more flexible exchange rates to
rebalance global demand. The Canadian dollar has traded for more
than parity with the U.S. dollar for most of this year,
something that’s slowed the country’s recovery by curbing
exports.  “We have sound fundamentals, we have strength in our
financial system, we have a credible fiscal plan as the minister
has said, and that brings attractions to foreign capital,”
Carney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in  Washington  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  