-- 
Ford Says U.S. Pickup Sales at Highest Pace Since December

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-09-23T20:06:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/ford-says-pickup-sales-pace-highest-since-december.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  said U.S. sales of
pickups are at their highest pace since December on declining
fuel prices.  “Full-size pickups are up just slightly from a year ago,
but it’s above the 9-to-10 percent level we saw in April and May
when gas got to $4 a gallon,”  George Pipas , a Ford sales
analyst, told reporters at company headquarters in Dearborn,
 Michigan . “Now it’s back to normal.”  The average fuel price for regular unleaded gasoline is
$3.54 a gallon, according to AAA. Ford’s U.S. vehicle sales rose
11 percent in August, faster than the industrywide gain of 7.5
percent. Sales of F-Series pickups, accounting for a fourth of
Ford’s U.S. vehicle deliveries through August, rose 7 percent.  Ford has begun considering the possibility of a double-dip
recession and is analyzing it as “a scenario,” Pipas said.  “But it’s not our plan,” Pipas said. “You can’t ignore
the economic data coming in. So you have to attach some level of
probability to it.”  Pipas declined to say what probability Ford gives a double-
dip recession.  “Our plan is economic growth will be slow over the next
several quarters,” Pipas said. “The surveys say people are
uncertain about the future. An automobile is a discretionary
purchase; you can wait.”  Ford’s U.S. market share rose to 16.8 percent this year
through August, from 16.7 percent last year, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . Under
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , Ford has been diversifying
its model lineup, including adding the Fiesta subcompact.  Ford rose 24 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $9.86 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 41 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  