-- 
Forecasts Split on How Hot Dallas and Houston Will Get Next Week

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-23T11:55:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/forecasts-split-on-how-hot-dallas-and-houston-will-get-next-week.html
Forecasters are split on how hot it
will get in  Dallas  and Houston at the start of next week.  The temperature in the Texas cities may reach 100 degrees
Fahrenheit (38 Celsius) for at least two days, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .
The  National Weather Service  and MDA EarthSat Weather in
Gaithersburg, Maryland, also call for hot weather in Dallas and
Houston with temperatures in the 90s.  Dallas and  Fort Worth  have reached 100 degrees or more 70
days this year, the most on record and one more than in 1980,
according to the weather service. Texas has also had the hottest
summer for any U.S. state, with an average temperature of 86.8
degrees, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Oklahoma  was second with an average temperature
of 86.5 degrees.  The previous warmest summer was in Oklahoma in 1934, when
the average temperature was 85.2 degrees.  “Both Dallas and Houston have another shot at triple digit
temperatures this Sunday and Monday with a quick burst of
stronger warming than expected across the area,” Rogers said in
a note to clients.  MDA and the weather service call for a high of 97 in
Houston through the same time frame. In Dallas, the weather
service forecasts highs of 93 and 92, while MDA predicts 95 and
91 for those days.  Central U.S. Warmer  In the 6- to 10-day forecasts, both MDA and Rogers see
warming in the central U.S., with the hottest temperatures in
the northern Great Plains. The two forecasters diverge in the
11- to 15-day forecasts.  Rogers calls for warming in the central and northern U.S.
with the exception of the Pacific Northwest and  New England  and
most of the Northeast. He expects the rest of the nation to be
near seasonal.  MDA focuses the heat in the central U.S. stretching the
length of the Great Plains to Texas with cooler-than-normal
weather developing in the Pacific Northwest and southeastern
U.S.  Natural gas traders use long-range temperature predictions
to gauge energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather
can increase demand for heating and cooling, and  power plants 
use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  