-- 
Ex-New Jersey Nets Player Tate George Charged in $2 Million Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-23T20:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/former-nba-player-tate-george-charged-in-investment-fraud.html
Tate George, a former player for
the  National Basketball Association ’s  New Jersey  Nets and
 Milwaukee Bucks , was charged with running a $2 million  Ponzi
scheme  that targeted ex-professional athletes.  George, 43, raised more than $2 million for his company,
The George Group, after telling investors his real-estate
development portfolio was worth $500 million, according to a
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  complaint accusing him of  wire
fraud .  “In reality, The George Group had virtually no income
generating operations,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman in Newark,
New Jersey, said in a statement today.  George used the money he raised to pay early investors in
his company and to fund living expenses such as mortgage and
child-support payments, restaurant meals, clothing and gas,
according to the FBI complaint. George faces as long as 20 years
in prison for the scheme, which prosecutors said began in 2005.  He surrendered to the FBI today and appeared in federal
court in  Newark , wearing a light-green suit and handcuffs. U.S.
Magistrate Judge Patty Shwartz set his bail at $250,000, secured
by his mother’s house in Newark. Shwartz ordered George to turn
over a list of his real-estate projects. She declined a
prosecutor’s request to order George to disclose all the
investors in those projects.  ‘Maintains His Innocence’  “He maintains his innocence and will plead not guilty,”
George’s attorney, Thomas Ashley, said outside the courtroom.
“All these charges are clearly defensible.”  One investor, identified in the complaint as B.K.,
transferred $300,000 in July 2007 for what George said was a
real estate project in East Orange, New Jersey, according to the
complaint. George promised that he would pay the investor
$18,000 in interest by the next January, the FBI said.  George was questioned under oath on March 10 about B.K.’s
investment and “falsely testified that he had spent the
entirety of B.K.’s $300,000 on the purported real estate
project,” the FBI said.  In 2008, former NBA player Brevin Knight filed a breach-of-
contract lawsuit against George, The George Group and a third
defendant over a $300,000 loan in June 2007 for a development
project in  East Orange . Knight secured a $450,000 judgment
against George and his company in August 2009, according to
records in federal court in Newark.  Arrest Ordered  In October 2010, Knight asked a judge to order George to
appear at a deposition to explain why he had not paid any of the
judgment. In January, U.S. District Judge William Martini
ordered George’s arrest, records show.  On March 1, George appeared at a contempt-of-court hearing
in Newark and was ordered to appear for a March 10 deposition,
records show.  George attended the  University of Connecticut , where he hit
the game-winning shot against Clemson University in the third
round of the 1990 National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament. With one second remaining and  Connecticut  trailing
by one, George caught a full-court pass from teammate Scott Burrell, spun around and hit a 15-foot jump shot as time
expired.  He was selected by the Nets with the No. 22 pick in the
1990 NBA draft. In a four-year career, George averaged 4.2
points and 1.8 assists a game.  The case is U.S. v. George, 11-mag-03197, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 