-- 
French, German Bank Credit Default Wagers Soar

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-09-23T09:15:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/french-german-bank-cds-wagers-surge-amid-spreading-crisis-in-euro-region.html
Trading in credit-default swaps
insuring the biggest German and French banks’ debt is soaring as
the euro-region crisis spreads.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest lender, was the most-
traded company of 1,000 issuers tracked by the Depository Trust
& Clearing Corp. in the week through Sept. 16, up from 12th the
week before.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  climbed to seventh place from
43rd, while  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA soared to eighth from 58th.  Banks hold more than half of the bonds issued by other
lenders and are hedging that risk in the credit-swaps market.
U.S. lenders  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  also jumped into the top 10 most-traded companies,
according to the DTCC, amid speculation the world’s largest
economy is headed for another recession.  “In this game,  Greece  is the mouse and the elephant in the
room is the banks,” said Alberto Gallo, head of European credit
strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The
problem is that the banks hold each other’s bonds.”  Traders bought and sold 83 credit-default swap contracts on
Deutsche Bank last week, covering a daily average of $270
million of debt, up from $150 million in the past month,
according to New York-based DTCC, which runs a central registry
for the market.  Swaps covering a daily average of $160 million of Credit
Agricole’s debt traded, up from $120 million in the past month,
while contracts linked to SocGen jumped to $150 million from
$130 million, DTCC data show.  Outstanding Trades  A total of 5,967 trades are outstanding on Deutsche Bank,
covering $5.4 billion of debt, up from $5.1 billion three months
ago, DTCC data show. Outstanding swap volumes on  Credit Agricole 
and SocGen are little changed in the quarter, covering $2.9
billion of debt each.  Banks hold 56 percent of the bonds issued by other lenders,
according to RBS calculations based on European Central Bank
data. They’re also suffering because of their holdings of
securities issued by the euro region’s most-indebted
governments.  The crisis has spawned as much as 300 billion euros ($406
billion) in credit risk for European banks, the  International
Monetary Fund  said this week as it called for capital injections
to support markets. Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  have already
sought international bailouts and speculation is increasing that
the next countries to fall will be Spain and  Italy .  Standard & Poor’s  cut ratings or lowered the outlooks on
Italian banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the nation’s biggest,
this week after the government’s credit was downgraded for the
first time in five years.  ‘Major Event’  “The Italian downgrade was a major event,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London. That the nation wasn’t on review for a downgrade,
typically the first step in cutting a rating, “is extremely
unusual and in itself shows S&P’s concern,” he said.  Credit Agricole and SocGen had their long-term credit
ratings cut one level by Moody’s Investors Service on Sept. 14.
French and German banks have the biggest holdings of Greek debt,
according to the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for International
Settlements.  Moody’s lowering of Bank of America Corp. and Wells Fargo’s
ratings on Sept. 21 also helped push European bank-bond yield
spreads wider, with the Barclays Capital Euro Aggregate Banking
Senior Index climbing to a record 339 basis points, from 322 in
the previous session.  Record Risk  The cost of insuring European bank bonds using credit-
default swaps rose to a record this month, with the Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of default swaps on the senior debt of 25
lenders and insurers climbing to as high as 314 basis points on
Sept. 12, according to JPMorgan. The gauge fell three basis
points to 299 as of 10 a.m. in  London  today.  Swaps on Deutsche Bank jumped to a record 225 basis points
on Sept. 12, and now cost 210 basis points, from 96 basis points
on July 1, according to CMA prices. Credit Agricole rose to an
all-time high 322 basis points this month and are now at 310,
from 130 at the beginning of July. Contracts tied to SocGen’s
debt jumped to a record 435 in September, from 128 at the start
of this quarter and are now at 413, according to CMA.  Credit-default swaps allow investors to hedge against debt
losses or speculate on creditworthiness. A basis point on a
contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  “People who bought protection on banks and sovereigns have
trades that are in the money now,” said Peter Tchir, founder of
hedge fund TF Market Advisors in  New York . “Now they’re getting
nervous and buying more protection.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  