-- 
Fuel Demand in U.S. Rises on Highway Diesel Use, API Says

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-23T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/fuel-demand-in-u-s-rises-on-highway-diesel-use-api-says.html
U.S. fuel demand rose last month as
the consumption of distillates, including diesel used by
drivers, jumped to a record for August, according to the
 American Petroleum Institute .  Total deliveries of petroleum products, a measure of
demand, increased 0.3 percent to 19.7 million barrels a day last
month from a year earlier, the industry-funded group said in a
report today. Year-to-date consumption averaged 19.1 million a
day, down 0.3 percent from the same period in 2010.  Demand for highway fuel rose as truck traffic increased
with the U.S. recovery from floods, earthquakes and tropical
storms and as manufacturing expanded unexpectedly, API said. The
distillate gain made up for gasoline deliveries that reflected
the lowest level of August consumption in the past decade.  “The manufacturing index is continuing to perform well,
and distillate deliveries are directly related to manufacturing
output in the U.S.,” Raghavan Narayanan, senior economic
analyst at the API in  Washington , said in an interview.
“Following hurricanes and floods, there’s usually a recovery
phase that goes on and we see lots of trucking demand.”  Deliveries Rebound  Total fuel deliveries rebounded last month after dropping
in July, the only monthly decline this year.  The increase in demand for distillates “accords with data
that suggest modest growth in manufacturing, but consumers
remain cautious,”  John Felmy , API’s Washington-based chief
economist, said in the report.  Consumption of distillate fuels, a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, rose 11 percent to 4.25 million barrels
a day from the same period last year. Demand for ultra-low
sulfur diesel, the type used on highways, climbed 13 percent to
average 3.87 million barrels a day, the report showed. Heating-
oil use tumbled 4.9 percent to 371,000 barrels a day.  Jet-fuel use climbed 3.8 percent to an average 1.54 million
barrels a day last month compared with the same period in 2010.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
unexpectedly expanded in August, showing the two-year economic
recovery may be sustained.  The index fell to 50.6 last month, the lowest level since
July 2009, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said Sept. 1.
Economists had projected the gauge would drop to 48.5, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  ‘Divergent Paths’  “U.S. consumer activity and industrial activity traced
divergent paths in August as distillate fuel deliveries hit
record highs for the month while motor gasoline deliveries fell
to a 10-year low,” according to the API report.  Gasoline demand declined 1.3 percent to 9.133 million
barrels a day in August compared with the same month last year,
the report showed.  Demand for the motor fuel fell as the U.S. unemployment
rate held at 9.1 percent last month, the Labor Department
reported. The jobless rate has been at 9 percent or higher for
the past five months.  Gasoline futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell
2.6 percent in August to $3.0320 a gallon. They dropped 10.65
cents, or 4 percent, yesterday to settle at $2.56 a gallon.
Prices have risen 4.4 percent this year.  U.S. crude-oil production fell 5.5 percent to an average
5.14 million barrels a day, according to the API report. Output
in the lower 48 states dropped 6.3 percent to 4.59 million
barrels a day, the institute said, while Alaskan production
increased 2 percent to 549,000 barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  