-- 
G-20 Vows to Tackle Global Challenges as Stocks Slide on Recession Risks

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-23T18:26:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/g-20-vows-to-tackle-renewed-global-risks.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged
to address rising risks to the global economy and pushed Europe
to contain its sovereign debt crisis after concern the world is
on the brink of another recession sent stocks tumbling.  Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a statement late yesterday in  Washington . Many
urged Europe to implement a July promise to expand the powers of
its rescue fund, Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  The previously unplanned communique suggests authorities
are alert to worries among investors, while they stopped short
of outlining fresh policies to buoy growth. Speculation the G-20
may act to prevent the debt crisis from worsening left U.S.
stocks swinging between gains and losses, European equities
rebounding and Treasuries falling a day after the MSCI All-
Country World Index dropped into a bear market for the first
time in more than two years.  “Verbal support without any concrete action is no longer
convincing,” said Joe Lau, an economist at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA
in  Hong Kong . “Investors are now looking for viable credible
actions from policy makers and, given the amount of nervousness
and uncertainty out there, that may not even be enough.”  The  European Central Bank  may act to address risks to
growth as soon as next month, Governing Council members  Luc Coene  and Ewald Nowotny said. An interest-rate cut isn’t ruled
out, and the extension of long-term loans to banks is another
possibility, Coene said in an interview.  Stocks Rebound  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent at 2:24
p.m. New York time. Earlier today, it increased as much as 1
percent and slumped 0.7 percent. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose
0.6 percent after tumbling 2.6 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields
increased 8 basis points to 1.80 percent after falling to a
record low of 1.67 percent. Silver plunged 17 percent to extend
its worst two-day slide in 31 years, and gold and copper
retreated about 6 percent.  The euro region vowed in the G-20 statement to increase the
flexibility of the European Financial Stability Facility and to
“maximize its impact” by the time the group next meets in
Paris on Oct. 14-15. Some policy makers signaled earlier in the
day they may use leverage to increase the firepower of the EFSF,
which was designed to stem the sovereign-debt crisis.  ‘Fragility’  The G-20 officials cited “financial system fragility” and
“heightened downside risks from sovereign stresses” among the
threats to growth. They said they will ensure banks are
adequately capitalized and have access to liquidity, while
reiterating an aversion to volatility in  currency markets .  The statement was released as the  International Monetary
Fund  and World Bank prepare to start their annual meetings
today, with data this week highlighting economic weakness around
the globe and the IMF cutting its forecasts for global growth
this year and next to 4 percent.  U.S. consumer confidence dropped last week to its lowest
point since the recession ended in 2009, and the output of
European service companies and manufacturers this month shrank
for the first time in more than two years. A preliminary index
of purchasing managers suggested Chinese manufacturing may
contract for a third month in September, the longest period in
two years.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , an economic bellwether delivering goods
from financial documents to pharmaceuticals, cut its full-year
profit forecast as demand dropped in the U.S. and  Asia .  ‘Danger Zone’  “The world is in a danger zone,”  World Bank  President
Robert Zoellick told reporters. Pacific Investment Management
Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian warned a fresh
financial crisis is brewing, and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. predicted a euro-area recession and
interest rate cuts from the ECB are imminent.  European authorities have drawn the most criticism for
failing to contain a debt crisis that began in Greece two years
ago and has since left that country on the verge of default,
Portugal and Ireland requiring bailouts, and speculators
threatening to dump the bonds of Italy and Spain.  In a sign of growing irritation around the world, U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said today the euro
area needs to act by the time G-20 leaders meet in Cannes,
France, during the first week of November. “Patience is running
out in the international community,” Osborne told reporters.  No ‘Blank Check’  In Washington, officials from  China  and  Japan , the second-
and third-biggest economies, indicated that their support for
Europe will have limits and the region needs to solve the debt
crisis itself. Japan’s Azumi said that while his nation can buy
EFSF bonds if needed, there is no “blank check.”  “At the margin we can do quite a bit to help,” Chinese
central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said in a panel discussion
at the IMF. At the same time, “the real solution of the
European sovereign debt crisis has to be done by Europeans
themselves.”  Finance officials from  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India , China and
 South Africa  -- the so-called BRICS -- said in a statement they
are “open to consider, if necessary, providing support through
the IMF or other international financial institutions in order
to address the present challenges to financial stability.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner predicted
Europe will act “with more force” to end its troubles.  More Scope  For now, European parliaments are focused on approving a
plan to widen the scope of the 440-billion euro ($593 billion)
EFSF to allow it to buy the debt of stressed euro-area
governments, aid troubled banks and offer credit lines. Its
current role is to sell bonds to fund rescue loans for cash-
strapped governments.  The ratification process, which has so far been completed
by just six nations, has drawn fire from some investors for
being protracted and failing to provide the fund with enough
cash to prevent the turmoil spreading beyond  Greece . Curbing the
scope of policy makers to do more is the suspicion that
taxpayers in AAA-rated countries such as Germany and Finland
would balk at stumping up even more rescue money.  Speculation has grown that Europe may eventually ratchet up
the fund’s spending power through leverage, with European Union
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin  indicating yesterday they may be
willing to do so. One proposal is for the facility to use bonds
as collateral to borrow more cash from the ECB.  Another idea is to mimic a U.S. program established
following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. by
allowing the fund to offer the ECB credit protection for buying
more sovereign bonds. European governments are also exploring
speeding the setup of a permanent rescue fund to next July, a
year ahead of schedule, an internal working paper shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Washington at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  