-- 
G-20 Pledges ‘All Necessary Actions’ to Safeguard Banks (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 6 7 8 2 9 ]   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-23T03:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/g-20-pledges-all-necessary-actions-to-safeguard-banks-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
communiqué released today in  Washington  by Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bank governors.  We, the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the
G-20 are committed to a strong and coordinated international
response to address the renewed challenges facing the global
economy, notably heightened downside risks from sovereign
stresses, financial system fragility, market turbulence, weak
economic growth and unacceptably high unemployment.  We are taking strong actions to maintain financial
stability, restore confidence and support growth. In  Europe ,
Euro area countries have taken major actions to ensure the
sustainability of public finances, and are implementing the
decisions taken by Euro area Leaders on 21 July 2011.
Specifically, the euro area will have implemented by the time of
our next meeting the necessary actions to increase the
flexibility of the EFSF and to maximize its impact in order to
address contagion. The US has put forward a significant package
to strengthen growth and employment through public investments,
tax incentives, and targeted jobs measures, combined with fiscal
reforms designed to restore fiscal sustainability over the
medium term.  Japan  is implementing substantial fiscal measures
for reconstruction from the earthquake while ensuring the
commitment to medium-term fiscal consolidation. Heightened
downside risks have also made the economic environment for
emerging markets and developing economies more challenging and
they are adjusting their macro-economic policies accordingly to
maintain stability and sustain growth. The contribution of the
emerging market economies to global growth will increase as
these economies as a whole move towards more domestic led growth,
including through structural reforms and enhanced exchange rate
flexibility to reflect economic fundamentals. We reiterate that
excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates
have adverse implications for economic and financial stability.  We are committed to supporting growth, implementing
credible fiscal consolidation plans, and ensuring strong,
sustainable and balanced growth. This will require a collective
and bold action plan, with everyone doing their part. We are
working together to put in place for the Cannes Summit such an
action plan of coordinated policies with both short term
decisions and a medium-long term perspective.  We commit to take all necessary actions to preserve the
stability of banking systems and financial markets as required.
We will ensure that banks are adequately capitalized and have
sufficient access to funding to deal with current risks and that
they fully implement Basel III along the agreed timelines.
Central Banks will continue to stand ready to provide liquidity
to banks as required. Monetary policies will maintain  price
stability  and continue to support economic recovery.  We will review progress made in implementing the
commitments made today at our next meeting.
 