-- 
Gasoline Futures Rise From Seven-Month Low on Refinery Problems

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-09-23T15:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/gasoline-futures-rise-from-seven-month-low-on-refinery-problems.html
Gasoline rose from a seven-month
low amid refinery problems in the Gulf and East Coasts.  Futures advanced after  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  reported its
Texas City, Texas, refinery shut after a  power failure 
yesterday.  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’s Trainer, Pennsylvania, plant was
operating at reduced rates following a crude oil leak Sept. 21.  “The power failure down in Texas City is giving gasoline a
bit of a boost,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and
supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana, Texas.  Gasoline for October delivery rose 2.25 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $2.5825 a gallon at 11:08 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices touched $2.5355 earlier, the lowest
intraday level since Feb. 18.  Units at Marathon Petroleum Corp.’s Texas City refinery
that were affected by the power loss were online, Shane Pochard,
a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. Process units at BP
Plc’s plant were unaffected, according to a source familiar with
the situation.  Heating oil declined as part of a broader slide in
commodities. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities
lost 0.5 percent at 11:08 a.m. in New York. The  European Central
Bank  may act to address risks to growth as soon as next month
should economic data disappoint, Governing Council member Luc Coene said today.  Market ‘Overwhelmed’  “The market is still overwhelmed that economies around the
world are slowing and it will be difficult to stimulate
growth,” said Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC
in Houston.  October-delivery heating oil slid 1.4 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $2.8345 a gallon. Prices touched $2.7948, the lowest
intraday level since Aug. 10.  The Federal Reserve’s plan to buy longer-term Treasuries
hasn’t convinced investors the unorthodox monetary policy will
stimulate growth. The Fed announced Sept. 21 that it would shift
$400 billion of its Treasury securities holdings into longer-
term debt.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-making
colleagues cited “significant downside risks” to the economy
in their Sept. 21 statement.  “There’s pressure on diesel because of the weak global
macroeconomic picture,” said Knight.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
1.6 cents to $3.54 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  