-- 
German Yields Fall to Record on Europe  Debt Concerns; Greek Notes Slide

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-09-23T16:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/german-bonds-decline-as-european-stock-futures-advance-on-g-20.html
German bonds completed a weekly
gain, with yields falling to record lows, as concern European
leaders will fail to solve the region’s debt crisis spurred
demand for safer assets.  Austrian 10-year yields also dropped to an all-time low
after pledges of support from the Group of 20 nations failed to
counter concern the world is headed for another recession. Greek
notes slumped as Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt ratings
of eight of the nation’s banks, citing concern over their bond
holdings. Italy’s bonds declined for a fifth week.  “There are a few pledges to support banks by the G-20 but
at the moment it doesn’t seem that there’s enough to suggest
this will be a game changer overnight,” said  Orlando Green , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in London.
“There’s still a lot of uncertainty in terms of global growth.
The risk is on the downside” for yields, he said.  German 10-year yields dropped 11 basis points this week to
1.75 percent at 5:20 p.m. in London, after declining to 1.636
percent today, the least since Bloomberg started collecting data
on the securities in 1989. The 2.25 percent note maturing
September 2021 gained 1.065, or 10.65 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,351) face amount, to 104.550.  Ten-year bund futures climbed to a euro-era record today
and Austrian 10-year yields fell as much as four basis points to
a record low 2.48 percent. They were little changed this week.  Stocks Gain  Bonds in so-called core countries such as  Germany  and
 Austria  have surged this quarter as reports added to speculation
the region’s economy is slipping back into a recession and
leaders remained divided over how to solve the debt crisis.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told the ruling
party that he sees three possible outcomes to the nation’s debt
crisis, including one that involves an orderly default with a 50
percent loss for bondholders, Ta Nea newspaper said, without
citing anyone. The  European Central Bank  may lower its benchmark
interest by 50 basis points when policy makers meet next month
to bolster the euro-region economy, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  The Italian 10-year yield climbed 12 basis points this week
to 5.63 percent. Two-year rates increased nine basis points to
4.25 percent.  There’s a “feeling that there’s not really any solution to
the European problem,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income
analyst at Evolution Securities in London. “Italy is also one
where growth is an issue, and if you get no help from outside in
the form of global growth, that’s going to make their task so
much harder.”  Greek Bonds  Greece ’s two-year notes dropped every day this week, with
yields surging 14.56 percentage points over the period to 69.69
percent. Moody’s cut the credit ratings of National Bank of
Greece SA, the country’s biggest bank, and seven other lenders.  Greece committed to additional measures this week to secure
the next payment in its 110 billion euro bailout and convince
European lawmakers to pass its second aid package worth 159
billion euros.  German bunds pared their weekly gain today after G-20
finance chiefs said they would address rising risks to the world
economy. Policy makers are “committed to a strong and
coordinated international response to address the renewed
challenges facing the global economy,” finance ministers and
central bank governors said in a statement yesterday in
 Washington .  Germany’s government bonds have returned 9.2 percent since
June 30, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. U.S.
Treasuries gained 7.4 percent in the period while Greek bonds
have tumbled 29 percent.  Volatility Gauge  Volatility on Germany sovereign debt was the highest among
euro-area markets today, according to measures of 10-year bonds,
two-10-year spreads and credit-defaults swaps. Swings on 10-year
bunds were 1.3 times the 90-day average, according to the
Bloomberg gauge of developed markets.  Euribor futures rose, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in March 2012 down five basis points to 1
percent, signaling increased wagers on lower borrowing costs.
The ECB raised rates twice this year to 1.5 percent to counter
inflation running above its 2 percent target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 