-- 
German Banks, EU Financial-Transaction Tax, Schapiro Grilled: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-23T12:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/german-banks-eu-financial-transaction-tax-schapiro-grilled-compliance.html
Germany ’s private banks plan to cut
voluntary guarantees on consumer and investor deposits, drawing
on the lesson from systemic crises such as the one triggered by
the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   The lenders, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and more than 170
others, will reduce minimum guarantees for deposits to 437,500
euros ($586,700) per account from today’s 1.5 million euros over
a decade from 2015, the Berlin-based  BDB  private bank group
said. Some 95 percent of all private-bank deposits will stay
guaranteed, the group said yesterday.  New capital reserve rules that have pushed up costs since
the international bank crisis in 2008 and 2009 as well as the
role of the government in bailing out lenders during the
turmoil, prompted the BDB to review its guarantees, Hans-Joachim
Massenberg told reporters in the capital yesterday. Fears of a
run on banks in October 2008 led the government to offer
“unlimited guarantees” for all consumer deposits.  The German government in October 2008 created a 480
billion-euro bank bailout fund, dubbed Soffin, though it has
avoided putting into law its pledge to underwrite all deposits
without limit. The revamped voluntary system still has to go to
a member’s vote next month.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU to Propose Financial-Transaction Tax, Official Says  The  European Commission  will soon propose a financial-
transaction tax that targets a broad range of trades with low
rates, a European Union official said.  The tax plan will be unveiled by Oct. 5 and will target the
EU’s 2014-2020 budget cycle, said the official, who didn’t want
to be identified because the proposal isn’t public yet. Algirdas
Semeta, the EU taxation commissioner, is scheduled to discuss
the topic on Oct. 6 with the  European Parliament ’s economic
affairs committee.  The tax would cover financial transactions involving
stocks, bonds, derivatives, structured products and other types
of trades. The tax needs a broad scope so that financial
activity won’t move from one product to another to evade the
levy, the official said.  The proposal will include different rates for various kinds
of products. In general, the proposed tax would be at a low
rate, although the proposal doesn’t specify what the rates
should be, the official said, adding that the plan won’t have
different rates for retail and institutional investors.  Earlier this year, the EU said the tax ought to be
available by 2018 as a European budgetary resource. The goal
would be to implement it as soon as possible -- possibly by
2014, depending on when it is enacted by the Parliament and
ratified by the 27 EU member states.  The levy should be imposed when at least one party to a
trade is located in the EU, with broad territorial coverage,
Germany’s Wolfgang Schaeuble and France’s  Francois Baroin  said
in a Sept. 9 joint letter to the European Commission.  Basel Said to Weigh Bank Criticisms of Too-Big-to-Fail Levy  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision will next week
consider the need for changes to capital surcharges on the
biggest banks amid warnings from lenders that the measures may
stymie the financial system’s recovery, according to two people
familiar with the talks.  The Basel group will weigh the criticisms from banks
including  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as it seeks to agree
on the final version of the surcharge proposals, according to
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Reserves that banks must hold to guard against the risk
of a derivatives clearinghouse default and ensuring new capital
requirements don’t hurt global trade also will be discussed at
the Sept. 27-28 meeting in the Swiss city, they said.  The Basel group agreed in June to impose stricter minimum
capital requirements of as much as 2.5 percentage points of core
reserves on banks whose failure could send shock waves
throughout the financial system. Since then, sentiment toward
European banks has been eroded by fears of a Greek default and
speculation that Italy and Spain will be forced to seek
international bailouts.  The euro-region crisis has left European lenders with as
much as 300 billion euros ($404.4 billion) of credit risk,
according to an International Monetary Fund report on Sept. 21.
Twenty-eight lenders would face surcharges if the rules were
already in force, the Basel committee has said, without naming
the companies. At least four banks would qualify for the top 2.5
percentage-point requirement, it said.  For more, click here.  Dutch Banks’ Compliance to Bonus Code Improved, Report Shows  Dutch banks including  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and Rabobank Group are
increasingly limiting bonus payments to their top executives,
according to a committee that monitors compliance with an
industry code of conduct.  “The important principle that the variable part of a board
member’s remuneration can’t exceed the fixed salary, is fully
applied by all bigger Dutch banks,” the committee, led by
former Unilever Chief Executive Officer Antony Burgmans, said
today in a statement. Bonuses for management below the board,
however sometimes exceeds fixed payouts, the committee’s report
said.  While several issues still need attention, the committee
found overall Dutch banks’ observance of the pay rules is
“acceptable,” the report said. Finance Minister Jan Kees de
Jager in March said he would introduce legislation if banks fail
to meet the self-regulatory code. Lawmakers voiced their
concerns about the return of high bonuses after Burgmans in
December said banks hadn’t fully endorsed the risk-management
and executive-pay guidelines.  The finance ministry expects to send a first reaction on
the report to parliament later today, spokeswoman Lies
Weitenberg said.  Dominican Republic Seeks Commodity Limits,  New York  Times Says  The Dominican Republic will propose a resolution to the
 United Nations  seeking to limit so-called large trading
positions in food and oil as it blamed speculators for price
swings, New York Times said, citing the president.  The nation will ask the UN to set position limits and
require investors to post more margin payments when trading, the
newspaper said, citing President Leonel Fernandez.  Compliance Action  Schapiro Grilled by Lawmakers Over Ethics ‘Breakdown’ at SEC  Lawmakers grilled U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  over what they called a breakdown in
ethics that allowed the agency’s former top lawyer to work on
policy related to the Bernard Madoff fraud after he inherited
money from the Ponzi scheme.  Yesterday’s hearing in  Washington  was called by members of
the  House Financial Services  and  Oversight and Government Reform 
committees to highlight a 119-page report issued earlier this
week by the SEC’s inspector general. The report concluded that
the agency’s former general counsel,  David Becker , may have
violated criminal law by taking a lead role in deciding how
Madoff investors should be compensated for their losses.  Becker, who sought and received clearance from the SEC’s
ethics counsel to work on the matter, told lawmakers he “did
precisely what I was supposed to do.”  Schapiro told the lawmakers that she is overhauling the
agency’s procedures for vetting conflicts of interest, and she
took part of the blame for the firestorm over Becker’s work.  Axa’s Barr Rosenberg to Pay $2.5 Million in SEC Fraud Claim  Axa Rosenberg Group LLC ’s co-founder Barr M. Rosenberg
agreed to pay $2.5 million to settle claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which accused him of
securities fraud for concealing a coding error in his firm’s
investment model.  Rosenberg, 68, who learned of the error in June 2009,
directed others to conceal it and didn’t inform clients until
April 2010, according to a statement on the agency’s website.
Rosenberg agreed to a lifetime securities industry ban, the SEC
said.  Axa Rosenberg, a unit of Paris-based insurer  Axa SA (CS) , last
year said it overhauled its management team after learning of
the error, which cost clients $217 million in losses. Rosenberg
stepped down as part of the overhaul, while Axa Rosenberg in
February repaid clients the $217 million in losses and agreed to
pay the SEC a $25 million fine.  Jonathan Bass, an attorney for Rosenberg, said his client
“is distressed by the events that occurred at Axa Rosenberg.”  “He never acted with any intention to cause harm to Axa
Rosenberg clients or to gain any advantage or benefit for
himself,” Bass, a partner with  Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass
LLP  in San Francisco, said in a telephone interview. “He is
relieved that the matter is now concluded.”  EU Denies Shift in Stress-Test Date for Bank Capital Raising  The European Union said that there were no plans to push
banks such as  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  and HSH Nordbank AG
to raise capital faster than previously required after they came
close to failing this year’s region-wide stress tests.  The  April 2012  deadline for these lenders to recapitalize
hasn’t changed, Franca Congiu, a spokeswoman for the European
Banking Authority, said today in a phone interview. HSH Nordbank
also denied it had been asked to accelerate efforts to bolster
its reserves. The  Financial Times  earlier reported that European
officials would speed up the recapitalization plans.  A total of  16 banks  passed this year’s stress tests with 1
percent or less of core reserves above the minimum needed. These
lenders should “take specific steps” to bolster their
reserves, the EBA said in July, suggesting measures including
deleveraging, issuing fresh capital or curbs on dividends.  The EBA, which coordinates the work of national bank
regulators in the 27-nation EU, gave banks that failed the tests
until Oct. 15 to present plans for raising more capital, and
until the end of the year to execute the measures.  Special Section: MILA Conference  Leaders in Andean Finance Gather at MILA Conference  Bloomberg LINK yesterday convened leaders in finance and
economics to discuss the future of the Integrated Latin America
Market (MILA), which saw its first trade take place on May 30,
and has struggled to compete with the Brazilian stock exchange.  Participants discussed what the integration of the
Colombia, Chile and Peru stock markets means for the region,
regulatory concerns and investment opportunities created by the
exchange at the Bloomberg MILA conference yesterday at the New
York Academy of Sciences in  New York City .  The Mila stock market may expand beyond Colombia, Chile and
Peru to include securities from Mexico and Panama in coming
years, said Emilio Echavarria, the president of Valores
Bancolombia.  Gerardo Hernandez Correa, Colombia’s chief securities
regulator, said talks should be held among members of the Mila
stock exchange to ease rules on pension funds investing in the
market.  There also needs to be coordination among Colombia, Peru
and Chile on tax policies that affect stock investors, Hernandez
Correa said yesterday at the conference.  Standard & Poor’s  will lead negotiations with providers of
exchange traded funds to create an ETF for the MILA  exchange,
Maria Jose Ramirez, vice president of the Bolsa de Valores de
Colombia said at the New York conference.  Galvis, Laub, Mendez-Penate, Oberoi on MILA Regulation  Sergio Galvis, head of the Latin America group at Sullivan
& Cromwell LLP, Christian Laub, head of corporate banking at
Banco de Credito BCP, Carlos Mendez-Penate, co-chair of Latin
America and the Caribbean practice at Akerman Senterfitt LLP,
and Siddhartha Oberoi, senior director of exchange-traded
products in the Americas at Standard & Poor’s, participated in a
panel discussion about regulatory issues facing the Integrated
Latin America Market (MILA ).  They spoke at Bloomberg Link’s MILA Conference in New York.
Bloomberg’s Drew Benson moderated.  For the video, click here.  Stenning, Ramirez Say MILA Working on Technical Issues  Francis Stenning, chief executive officer of Bolsa de
Valores de Lima, and Maria Jose Ramirez, vice president at Bolsa
de Valores de Colombia, talked about the outlook for the
Integrated Latin America Market.  James Attwood moderated the conversation at Bloomberg
Link’s MILA Conference in New York.  For the video, click here.  Rocca Says Peru May Seek to List State-Owned Companies  Lilian Rocca, Peru’s chief securities regulator, and
Gerardo Hernandez Correa, Colombia’s chief securities regulator,
talked about the integration of stock exchanges in Peru,
Colombia and Chile, and the possible listing of state-owned
companies on bourses.  Rocca says Peruvian companies may list in the  Lima exchange 
next year. Rocca and Correa spoke with Bloomberg’s John McCorry
at Bloomberg Link’s MILA Conference in New York.  For the video, click here.  Del Ama, De Bedout, Templeton on MILA Economic Ties  Bruno Del Ama, chief executive officer of  Global X
Management Co. , Juan de Bedout, a partner at Corredores
Asociados SA, and Gavin Templeton, director of institutional
investors at  Corpbanca (CORPBANC) , participated in a panel discussion about
the impact of the Integrated Latin America Market, or MILA, on
economic ties between Chile, Peru and Colombia.  They spoke at Bloomberg Link’s MILA Conference in New York.
Bloomberg’s James Attwood moderated.  For the video, click here.  For a discussion about trading activity and listings on the
MILA, click here.  For a discussion about equity and fixed-income investing on
MILA, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Barofsky Says BofA Would Be Bailed Out if Needed  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector general for the
U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, talked about Moody’s Investor
Service’s downgrade of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s credit rating and
the outlook for the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul.  Barofsky spoke with Erik Schatzker and Deirdre Bolton on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  