-- 
German SPD Plans to Block Swiss Tax Accord in Upper House

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-23T12:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/german-spd-plans-to-block-swiss-tax-accord-bild-reports.html
Germany’s opposition Social
Democrats plan to block the government’s agreement with
 Switzerland  to end a dispute over  tax evasion , calling the
accord a giveaway to wealthy Germans breaking the law.  Social Democratic Party Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  told the
 Bild newspaper  that the SPD plans to stop the legislation in
Germany’s upper house of parliament, or Bundesrat. The party
would be able to carry out its threat, since  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition lacks a majority in the chamber.  “The message of this agreement is: whoever is rich can
buy themselves free from punishment,” Gabriel told the
newspaper. “The government is making common cause with
lawbreakers and destroying people’s sense of justice.” The
comments were confirmed by an SPD official who declined to be
identified.  The threat could capsize an agreement hammered out to find
compromise on an issue that’s burdened relations between  Germany 
and Switzerland by introducing a levy on German bank customers
while preserving Swiss banking secrecy. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  and his Swiss counterpart, Eveline Widmer- Schlumpf, signed the accord in Berlin two days ago.  The agreement foresees a 2 billion Swiss-franc ($2.2
billion) upfront payment to the German government from banks to
cover the failure by their clients to declare their holdings, an
amount that will later be reimbursed from taxes paid by German
customers. If the treaty is ratified, it would bring to a halt
investigations aimed at wealthy German tax dodgers.  “We are convinced that this agreement solves in a good
manner a problem that for years was able now and again to burden
relations between the Swiss confederation and Germany,”
Schaeuble told reporters at the signing ceremony Sept. 21.
“It’s a good and fair result of the negotiations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  