-- 
GM’s OnStar Unit Alters Privacy Policy

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-23T15:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/gm-s-onstar-unit-alters-privacy-policy.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar vehicle
navigation service revised its customer-data policy in a way
that appears to “violate basic principles of privacy and
fairness,” two U.S. senators wrote in a letter to the company.  OnStar told customers in an e-mail this week that it may
continue collecting data from vehicles of subscribers who have
canceled the service. Customers must contact OnStar to halt the
data collection under the policy change effective Dec. 1,
according to the e-mail.  Democratic senators Al Franken of Minnesota and Christopher Coons of Delaware objected to the change in a Sept. 21 letter to
OnStar that urged the company to reconsider its data policy.  “OnStar is telling its current and former customers that
it can track their location anywhere, anytime -- even if they
cancel their subscriptions -- and then give or sell that
information to anyone as long as OnStar deems it safe to do
so,” the lawmakers  wrote .  OnStar will respond directly to the senators, OnStar
spokesman Adam Denison said. He declined to say when the company
would reply or share details of its response.  OnStar delivers navigation and security features such as
emergency assistance to GM cars using the global-positioning
system. The service has more than 6 million customers in the
U.S.,  Canada  and  China , according to the company’s  website .  Franken and Coons asked the company whether it has
experienced any leaks of customer information and what it does
to protect such data. The senators said OnStar’s actions
underscore the need for legislation to protect consumer
information online including people’s location.  Privacy Bill  “OnStar’s actions appear to violate basic principles of
privacy and fairness for OnStar’s approximately six million
customers -- especially for those customers who have already
ended their relationships with your company,” the senators
wrote.  Franken introduced a bill in June that would require
companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and mobile-
application developers to obtain permission from mobile devices
such as smartphones before collecting location data and sharing
that information with third parties.  Franken, who chairs the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on
privacy, technology and the law, held a May 10 hearing on mobile
privacy with executives from Apple and Google.  His location bill is co-sponsored by Coons and Democratic
senators Richard Blumenthal of  Connecticut , Richard Durbin of
 Illinois , and Robert Menendez of  New Jersey , along with Bernard Sanders of Vermont, an independent who caucuses with the
Democrats, Coons spokesman Ian Koski said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  