-- 
Goldman’s O’Neill Says Risk That Financial System May Repeat 2008 Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-23T12:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/goldman-s-o-neill-tells-cnbc-financial-system-risks-2008-repeat.html
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said the global financial system risks
repeating the crisis of 2008 if  Europe ’s debt crisis escalates
and spreads to the U.S. banking industry.  “This is where the parallels with 2008 are relevant, even
though I think they are being over exaggerated,” O’Neill said
in an interview on CNBC today. “It was when the financial
system really imploded that financial firms stopped extending
credit to anybody that the corporate world had to destock and we
know what happened after that. We are not far off the same sort
of thing.”  More than $3.4 trillion has been erased from equity values
this week, driving global stocks into a  bear market , as the
 Federal Reserve ’s new stimulus and a pledge by Group of 20
nations fails to ease concern the global economy is on the brink
of another recession. O’Neill said the Fed’s plan to shift $400
billion of short-term debt into longer term Treasuries hasn’t
convinced investors it will strengthen growth.  “The fear that it’s all dependent on the Fed, together
with this mess in Europe, is really getting people more and more
worried as this week comes to an end,” O’Neill said. “The
markets have taken the latest FOMC move rather badly, which adds
a whole new angle to it. It’s the first time since the global
rally started in early 2009 that the markets have rejected a Fed
easing.”  Stocks Decline  The decline in U.S. stocks after the announcement on Sept.
21 of the Fed’s announcement contrasts with the reaction to the
second round of quantitative easing. The  S&P 500 Index  rose 24
percent from the day Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first signaled the
policy in August 2010 to its conclusion in June.  European stocks fell for a third day today, with the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index slipping 1.5 percent as of 1:52 p.m. in  London .
The FTSE 100 Index declined 1.2 percent. U.S. stock futures also
fell.  “The solution for the U.S. is not more tinkering by the
Fed, but doing things like micro-policies to get U.S. companies
to spend more money on investment and jobs,” O’Neill said.  Group of 20 finance chiefs late yesterday promised to
address rising risks to the global economy and pushed Europe to
contain its debt crisis. The  European Central Bank  may act to
tackle risks to growth as soon as next month should economic
data disappoint, Governing Council member Luc Coene said.  “As the problem in Europe spreads from  Greece  to more and
more other countries and in particular  Italy , the exposure that
so many people bank-wise have to Italian debt means the systems
can’t cope easily with that and it would spread way beyond
Europe’s borders,” O’Neill said. “This is why the policy
makers need to stop being so sleepy and get on and lead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  