-- 
Greek Banks Lowered by Moody’s on Government Debt Holdings; Stocks Decline

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-23T08:43:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/greek-banks-lowered-by-moody-s-on-government-debt-holdings-1-.html
National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the
country’s biggest bank, and seven other Greek lenders had their
credit ratings lowered by Moody’s Investors Service on concern
over their holdings of the nation’s government bonds.  “Moody’s believes that private creditors may incur
substantial economic losses on their Greek government bond
holdings beyond the terms of the current debt exchange,”
Moody’s analysts including Nicosia-based Nondas Nicolaides wrote
in an e-mailed statement today.  Greece’s four biggest lenders, as well as  Attica Bank (TATT)  SA
and  Agricultural Bank of Greece (ATE)  SA, were cut two steps to Caa2
from B3, while  Geniki Bank (TGEN)  SA and Emporiki Bank of Greece SA had
their debt and deposit ratings downgraded two levels to B3 from
B1, the statement said.  Greece committed to additional measures this week to secure
a second bailout worth 159 billion euros ($215.2 billion) after
the European Union-led aid package of 110 billion euros agreed
in May 2010 failed to convince investors the country could avoid
a default. Greece’s economy is under its fifth quarterly review
for the release of a sixth tranche of funds under the first
bailout.  Unfavorable developments regarding the implementation of
the second support package “would have further negative
repercussions on the banking system’s solvency,” Nicolaides
said.  Bond Impairment  National Bank of Greece,  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , Alpha
Bank SA and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , the four biggest Greek lenders,
reported losses in the first half of the year on writedowns of
Greek government bond holdings eligible for inclusion in a debt
swap, part of the second bailout. National Bank reported a 1.3
billion-euro first-half loss, while Piraeus posted an 820
million-euro net loss in the period.  National Bank of Greece dropped 4 percent to 2.88 euros by
11:33 a.m. in Athens trading today, while Eurobank fell 5.6
percent to 1.01 euros, Alpha Bank declined 4.7 percent to 1.43
euros, and Piraeus slid 9.1 percent to 50 cents.  Moody’s cited the risk of an impairment on Greek bond
holdings and the effects on capital levels, an expected
deterioration of non-performing loans and deposit declines as
reasons for the cut.  The balance of deposits held by businesses and households
in Greek banks fell to 187.2 billion euros in July from 188.2
billion euros in June, according to Bank of  Greece  data released
on Sept. 12. Deposits by homes and businesses have declined by
22.4 billion euros since December 2010, or 11 percent, as the
economy shrinks under the weight of government-imposed austerity
measures.  Banking System Stable  Greek bank reliance on European Central Bank liquidity
stood at 96.3 billion euros in July, down from 103 billion euros
the previous month, according to Bank of Greece data. Moody’s
said limited collateral eligible for ECB funding and activation
of the Emergency Liquidity Assistance by the country’s central
bank show fragile liquidity positions.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos reiterated
yesterday that the country’s banking system is “stable” and
its liquidity and capital are secure, according to an e-mailed
transcript of comments after a meeting with President Karolos Papoulias.  Piraeus Bank and Eurobank are the two worst performers on
Greece’s FTSE 20 Index this year, down 72 percent and 71
percent, respectively, before today. Alpha Bank had declined 61
percent and National Bank has lost 51 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ; 