-- 
Greek Debt Swap May Cut Debt By 27 Billion Euros, IIF Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-23T10:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/greek-debt-swap-may-cut-debt-by-27-billion-euros-iif-says.html
Greece ’s debt may fall by 27
billion euros ($37 billion) this year, or 12 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product, after a proposed bond swap and
buyback, the  Institute of International Finance  said.  The debt swap is part of a broader rescue package agreed to
by European authorities on July 21, which also includes 109
billion euros in public money and an expanded scope for the
European Union’s rescue fund. The private-sector part of the
rescue package will provide 300 billion euros in cash flow
savings through 2020, said the IIF, a trade association.  Those savings and lower debt “would translate into a
significantly improved outlook for debt sustainability,” IIF
said in a research note released late yesterday. “The massive
reduction in financing needs should have important positive
effects.”  Greece’s two-year bonds currently yield almost 70 percent
and credit default swaps indicate more than a 90 percent chance
the country won’t be able to pay back a debt of more than 350
billion euros. Portugal and Ireland followed Greece is seeking
bailouts and bond yields in Spain and  Italy  surged to euro-era
records last month as contagion from the debt crisis spread.  IIF said there are “encouraging indications of strong
participations” in the debt exchange, a voluntary effort that
aims for a 90 percent takeup rate. Greece and the IIF are in the
midst of informational meetings with investors that will
continue through the end of September.  Record Debt  The European Commission forecast in May that Greece’s debt
would rise to almost 158 percent of GDP this year and 166
percent next year. Greece ended last year with a debt of 143
percent, already the highest of any nation in the euro area’s
history.  The IIF plan offers investors four options for exchanging
their Greek debt holdings into new bonds with a longer maturity,
lower  interest rates  and “credit enhancements” of AAA zero-
coupon long-term bonds. European authorities will finance the
credit enhancements, which will be acquired by Greece, and they
are expected to amount to 41 billion euros, the trade group
said.  Alongside the debt swap, the Greek rescue plan includes a
debt buyback, initially financed with 20 billion euros from
countries in the euro region. IIF said it’s exploring options
for an expanded buyback, using financing from non-European
governments and the  International Monetary Fund .  In the short term, Greece needs to follow through on a set
of fiscal measures designed to address “fiscal slippages” in
2011, IIF said. These slippages are a result of a weaker-than-
expected economy, shortfalls in tax collection, and a delay in
implementing a reduction in interest rates on euro-area loans to
Greece.  IIF is a Washington-based trade group whose members include
more than 450 financial institutions around the world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 