-- 
Groupon Operating Chief Leaves as Company Restates Revenue

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-23T23:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/groupon-coo-georgiadis-will-rejoin-google.html
Groupon Inc. , the largest daily-
deal site, announced the departure of its second chief operating
officer in six months and restated revenue figures, cutting
sales to a fraction of their previous levels.  Margo Georgiadis, head of operations, is leaving to rejoin
her former employer,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the Chicago-based company said
today in a filing. In restating sales, Groupon cited “an error
in its presentation of revenue.”  Groupon has lost executives and had to delay its initial
public offering amid a volatile stock market.  Brad Williams , the
former head of communications, and Rob Solomon, Georgiadis’s
predecessor as operating chief, left the company earlier this
year. It’s also drawn flak for the way it accounted for income,
which critics said was masking its true costs.  The company restated 2010 sales to $312.9 million, down
from a previous level of $713.4 million. In its earlier
accounting, Groupon counted the total amount of its daily-deal
sales as revenue, including fees paid to merchants. The company
makes money by selling discounts -- known as  Groupons  -- from
businesses such as restaurants and nail salons. It then splits
the revenue with the businesses.  “The company restated its reporting of revenues from
Groupons to be net of the amounts related to merchant fees,”
Groupon said in the filing. “Historically, the company has
reported the gross amounts billed to its subscribers as
revenue.”  First Half  Revenue in the first half of 2011 is now $688.1 million,
compared with an earlier figure of $1.52 billion.  The company also said  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is no longer a
lead underwriter on its planned $750 million IPO. Groupon made
the change after people with knowledge of the matter said
online-coupon competitor LivingSocial hired the bank to raise
more than $200 million in a round of private funding.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  joined the list of underwriters on
Groupon’s offering, the filing showed.  Georgiadis will become Google’s president for the Americas
region. Before going to Groupon in April, she was Google’s vice
president of global sales. Her Groupon contract gave her a
$500,000 salary and 300,000 fully vested  stock options . Based on
the $25 billion valuation Groupon was said to have been
contemplating in March, those options would be worth $25.2
million dollars in an IPO.  ‘Hard Decision’  “Groupon is a great company and I feel privileged to have
worked there even for a short time,” she said today in a
statement published by Groupon. “It was a hard decision to
leave as the company is on a terrific path. I have complete
confidence in the team’s ability to realize its mission.”  The executive will have an expanded role in her new
position at Google, said Nikesh Arora, senior vice president and
chief business officer of  Mountain View , California-based
Google.  “I called a great colleague from the past and asked her if
she’d like to come back,” Arora said. “I could not ask for a
better person to come back and work with us.”  Her earlier experience included a stint as chief marketing
officer at  Discover Financial Services. (DFS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net 
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 