-- 
Icahn Withdraws Clorox Slate After Failing to Gain Support for Sale Plan

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-09-23T21:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/icahn-withdraws-clorox-slate-after-failing-to-win-support-of-shareholders.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
withdrew a slate of directors for  Clorox Co. (CLX)  after concluding
that shareholders wouldn’t support his plan to try to sell the
company to rival consumer-products makers.  Several large shareholders don’t consider it a good time to
try to sell Clorox because of the deteriorating financial
markets and the company’s opposition, New York-based Icahn
Capital LP said today in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Clorox, the maker of bleach and Glad trash bags, rejected
multiple takeover proposals from Icahn, with the highest valuing
the company at $10.7 billion, or $80 a share. Icahn, who had
named  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  as potential
buyers, said today that a sale of Clorox still is the best way
for the company to boost its value.  “Icahn is taking a big step back here,”  Ali Dibadj , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York who rates the
shares “market perform,” said today in an interview. The
development isn’t surprising because Clorox isn’t “an easy
asset to either manage better or to sell” because of its
diverse brands.  Clorox in an e-mailed statement confirmed that Icahn’s
nominees were withdrawn and said it is “confident” its
strategy of focusing on consumer trends will benefit
shareholders. Icahn didn’t immediately return a phone message
seeking comment.  Shares Fall  The company’s shares fell $3.40, or 4.9 percent, to $66 at
5:19 p.m. in trading after the close of the New York Stock
Exchange. Oakland, California-based Clorox had climbed 9.7
percent through the close of regular trading today.  Clorox in July rejected Icahn’s second offer, saying that
it was inadequate and that following its strategic plan would
create more value for shareholders. Icahn’s first offer for
Clorox earlier that month valued the company at $10.2 billion,
or $76.50 a share.  Icahn last month said he’d back up his campaign to oust
Clorox’s directors with a $10.3 billion offer that wasn’t
conditioned on financing or due diligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  