-- 
Microsoft-Backed AppNexus Plans 2012 IPO After Making Profit

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-09-23T18:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/microsoft-backed-appnexus-plans-2012-ipo-after-turning-profit.html
AppNexus Inc., the online
advertising company backed by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , has turned
profitable and may go public late next year, founder and Chief
Executive Officer Brian O’Kelley said.  The New York-based company has raised $65.5 million since
it was founded in 2007, with the last round of $50 million led
by Microsoft in October. AppNexus had its first profitable month
in August, O’Kelley said in an interview.  “The financials, the revenue, the profit and the growth
are all strong enough that we could be going public as soon as
late next year,” said O’Kelley, 34. “That’s really the path.”  AppNexus  provides  technology, data and analytics that
companies such as Microsoft and EBay Inc. use to buy and sell
online display-advertising. The market for graphical display ads
is set to climb 25 percent in the U.S. in 2011, and will almost
double to $22 billion in 2015 from this year’s level, according
New York-based  EMarketer Inc. , which tracks digital marketing.  “The idea of real-time bidding is going to become
increasingly important,” said David Hallerman, an analyst with
EMarketer in  New York . “There is sheer growth of display-ad
inventory as people spend more time online.”  AppNexus said its revenue has grown fourfold this year
compared with 2010. The company hasn’t hired investment banks
and the IPO timing depends on market conditions, O’Kelley said.
Newly issued stocks during their first publicly traded year are
performing the worst since July 2009, according to the Bloomberg
IPO Index.  Right Media, DoubleClick  O’Kelley said he prefers an IPO to a sale as the management
team wants to be in charge of building AppNexus into a global
company.  “It would be hard to see a sale as the right outcome,”
O’Kelley said. “I feel immense loyalty to the team we’ve built.
As a public company we can control our destiny.”  Many of O’Kelley’s top employees came from companies that
were bought. He and co-founder Mike Nolet worked at online
advertising company Right Media Inc., and left when Yahoo! Inc.
purchased it in 2007.  Michael Rubenstein , now AppNexus
president, was at DoubleClick Inc. when  Google Inc. (GOOG)  purchased it
in 2008 for about $3.1 billion. AppNexus began with 20 employees
and projects to be at 200 at end of this year.  For the next few months, O’Kelley will build the business
through acquisitions in  Europe . His management team has talked
to more than 80 European companies on a trip this week,
including customers and potential takeover targets, he said.  The company, which opened an office in  London  this summer,
was drawn to Europe through partnerships with  Hi-Media SA (HIM) , a
Paris-based electronic payments company, and Microsoft, the
world’s largest software maker, O’Kelley said.  Microsoft, the  fourth-biggest  seller of display ads in the
U.S., unveiled partnerships this month with AppNexus and
MediaMath. Microsoft’s share is less than one-third of
Facebook’s and about half of Google’s, according to EMarketer.  AppNexus’s investors also include  Marc Andreessen ,  Ron Conway , First Round Capital, Venrock Associates, Kodiak Venture
Partners and  Khosla Ventures . Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News, is an investor in Andreessen’s venture-
capital firm, Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  