-- 
Mideast Quartet Calls on Sides to Return to Talks With Goal of 2012 Accord

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-23T22:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/mideast-quartet-calls-on-sides-to-return-to-talks-with-goal-of-2012-accord.html
The U.S, European Union,  Russia  and
the  United Nations  called on Israelis and Palestinians to agree
within a month on how to resume negotiations, with the goal of
reaching a peace accord by the end of 2012.  There was nothing in the statement by the so-called Middle
East Quartet that indicated how the Israeli-Palestinian impasse
might be broken, other than putting the burden on the
adversaries to “overcome current obstacles” and resume
negotiations “without delay or preconditions.”  “We are trying to set up the framework” for talks, said
one Quartet diplomat, EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton .  Shibley Telhami, a professor at the University of  Maryland ,
said there was nothing in the Quartet statement that in itself
would likely move the  peace process  forward. He called it “a
fig leaf” that may allow Security Council members to bow to
U.S. pressure and not support the Palestinians’ statehood
resolution at the UN.  The Quartet announcement came shortly after Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , in a speech to the General
Assembly, asked for Palestine to be recognized as a state.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke soon after
Abbas and insisted that the Palestinians recognize Israel as a
Jewish state. He called for the Palestinians to drop their
demand that he freeze Jewish settlement construction in the West
Bank.  Intensive Effort  The Quartet met throughout the week-long opening session of
General Assembly in an intensive effort to agree among
themselves on a statement to offer an alternative path to Abbas’
push for recognition.  While the prospect of a 2012 deadline offers the
Palestinians an end date to achieve a independent state, there
have been many failed timetable and road maps in the past. The
Quartet diplomats said in their statement that they will consult
to identify steps they can take “individually and together” on
steps “towards Palestinian statehood.”  The statement declared that, at a preparatory meeting to be
held within a month, both sides will commit to the objective of
reaching an agreement “within a timeframe agreed to by the
parties but not longer than the end of 2012.”  “The Quartet expects the parties to come forward with
comprehensive proposals within three months on territory and
security, and to have made substantial progress within six
months,” the statement said.  Unscheduled Meeting  The Quartet said it would convene an international
conference with Israelis and Palestinians “at the appropriate
time.”  The group also promised to hold a donors conference to
raise donations for Palestinian Authority state-building
efforts. There was no time set for that event.  “The  United States  is very pleased that the Quartet was
able to issue a statement today with a concrete and detailed
proposal to begin negotiations between  Israel  and Palestinians
without delay or preconditions,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said to reporters.  The Quartet “was never an effective body for negotiating
Middle East peace, it was created as an auxiliary to American
diplomacy and it has always been led by American diplomacy,”
said Telhami.  “The Quartet is an asterisk to all of this,” said
Telhami, also a nonresident scholar at the  Brookings
Institution , a research group in  Washington . “In the end,
that’s not going to be what is going to resolve this issue.”  The importance of the Quartet statement, he said, “is not
in the substance of what it said, but in fact that U.S. was able
to line up three other members of  Security Council  in favor of
an approach that the Palestinians, for now, don’t support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  