-- 
IMF’s Blanchard Says World Economy Has ‘Enormous Risks’ Now

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-23T17:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/imf-s-blanchard-says-world-economy-has-enormous-risks-now.html
European officials need to convince
investors that European Union countries aren’t at risk of
becoming another Greece as they forge ahead with their own
deficit-cutting measures, said  Olivier Blanchard , chief
economist at the  International Monetary Fund .  “There are enormous risks” in the global economy,
Blanchard said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . “Clearly the danger is in  Europe ,” he
said. “First, you have to make clear that the other countries
are not like Greece. On this, the news is actually quite good.”  He spoke after G-20 policy makers and central bankers late
yesterday said they were “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy.” Many urged Europe to implement a July
promise to expand the powers of its rescue fund, Japanese
Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  “If you look at most European countries, they are taking
very strong fiscal measures,” said Blanchard. European
officials needed to convince the markets that the ECB’s rescue
program was strong enough to ensure that countries like  Italy 
can continue borrowing at current rates. “If they knew the ECB
was in, they would basically say, OK, it’s fine.”  Carlo Cottarelli , director of fiscal affairs at the
International Monetary Fund, earlier said that in the past year
there had been, “particularly in Europe, a significant decline
in budget deficits.”  High Debt  “Several countries, like France, like Italy, like Greece,
have reformed their pension systems,” said Cottarelli. “Of
course, the level of deficit in any country, the level of debt,
is still high.”  Any plan by the bipartisan committee in the  U.S. Congress 
to reduce the budget deficit would likely need to include tax
increases, Cottarelli said.  “The magnitude of the fiscal adjustment in the U.S. is so
large that it will be difficult to do only on the spending
side,” Cottarelli said. “The bulk of it should be on the
spending side and definitely should include reforms on
entitlements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  