-- 
India Art Sales Make $14 Million; Mehta, Sabavala Beat Estimate

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-09-23T10:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/indian-art-sales-raise-14-million-as-mehta-sabavala-works-beat-estimates.html
Paintings by artists including Tyeb
Mehta,  Jehangir Sabavala  and Syed Haider Raza sold for more than
their estimates at an online auction by a Mumbai-based company,
bringing the total buyers have paid for Indian art over the past
two weeks to almost $14 million.  Mehta’s untitled painting of a white and orange human
figure received the top price of $1.6 million, beating its high
estimate of $1.5 million. Rival collectors pushed 70 percent of
the sold lots above high estimates, with 57 percent of the items
on offer finding buyers,  Saffronart  auction house said today.  This follows auctions of Indian art by  Sotheby’s (BID)  and
Christie’s International last week, which fetched $9.7 million
as U.S., European and Asian buyers bid above estimates. The
Saffronart auction was worth $4.1 million, according to the
company.  Mehta, who started as a cinematographer in the wake of
World War II before turning to painting, died in 2009. His
picture of the goddess Kali sold for $1.3 million in a
Saffronart auction in June, more than three times its top
estimate. A Christie’s auction in June included an untitled
painting by Mehta that sold for 1.97 million pounds, a record
for a work by the artist.  Sabavala’s “The Inland Seas II” sold for $200,609 in
Saffronart’s latest auction, 77 percent higher than its top
estimate, while the artist’s “Flight of Cranes II” fetched
$172,200. The artist, whose works feature subdued tones and
dreamy land and seascapes, died on Sept. 2.  Bird Watching  “The Inland Seas II” was part of three paintings inspired
by the western Indian coast that overlooks the  Arabian Sea ,
while the picture of the cranes was part of two works that
Sabavala painted after watching birds while walking in the
western Indian town of Satara. He studied at the Heatherley
School of Fine Art in  London  and Academie Julian in Paris.  Raza’s “Suryodya”, which means sunrise, sold for
$218,400, beating its high estimate of $180,000. His
“Saurashtra” sold for 2.4 million pounds in June 2010 in a
Christie’s auction, a record for a modern or contemporary Indian
work of art. Raza, 89, graduated from the Ecole Nationale des
Beaux-Arts in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 