-- 
India May Intervene If Rupee Falls to Credit Crisis Levels

-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-23T12:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/india-s-rbi-said-to-intervene-should-rupee-fall-to-2008-levels.html
India ’s central bank may intervene
in the foreign-exchange market if the rupee falls to levels seen
during the global credit crisis, a finance ministry official
said in New Delhi today, asking not to be identified as he’s not
authorized to speak on the matter.  The rupee, which plunged the most in 15 years yesterday,
rose for the first time this week on speculation the  Reserve
Bank  of India will sell dollars to narrow exchange-rate swings.
The currency completed the worst week since 1993 as investors
favored the dollar’s relative safety over emerging-market assets
amid concern the global economy is weakening. Policy makers in
 South Korea  and Indonesia also signaled they will intervene to
curb currency losses.  “All Asian central banks will work to limit losses in
their currencies as long as extreme volatility is prevalent,”
said Emmanuel Ng, a currency strategist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “Over the last few years, the
accumulation of foreign reserves has happened at a fair pace, so
the buffer is definitely comfortable.”  The rupee gained 0.3 percent to 49.435 per dollar today in
Mumbai, after falling as much as 0.6 percent earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 49.89, the lowest
level since May 14, 2009. The currency, which fell 4.6 percent
this week, had plunged to a record low of 52.18 in March 2009
during the global credit crisis.  Reserve Bank Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told CNBC
television channel today that policy makers may enter the market
to contain volatility. South Korea’s finance ministry said it
will “take action” to stabilize the foreign-exchange market.
The rupiah gained after Bank  Indonesia  said it will remain in
the market.  Asian Currencies  Asian currencies declined this week as the Federal Reserve
warned of “significant downside risks” to the U.S. economy and
the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for 2011
global economic growth this week to 4 percent from 4.3 percent.
The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell 2.5 percent in the
week to 114.68.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50.27 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 50.21
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pradeep Kurup at 
 pkurup3@bloomberg.net  