-- 
India in ‘Sweet Spot’ if Commodities Prices Drop, HDFC Life Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-09-23T06:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/india-in-sweet-spot-if-commodities-prices-drop-hdfc-life-says.html
Prasun Gajri, chief investment
officer at HDFC Standard Life Insurance Co., comments on the
outlook for the nation’s stocks. He spoke in an interview with
Bloomberg-UTV in Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
dropped 1.8 percent to 16,068.79 as of 11:19 a.m. in Mumbai, set
for the biggest two-day decline since July 2009. The gauge
plunged 4.1 percent yesterday.  On stocks slump:  “People are very apprehensive of any major events
happening. I do not think anyone is willing to listen to any
facts. It’s just a panic reaction. This will subside in a couple
of days and the market will then assess where we are headed
for.”  On  Europe , U.S. concerns:  “Problems in US and Europe will not be solved in the next
three months; they will be kicked along the road for the time
being. They tend to solve them over a long period of time. Fear
is that the financial system in Europe will come to a grinding
halt and there could be a collapse. If that situation doesn’t
play out in the next three to six months we can see a sharp
recovery. Markets have pretty much priced in low growth in the
western world. Some are nervous that there could be a Lehman
Brothers-like situation in Europe. The problem is that we are
not seeing a cohesive action from Europe that gives investors
the confidence that they will be able to solve the problem.”  On outlook for  India :  “If growth slows across the world and commodities crack
and we continue to grow around 7.5 percent, India will be in a
sweet spot. Unless we get into that space, money won’t come in.  ‘‘Indian markets have priced in an earnings degrowth. The
buy side has pretty much discounted earnings and policy action.
But reversal of interest rates, fall in inflation and fall in
commodity prices have not been priced in. We can grow around 7.5
percent which is not bad.’’  On investment strategy:  ‘‘I don’t want to position my portfolio waiting for a tail
risk to happen. Is it possible that it doesn’t happen. We are
trying to play for next leg of rally. We don’t know when it will
come, which could painful in short run. We haven’t got out of
bellwethers. Long-term investors are willing to wait out for the
next 12-24 months. You can still make 15-20 percent from this
market. We’re not worried about long term returns.”  “We are getting equalweight in financial services.
Valuations are cheap and when the rate-cycle reverses, they will
continue to grow their books. We have cut our weight on
defensive sectors.”  On outlook for  interest rates :  “We may have a further 25 bps hike and we are pretty much
done. In the next six-to-12 months, interest rates will come
down. RBI will stop the rate hike cycle and in the next six
months it will start cutting rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  