-- 
Indonesian Rupiah, Stocks Rebound as Government Indicates Support Measures

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-23T09:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/indonesia-s-rupiah-stocks-rebound-as-government-moves-to-support-markets.html
Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened the
most since May 2010 and the  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  was the only
Asian benchmark gauge to gain today as officials said they would
take steps to support markets.  The rupiah strengthened 1.1 percent to 9,003 per dollar as
of 4:57 p.m. in Jakarta after the central bank said it would
intervene. The currency traded at 8,783, according to Bloomberg
regional data that excludes some contributors. The share index
advanced 1.7 percent to close at 3,426.35, recovering from
yesterday’s 8.9 percent plunge, as the stock exchange said it
would take measures if market conditions worsened.  “The government had to create confidence in the market,”
said Michael Tjoajadi, Jakarta-based president director at PT
Schroder Investment Management Indonesia, the country’s biggest
mutual fund which manages about $6.6 billion in assets. “The
government must show we have no problem.”  Foreign funds have pulled 14.57 trillion rupiah ($1.6
billion) from  government bonds  this month through Sept. 21,  debt
management office  data show, as investors sought safer bets than
emerging-market assets on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening and the U.S. is slipping into recession. The composite
index lost 20 percent from a record on Aug. 1 to its Sept. 22
close. Its 8.9 percent plunge yesterday was the most since the
height of the financial crisis in October 2008.  The Indonesian central bank is “pleased the rupiah
stabilized, following our intensified intervention in the forex
market and buying government bonds from the market yesterday,”
Perry Warjiyo, director of economic research at Bank Indonesia,
said by mobile-phone text message today.  Asset Sell-Off  The  Indonesia Stock Exchange  will closely monitor the
market and will discuss measures to be taken if market
conditions worsen, President Director Ito Warsito said today.
 Bank Indonesia  will continue to buy bonds and intervene in the
 currency market  “until the market cools,” Governor  Darmin
Nasution  told reporters after Friday prayers at the central bank
today.  Overseas investors sold $597 million more local equities
than they bought this month through yesterday, paring this
year’s net purchases to $1.1 billion, according to exchange
data. Along with a 5.9 percent drop in foreign bond holdings in
September, that helped weaken the rupiah 4.7 percent against the
dollar this month.  Bank Indonesia bought 1.74 trillion rupiah of  government
securities  in an auction yesterday, Warjiyo said. That helped
spur a 25.9 basis point, or 0.259 percentage point, drop in
benchmark 10-year yields today.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
2011 global economic growth this week to 4 percent from 4.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at  
 dboey@bloomberg.net  