-- 
Minnesota Bonds Lose Top AAA Rating as S&P Cites ‘Imbalance’

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-23T21:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/minnesota-bonds-lose-top-aaa-rating-as-s-p-describes-imbalance-in-budget.html
Minnesota  had $5.1 billion of top-
rated general-obligation debt downgraded one step to AA+ by
 Standard & Poor’s , which cited “continued structural
imbalance” in the state’s budget.  S&P also assigned an AA+ rating and stable outlook to
$921.7 million in Minnesota general-obligation bonds, the
service said in a release. The Midwestern state of 5.3 million
people is selling the debt Sept. 27, John Pollard, a spokesman
for the Minnesota Management and Budget office, said in an e-
mail.  “The downgrade reflects what we view as the state’s
ongoing reliance on nonrecurring measures to balance its
budget,” Robin Prunty, an S&P credit analyst, said in a
release.  The downgrade leaves eight states with AAA general-
obligation ratings from S&P.  South Carolina  was the last to lose
its top rating, in July 2005, according to an e-mail from Ola
Fadahunsi, a spokeswoman for the ratings company.  After a budget impasse, Minnesota ended a 20-day government
shutdown in July with an agreement among Democratic Governor
Mark Dayton and Republican legislative leaders that involved
delaying aid to schools and selling tobacco bonds. Those moves
and the use of reserves account for two-thirds of the deal to
address an estimated $5 billion gap, S&P said.  Moody’s Investors Service assigned an Aa1 rating, second
highest, with a negative outlook to the general-obligation bonds
the state is selling next week, according to a release. Moody’s
cited “reliance on one-time measures” to balance the budget.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded about $5.7 billion in Minnesota
general-obligation bonds to AA+ from AAA on July 7 in part
because of the state’s reliance on one-time funding sources.  The states with top general-obligation ratings from S&P are
Delaware,  Florida , Georgia, Maryland, Missouri,  North Carolina ,
Utah and Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  