-- 
Ivory Coast President Says Country’s Economy on ‘Rebound’

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-23T20:14:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/ivory-coast-president-says-country-s-economy-on-rebound-.html
The economy of the Ivory Coast, the
world’s largest cocoa producer, has “improved substantially”
and is projected to grow by at least 8 percent next year,
President  Alassane Ouattara  said today.  Ouattara, who took office in May, said the West African
nation’s gross domestic product had been projected to decline by
10 percent this year. It is now projected to decline 5 percent,
and then grow 8 percent to 9 percent in 2012, he said.  “That’s really a rebound,” he told a forum at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  Ouattara, seeking international aid to rebuild the country
after months of violence, said his government is working on a
plan to restructure the cocoa industry.  “We will have to liberalize the whole sector,” he said.
“We’ll have to give more to the farmers.”  He declined to discuss details, saying the plan will be
completed next month so that the  International Monetary Fund  and
 World Bank  can consider his country’s request for credit in
November.  Ouattara, an economist, won the presidency in a November
election that was followed by four months of violence between
his supporters and those loyal to his predecessor,  Laurent Gbagbo , who ruled the Ivory Coast for a decade and who refused
to cede power.  3,000 Killed  Gbagbo was finally captured by the Ivorian Republican
Forces militia in Abidjan, the commercial capital, on April 11
following a 10-day siege on the city. As many as 3,000 people
may have died in the conflict, according to the  International
Criminal Court .  Ouattara was greeted with a standing ovation today as he
entered the conference room of the Washington think tank. He
last spoke to the group in January by telephone from the  Ivory
Coast , where he was holed up in a hotel in Abidjan as the
violence flared.  “It was a very tense moment,” Ouattara recalled. “We
were at the Golf Hotel. We did not have food the previous day.
Cote D’Ivoire has gone through very difficult times.”  Introducing Ouattara, John Hamre, the center’s president,
said, “This has been a historic and monumental trajectory for
Cote D’Ivoire.”  Aid Request  The International Monetary Fund is considering a $614
million loan for Ivory Coast under the lender’s extended-credit
facility program, it said on Sept. 15.  While the U.S. has been supportive diplomatically, Ouattara
said, “We’re hoping the U.S. will have an important
contribution financially. We thank the U.S. for what is being
done, but of course we’d like them to do more.”  Any request for U.S. aid is almost sure to face resistance
from a cash-strapped Congress. The House and Senate have been
stymied this week over plans to approve a $3.65 billion package
for victims of  Hurricane Irene  and other domestic natural
disasters.  Ouattara said security has been restored to most of his
country and work on political reconciliation between the once-
warring factions will begin formally next week.  There was only one hold-up in the city of Abidjan last
night, he told the group. “For a city of 6 million people,
that’s not too bad,” he said. “Now, Abidjan is peaceful, the
country is peaceful.”  A commission on reconciliation has been appointed and will
begin work on Sept. 28, he said. And the two opposing forces
that fought each other for months are being integrated into a
single national army.  “They’re working together,” Ouattara said. “It’s
difficult. A few months ago, they were fighting each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  