-- 
Japan Running Out of Time to Fix Finances, IMF’s Shinohara Says

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-23T17:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/japan-running-out-of-time-to-fix-finances-imf-s-shinohara-says.html
Japan  is running out of time to
mend its finances as  Europe  demonstrates the dangers of a
sovereign debt crisis, the International Monetary Fund’s Naoyuki Shinohara said.  “Because Japan’s deficits are huge, a sudden adjustment
would be very bad for the economy,” Shinohara, deputy managing
director at the IMF, said in an interview in Washington late
yesterday. “That means Japan has to do it in steps. And that,
in turn, means Japan doesn’t have a lot of time left.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who took office this month,
has made stabilizing the nation’s finances a key pledge for his
administration after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
Japan’s sovereign rating in August for the first time since
2002. Finance Minister Jun Azumi said he assured his Group of 20
counterparts that Japan is taking steps to contain its debt
burden, which the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development estimates will reach 219 percent of gross domestic
product next year.  “Many discussions have taken place in the past, but few of
them have been implemented -- and that kind of stalemate has
been continuing,” said Shinohara, formerly Japan’s Vice Finance
Minister for International Affairs. “My concern is that this
will continue.”  ‘Important Option’  An “important option” for the world’s largest borrower
may be to pass a law that forces the government to meet fiscal
targets, he said.  Shinohara added that what’s unnerving markets at the moment
is a sense that European leaders haven’t demonstrated strong
enough political will as they deal with the ongoing sovereign
debt crisis.  “The best outcome for this week’s G-20 meeting is for
countries to demonstrate that they share a sense of crisis,” he
said, speaking before finance chiefs issued a statement pledging
to address rising risks to the global economy. “When one
country falls, other countries feel the hit, too. Everyone needs
to take the action they need to take, and everyone needs to push
for the actions they need to push for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Washington  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  