-- 
Jets’ Pro Bowl Center Mangold Won’t Play This Weekend With Sprained Ankle

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-23T17:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/jets-pro-bowl-center-mangold-won-t-play-this-weekend-with-sprained-ankle.html
Nick Mangold  of the  New York Jets  
won’t play against the  Oakland Raiders  this weekend because of a
high ankle sprain, leaving the team without the “best center in
the league,” coach  Rex Ryan  said today.  Mangold, 27, was injured in the first quarter of the
National Football League team’s 32-3 win against the
Jacksonville Jaguars on Sept. 18. He had an MRI the following
day that revealed the sprain in his right leg and was unable to
practice leading up to the game in Oakland on Sept. 25.  “He’s just not ready, it’s as simple as that,” Ryan said
at a news conference. “He’s doing really well, but a high ankle
sprain, traveling across country, it’s not in his best
interest.”  Rookie Colin Baxter, who filled in after the injury, will
start. The team is pleased with how Baxter has worked this week,
Ryan said.  “He’s picked up everything mentally, and I think
physically it’s going to be a big challenge for him,” he said.  Baxter, 24, said this week that he was working extra with
coaches after practice and would spend a lot of time with
Mangold as he prepared for the Raiders.  “I’m definitely going to be in his ear this week, asking
him questions about techniques and plays and assignments,”
Baxter told reporters on Sept. 19.  Mangold has been a Pro Bowl selection the past three
seasons. He has started 82 games in his six-year career, spent
entirely with the Jets.  Rookie defensive lineman Muhammad Wilkerson is questionable
with a shoulder injury, Ryan said. The players listed on the
team’s injury report as probable -- including quarterback  Mark Sanchez , receivers Derrick Mason and Santonio Holmes, and
safeties  Jim Leonhard  and Eric Smith -- all practiced in some
capacity today and will play this weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  