-- 
Johnson & Johnson Wins U.S. Approval for Expanded Remicade Use

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-23T21:47:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/johnson-johnson-wins-u-s-approval-for-expanded-remicade-use.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won U.S. approval
for an expanded use of  Remicade  to treat children with a chronic
inflammatory bowel disease who don’t respond to traditional
therapy.  The Food and Drug Administration  cleared the medicine
chemically known as infliximab for pediatric ulcerative colitis,
the company said today in a statement.  Remicade was approved in 1998 as the first anti-tumor
necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha treatment in the U.S. It is used in
Crohn’s disease in adults and children, and ulcerative colitis,
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis in adults. Most children with
ulcerative colitis are first treated with anti-inflammatory
drugs and with steroids,  according  to the Pediatric IBD
Foundation.  “Ulcerative colitis can be a devastating disease and
previously, there had been no approved therapeutic options for
pediatric patients who had an inadequate response to
conventional therapy,”  Jeffrey Hyams , head of digestive
diseases and nutrition at Connecticut Children’s Medical Center,
said in the statement from  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J.  Hyams, also a professor of pediatrics at the University of
Connecticut School of Medicine, was the lead investigator in a
company-sponsored study that showed 73 percent of children with
ulcerative colitis responded to the drug within eight weeks.  About 150,000 children younger than age 17 are living with
the symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease, J&J said. Ulcerative
colitis can slow growth in children and delay sexual maturation,
 according  to the Mayo Clinic based in Rochester,  Minnesota .  Serious Risks  While the drug’s approval provides a new treatment option
for children with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis, there
are “serious risks” associated with its use because it
suppresses the immune system, Donna Griebel, director of the
FDA’s Division of Gastroenterology and Inborn Errors Products,
said in a statement.  The drug carries a boxed warning, the FDA’s strongest
caution, for increased risks of cancer and viral, fungal or
bacterial infections.  A rare, often fatal type of cancer called Hepatosplenic T-
cell Lymphoma is among malignancies that have been reported in
adolescent and young adult patients using TNF blockers, the
agency said in the statement.  An FDA advisory panel on July 21  backed  Remicade for
pediatric ulcerative colitis to induce and maintain clinical
remission and induce mucosal healing. The panel didn’t recommend
the therapy to maintain mucosal healing or eliminate
corticosteroid use. The medicine generated $4.6 billion in
revenue last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  