-- 
Johnnie Walker Distiller Diageo Is Prepared for Acquisitions

-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-09-23T09:36:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/johnnie-walker-distiller-diageo-is-prepared-for-acquisitions.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Johnnie
Walker Scotch whisky, will consider acquisitions in countries
including  China  and may list its shares in Asia in coming years,
Chief Executive Officer  Paul Walsh  said.  Diageo’s first priority is expanding its existing brands,
though it will consider purchases, Walsh said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television in Singapore. The spirits
maker is open to all options for an Asian listing and has enough
cash to buy companies, the CEO said in a separate interview.  Asian markets continue to grow, and Diageo’s business will
keep expanding even if the world economy experiences a “double
dip” into recession, Walsh said. The U.S. market is also
expanding amid financial turbulence, he said. Diageo last month
reported a 5 percent increase in full-year organic operating
profit as increased sales of whiskies such as  Johnnie Walker  in
emerging markets offset a slide in  Europe .  “If we see opportunity, we will acquire,” Walsh said. “The
priority is to grow what we already own.”  Chief Financial Officer Deirdre Mahlan said Aug. 25 that
the distiller’s “strong balance sheet” enables it to look for
acquisition opportunities in emerging markets. The London-based
company completed the acquisition of Turkey’s Mey Alkollu
Ickiler Sanayi & Ticaret AS last month, adding spirits including
Yeni Raki.  Diageo has said it’s interested in buying Jose Cuervo, the
world’s biggest tequila brand, if it’s for sale. The Beam liquor
division of competitor Fortune Brands Inc. said Sept. 14 that
it’s also prepared to make large acquisitions.  Diageo, which has been reducing costs through measures such
as trimming the workforce in  Scotland , doesn’t need further
restructuring, Walsh said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  