-- 
BofA, JPMorgan, UBS, Deutsche Bank, Galleon in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-23T11:51:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/jpmorgan-ubs-deutsche-bank-galleon-madoff-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is among a
group of lenders that may face a wave of new lawsuits claiming
cash-strapped counties were cheated out of millions of dollars
by a system used for more than a decade to register mortgages.  Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins said state
attorneys general and county officials across the U.S. have
expressed interest in his lawsuit against Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems Inc. and Bank of America, filed in  Texas 
state court on Sept. 21. Dallas County could be owed as much as
$100 million in filing fees, he said.  “This is a big new front,” said Christopher L. Peterson,
associate dean and professor at the University of Utah S.J.
Quinney College of Law. “This case is scary because if Dallas
wins then there are a lot of other counties around the country
that are going to follow.”  MERS, a unit of Reston, Virginia-based Merscorp Inc., says
on its  website  that its aim is to place every mortgage in the
country on an electronic, rather than a paper, system that
allows members to buy and sell mortgages.  MERS acts as the lender’s nominee and remains the mortgagee
of record as long as the note promising repayment is owned by a
MERS member. Dallas County claims this allows banks to buy and
sell loans without properly recording transfers with counties
and paying the fee.  “The MERS business model and practices are legal and
comply with the recording statutes and regulations of Texas,”
Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Merscorp, said in an e-mail. The
claims in the lawsuit “are without legal or factual merit.”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by
assets, declined to comment on the suit.  Liability in the Dallas case could exceed $1 billion, based
on the number of mortgages in the county, Peterson said. Local
laws impose substantial penalties, as well as back payments of
fees and taxes, if false documents were filed in land
transactions, said Peterson, who has advised private plaintiffs
making similar claims.  Faulty mortgages and foreclosures have already cost the
five biggest home lenders $66 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America’s credit rating was cut
on Sept. 21 by Moody’s Investors Service in part because the
bill for mortgage disputes may climb past the $39 billion
committed since 2007. County clerks in  Kentucky  have also sued
MERS, while officials in Massachusetts and Michigan say they are
exploring the possibility.  The Texas case is Dallas County v. Merscorp Inc., CC-11-
06571-E, County Court at Law, Dallas County, Texas. The Kentucky
case is Christian County Clerk v. Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems Inc., 5:11-cv-00072, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Kentucky (Louisville).  For more, click here.  New Suits  JPMorgan Sues American Century Over $848 Million Share Sale  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sued mutual fund firm American Century
Cos. over claims it was shortchanged in a $848 million optioned
share sale to Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  American Century failed to disclose material information
regarding the sale and the shares were not purchased at their
fair market value, lawyers for JPMorgan said in a public version
of the complaint filed Sept. 21 in Delaware Chancery Court. The
complaint was initially filed under seal.  “The allegation that American Century breached an option
agreement is without merit and the edited complaint filed in
Delaware yesterday is an inaccurate and incomplete
representation of the facts,” American Century said in a
statement e-mailed by Chris Doyle, a spokesman for the firm.  CIBC,  Canada ’s fifth-largest bank, announced in July that
it agreed to buy a 41 percent stake in American Century from
JPMorgan. The cash acquisition is the third-largest purchase by
the Toronto-based bank.  JPMorgan purchased a roughly 45 percent interest in Kansas
City, Missouri-based American Century for about $900 million in
January 1998, according to the complaint. Under a 2009 option
agreement between American and JPMorgan, American could purchase
all of the shares JPMorgan owned in the firm and resell them to
a third party.  JPMorgan, based in  New York , said in its complaint that it
learned of the share sale through a public announcement. The
transaction was completed on Aug. 31.  “American Century improperly withheld information
regarding the CIBC stock sale from JPMorgan’s director designee
on American Century’s board,” lawyers for the bank said in the
redacted complaint.  The case is JPMorgan Chase & Co. v. American Century
Companies Inc., CA6875, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington.)  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Sues Atlantic Security Bank for $120 Million  The trustee overseeing the liquidation of Bernard L.
Madoff’s firm sued Atlantic Security Bank for $120 million.  The lawsuit is one of several filed by  Irving Picard  to
recoup what he said is “customer property” from companies that
invested with Fairfield Sentry Ltd., a so-called feeder fund
that placed money in the con man’s Ponzi scheme. Atlantic
Security Bank is incorporated in the Cayman Islands and has
offices in Panama, according to Picard’s suit filed yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . A phone number for the bank
couldn’t be immediately located.  The case is Picard v. Atlantic Security Bank, 11-02730,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Family Wins Partial Dismissal of $198 Million Suit  Bernard L. Madoff’s family won dismissal of part of a $198
million lawsuit by the liquidator of the con man’s firm, while
the judge left Irving Picard free to pursue most of his claims.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  struck Picard’s
claims for some transfers of money out of the jailed Ponzi
scheme operator’s firm. Picard, who sued Madoff’s brother, two
sons and niece, is free to amend his suit, the judge said in a
court filing yesterday.  Picard’s 2009 lawsuit against the brother,  Peter Madoff ,
sons Andrew and Mark Madoff and niece Shana Madoff Swanson, all
of whom held senior positions at the defunct money-management
firm, claimed they spent more than $198 million of investors’
money and treated the con man’s investment firm as their
“family piggy bank.”  Peter Madoff was chief compliance officer at Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC. Madoff’s sons, Andrew and
Mark, were co-directors of trading at the investment firm, and
Shana Madoff was compliance director, according to Picard.  Mark Madoff committed suicide in December.  “Mark and Andrew Madoff had no prior knowledge of Bernard
Madoff’s crimes and contacted the U.S. Department of Justice and
the SEC immediately after their father told them he had
defrauded his investment advisory clients,” Martin Flumenbaum,
a lawyer for Andrew Madoff and Mark Madoff’s estate, said in an
e-mail yesterday. “Whether or not the trustee amends his
complaint to reassert some or all of the claims that were
dismissed today, we fully expect to prevail on the merits.”  Charles Spada, who has been representing Peter Madoff, had
no comment on the ruling.  Mark Smith, a lawyer for Shana Madoff, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  Refusing to dismiss the entire suit, Lifland said the
family’s failure to stop Madoff’s fraud was “unsurprising given
their close familial relationship with Madoff and proximity” to
his firm. However, Picard’s suit contains “some correctable
pleading deficiencies” that need to be amended, he said.  The case is Picard v. Peter Madoff, 09-1503, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  UBS Trader Adoboli Faces Added Fraud Charge, Prosecutor Says  Kweku Adoboli, the  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader charged with fraud and
false accounting that may have resulted in a $2.3 billion loss,
said through his lawyer that he was “sorry beyond words” after
facing an additional fraud charge at a court hearing yesterday.  The 31-year-old, who holds a Ghanaian passport, didn’t
apply for bail when he appeared at a magistrate’s court in
 London . Prosecutor David Levy said the alleged loss may exceed
$2.3 billion. Adoboli wasn’t required to enter a plea yesterday
and another hearing was scheduled for Oct. 20.  The trader is “sorry beyond words for what happened
here,” said Patrick Gibbs, Adoboli’s lawyer. He apologized for
his “disastrous miscalculations,” Gibbs said.  Adoboli, who appeared yesterday wearing a dark grey suit,
white shirt and navy tie, has been in police custody since he
was arrested Sept. 15 on suspicion of making the unauthorized
trades.  Prosecutors charged him Sept. 17 with fraud and false
accounting dating back to 2008. The prosecution yesterday added
a charge to extend the fraud allegations to 2008 as well.  If convicted, he faces as many as 10 years in prison,
according to sentencing guidelines. Time spent in custody
beforehand would be deducted from any sentence.  Louise Hodges, another of Adoboli’s lawyers, declined to
comment after the hearing. Yves Kaufmann, a spokesman for UBS in
Zurich said “the loss arising from the unauthorized trades is
$2.3 billion, as we have stated” previously.  For more, click here.  Smith Barney Lead Plaintiff Thrown Out, Never Owned Shares  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Smith Barney unit can’t be sued by the
lead plaintiff in a six-year-old shareholder fraud class action
because the fund never owned any shares that are the basis of
the lawsuit, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley III, citing “epic
failures” by the lawyers on both sides of the case, yesterday
dismissed the lead plaintiff, Operating Local 649 Annuity Trust
Fund. The fund’s attorneys told the judge that their client
owned more than 75,000 shares of a similarly named security and
not those involved in the case.  Pauley called the effect of the error “seismic,” and said
it has caused “considerable waste of time and resources.”  “After six years of litigation, including extensive motion
practice, an appeal to the Second Circuit, remand, more motion
practice, and discovery, lead counsel learned that the lead
plaintiff never purchased any of the securities at issue in this
action,” Pauley, in Manhattan, wrote in yesterday’s decision.  Bernstein Liebhard partner Stanley Bernstein said the
lawyers relied on the union’s certification that it had bought
the mutual fund shares and brokerage statements that mistakenly
reflected the mutual fund shares along with their ticker symbol.  “We did not just rely on somebody’s word,” Bernstein said
in a phone interview yesterday. “We had the underlying core
documentation from the broker. And it was wrong.”  Charles Platt, a partner in the New York office of Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, which represents Citigroup,
declined to comment on Pauley’s opinion yesterday.  The mistake will require several motions to be rebriefed,  The case is In re Smith Barney Transfer Agent Litigation,
05-cv-07583, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Swap Ruling May Apply to Other Cases, Judge Says  A German top court ruling on swaps that  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
lost in March may also apply in cases involving other
derivatives, a judge said.  The Frankfurt Regional Court will review to what extent the
top court ruling governs currency options as well, Presiding
Judge Bruno Menhofer said yesterday at a hearing in a lawsuit
against the lender seeking 30 million euros ($40 million) in
damages. The court’s assessment is preliminary, he said. The
case was brought by travel company Schauinsland-Reisen GmbH.  The Federal Court of Justice,  Germany ’s highest civil
court, ruled in March that Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank must
cover losses caused by a derivative it branded a “CMS Spread
Ladder Swap,” because the bank didn’t disclose the product had
a initial negative market value. Deutsche Bank is arguing that
ruling only applies to the same kind of product. Former
customers are hoping to capitalize on the ruling to collect
damages for other bets that went sour.  “The top court has used very, very strong language as
regards disclosure duties the bank has,” said Menhofer. “The
ruling is a leading precedent setting clear standards and we
have to see how they apply to the product at issue here.”  Yesterday’s case is LG Frankfurt, 3-04 O 50/10.  For more, click here.  Saad Group ’s Al-Sanea Wins End to $9.2 Billion Asset Freeze  Maan al-Sanea, founder of Saudi Arabia’s Saad Group, won
dismissal of a $9.2 billion asset freeze in the Cayman Islands
after Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co. admitted failing to
disclose evidence.  Algosaibi agreed it “breached its duty of full and frank
disclosure” when it won the asset freeze against al-Sanea in
2009, the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands ruled Sept. 21.
Algosaibi applied last month to voluntarily dismiss the freeze
after it found new evidence that should have been revealed
earlier. Al-Sanea still faces a fraud lawsuit filed by Algosaibi
in New York and probes in Bahrain and Switzerland.  “Since AHAB started its litigation scheme over two years
ago, I have been resolute in my complete rejection of its
desperate claims that I somehow defrauded the Algosaibis,” al-
Sanea said yesterday in a statement, using Algosaibi’s initials.  The asset freeze was part of a global legal dispute between
the companies after they defaulted in 2009 on a total of about
$15.7 billion in loans from more than 100 banks. Al-Sanea, one
of Saudi Arabia’s richest men who married into the Algosaibi
family before founding Saad Group, faces claims he forged
signatures to take out as much as $10 billion in fake loans
through Algosaibi’s Money Exchange unit, which he ran.  The dismissal of the asset freeze doesn’t prove al-Sanea’s
innocence or reduce his legal troubles, said  Eric Lewis , a legal
coordinator for the Algosaibi family. Al-Sanea has refused to
appear in court in the Cayman Islands, Lewis said.  Algosaibi “voluntarily withdrew the freezing order and did
not seek a new one, despite all the essential allegations of
fraud and forgery having been proven correct,” Lewis said.
“Maan al-Sanea has spent two years in procedural maneuvers to
avoid a court from considering his vast fraud.”  For more, click here.  Boeing, General Dynamics Seek End to $3 Billion Claims Case  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  urged a federal
claims court judge to end the companies’ 20-year-old dispute
with the U.S. in which the government sought $3 billion over a
canceled Navy aircraft contract.  Lawyers for the companies asked U.S. Federal Claims Judge
Robert Hodges during a hearing yesterday to find that the case
over the A-12 bomber can no longer be litigated because of
classified data, noting that the parties, with their cross
claims, “have fought to a draw” after two decades.  “We have come the conclusion that it’s time for the Boeing
Company to lay down its sword,” said Boeing’s lawyer, Charles
Cooper of Cooper & Kirk in  Washington .  The fight has moved back and forth among courts since it
began in 1991, reaching the U.S. Supreme Court in September
2010. In May, the high court set aside a ruling that put the
U.S. in line to recover $3 billion from the companies. The case
was sent back to a lower court to determine whether the
government had a responsibility to disclose classified
information vital to the performance of the contract.  The Justice Department said yesterday that it will continue
to pursue the claim, arguing that the justices had an
opportunity to dismiss the case and didn’t.  “If the Supreme Court had wanted that outcome, it could
have ordered that outcome,” Justice Department lawyer Bryant
Snee said.  In August, lawyers for Boeing, which also filed claims
against the government, sent a letter to the department urging
it to drop the case.  “The time has come for all parties to step back, to
reflect on where we are after two decades of contesting this
matter, and to finally do what we should have done years ago:
agree to bring this litigation to an end,” the Boeing lawyers
wrote, submitting the letter to U.S. Court of Federal Claims in
a Sept. 20 filing.  The case is Boeing Co. v. U.S., 91-cv-1204, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Galleon Sentencing Scorecard: Average Prison Term Is 3 Years  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam will be
sentenced on Oct. 13 for insider trading after being convicted
by a jury in Manhattan federal court.  Prosecutors say Rajaratnam, who was convicted in May,
should serve as long as 24 1/2 years in  prison , calling him the
“modern face of insider trading.” On Sept. 21, judges in
Manhattan sentenced two other convicted insider traders -- Zvi
Goffer and Winifred Jiau -- to prison terms of 10 years and four
years, respectively.  Since Rajaratnam’s arrest in October 2009, judges in
 Manhattan federal court  have sentenced 12 defendants in cases
linked to Galleon. All but two pleaded guilty. The average
prison term has been 35.75 months, or almost three years behind
bars.  Typically, those convicted at a trial get longer prison
terms than those pleading guilty. In addition to the two Galleon
defendants who took their cases to a jury, Manhattan judges
since 2003 have imposed sentences in three other cases where the
main charge was insider trading and a jury returned a guilty
verdict. The average sentence has been six years and two months.  About two dozen others are waiting to be sentenced in the
Galleon cases. They include Emanuel Goffer, a former trader and
brother of Zvi Goffer, who was convicted at a trial, and Anil
Kumar, a former McKinsey & Co. executive who pleaded guilty and
testified against Rajaratnam in a bid for leniency.  The Rajaratnam case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Judge Approves Madoff Trustee Settlement With Tremont Funds  A judge approved a $1 billion settlement of a lawsuit by
liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm and hedge-fund firm Tremont
Group Holdings Inc.  In the deal approved yesterday by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Burton Lifland, trustee Irving Picard will accept a cash payment
of more than $1 billion from funds associated with Tremont. In
exchange, the Tremont funds will be allowed to make claims on
the Madoff estate of about $3 billion, according to court
filings.  The settlement is “fair and reasonable,” Lifland said.  Among the parties settling were Oppenheimer Acquisition
Corp., an affiliate of the Oppenheimer mutual funds that bought
Tremont, and Oppenheimer’s parents, MassMutual Holding LLC and
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.  Earlier this month, New York Life Insurance Co. and six
other insurance companies assailed the settlement. As limited
partners of the hedge-fund firm’s Opportunity III fund, they
said they would lose if a court rules that the Ponzi scheme’s
so-called net winners should be compensated, because they
wouldn’t be allowed to recalculate their claims. A U.S. appeals
court yesterday denied Picard’s move to strike a request by
Madoff investors for a second hearing on the issue.  Picard sued Tremont and related entities for $2.1 billion,
saying they ignored warnings that Madoff could be running a
Ponzi scheme and profited from it, according to a complaint
unsealed in March. The payment from Tremont, the second-biggest
so-called feeder into Madoff’s multibillion-dollar fraud, will
add to the $2.6 billion in the fund for Madoff customers, Picard
has said.  The case is Picard v. Tremont Group Holdings Inc., 10-5310,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan.)  For more, click here.  PharmAthene Wins Rights to Profit From Siga Smallpox Drug  Siga Technologies Inc. (SIGA)  must share with  PharmAthene Inc. (PIP) 
profit from sales of a smallpox drug that may total more than
$400 million, a judge ruled. Trading in shares of both companies
was halted.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr. in
Wilmington said yesterday New York-based Siga breached its
obligation to negotiate in good faith on ST-246, an antiviral
drug for use in case of a biological attack. Parsons rejected
PharmAthene’s claim that Siga breached a binding license
agreement. He also denied claims for a lump sum award and
instead ordered the companies to share the profits.  “The plaintiff is entitled to share in any profits
realized from the sale of the drug in question,” Parsons said
yesterday in a 118-page opinion.  Lewis Goldberg, a Siga spokesman, said the company couldn’t
immediately comment on the ruling. Siga was preparing a
statement, he said.  Stacey Jurchison, a spokeswoman for Annapolis, Maryland-
based PharmAthene, said the ruling appears to have granted the
company a “50 percent profit split.”  “We think it is a very good outcome,” Jurchison said in a
phone interview.  The case is PharmAthene Inc. v. Siga Technologies Inc.,
CA2627, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Ford Wins Reversal of $43 Million Award in Fatal Crash Case  Ford Motor Co. (F)  won reversal of an Illinois jury’s $43
million damage award in a lawsuit filed after a 2003 crash
killed a 73-year-old man and severely burned his wife.  The Illinois Supreme Court yesterday threw out the verdict
rendered after a 2005 trial concluding that Dora Jablonski and
the estate of her husband, John, failed to prove the gas tank of
their 1993 Lincoln Town Car had been defectively designed.  Their car burst into flames after being hit in the rear by
another vehicle traveling at an estimated 55 to 65 miles per
hour while they were stopped at a highway construction zone in
southwest Illinois, causing an item in the trunk to pierce the
tank.  “Plaintiffs presented insufficient evidence from which a
jury could conclude that Ford breached its duty of reasonable
care” on three negligent design theories, the court  said . It
rejected a fourth argument as not viable under state law.  Bradley M. Lakin, the Wood River, Illinois, attorney who
took the case to trial, didn’t immediately reply to telephone
messages seeking comment on yesterday’s ruling.  “Ford is gratified by the court’s decision,”  Marcey
Evans , a spokeswoman for the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker,
said in an e-mail.  “The 1993 Town Car exceeded all federal crash safety
standards,” she said. “While the Jablonskis were victims of a
tragic accident caused by a distracted driver who rear-ended
them at 60 miles per hour, it was unfair to blame Ford for their
injuries.”  Jablonski v. Ford Motor Co., Illinois Supreme Court case
no. 2011IL110096 (Springfield).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Richard Zabel Said to Get Deputy U.S. Attorney Post in N.Y.  Richard Zabel, a federal prosecutor in Manhattan, was
promoted to deputy U.S. attorney for the Southern District of
New York, a person familiar with the matter said.  Zabel served as co-head of litigation at Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP from 1999 until 2009, when he rejoined the
prosecutor’s office in Manhattan. He replaces Boyd Johnson III,
who is leaving to join the law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale
& Dorr LLP, according to the firm.  A graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law School,
Zabel worked as an assistant U.S. attorney in Manhattan from
1991 to 1999, holding positions including chief of the office’s
narcotics unit. He co-wrote two reports published in 2008 and
2009 by the group Human Rights First, “In Pursuit of Justice,
Prosecuting Terrorism Cases in the Federal Courts.”  He twice won the Attorney General’s Award for Distinguished
Service for his role in the prosecutions of a violent criminal
organization known as the Latin Kings and members of the Gambino
organized crime family.  Johnson, a graduate of Hamilton College and Cornell Law
School, has been a prosecutor in the office since 1999, holding
positions including chief of the public corruption unit and head
of the international narcotics trafficking unit.  He is scheduled to start work with Washington-based Wilmer
Hale’s litigation and white-collar practices on Oct. 1.  Under the supervision of both men, prosecutors in the
office have won several insider-trading cases including the May
conviction of Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of Galleon Group LLC.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 