-- 
Stocks That Did Best After Lehman May Also Do Well Now

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-09-23T20:13:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/jpmorgan-s-lee-recommends-u-s-stocks-that-did-best-after-lehman.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Priceline.com
Inc. (PCLN)  are among 26 stocks JPMorgan Chase & Co. says may return
more than the market if U.S. equities drop like they did after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The list includes companies with high price-to-book and
price-to-earnings ratios that are also liked by analysts and are
considered  growth stocks ,  Thomas Lee , the New York-based firm’s
chief U.S. equity strategist, wrote in a note today. Stocks that
meet the criteria may perform better than benchmark gauges in
two scenarios: if the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index plunges like
it did in 2008 after Lehman’s bankruptcy, or if it rallies,
which is what happened following the Asian crisis, he said.  The benchmark gauge for American equities is down 17
percent from its high in April after the U.S. lost its AAA
credit rating from S&P and concern about the European debt
crisis grew. Since the beginning of August, the index has traded
between about 1,100 and 1,300. While U.S. equities reacted in
opposite directions after the two previous crises, Lee said the
valuation levels and fundamentals of the 26 stocks may mean
they’re poised to outperform no matter which direction the S&P
500 moves.  “What worked both post-Asia ’98 and post-Lehman failure
’08?” Lee wrote in the note. “It is not entirely a surprise
that ‘growth’ outperformed, but the fact these other style
attributes outperformed is less obvious.”  Lee considered companies in the S&P 500 Pure Growth Index
and corporations with an enterprise value at least 8.8 times 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.
He looked for price-to-book values higher than 2.89 and price-
to-earnings ratios above 13.9.  The following is the list of 26 stocks that met the
criteria, according to Lee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  