-- 
KB Home Climbs After Third-Quarter Loss Narrower Than Analysts Estimated

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-09-23T20:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/kb-home-climbs-after-third-quarter-loss-narrower-than-analysts-estimated.html
KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that focuses on first-time buyers, climbed in New
York trading after it reported order growth and a narrower-than-
estimated third-quarter loss.  The loss for the three months ended Aug. 31 was $9.6
million, or 13 cents a share, compared with $1.4 million, or 2
cents, a year earlier, KB Home said in a statement today.
Analysts predicted a loss of 19 cents a share, the average of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Orders jumped 40 percent.  KB Home expects to have a profit in the fourth quarter,
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said in a conference call
with analysts today. The builder has cut costs and added
communities in California and  Texas , where it expects demand to
improve. The market for new houses has been weakened by a
decline in credit availability, stalled job growth and
competition from cheaper existing homes.  The company “turned in a result that was palpably better
than the last couple quarters with orders the obvious bright
spot,” Stephen East and Paul Przybylski, analysts with New
York-based Ticonderoga Securities LLC, wrote in a note to
clients today.  KB Home rose 19 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $5.91 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The gain was
the second-biggest among the 12 companies in the Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, which rose 1 percent.  Housing Starts, Confidence  Housing starts fell 5 percent to a three-month low annual
rate, the Commerce Department said Sept. 20. Confidence among
U.S. homebuilders also dropped in September to a three-month
low, according to a National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo sentiment index.  KB Home’s third-quarter revenue decreased 27 percent from a
year earlier to $367.3 million, and deliveries declined 31
percent to 1,603. Last year’s revenue was boosted by a federal
tax credit of as much as $8,000 for first-time buyers that
required transactions to be completed by Sept. 30.  Orders for new houses rose to 1,838 homes from 1,314 a year
earlier and climbed in all four regions, led by a 73 percent
jump on the West Coast. The increase reflected demand in
recently opened communities and depressed contract signings in
the year-earlier period following the expiration of the tax
credit, KB Home said.  The company expects to have a “meaningful increase” in
orders in the fourth quarter compared with a year earlier,
Mezger said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  