-- 
KB Home Reports Wider Third-Quarter Loss as Unemployment Saps House Sales

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-09-23T13:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/kb-home-reports-wider-third-quarter-loss-as-unemployment-saps-house-sales.html
KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that focuses on first-time buyers, reported a wider
third-quarter loss amid a decline in sales as the U.S.
unemployment rate remained higher than 9 percent.  The loss for the quarter ended Aug. 31 grew to $9.6
million, or 13 cents a share, from $1.4 million, or 2 cents, a
year earlier, KB Home said in a statement today. Analysts
estimated a loss of 19 cents a share, the average of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Demand for new houses has been weakened by a decline in
credit availability, stalled job growth and competition from
cheaper existing homes. Many of KB Home’s communities are
located in foreclosure-heavy markets such as  Las Vegas , Phoenix
and  California ’s Riverside County.  “KB serves the entry-level market -- the most vulnerable
to the weak economy, high jobless rates and record foreclosure
filings,”  Vicki Bryan , a bond analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in
New York, said in a Sept. 21 note to clients. “Its revenue has
fallen faster than most of its peers through the cycle and cash
earnings have fallen short of covering interest costs on its
huge debt load.”  Housing Starts, Confidence  Housing starts fell 5 percent to a three-month low annual
rate, the Commerce Department said Sept. 20. Confidence among
U.S. homebuilders also dropped in September to a three-month
low, according to a National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo sentiment index.  KB Home’s third-quarter revenue decreased 27 percent from a
year earlier to $367.3 million, and deliveries declined 31
percent to 1,603. Last year’s revenue was boosted by a federal
tax credit of as much as $8,000 for first-time buyers that
required transactions to be completed by Sept. 30.  The company’s housing gross margin, a measure of
profitability, dropped to 16.9 percent from 17.5 percent a year
earlier.  Orders for new houses rose 40 percent to 1,838 homes and
climbed in all four regions, led by a 73 percent jump in the
West Coast. The increase reflected demand in recently opened
communities and depressed contract signings in the year-earlier
period following the expiration of the tax credit, KB Home said.  The results were released before the start of regular U.S.
trading. KB Home shares lost 52 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, compared with a 26 percent decline in the Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  