-- 
Adam Scott Leads K.J. Choi By Shot Halfway Through Golf Tour Championship

-- B y   M i k e   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-09-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/keegan-bradley-leads-tour-championship-golf-during-second-round-in-atlanta.html
Australia ’s  Adam Scott  overtook
K.J. Choi of  South Korea  with birdies on his final two holes and
moved into the halfway lead at golf’s Tour Championship, the
final event on the U.S. PGA Tour’s FedEx Cup schedule.  Scott is 8 under par overall, one shot ahead of Choi, after
a 5-under 65 yesterday at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta.  The winner of last month’s  Bridgestone Invitational , Scott
began his day with three bogeys and a birdie over his opening
six holes before running off a stretch of four straight birdies
on holes 7-10. He finished with consecutive birdies on the par-4
17th and par-3 18th for the second straight day.  “I’d like for that trend to continue,” Scott, the
tournament’s 2006 winner, told reporters after the round. “If I
can play well the next two days and give myself a chance at
winning, I’d be very happy. It would finish off a great year for
me.”  The winner of the Tour Championship, which features the top
30 players on the FedEx Cup points list, gets a $1.4 million
check. The winner of the season-long FedEx Cup receives $10
million. Scott entered the tournament 19th on the points list.  Fellow Australian Jason Day is tied for third with
 England ’s Luke Donald, the world’s No. 1 ranked golfer, at 6
under, one shot ahead of Americans Bubba Watson, Bill Haas,
Keegan Bradley and Hunter Mahan.  Bradley, the winner of last month’s PGA Championship, was
paired yesterday with  Jason Dufner  a month after the duo
contested a playoff at the PGA about 25 miles away at Atlanta
Athletic Club. Dufner shot even par yesterday, dropping into
ninth place at 4 under overall.  Bradley Had Lead  Bradley shot a 6-under-par 64 in the first round to lead
Dufner by two strokes coming into yesterday’s second round.  Phil Mickelson , who won the Tour Championship in 2009 and
2000, shot even par yesterday and is tied for 15th at 2 under.  The four-tournament FedEx Cup playoff is in its fifth year.
Tiger Woods won the bonus two of the first three years and  Vijay Singh  locked up the 2008 title before the final event was
played.  Jim Furyk , who won the cup last year, didn’t qualify for
the Tour Championship this year.  Woods isn’t in the field for the second straight year. The
14-time major tournament winner, who has slipped to No. 49 in
the  Official World Golf Ranking  during a 22-month winless
drought, wasn’t among the 125 qualifiers for the playoffs this
year. Furyk finished 22nd at the previous playoff event, bumping
him down to 36th on the points list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  