-- 
Klawe Turns Harvey Mudd College Into Haven for Women in Tech

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-09-23T15:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/klawe-turns-harvey-mudd-college-into-haven-for-women-in-tech.html
As Harvey Mudd College President
Maria Klawe strolled her Southern  California  campus recently,
she stopped to talk with Lillian de Greef, a senior eager to
discuss her plans for a graduate degree in computer science.  De Greef entered  Mudd  as a technology novice and, like a
growing number of women at the school, she’s now fluent in
multiple programming languages.  “I just really enjoy learning about all this stuff,
writing the code,” she said.  De Greef’s enthusiasm is a testament to the quiet
revolution waged by Klawe, 60, since she arrived in 2006 from
 Princeton University , where she was dean of the engineering
school. On her watch, the percentage of female computer science
majors at Mudd, one of California’s prestigious Claremont
colleges, has more than tripled, to 42 percent,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its Sept. 26 issue. Nationally, women
account for 14 percent of college graduates in the field,
according to the  Computing Research Association .  Klawe’s transformation of this small liberal arts college
35 miles east of  Los Angeles  has sent ripples from  Seattle  to
Silicon Valley, where startups and technology giants are
desperate to find talented developers, even as the unemployment
rate hovers above 9 percent. In the U.S., women hold less than
25 percent of jobs in science, technology, engineering, and math
-- or STEM -- fields, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.  Moving the Numbers  Klawe has “actually moved the numbers,” says  Sheryl Sandberg , chief operating officer of Facebook Inc. “In the
midst of what is a very serious employment issue in the country,
there’s a field here that’s dying for more very well qualified
people.”  Harvey Mudd was already revamping its computer science
curriculum when Klawe arrived, and she sped up the plans. Until
2005 the mandatory introductory computer science course taught
the Java programming language, which has fallen out of favor
with many modern developers. Novices were thrown in with
experienced programmers, and in some years those who went on to
pursue a computer science degree were 95 percent male.  The introductory course is now broken into three sections -
- one for those with some background in programming, another for
beginners and a third with a slant toward biology. “CS for
Scientists,” as the introductory course is nicknamed, focuses
on teaching problem-solving skills that can be applied to
engineering, math and other subjects.  Instead of Java, the class uses the Python language, which
has simpler rules and is easier to deploy in Web applications.
One of the overarching goals is to “demystify the inner
workings of a computer,” according to the course  website .  Hard-Core Classes  Within two years, the number of females majoring in
computer science rose noticeably, said  Zachary Dodds , a
professor in the department since 1999. This year enrollment in
what Klawe calls the “most hard-core CS class” -- Data
Structures and Program Development -- is at an all-time high of
57 students, 40 percent of them female.  Duke University ,
 Northwestern University , and the  University of California  at
Berkeley have borrowed strategies pioneered by Mudd to broaden
the appeal of computer science and engineering.  Silicon Valley has noticed.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , the mobile-
phone chip company, asked Klawe to join its board in May.
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  named her to its board in 2009. She became both
companies’ second female board member.  ‘Something to Emulate’  “We need to keep more women interested longer in their
lives in STEM subjects,” said Microsoft Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer , acknowledging his own company’s struggle to find
women for technical roles and executive positions. Klawe’s work
at Harvey Mudd “gives us something good to emulate.”  Klawe, the second-oldest of four sisters, considered
herself the boy of the family growing up in Toronto and  Scotland .  “I spent the first 30 years of my life trying to be more
male than any male,” she says.  She climbed trees, did woodwork with her dad and played the
trumpet, an instrument she says other girls shunned. After
earning her bachelor’s and doctoral degrees in math at the
University of Alberta, she began a career in academia and helped
build the computer science program at the  University of British
Columbia  in  Vancouver . She left for Princeton in 2003.  At Mudd, Klawe spends about half her time on campus, where
she often rides around on a skateboard.  “I look really funny” with the protective gear, she said,
which helps persuade shy students to open up.  Women in Technology  She spends the rest of her time traveling to other schools,
companies and industry events. She has spoken to women engineers
at companies, including a recent talk at Facebook, and earlier
this year formed a group of prominent women in technology that
includes Sandberg,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Vice President  Marissa Mayer , and
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Senior Vice President Kathy Hill.  Klawe’s next step is to expand her STEM outreach. As the
first day of classes wound down in late August, she met with the
vice president of admissions and the dean of faculty to plan
recruiting events for underrepresented groups, including blacks
and Latinos, with an aptitude for STEM subjects.  Robert Cave , dean of faculty and a professor at Mudd since
1988, says the change in focus is long overdue.  “In the last four years, we have done things that I didn’t
think were possible,” Cave said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  