-- 
NBA Postpones Training Camps, Cancels 43 Preseason Games on Labor Dispute

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-09-23T16:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/nba-postpones-training-camps-cancels-43-games.html
The  National Basketball Association 
postponed the start of training camps indefinitely and canceled
43 preseason games through Oct. 15, increasing the likelihood
that the regular season won’t start as scheduled on Nov. 1.  “We have regretfully reached the point on the calendar
where we are not able to open training camps on time and need to
cancel the first week of preseason games,” NBA Deputy
Commissioner Adam Silver said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will make further decisions as warranted.”  Dan Wasserman , a spokesman for the  National Basketball
Players Association , declined to comment on the league’s action
in a telephone interview.  Veterans would have been scheduled to arrive at training
camps Oct. 3 under the collective bargaining agreement that
expired July 1, the day the NBA locked out its players.  Though the lockout itself didn’t split either side enough
to bring about a deal, the pressure will rise now that the
players will be missing camps and, soon, paychecks, said Paul Haagen, who teaches contracts and sports law at  Duke University
School of Law  in Durham,  North Carolina .  Under the previous deal, players generally would have been
given an advance of $1,500 per week with the start of training
camps and received their first of 12 semimonthly paychecks on
Nov. 15.  ‘Real Changes’  “As soon as they start facing actual real changes, then
you’re going to find out is this thing going to be short,”
Haagen said in a telephone interview. “We’re about to find
out.”  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  and union President  Derek Fisher  each declined to characterize about five hours of talks
between the two sides at a Manhattan hotel yesterday, saying
they are likely to meet again next week.  Fisher did say that the two sides were no closer to a deal
than when they met last week.  “We’re not walking out of here with a deal right now,”
Fisher told reporters. “We’ll keep working at it until we
figure this out, but right now there isn’t anything to report.”  The two sides are negotiating how to split money from a
league that had $4.3 billion in revenue last season, when Stern
says the teams collectively lost about $300 million.  Money Split  Both sides said this month that they’ve drawn closer to an
agreement over splitting the money and that they continue to
disagree over what salary-cap system to use under the new deal.
Owners are looking to completely overhaul the system by creating
a harder salary cap, which is a more definitive ceiling on what
teams can pay players. The union is seeking to keep the previous
system, including guaranteed contracts as well as several
exceptions to the maximum payroll that allowed for high-dollar
deals for many veteran players.  The only other time the NBA lost games due to a work
stoppage was during the 1998-99 season. In 1998, the NBA
announced the postponement of training camps on Sept. 24,
canceling 24 preseason games. The remainder of the preseason was
called off Oct. 5 and the league announced on Oct. 13 that the
regular season would be delayed. The season didn’t start until
February.  Several players, including All-Star guard  Deron Williams  of
the  New Jersey Nets , have signed contracts to play in  Europe 
during the lockout. Williams will be playing in  Turkey ; the
Denver Nuggets’ Danilo Gallinari and Milwaukee Bucks’ Chris Douglas-Roberts agreed to play in  Italy ; and the Nuggets’ Ty Lawson signed to play in  Lithuania . All of those players have
the right to return to the NBA once the lockout ends.  China  Terms  The Chinese Basketball Association said in August that it
welcomed NBA free agents, though they wouldn’t be able to sign
contracts to play in China without committing to an entire
season. Kenyon Martin,  Wilson Chandler  and J.R. Smith, each of
whom played for the Nuggets last season, accepted those
conditions and won’t be allowed to return to the NBA until the
end of the Chinese season, which runs into April.  “As time passes, guys are going to definitely defect,”
Maurice Evans, a member of the union’s executive committee, told
reporters this month. “You won’t be able to find the same
combination of skill and talent and character that the 450 of us
NBA players possess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 