-- 
Netanyahu Asks Abbas to Meet at UN

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-23T21:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/netanyahu-asks-abbas-to-meet-at-un-as-palestinians-make-bid-for-statehood.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called on Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  to meet today at the  United Nations , while reaffirming
positions the Palestinians have rejected as unacceptable for any
peace deal.  Israel  needs security guarantees ahead of any declaration
of Palestinian statehood, Netanyahu told the UN General
Assembly, shortly after Abbas, speaking from the same podium,
asked the UN to recognize a Palestinian state. Those guarantees
must include Israeli being able to maintain a “long-term”
military presence in the West Bank, the Israeli leader said.  “Now we’re in the same city, we’re in the same building,
so let’s meet here today in the United Nations,” Netanyahu
said, addressing his words to the Palestinian leader. “With
God’s help, we’ll find the common ground of peace.”  Neither Netanyahu nor Abbas broke new ground in their
speeches, underscoring the difficulty of restarting negotiations
that collapsed a year ago over the issue of Israeli building in
 West Bank  settlements. Abbas has said Israel must halt such
construction before talks resume.  Netanyahu rejected the charge that settlements were a key
impediment to peace talks, saying Palestinians had failed to
react promptly when his government instituted a 10-month
building-freeze in those communities.  Palestinians’ ‘Fantasy’  Palestinians should recognize Israel as the Jewish state,
Netanyahu said, a position rejected by the Palestinians. He
called on the Palestinians to give up the “fantasy” of
returning to homes in Israel they lost during the 1948 war, a
core Palestinian position in past negotiations.  Netanyahu said he had been willing to accept American
proposals made by the U.S. in recent weeks to restart peace
talks, “even though there were things in those ideas about
borders that I didn’t like.”  The Israeli leader received a cooler reception from the
General Assembly than Abbas, whose speech was frequently
interrupted by applause. Netanyahu criticized the UN, calling it
a “theater of the absurd” for the frequency of its
declarations criticizing Israel.  “It wasn’t the assured Netanyahu who wowed Congress with
his aplomb and mastery,” said Hussein Ibish, senior research
fellow with the American Task Force on  Palestine , a nonpartisan
Washington-based group that advocates a peaceful two-state
solution. It was a defensive and flustered performance
that insulted the United Nations by calling it a ‘house of
lies,’’’ Ibish said.  Two Audiences  Noting media criticism of his government’s policies,
Netanyahu said he preferred “bad press than a good eulogy,”
adding he would hold fast on positions he deemed critical to
Israel’s security.  “Netanyahu catered to the only two audiences he cares
about -- Israel and the U.S. --  and his comments will play up
to that very well,” said Robert Malley, director of the
Brussels-based International Crisis Group’s Middle East program,
in an interview.  Today’s speeches by Netanyahu and Abbas “underscore just
how desperately Israelis and Palestinians need real leadership
to get past their grievances and recriminations,” said
Americans for Peace Now, a group that advocates a negotiated
two-state solution, in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  