-- 
Neutrinos Caught Speeding May Break Einstein’s Cosmic Limit

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-09-23T14:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/neutrinos-caught-speeding-may-break-einstein-s-cosmic-limit.html
A neutrino beam was measured as
traveling faster than the speed of light, appearing to break the
limit set by  Albert Einstein  in 1905.  The data come as a “complete surprise” and more research
is needed before the results are verified, said Sergio
Bertolucci, research director at the  European Organization for
Nuclear Research , or CERN, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Neutrinos, subatomic particles fired from CERN’s Geneva
base to a laboratory 730 kilometers (454 miles) away in Gran
Sasso,  Italy , were clocked at a velocity 20 parts per million
above the speed of light, the organization said. The tests first
produced unusual results last year, with scientists spending the
ensuing months trying to rule out any flaw in their methods that
could have skewed the numbers.  “To me as a theoretician it screams systemic error,”
Roberto Trotta, an astrophysicist at Imperial College,  London ,
said in a telephone interview. “There is probably something in
the experiment that the experimenters still don’t understand.”  Scientists involved in the trial said the research has been
examined closely since the results occurred.  “After many months of studies and cross checks we have not
found any instrumental effect that could explain the result of
the measurement,” said Antonio Ereditato of the University of
Bern in  Switzerland , who worked on the research.  Replicate Experiment  Now the task is to replicate CERN’s experiment, possibly in
 Japan  where there are several neutrino detectors, the most
complex piece of equipment required, Trotta said. Until then,
it’s too early to draw conclusions, he said.  “It’s not the first time you’re getting unexpected results
from neutrino experiments,” Trotta said.  CERN’s findings fit with those of a 2007 experiment by the
 University of Minnesota , Subir Sarkar, a physicist at Oxford
University in the U.K. They also chime with data recorded in
1987, when Japanese observers detected neutrinos from an
exploding star in the Large Magellanic Cloud, a galaxy visible
from the earth’s southern hemisphere, hours before the supernova
was seen by an amateur astronomer in  New Zealand , he said.  “The implications are that Einstein’s special relativity is
wrong and that’s earth-shattering stuff,” Trotta said.  Still, the most likely explanation is a mistake by CERN,
not Einstein, Trotta said. “Extraordinary claims require
extraordinary proof,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 