-- 
New Zealand, Last Bastion of Developed Equity Gains, Capitulates on Crisis

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-23T09:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/new-zealand-last-bastion-of-equity-gains-capitulates-on-financial-crisis.html
New Zealand  stocks, the developed
world’s best performers this year, erased gains after the
nation’s economic growth almost stalled, optimism about
employment retreated and the Group of 20 nations warned of
“heightened” risks to the global recovery.  The NZX 50, which until today was the only developed market
benchmark index to have recorded any gain for the year, fell 0.9
percent, joining a global  bear market  that has wiped more than
$8 trillion from equities in the last two months. Just seven of
the 50 stocks on the gauge advanced after gross domestic product
rose 0.1 percent in the three months through June from the
previous quarter, less than all but one of 15 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “New Zealand hasn’t been directly exposed to the credit
issues in Europe or to U.S. growth issues, but it all catches up
in the end, and that’s what we’re seeing now.” said  Angus
Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “New Zealand is a relatively small market
with a limited diversity of stocks, so it’s not impossible for
it to perform disparately.”  The South Pacific country’s stocks had benefited from
strong Asian demand for its exports and rebuilding efforts after
a Feb. 22 earthquake killed 181 people in the South Island city
of Christchurch. Global markets have tumbled as Europe’s
smoldering debt crisis, slowing growth in the U.S. and  China ’s
efforts to tame inflation dent the outlook for earnings.  Fletcher Building Ltd., the country’s largest company by
market capitalization, dropped 2.2 percent to NZ$7.29, the
biggest drag on the index. Auckland International Airport Ltd.
dropped 1.1 percent to NZ$2.26.  Markets Tumbling  New Zealand’s equity benchmark has shed 8.2 percent since
its May 20 high as  Europe ’s failure to contain  Greece ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and the slowing U.S. economy have set
markets tumbling across the globe.  Goodman Fielder Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest baker, retailer
Pumpkin Patch Ltd., and Rakon Ltd., which supplies crystal
oscillators for global positioning systems, were the three
biggest decliners this year on the benchmark gauge.  “What we’ve seen in the last couple of months is this
become more of a good old-fashioned sell-off focused on fears of
a global growth downturn,” said Bernard Doyle, an Auckland-
based analyst at Goldman Sachs & Partners New Zealand Ltd. “New
Zealand is very much in the mix if that becomes a real issue.”  The country’s markets have derived a “veneer of comfort”
because New Zealand isn’t the primary listing place of large
financial institutions exposed to global headwinds, Doyle said.
New Zealand’s currency rose against the yen for the first time
this week as a technical indicator signaled losses were too
rapid.  “The only note of caution I’d say about the outperformance
of our market so far -- and you’re starting to see it in the
currency which is probably a good indicator - is the deeper and
longer this crisis goes on, the more we’ll get wrapped up in
it,” Doyle said.  The so-called kiwi fell to 77.94 U.S. cents from 78.05
cents after sinking to 77.53 cents yesterday, a level unseen
since April 12. The kiwi dropped 0.1 percent to 59.42 yen today.
The New Zealand dollar’s 14-day relative strength index versus
the yen slid to 22.7 yesterday, below the 30-level that some
traders see as a sign an asset’s price may reverse direction
after falling too rapidly.  New Zealand’s economy may get a long term boost of up to
NZ$1.44 billion ($1.13 billion) from this month’s world rugby
tournament, according to a study commissioned by Mastercard Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  