-- 
News Corp. Phone-Hacking Victims Plan to File U.S. Suit Against Directors

-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 
2011-09-23T15:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/news-corp-phone-hacking-victims-plan-to-file-u-s-suit-against-directors.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  directors will be sued
in the U.S. by victims of phone hacking by reporters at the News
of the World tabloid, a lawyer said.  Legal action will be started in the U.S. within 10 days,
 Mark Lewis , a lawyer representing phone-hacking victims in
 London , said in an interview broadcast on  Sky News  today.  Lewis represents phone-hacking victims including the family
of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler. Revelations that Dowler’s
mobile-phone messages were deleted while she was missing in 2002
led to the closure of the News of the World and forced News
Corp. to drop a takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc. (BSY)   U.S. lawyers will make the final decisions on the
defendants to include in the lawsuit, Lewis said in a separate
interview on BBC News. He said that lawyers are looking at areas
that should have been part of the knowledge of directors of a
large corporation. Lawyers would seek to speak with  News Corp. (NWS) 
Chairman Rupert Murdoch and Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James
Murdoch , Lewis said.  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for News Corp. in London,
declined to comment on the U.S. lawsuits. Lewis didn’t
immediately return a call from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Dowler Claims  News Corp. agreed to pay 3 million pounds ($4.6 million) to
the Dowlers and a charity to settle the family’s claims, a
person with knowledge of the matter said this week. Rupert Murdoch was personally involved in the negotiations, the
person said.  Mark Thomson, a lawyer who represents U.K. phone-hacking
victims including Jude Law and Hugh Grant, said in an e-mail
that none of his clients are taking part in a New York lawsuit.  At least 16 people have been arrested in the U.K. police
probe into hacking, including  Andy Coulson , an ex-News of the
World editor who also served as Prime Minister David Cameron’s
communications chief, and Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit.  News Corp., which faces a U.K. parliamentary probe of phone
hacking by its employees, is also the subject of criminal
investigations in the U.S.  U.S. prosecutors are examining whether employees of  Rupert
Murdoch ’s company tried to access the voicemails of 9-11
victims, broke antitrust or related laws and, according to a
person familiar with the probe, bribed U.K. police for
information.  The third line of inquiry was disclosed in a U.S. letter to
the company requesting information on any bribes paid by its
News of the World unit, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. The letter is part
of a Justice Department effort to determine whether News Corp.
violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the person
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  