-- 
Newton Joins Brady as NFL’s Offensive Explosion Portends No Passing Fancy

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-23T12:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/newton-joins-brady-as-nfl-s-offensive-explosion-portends-no-passing-fancy.html
Tom Brady  of the  New England
Patriots  has helped fuel a record start by National Football
League quarterbacks and may make more history this weekend.  Brady, a two-time NFL Most Valuable Player, and Cam Newton,
the league’s No. 1 draft pick this year by the  Carolina
Panthers , can become the first players to pass for more than 400
yards in three consecutive games. They already are among just
seven quarterbacks who have thrown for 400 yards in back-to-back
starts and the first duo to do it in the same season.  The NFL’s 15,711 passing yards are the most through the
first two weeks of a season, and teams have scored a record
1,502 points and 172 touchdowns.  “Offense is about everybody really being on the same
page,” Brady, 34, who will lead the Patriots against the
 Buffalo Bills  in a battle of unbeaten teams, told reporters on
Sept. 21. “We’ve had a lot of good years here, but ultimately
it comes down to winning games and that’s the best part of it:
We’re 2-0.”  Brian Billick, the Super Bowl-winning former coach of the
 Baltimore Ravens  and now an analyst for Fox Sports and the NFL
Network, said that the unprecedented offensive numbers are the
result of more quarterback talent and the residue of the league
lockout that shortened preseason practice.  “We always talk about offenses lagging a little bit with
the lack of offseason and training camp, but defenses are very
complex now,” Billick, 57, said in a telephone interview.
“I’ve never seen so many guys so wide open. That’s rare and I
think that will diminish.”  Unbeaten Bills  Brady has thrown for 940 yards and seven touchdowns in
season-opening wins against the  Miami Dolphins  and  San Diego
Chargers . The Patriots, three-time Super Bowl winners with Brady
as quarterback, are favorites to win the title among oddsmakers.
They face the Bills, who are 2-0 for the second time in eight
years, in Orchard Park, New York, on Sept. 25.  The Patriots-Bills matchup showcases two of the league’s
 top three scoring offenses  as well as a pair of the NFL’s seven
unbeaten teams. Buffalo has averaged an NFL-high 39.5 points in
wins against  Kansas City  and Oakland, while New England has
averaged 36.5 points.  The Patriots have surrendered an average of 479 yards in
their first two games, the second most in the NFL. The Bills’
offense is led by former Harvard University quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick, whose  seven touchdown passes  are tied with Brady
and  Detroit ’s Matthew Stafford for the league high.  “We’re a team full of guys looking to make a name for
ourselves and make a name for our team,” Fitzpatrick said on a
conference call this week. “For us it’s keeping that confidence
and the swagger we have right now.”  Patriots’ Streak  New England  has won  15 in a row  against its American
Football Conference East division rival, dating back to the
opening game of the 2003 season. Ten of those games were decided
by 10 or more points and the Patriots are 8 1/2-point favorites
this week.  The only two Week 3 games with bigger point spreads involve
0-2 teams who lost significant players to injury.  The  Kansas City Chiefs  are 14 1/2-point underdogs against
San Diego after losing Jamaal Charles, who was second in the NFL
in rushing yards last year, to a season-ending knee injury. The
 Indianapolis Colts , who are without four-time MVP quarterback
 Peyton Manning  following neck surgery, are 10 1/2-point
underdogs against Pittsburgh.  Losers’ Turnaround  The Bills haven’t made the playoffs since 1999 and are one
of three teams not to qualify for the postseason since the
league’s realignment in 2002. All three -- Buffalo, Detroit and
Houston -- are 2-0 this season.  “They’re playing good football,” Brady said of the Bills.
“They’re good in all phases and Buffalo is always a tough place
to play.”  Brady averaged 300 passing yards a game in 2007, when he
finished with 4,806 yards -- the  fourth-highest total  in NFL
history -- and a record 50 touchdown passes. He started this
season by throwing for 517 yards against Miami and followed with
423 yards against  San Diego .  “You couldn’t even get on the video game right now and put
up those kinds of numbers,” Matthew Slater, a Patriots receiver
and special teams captain, told reporters this week. “But
anyone around here will tell you, we have to worry about this
week. He doesn’t get caught up about what he did last week, he’s
focused on this week.”  Dan Fouts,  Dan Marino , Phil Simms, Billy Volek and Matt Cassel were the only quarterbacks to pass for more than 400
yards in consecutive games before this season.  Week 3 Drop  Marino was the only one to top 300 yards in his next game,
with 340 during the 1984 season. Simms, Volek and Cassel all had
less than 200 passing yards in their next starts.  Newton, 22, started with  422 passing yards  in a loss to
 Arizona , the most by a player in his NFL debut. He threw for 432
yards in a loss to the defending Super Bowl-champion Green Bay
Packers last week.  The Panthers are 3 1/2-point favorites at home this week
against the  Jacksonville Jaguars , who have allowed the  fifth-
fewest yards  in the league.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  