-- 
Nike Surges After Profit Tops Estimates, Sales Forecast for 2012 Is Raised

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-23T20:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/nike-gains-7-percent-after-raising-revenue-forecast-for-2012.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods maker, rose the most in a month after profit
topped analysts’ estimates and it raised a sales forecast as
North American demand strengthened.  Nike jumped $4.46, or 5.3 percent, to $88.64 at 4:03 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain
since Aug. 23. The shares have climbed 3.8 percent this year.  Net income in the quarter ended Aug. 31 rose 15 percent to
$645 million, or $1.36 a share, from $559 million, or $1.14, a
year earlier, the Beaverton, Oregon-based company said yesterday
in a statement. Earnings topped the $1.21 a share projected by
analysts, the average of 18 estimates. Nike’s profit has
surpassed analysts’ projections in 20 of the past 21 quarters.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Parker has been trying to
overcome rising costs for raw materials and transporting goods
by cutting operating expenses. Nike’s gross margin, the
percentage of sales left after the cost of goods sold, narrowed
by 2.7 percentage points, less than the company’s projection for
a 3 percentage point decline.  “This is a fantastic quarter,” Camilo Lyon, an analyst
for Canaccord Genuity Corp. in  New York , said yesterday. “Nike
understands how to reach the consumer with relevant product, and
this is further evidence of that.”  Lyon has a “hold” rating on Nike shares.  Orders Rise  Revenue this fiscal year will increase in the low- to mid-
teen percentage range, Chief Financial Officer Don Blair said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts. The company
forecast high-single to low-double digits in June.  Gross margin for the quarter fell less than forecast as
Nike’s direct-to-consumer unit performed better than expected
with same-store sales increasing 17 percent, Blair said on the
call. Gross margins may narrow as much as 2 percentage points in
the second quarter before improving in the second half of the
fiscal year, he said.  Orders for the Nike brand scheduled for delivery from
September to January increased 13 percent, excluding currency
fluctuations, according to the statement. That topped the
average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg for a
gain of 9.8 percent.  First-quarter revenue rose 18 percent to $6.08 billion.
Analysts projected $5.75 billion, the average of 16 estimates.
Sales in  North America  advanced 16 percent to $2.2 billion.
Revenue from Nike brand apparel also gained 16 percent to $1.59
billion, or 30 percent of the brand’s total sales.  “They are the 800-pound gorilla in athletic footwear, and
if they can become that in apparel, that’s a significant market
opportunity for them,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones
& Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , said yesterday in a phone
interview. Arnold recommends buying Nike shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  