-- 
No Sign of Recession With Rail Shipments Showing Growth Trend

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/no-sign-of-recession-with-rising-rail-shipments-showing-trend-to-expansion.html
Railroads shipments are the highest
in almost three years, helping to defy concerns about a double-
dip recession.  Total rail volumes excluding grain and coal averaged
381,831 carloads in August, the most since October 2008,
according to data from the  Association of American Railroads  in
 Washington . These shipments represent the bulk of materials for
industrial production, so rising volumes show the economy is
still growing, according to Art Hatfield, a transportation
analyst in Memphis, Tennessee, at Morgan Keegan & Co.  “We’re not seeing declines in rail volumes that are
synonymous with a recession,” Hatfield said. “We remain in a
slow growth environment.”  The correlation between the 12-month average of total rail-
car loadings excluding grain and coal and the three-month
average of the  Federal Reserve ’s manufacturing industrial-
production index is 0.82, according to Bloomberg News
calculations. A correlation of 1 would show they move in
lockstep, while a value of zero signals no relationship.  Manufacturing output -- which makes up 75 percent of all
U.S. factory production -- climbed 0.5 percent in August, the
fourth consecutive increase, according to Fed data released this
month.  “Industrial-production growth is slow but positive,”
according to Kurt Rankin, an economist at PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, who forecasts a 0.3 percent increase
in September from August. This indicates the “gradual” U.S.
expansion is still in place, he said.  Rising Output  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.0 percent annual rate
in the second quarter, after almost stalling with a 0.4 percent
gain from January-March, Commerce Department data show. GDP will
rise 1.6 percent this year, according to the median estimate of
63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The order rate for  Kennametal Inc. (KMT) , the No. 1 supplier of
cutting tools used by manufacturers including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
and  Boeing Co. (BA) , increased at a 20 percent annual pace in August,
excluding acquisitions, divestitures and workdays, the company
said in a Sept. 15 statement. Kennametal’s end markets
“continued to reflect strong demand,” and its industrial
business showed “ongoing strength,” the company said.  The Latrobe, Pennsylvania-based company is a “good
barometer” for industrial production, according to Sheila Kahyaoglu, a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.
Kahyaoglu maintains an “outperform” rating on the stock
because its order rate, while poised to slow, will continue to
grow at a rate faster than consensus forecasts.  Bullish About Manufacturing  Hatfield is bullish about U.S. manufacturing output even
amid concerns that the world economy is slowing. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global growth
this week, projecting expansion of 4 percent this year, compared
with a June forecast of 4.3 percent.  Hatfield maintains “outperform” ratings on  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP) ,  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  and  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the three largest
U.S. railroads, because “valuations are attractive given our
earnings estimates, which include the impact of slow growth.”  Between March 13, 2009, and July 1, 2011, the Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Railroads Index -- which includes the
three companies -- rose 200 percent, while the  S&P 500 Index 
grew 77 percent, Bloomberg data show. Since July, the railroads
index has fallen 23 percent, compared with the S&P 500’s 14
percent decline.  ‘Some Pickup’  The recent underperformance is driven by investor concern
about a recession, Hatfield said. The Fed noted in its Sept. 7
Beige Book report that “most” manufacturers were less
optimistic than in its July survey. On Sept. 21, Fed policy
makers said they expect “some pickup in the pace of recovery
over coming quarters,” adding there are “significant downside
risks” to their outlook.  Hatfield still projects rail-car shipments will grow in the
“low single digits” for the second half of this year, even
though third-quarter volumes may be lighter than forecast
because of weather-related disruptions, he said.  FedEx Corp., operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline,
cut its full-year profit and industrial production forecasts
yesterday, as volumes declined amid a slowing economic recovery.
The Memphis-based company now projects U.S. output will rise 3.9
percent in 2012, Executive Vice President Michael Glenn said on
a conference call. This is down from its previous forecast of
4.3 percent, said Jesse Bunn, a company spokesman.  Consumer sentiment remains the biggest drag on economic
improvement, Glenn said. Still, FedEx expects “modest growth to
continue.”  No Indication of Declines  Similarly, since reporting quarterly earnings in July, the
three largest U.S. railroads haven’t given any indication of a
sharp decline in demand similar to 2008 and 2009, when volumes
fell as much as 24 percent on an annual basis.  Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific had its strongest
weekly volume so far this year -- almost 187,000 carloads --
prior to Labor Day, Chief Financial Officer Robert Knight said
at a Sept. 21 conference hosted by Citigroup Inc. It continues
to see “solid demand” across most business segments, including
shipments of industrial products, up 8 percent annually as of
Sept. 15 for the quarter ending Sept. 30, he said.  Norfolk Southern, based in Norfolk,  Virginia , maintains an
outlook “which is still upbeat despite some of the macro
indicators,” Chief Financial Officer James Squires said at the
Citigroup conference on the same date. Total railcar shipments
are up about 3 percent on an annual basis so far for the three-
month period ending Sept. 30, he said.  ‘Doing Okay’  Industrial volumes for Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX have
increased about 5 percent since last year through August for the
quarter ending Sept. 30, Vice President Fredrik Eliasson said
yesterday at the Citigroup conference. Even amid recent
“moderating,” the economy continues to grow and the company is
“doing okay from a volume perspective,” he said.  Earlier this month, CSX’s Chief Financial Officer Oscar Munoz said he isn’t concerned about “any kind of overarching
sort of dire circumstances around the corner,” as there is
still a “general level of optimism” among customers and
suppliers.  “Sure, things have moderated, but there is no one in that
near state of panic that we saw certainly in late ‘08 and ‘09,”
Munoz said at a Sept. 8 conference hosted by UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  