-- 
Noyer Sees ‘Absolutely No Reason’ to Use Bank Backstop

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-09-24T00:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/noyer-sees-absolutely-no-reason-to-use-french-bank-backstop.html
Bank of  France  Governor Christian Noyer said he sees “absolutely no reason” to activate a
support system for the nation’s banks that was set up during the
financial crisis in 2008.  “A backstop facility created in 2008 still exists,” Noyer
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday in
Washington. “I see absolutely no reason it should be used.”  BNP Paribas SA and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s biggest
banks by market value, rose in Paris yesterday on speculation
the French government will take steps to bolster their capital.
Both banks, along with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , have shed more than
half their value in the past three months as  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis intensified.  “Increasingly nervous wholesale funding and equity markets
may trigger short-term French government action to support its
banks,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts Jorge Mayo
and Stefan Stalmann wrote in a note published yesterday. “The
French government would be more likely to resort once more to
loss-absorbing instruments other than common equity.”  The capital injections would amount to 16 billion euros
($21.6 billion) for  BNP Paribas (BNP) , 4 billion euros for Societe
Generale and 14 billion euros for  Credit Agricole , according to
the RBS note.  Short-Term Deposits  Noyer, who is France’s chief financial regulator, dismissed
reports that foreign companies such as  Siemens AG (SIE)  have withdrawn
an unspecified amount of short-term deposits from Societe
Generale, saying he’s confident in the health of France’s
lenders.  “It’s a bit of a nonsense to look after every move from
one bank to another,” he said. “I’m extremely confident” in
French banks because “we know them very well. We know their
balance sheets, their risk assessments. We know they have no
toxic assets.”  The lenders have been ordered to meet Basel III capital
requirements as early as 2013, he added.  Asked about suggestions that the  European Central Bank  is
preparing to ease monetary policy as global growth slows, Noyer
said the ECB will always adjust to circumstances.  “Price stability means neither inflation or deflation,”
he said. “So we always stand ready to adapt.”  Noyer, 60, also said the ECB won’t hesitate to use non-
conventional policies to provide liquidity if they’re needed.
Asked about whether the ECB should start offering 12-month loans
to banks, he said current three-month offerings are
“appropriate.”  Normal Operations  “I tend to think the fact that we have normal operations
including three-month fixing at full allotment is appropriate,”
he said.  With an eye to the overall debt crisis, he urged investors
to remain calm and allow governmental decisions to be
implemented.  Markets “are over-reacting,” he said. “They need to come
back to a sense of reality.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in  Washington  at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in Washington at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  