-- 
New York’s 34-Year-Old St. Mark’s Bookshop Seeks Rent Reduction to Survive

-- B y   K a t i e   S p e n c e r
-- 
2011-09-23T16:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/nyc-s-34-year-old-st-mark-s-bookshop-seeks-rent-cut-to-survive.html
The fate of  St. Mark’s Bookshop  in
 Manhattan ’s East Village, once a haunt of writers Allen Ginsberg
and William Burroughs, will be in limbo until late next month,
when the landlord plans to decide whether to reduce its rent.  Cooper Union , the arts engineering school that doesn’t
charge its students tuition, owns the property. Sales at the
store, opened in 1977 by co-owners Terry McCoy and Bob Contant,
have dropped 35 percent since the financial crisis that hit in
2008. One year earlier, they signed a 10-year lease at a rent of
$20,000 per month on the 2,700-square-foot (250-square-meter)
shop. Falling sales have forced them to reduce inventory and
fire eight part-time employees, and now they are seeking a rent
cut of $5,000 a month from  Cooper Union .  Cooper Union’s board passed the request to its Finance and
Business Affairs Committee, and a decision is planned for the
end of October, Contant said today. The owners’ struggle has
ignited a public outpouring of support for the shop, located on
Third Avenue between 8th and 9th Streets. An online petition
called “ Save the St. Mark’s Bookshop ” had garnered nearly
36,000 signatures as of Thursday afternoon.  “All the support feels great,” said McCoy. “Especially
when business is declining, you’re thinking you’ve been
forgotten. Then people hear about this and actually come in to
see how they can help.”  Jolene Travis, Cooper Union’s assistant director of public
affairs, said discussions with St. Mark’s Bookshop were ongoing.  ‘Derelict’ Neighborhood  When the store first opened, the owners were paying $375 a
month for the place and the “derelict” neighborhood was
languishing in a post-1960s hangover, McCoy said.  “The neighborhood was in a depression,” he said. “The
summer of love in the late ’60s and that whole thing, the
Electric Circus had been here, the Fillmore East had been here.
That had all gone away, and so had business, basically.”  Since then, the East Village has regained its status as a
cultural hub, thanks in part to nearby  New York University .  Steven Zwaryczuk, manager at the historic  McSorley’s Old
Ale House  on nearby 7th Street, said the neighborhood is a
revolving door for small businesses.  “It’s always been a neighborhood in transition,” said
Zwaryczuk, who has worked at the bar since 1973. “I’ve been
here so long I don’t even remember what the storefronts had in
them before, but they were paying peanuts and they thought they
were paying too much, even 30 years ago.”  Rents have been steadily rising in recent years, making it
difficult for small-business owners like McCoy and Contant to
pay the bills each month.  ‘On the Rise’  “It’s very active,” Faith Hope Consolo, chairman of
retail leasing at Prudential Douglas Elliman in  New York , said
of the commercial real estate market in the area. “Since we’ve
had a great rebound over the past 12 months, the momentum
continues and rents have been on the rise.”  Sales have picked up this month, and McCoy says he believes
it’s because of the publicity about their plight.  “I really like small bookstores like this,” said Damon
Griffin, 24, who browsed the store’s shelves earlier this week.
He said that when neighborhood landmarks like St. Mark’s
disappear, locals “feel like they’ve lost a part of their
personal culture in New York.”  The financial crisis of 2008 “was actually the first time
since we opened the store that our business really declined,”
said Contant.  Electronic Readers  He and McCoy said they think the decrease in sales has been
related more to the economy than to the rise of electronic
readers that have hurt sales at other bookstores.  In 2010, e-book sales doubled to $441.3 million, accounting
for 8.3 percent of revenue from trade books, according to the
 American Association  of Publishers.  With niche sections like cultural theory, graphic design
and anarchy, the store caters to academics and special interest
customers who won’t find the titles they’re looking for
electronically or at chain bookstores.  “When Barnes and Noble was here on Astor Place, it was a
citadel of mass culture,” Contant said. “We were sort of like
the gourmet store that featured the kinds of things that you
couldn’t get there.”  McCoy said moving to a less-expensive space would help in
the long run, though the cost of the relocation would be too
pricey right now.  “You have to have a chunk of money to move and you have to
build the actual space for a bookstore,” he said. “It can’t be
done cheaply.”  East Village Rents  The average asking rent in the East Village is $100 to $125
a square foot, according to Consolo. At St. Mark’s current rent,
the store is paying $88.88 per square foot.  Consolo said the closest comparable space, a 2,500-square-
foot property on 19th Street and First Avenue, was asking $100
per square foot.  Eric Ferriello, director of brokerage services at Colliers
International in New York, said that while St. Mark’s rent seems
“a bit high,” the landlord has leverage since the shop is in a
“premier location in a nice building.”  “It’s a unique market because there’s not that much space
and it’s not a commercial-usage area,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Spencer in New York at 
 Katiespencer14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  