-- 
Court Gives Obama Health-Care Law Mixed Reaction

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/obama-health-care-law-argued-before-appeals-judges-in-washington.html
President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care law got a mixed reception in its fourth review by a federal
appeals court as three judges grappled with questions about the
law’s constitutionality and their own authority to rule on it.  In a two-hour argument yesterday in  Washington , two judges
of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia 
Circuit said a ruling upholding the law, which requires that
most Americans buy insurance or face a tax penalty, could leave
the government with unprecedented power over its citizens.  “In 220 years there has been a whole lot of laws and a lot
of crises, yet Congress has never once mandated a purchase,”
said Judge  Brett Kavanaugh , adding that the “lurking next
step” might be a law requiring investment in private retirement
accounts.  Kavanaugh also questioned whether federal courts could rule
on the law before any taxpayer had been assessed a penalty.  The Washington appellate panel may be the last to rule on
the law before it reaches U.S. Supreme Court. The Obama
administration must signal next week whether it will seek high
court review of another court’s opinion declaring the insurance
mandate unconstitutional.  Appellate Rulings  Two federal appeals courts have ruled on the insurance
mandate. A Cincinnati panel in June decided Congress’s authority
to regulate interstate commerce extended to enacting the
insurance mandate. The U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta threw
out the mandate on Aug. 12, concluding Congress can’t compel
people to buy a product for their entire lives.  An appeals panel in Richmond,  Virginia , decided on Sept. 8
that it was blocked by a statute that generally bars challenging
taxes before they’re collected or assessed.  The case argued yesterday was brought in June 2010 by five
individuals who claimed they and their families could face
collective penalties of more than $27,000 for failing to obtain
insurance.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler in February dismissed
their suit, finding the mandate constitutional.  The U.S. calls the insurance mandate the linchpin of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, claiming that
without expanding the pool of younger, healthier customers the
 insurance industry  can’t meet its obligations for coverage under
the law.  Power to Tax  The government argued yesterday that the legislation is an
extension of Congress’s power to tax, as people who fail to buy
coverage starting in 2014 would face a penalty to be included on
an individual’s tax return.  Edward White, arguing for the plaintiffs, said until now
Congress used incentives, citing the cash vouchers offered new-
car buyers under the “Cash for Clunkers” program. The health-
care law, by contrast, requires people to purchase a product in
the private marketplace with no opportunity to opt out, he said.  “You can never check out of this hotel,” said White of
the American Center for Law & Justice. “You can check in, but
you can never leave.”  Judge Harry Edwards likened the case to a 1942 Supreme
Court ruling that upheld a fine on a farmer who exceeded his
government-imposed quota for wheat production. The farmer
contended that he wasn’t taking part in interstate commerce
because he was growing wheat for consumption on the premises.  ‘Precisely This Case’  The 1942 dispute is “precisely this case,” said Edwards,
the lone Democratic appointee on the panel. “I don’t know how
you distinguish it.”  Judge Laurence Silberman pressed the government for an
example of what couldn’t be mandated under the Commerce Clause.  Beth Brinkmann, deputy assistant attorney general, said the
health-care market was unique. The law is a means of financing
current participation in that market, she said.  “This is about insurance,” she said. “There’s no
constitutional right to have others pay for your medical
bills.”  Had Congress called the penalty a tax, it would have
resolved the issue, Kavanaugh said.  “Congress can do this -- still do this -- so easily
through the  tax code ,” he said.  The third prong of yesterday’s argument dealt with the
Anti-Injunction Act, the law barring tax lawsuits cited by the
Virginia appeals court. Both sides said it shouldn’t prevent a
decision in the case.  Kavanaugh said he still had “major concerns” that the act
prevents the court from deciding the case until 2015.  The case is Seven-Sky v. Holder, 11-5047,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  