-- 
Obama Takes Aim at Tax ‘Targets,’ Fires Blanks: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-09-23T00:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/obama-takes-aim-at-tax-targets-fires-blanks-caroline-baum.html
Two weeks ago, President  Barack Obama  unveiled his $447 billion plan to put Americans back to
work.  Eleven days later, he told us how he’d pay for it: $1.5
trillion in tax increases over 10 years and $3 trillion in
spending cuts -- on top of the $1 trillion already agreed to in
last month’s Budget Control Act.  He outlined the principles of a comprehensive tax reform
that would lower rates, broaden the base, cut “inefficient and
unfair” tax breaks, encourage  job creation  and reduce the
deficit. In other words, every economist’s dream.  Then he went on to cherry-pick the targeted tax loopholes
he wants to close and take aim at high-income earners for tax
increases.  Thus did Obama’s  tax reform  take on a decidedly populist
cast. The president’s “Buffett Rule,” an idea without
specifics, would ensure that millionaires pay higher taxes than
the middle class (as a group,  they already do ). Obama would let
the Bush tax cuts expire for Americans making more than $200,000
a year ($250,000 for households) and limit their itemized
deductions, be they for charitable contributions, mortgage or
tax-exempt interest, or employer-sponsored health care.  In his quest for fairness, Obama may end up taxing those he
wants to help. As the editors at Bloomberg View noted in an
 editorial  this week, the diminished appeal of municipal bonds,
if their tax status changed, would raise borrowing costs,
leading to higher taxes, reduced services and less money for the
state and local infrastructure projects the president loves to
tout.  F in Economics  In economics, this is called the  law of unintended
consequences . Somehow Obama managed to spend 12 years on the  law
school faculty  at the  University of Chicago  without absorbing
any of the school’s free-market zeitgeist.  The  president’s plan , or proposal, or whatever you call an
outline of lofty goals with few details, is titled, “Living
Within Our Means and Investing in the Future: The President’s
Plan for Economic Growth and  Deficit Reduction .”  The title is misleading, and a more accurate subtitle would
be: “The President’s Plan to Spend Now and Pay for It Later.”
In an effort to deflect criticism and avoid the appearance of
inconsistency -- Obama previously advised against raising taxes
when the economy is weak -- the White House website lays out a
 few facts :  “Fact: The President’s plan does not raise anyone’s taxes
in 2011 or 2012.” Instead, “all measures to raise additional
revenue -- including fundamental tax reform -- are effective
starting in 2013.”  Create Success  Sound familiar? “Pass this plan now” (the spending part)
so we can spend money “without adding a dime to the deficit.”
Uh-huh. Any time a politician tells you that, you know he’s
flat-out lying.  In the meantime, those inefficient loopholes have to go.
Here Obama gets specific, targeting targeted tax breaks for oil
and gas companies and for corporate jet owners, more for their
symbolic significance than their revenue-generating potential.  By all means, let’s get rid of the deductions and credits
for oil and gas producers. The U.S. government shouldn’t be
subsidizing these companies. Nor should it subsidize any other
companies, including renewable energy producers: companies like
the solar-panel manufacturer Solyndra, which filed for
bankruptcy two weeks ago and laid off 1,000 employees.  “Obama says he wants successful people and companies to
pay more,” says  Joe Carson , head of global economic research at
AllianceBernstein. “A better strategy is to create more
successful companies.”  Capital Invitation  To do that, the U.S. needs a  tax code  that “welcomes all
types of activity,” Carson says.  Clean energy may look like the technology of the future,
but who knows? While the government is betting on solar panels,
some Harvard dropout may be inventing an individual flying
contraption powered by dehydrated cow manure that will make car
travel go the way of the covered wagon.  And that’s the point. None of us knows. The U.S. has always
been the most innovative country in the world. In the 1980s, it
looked as if  Japan  was eating our lunch. Corporations sent
hordes of employees overseas to learn Japanese management
techniques.  It turned out that wasn’t necessary. Japan was simply
better at producing what the U.S. invented. Now  China  has
stepped into that role.  Last year, goods from the Pacific Rim accounted for 34
percent of total U.S. imports, unchanged from a decade ago,
according to Carson.  “What has changed is the source,” he says. “China is a
bigger assembler now. We import more from China, not from the
region.”  Target Practice  Although most of the research and development for advanced
technology is done in the U.S., “we transfer production of the
goods we create overseas,” he says. “We should be producer and
assembler, not just innovator.”  With labor costs, a clear advantage for China, becoming a
smaller share of high-tech products, it makes sense for the U.S.
to keep production at home -- if the U.S. offers business “a
competitive tax structure,” Carson says.  The current 35 percent corporate tax rate is among the
highest in the developed world.  The U.S. needs to have a dialogue on tax reform, an idea
that has wide support among people of all political persuasions.
Obama continues to talk reform, but he ignored the
recommendations of his Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and
Reform last year and now proposes modest cost savings from
Medicare and nothing to stabilize Social Security.  Broad-based reform is not Obama’s style. He sees the size
of the pie as finite -- and his job as slicer-in-chief.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 