-- 
Ohio Joins States Letting Voters Weigh In on Obama’s Health-Care Overhaul

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/ohio-joins-states-letting-voters-weigh-in-on-obama-s-health-law.html
As legal challenges to President
Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul proceed to a decisive U.S.
 Supreme Court  battle, state ballot boxes are becoming
skirmishing grounds in efforts to impede the law.  Ohio voters on Nov. 8 will decide an amendment to their
constitution aimed at undercutting the federal Affordable Care
Act, joining four states that considered similar measures last
year and four slated to vote next year, according to the
 National Conference of State Legislatures . Voters nationwide
next year will consider the most ballot measures in more than a
decade seeking to overturn laws passed by their legislators.  The votes aimed at Obama’s plan are “purely symbolic”
because federal laws have supremacy over conflicting state
measures, said  Elizabeth Price Foley , a professor of
constitutional and health-care law at  Florida International
University . A high court ruling upholding the law would trump
state laws and amendments, she said.  “This is political posturing,” Foley said in a telephone
interview from Miami.  The ballot measures are needed to ensure lawmakers don’t go
further than the federal law, such as by trying to enact a
government-run system, said Jeff Longstreth, spokesman for
 Ohioans for Healthcare Freedom . They also send a message to the
Supreme Court about citizen opposition, said Eric Novack, an
orthopedic surgeon in Phoenix who led a 2010 campaign to pass a
constitutional amendment in Arizona.  Holding Them Back  The proposed Ohio amendment says that no federal, state, or
local law or rule “shall compel, directly or indirectly, any
person, employer, or health care provider to participate in a
health care system.” It also would not allow bans or penalties
on the sale and purchase of health care or insurance.  Voters in  Arizona , Missouri and Oklahoma approved similar
measures last year, and Colorado rejected one, the legislatures
group said. Alabama, Florida, Montana and  Wyoming  have health-
care issues on the ballot in 2012, the Denver-based group said.  The votes will have no influence on how the court rules,
and until then, are a “colossal waste of time,” said  Krysten
Sinema , a Democratic state senator in Arizona and a member of
Obama’s White House Health Reform Task Force.  Still, they can draw voters, said John C. Green, a
political science professor at the University of Akron.  “That’s certainly part of the motivation,” Green said in
a telephone interview.  Another Referendum  In  Ohio , voters will also consider a separate referendum
Nov. 8 on a law passed this year limiting collective bargaining
for public employees. The Ohio Republican Party helped Ohioans
for Healthcare Freedom, a Tea Party-affiliated group, gather
426,998 valid signatures to put the amendment on the ballot 
after supporters failed to collect enough in 2010.  The Republican Party’s goal was in part to attract voters
who also would support the union-bargaining law referendum, said
Brian Rothenberg,  executive director  or  ProgressOhio , a Columbus
nonprofit group that describes itself as a “progressive voice
for Ohio citizens.”  “They probably look at this as a voter-turnout vehicle,”
said Rothenberg, whose group sued unsuccessfully to keep the
health-care issue off the ballot.  Welcome Reinforcement  Kevin DeWine, chairman of the Ohio  Republican Party ,
minimized the party’s role in getting the issue on the ballot,
though he said it probably doesn’t hurt efforts to protect the
union-bargaining law.  “It is nice to have another group on the ballot that
thinks along the lines of most people in the Republican
family,” DeWine said in a telephone interview.  A controversial measure can increase turnout among both
supporters and opponents, said Jennie Bowser, a senior fellow at
the  National Conference of State Legislatures . They can
influence turnout by as much as 5 percent, said Green, the
political-science professor.  “In a close election, that’s huge,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  