-- 
Oil Dispute Risks New Hostilities Between Turkey and Cyprus

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-23T01:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/oil-dispute-risks-new-hostilities-between-turkey-and-cyprus.html
Turkish and Cypriot leaders
exchanged allegations of illegal exploration for oil and natural
gas in waters off the divided Mediterranean Sea island and said
the dispute risks a renewal of hostilities.  “We expect all the concerned parties to work actively to
make sure the Greek Cypriot administration halts these
activities, which can lead to tensions not only on the island
but in the entire region,”  Turkey ’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said in a speech to the  United Nations  General Assembly.
“Otherwise, we will do what is necessary.”  Earlier, Cypriot President Demetris Christofias said
Turkey’s moves to extract oil and gas from waters off the island
were illegal and constituted a dangerous provocation.  “Turkish naval maneuvers in the region of Cyprus’s
Exclusive Economic Zone, where exploration is being carried out,
are provocative and a real danger for further complications in
the region,” Christofias said in his UN speech.  Turkey’s moves were “a provocation, not only for the
Republic of Cyprus but also for the entire international
community,” Christofias said.  Turkey, which invaded Cyprus in 1974 and is the only
country to recognize the Turkish Cypriot north as an independent
nation, disputes Cyprus’s right to explore for hydrocarbons in
its Exclusive Economic Zone and has sent warships to the area.  Reunification talks resumed in 2008 after Greek Cypriots,
who run the internationally recognized Republic of Cyprus in the
south, rejected a UN-sponsored settlement plan.  Turkish Exploration  A Turkish vessel sails tomorrow to begin seismic
exploration for oil and gas in Mediterranean waters north of
Cyprus, Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said today.  Also today, in a statement released by his government’s
press office, Christofias gave a “guarantee” that Turkish
Cypriots will benefit from offshore discoveries before the
island is unified. The continental-shelf agreement announced
yesterday by Turkey and northern Cyprus is “unacceptable,”
Christofias said.  U.S. based Noble Energy Inc., which has an exploration and
exploitation license in Cyprus’s Block 12, started drilling
Sept. 18 and is expected to deliver first results in 2 1/2
months.  Christofias also told the General Assembly that the
unification talks have been set back by what he described as
Turkish Cypriot “retracting on the negotiation table, including
from previously found convergences.” The change in the Turkish
Cypriot position, he said, “feeds on recent negative and
provocative policy of Turkey in the region.”  Test of Wills  Erdogan said the Greek Cypriots “lack the necessary will”
to complete an agreement by the end of the year, which could
then be ratified in simultaneous referenda early in 2012.  Also in his speech, Erdogan said the government of Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  was to blame for the
deterioration of Turkish-Israeli relations and the Middle East
stalemate.  “It is  Israel  that is using disproportionate force; it is
Israel that does not abide by the sanctions,” he said.
“Illegal settlements stand out in particular. It is necessary
to put pressure on Israel to achieve peace, despite what those
who govern the country do, and show them clearly that they are
not above the law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  