-- 
Oil Climbs After Sliding to Six-Week Low; Prices Head for Weekly Decline

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-23T08:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/oil-rises-after-slipping-to-six-week-low-heads-for-second-weekly-decline.html
Oil rose from a six-week low in  New
York  as investors speculated the biggest weekly drop in almost
two months is exaggerated, while central bankers from the Group
of 20 pledged to address risks to the global economy.  Futures climbed as much as 1.6 percent after plunging 6.3
percent yesterday and dipping below $80 earlier today. Finance
chiefs from the Group of 20 nations said they would address
“heightened downside risks” from sovereign debt and slowing
growth. Prices may fall next week on concern economic growth
will slow in the U.S. and  China , a Bloomberg News survey shows.  “Markets sold off very aggressively yesterday,” said Mark
Thomas, head of energy futures at Marex Group Ltd. in London.
“That selling has run its course for the moment.”  Crude oil for November delivery climbed as much as $1.30 to
$81.81 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $81.42 at 9:22 a.m. London time. The
contract yesterday dropped $5.41 to $80.51, the lowest
settlement since Aug 9. Prices are down 7.4 percent this week.  Brent oil for November settlement gained $1.28, or 1.2
percent, to $106.77 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark contract was at premium
of $25.32 to U.S. futures, compared with a record $26.87 on
Sept. 6, based on November settlement prices.  Fallen Too Far  Oil in New York rebounded as a technical indicator signaled
futures may have fallen too far. Crude dropped below its lower
Bollinger Band for the first time in more than six weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is at
$80.84 a barrel today. Bollinger Bands plot support and
resistance levels based on volatility and are used by investors
to determine entry points for buying or selling contracts.  “We haven’t seen any evidence yet of people getting
aggressively into oil,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market
strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. in Sydney. “The
macro situation is also a very poor backdrop for oil at the
moment.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
decide whether to cut supply after monitoring the global economy
over the next two months and the pace of  Libya ’s production
recovery, an OPEC official with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  Saudi Arabia  will probably maintain current production
rates so long as economic woes in Europe and the U.S. don’t
spread to emerging nations where consumption grows faster, said
an official from one of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ 12 members, who is not authorized to speak publicly
and declined to be identified by name.  Twenty-two of 40 analysts, or 55 percent, forecast oil will
decline through Sept. 30, while nine respondents, or 23 percent,
predicted prices will increase, according to the Bloomberg
survey. Last week, 45 percent of the surveyed analysts projected
a drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  