-- 
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index Poised for Biggest Weekly Decline Since 2008

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-09-23T09:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/hong-kong-stocks-slide-toward-biggest-weekly-drop-in-three-years.html
Hong Kong stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark Hang Seng Index to its worst weekly decline in almost
three years, on concern policy makers are running out of tools
to avert recession as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens and economic
growth in the U.S. slows.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest supplier of clothes and toys to
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., decreased 3.5 percent.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s No. 1 lender by market value, fell
1.9 percent on speculation the bank may report lower revenue as
the industry faces funding challenges arising from Europe’s debt
crisis. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest
producer of the light metal, slumped 5.6 percent after a gauge
of metal prices in London extended declines. The HSI Volatility
Index jumped 5.1 percent.  The Hang Seng Index fell 1.4 percent to 17,668.83 at the
close, paring losses of as much as 3 percent after policy makers
from the Group of 20 nations vowed to strongly address
“heightened” risks to the global economy and pushed Europe to
contain its sovereign debt crisis.  “Investors are selling regardless of stock prices, which
are already extremely cheap,” said Hong Kong-based Yoji Takeda,
who manages $1.1 billion at RBC Investment Management ( Asia )
Ltd. “There’s a possibility Europe’s worsening debt crisis
could tip the world into another recession. There’s a risk
markets will continue to fall.”  Recovery Concerns  Two stocks declined for each that rose in the 46-member
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The gauge tumbled 9.2 percent this
week, the biggest weekly drop since October 2008, amid concern
global economic growth will falter as Europe’s debt crisis
worsens and the U.S. economic recovery stalls.  Exporters dropped after reports showed U.S. consumer
confidence declined last week to the weakest point since the
recession ended in June 2009, and the labor market showed few
signs of improving, underscoring Federal Reserve concerns about
the world’s biggest economy.  Li & Fung, which gets 65 percent of sales from the U.S.,
declined 3.5 percent to HK$12.52.  Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings
Ltd. (551) , which makes shoes for Nike Inc., sank 3.9 percent to
HK$18.44.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , maker of Ryobi power tools
and Hoover vacuum cleaners that counts  North America  as its
largest market, slipped 3.2 percent to HK$5.85.  Government Support  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong fell 1.8 percent to 9,033.09, paring
declines of as much as 3.9 percent on speculation the mainland
government will take steps to support markets.  China’s social security fund plans to invest more than 10
billion yuan ($1.6 billion) in the nation’s stock market,
 Securities Times  reported today, citing an unidentified person.
Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a statement late yesterday in  Washington .  “Speculation on government support always works in China’s
market, no matter if it’s true or not,” said Shanghai-based Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees
$285 million. “That would help lift the index for the short-
term but the market may need several rounds of injections to
turn the pessimistic sentiment around.”  Deepening Crisis  The Hang Seng Index tumbled 28 percent from its November
high through yesterday on concern the global economy will plunge
into another recession. Shares on the index traded at 9.6 times
estimated earnings, compared with 11.3 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  HSBC fell 1.9 percent to HK$59.50, the biggest drag to the
benchmark index and the lowest level since May 2009. The bank
may report lower revenue for the second half of the year than
previously estimated, analysts at Espirito Santo Investment Bank
said after a meeting with Finance Director Iain Mackay.  “This looks like a top-line downgrade to us for HSBC, but
for the wider European banking sector there are major concerns
about funding,” the analysts, led by Joseph Dickerson, wrote in
a note to clients yesterday.  The deepening European debt crisis has already forced BNP
Paribas SA and Societe Generale SA,  France ’s two largest banks,
to trim about 300 billion euros ($405 billion) off their balance
sheets rather than tap the market for capital.  Banks Downgraded  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the long-term deposit
and senior debt ratings of eight Greek banks, citing the impact
of impairments of the nation’s government bonds on the lenders’
capital levels.  Raw-material producers declined after a gauge of metal
prices in  London  extended its fall. Copper dropped to the lowest
in more than a year on speculation demand will fall.  Aluminum Corp. of China slumped 5.6 percent to HK$3.54.
Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal, fell
2 percent to HK$13.80, extending this week’s decline to 26
percent, the biggest drop since October 2008. Glencore
International Plc, the world’s largest commodities trader, slid
3.4 percent to HK$48.60.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index lost 0.4 percent to 17,762.
The HSI Volatility Index jumped 5.1 percent to 43.70, indicating
options traders expect a swing of 12.5 percent in the Hang Seng
Index in the next 30 days.  Hongguo International Holdings Ltd., a maker of ladies’
shoes, tumbled 15 percent to HK$1.96 on its trading debut. The
company sold 500 million shares at HK$2.30 apiece in its initial
share sale, pricing the IPO at the lower-end of the targeted
range of as much as HK$3.24.  Market uncertainty forced companies including Sany Heavy
Industry Co., the construction-equipment maker backed by China’s
richest man, XCMG Construction Machinery Co. and China
Everbright Bank Co. to postpone their  Hong Kong  IPOs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  