-- 
Zambia’s ‘King Cobra’ Pledges to Spread Wealth as President

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-09-23T16:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/opposition-leader-sata-wins-zambia-s-presidential-election-1-.html
Michael Sata , known to his
supporters as “King Cobra,” was sworn in as Zambia’s president
today and promised the nation’s poor a greater of the wealth in
 Africa ’s top copper producer.  The 73-year-old Sata, who leads the Patriotic Front party,
beat incumbent Rupiah Banda in the Sept. 20 presidential
election, said Ireen Mambilima, chairwoman of the  Electoral
Commission . Sata, who narrowly lost three previous elections,
had 43 percent to Banda’s 36 percent with more than 90 percent
of votes counted and couldn’t be beaten, she told reporters in
Lusaka, the capital.  Sata’s party also won the most seats in parliamentary
elections. The victories end two decades of rule by the Movement
for Multiparty Democracy.  Sata, known by his moniker because of his aggressive
campaigning style, attracted followers among the southern
African nation’s youth with a promise to create jobs and spread
wealth by extracting more benefits from a rapidly expanding
copper industry.  The government must do more to address poverty and seek
policies that help the country’s poor share in economic growth,
Sata said in his inauguration speech in Lusaka, broadcast on
national television. The government will continue to work in
partnership with investors, who are welcome in the country, he
said.  Favorable Taxes  “The fact that 70 percent of our people live in poverty is
unacceptable,” Sata said to loud applause from tens of
thousands of people outside the country’s  Supreme Court . “It’s
time to put Zambians first. No-one should be above sharing the
benefits of development.”  Favorable taxes and regulations helped lure copper-mining
companies and boost production to more than 700,000 metric tons
last year. While economic growth averaged more than 6 percent a
year in the three years Banda was president, the country was
among the 20  lowest-ranked  nations on the United Nations
Development Programme’s 2010 Human Development Index.  A Sata presidency will probably lead to higher taxes for
mining companies,  Leon Myburgh , sub-Saharan Africa strategist
for Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, said in a note to clients.  “Clearly, they will want to make some changes from the MMD
government, and it seems as if the most likely change will be to
mining taxation,” he said.  Credible Election  The elections were seen as “credible,” Maria Muniz de
Urquiza, the head of a European Union team that observed voting
and counting, told reporters in Lusaka on Sept. 22.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  commended the African country’s
“commitment to multiparty democracy,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the White House.  “Today is a day for Zambia to celebrate their democratic
achievement,” he said. “I hope that all Zambians will find
common ground as you address the challenges and seize the
opportunities facing your country and our world.”  While an opinion poll by the Lusaka-based Centre for Policy
Dialogue had forecast a Banda victory, a surge in new young
voters boosted Sata’s chances. The number of registered voters
climbed to about 5.1 million from 3.9 million three years ago,
according to the electoral commission.  Banda conceded defeat today, saying “the people have
spoken.”  “We must all face the reality that sometimes it is time to
change,” he said in a nationally broadcast speech from Lusaka.
“It’s time for me to step aside, my time is done.”  Double Production  Zambia may become the world’s fifth-largest copper miner by
2013, Sophie Chung, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie’s metals
research unit, Brook Hunt, said in July. Production may more
than double to 1.44 million metric tons by 2015, Brook Hunt
said. Producers including  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  and Vale
SA are planning more than $6 billion in investment.  Chile is the world’s biggest copper producer, with annual
production of more than 5 million tons.  Shares in First Quantum, which plans to invest $1.9 billion
in two Zambian mines, slumped 6.3 percent to 914 pence in
 London . Shares in the company fell 33 percent in the past five
days, their biggest five-day drop since November 2008. The
Bloomberg Europe Metals & Mining Index slid 15 percent over the
same period.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , which also operates mines in Zambia,
fell 0.4 percent to 1,113 pence in London, extending its decline
to 22 percent this week.  Zambia’s kwacha lost as much as 3.4 percent to 5,160
against the dollar, in Lusaka, its weakest level in more than a
year. It was at 5,145 at 6 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  