-- 
Morgan Stanley Gains as France Worry Wanes

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-09-23T21:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/morgan-stanley-gains-most-among-banks-as-france-concern-wanes.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , gained the most
among the biggest U.S. banks in New York trading as concern
eased that  Europe ’s debt crisis would expose the firm to losses
from French lenders.  Morgan Stanley climbed 66 cents, or 5 percent, to $13.72 at
4:15 p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
It was the biggest increase among the 81 companies on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst, wrote in
a note to clients that the New York-based lender faces less than
$2 billion of risks linked to  France . Potential losses connected
to French banks wouldn’t exceed 65 cents a share, according to
 Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC.  Having $2 billion at risk “is not good, but it’s not
threatening in any fashion,” Bove, who expects Morgan Stanley
to rise to $31 over the next 12 to 18 months, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s no certainty that the French
banks are going to fail, and No. 2, if they do fail, there’s no
certainty that all $2 billion will go down with the French
banks.”  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said
in a filing last year that it had about $39 billion at risk with
French lenders, which are falling on concern that the sovereign-
debt crisis will spur losses. The figure exaggerates actual
risks because it includes all funds in French accounts, such as
client holdings, and excludes collateral posted to Morgan
Stanley, Bove and Hintz said.  Morgan Stanley has declined about 50 percent this year. The
MSCI All-Country World Index of 45 nations fell into a  bear
market  this week for the first time in more than two years.  Management at Morgan Stanley has increased capital to
contend with Europe’s crisis, Hintz wrote. Mark Lake, a company
spokesman, declined to comment on analysts’ estimates of Morgan
Stanley’s foreign risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  