-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Should Be Sold for Sake of All MLB Teams, Selig Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/los-angeles-dodgers-should-be-sold-major-league-baseball-tells-judge.html
Major League Baseball Commissioner
 Bud Selig ’s lawyers told a bankruptcy judge that Los Angeles
Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  should be forced to sell the club
because his actions threaten all the league’s teams.  The league opposes McCourt’s plan to keep the team and
raise enough money to get out of bankruptcy by auctioning cable-
television rights to Dodgers’ games, attorneys for Selig said in
court papers filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington, Delaware.  McCourt “is attempting to use these Chapter 11 cases
improperly as a device to cure his own personal financial
woes,” MLB said in the filings.  Selig asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross to strip
McCourt of exclusive control of the bankruptcy case. He accused
McCourt of putting his interest ahead of the club’s and of
violating MLB rules designed to benefit all teams. The league
asked Gross to hold a hearing on its motion on Oct. 12, the same
day the Dodgers want their auction proposal considered.  The Dodgers said in a statement that the MLB request was
meritless.  The plan to sell television rights “is designed to
maximize the value of the Dodgers so it has the opportunity to
emerge successfully from Chapter 11,” the team said in the
statement yesterday. “The alternative offered today by Major
League Baseball really amounts to an unnecessary and value
destroying distressed sale of the  Los Angeles Dodgers .”  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Selig
rejected McCourt’s first attempt to sell the television rights.
That deal would have extended the right of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Sports to televise the games.  McCourt’s Lawyers  Selig also asked Gross to remove McCourt’s two bankruptcy
law firms, Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP and Young Conaway Stargatt &
Taylor LLP. The league said the firms were representing
McCourt’s interests and not those of the Dodgers.  Fox has argued in court papers that trying to sell the
television rights may violate the company’s current contract,
which runs through the 2013 baseball season. Fox holds an
exclusive right to negotiate for a contract extension until
2012.  Should McCourt sell the television rights without Selig’s
approval, the Dodgers could be kicked out of  Major League
Baseball , the league said.  Loan Restrictions  After the Dodgers filed bankruptcy, McCourt fought MLB in
court over who would loan the team enough money to keep
operating while it reorganized. The league won the right to loan
the team $150 million, although Gross removed some restrictions
that the Dodgers claim would have given Selig too much control
over the club.  During the loan fight, MLB raised many of the same
complaints about McCourt’s handling of the Dodgers that it made
in yesterday’s filing.  McCourt has accused Selig of treating him differently than
other owners in the league.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  -- Editors: Michael Hytha, Peter Blumberg  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 