-- 
Osborne Says Euro Region Needs Solution Within Six Weeks

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-09-23T16:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/osborne-says-euro-region-needs-solution-by-cannes-summit.html
Europe  needs to agree on steps to
contain its debt crisis by the time Group of 20 leaders meet in
Cannes,  France , in November, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said.  “Patience is running out in the international community,”
Osborne told reporters in  Washington  today. “There is a clear
sense that there is a deadline for the Cannes summit. The
eurozone has six weeks to resolve this political crisis.”  European policy makers are under intensifying pressure as
their failure to contain the crisis stokes concern the world is
on the brink of another recession. More than $3.4 trillion has
been erased from equity values this week, driving global stocks
into a  bear market  and the lowest valuations since March 2009.  European finance chiefs said yesterday they may use
leverage to increase the resources of their 440-billion euro
($593 billion) rescue fund, suggesting they are alert to
concerns they lack the muscle to prevent the turmoil spreading
beyond  Greece .  The fund needs “convincing firepower to deliver
this,” Osborne said. “I am not sure it is adequate. It’s not
just about making available additional sums of money, but how it
is deployed.”  Rescue Fund  For now, European parliaments are focused on approving a
July plan to widen the scope of the so-called European Financial
Stability Facility to buy the debt of stressed euro-area
governments, aid troubled banks and offer credit lines. The
ratification process has been completed by just six nations.  Governments of the 17 euro nations also need to
“demonstrate the eurozone has the firepower to stand behind its
sovereigns and its banks,” Osborne said, adding that the
 International Monetary Fund  is “quite right” to say that
European banks may need to increase capital buffers by 200
billion euros.  U.K. banks remain “well capitalised and liquid” and able
to weather a sovereign default, Osborne said. There is “very
heightened awareness” among British regulators make sure banks
are strong.  Osborne reiterated that his plan to eliminate the
U.K. structural budget deficit by 2015 is flexible enough to
cushion the economy from the global slowdown. Not only would
fiscal stabilisers -- where welfare spending rises automatically
and the tax burden falls -- provide a looser fiscal stance, but
the  Bank of England  can ease monetary conditions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  