-- 
Pandit Says Market Needs More Transparency Amid Bank-Stock Rout

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-23T19:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/pandit-says-market-needs-more-transparency-amid-bank-stock-rout.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit said banks should explain credit products
in “plain language” and markets must become more transparent
to make the financial system safer.  Firms such as Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender,
should be required to disclose information about consumer
products that isn’t “complex, confusing and hard to access,”
Pandit said. Derivatives, contracts whose value is derived from
underlying assets such as stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities, also remain “too opaque,” he said today in
remarks prepared for a conference organized by Bretton Woods.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. lenders has fallen 25 percent
since the start of August, while Bloomberg’s Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index of 46 firms slid 28 percent on concern
that the economy is weakening and that firms may suffer if
Greece defaults on its debt. The volatility of the last two
months is a reminder of the fragility of “systemic safety” and
attempts to reform the financial sector could be improved,
Pandit said. Regulators haven’t paid enough attention to
consumer finance or non-bank financial firms, he said.  “The more information that we can make available to a
larger number of participants in the system, the more safely and
efficiently the financial markets will operate,” Pandit said in
 Washington . “Market structures should be reformed to create
more transparency and invite more market discipline.”  Citigroup, based in  New York , posted combined losses of
$29.3 billion in 2008 and 2009, much of them tied to products
such as collateralized debt obligations. Many of the CDOs were
packaged from  credit derivatives  linked to mortgage bonds and
other debt instruments.  “Brokers often don’t know the volumes of transactions, the
prices or the amounts outstanding” when dealing in derivatives,
Pandit said. “Lack of transparency inhibits market discipline,
obscures risk and leaves nasty surprises buried in the system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 