-- 
Partnership, Not Pressure, Will Win Pakistan’s Help: Vali Nasr

-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 
2011-09-23T15:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/partnership-not-pressure-will-win-pakistan-s-help-vali-nasr.html
Now that the U.S. has openly
 accused   Pakistan  of helping plan and conduct the  attack 
earlier this month on the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, the Obama
administration’s exit strategy from Afghanistan is looking
increasingly cloudy.  An American departure depends on Pakistan’s
cooperation in keeping things quiet. Yet its spy agency,
the ISI, helped plan and conduct the embassy assault with
the Islamist  Haqqani network , according to Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff. The
U.S. government sees the Haqqani group, which is based in
Pakistan, as an al-Qaeda affiliate. Pakistan denies these
claims, but it has been unwilling to move against the
group’s safe haven within Pakistan’s borders. The U.S. has
threatened to take unilateral action if Pakistan doesn’t
crack down.  Can the U.S. and Pakistan ever get on the same page?  Since the U.S. killed  Osama bin Laden  in Pakistan last
spring, U.S.-Pakistan relations have been in free fall. The
U.S. has put pressure on Pakistan to do more to fight
terrorism. U.S. officials ended their “strategic dialogue”
with Pakistan, suspended $800 million in military aid and,
for the first time, made public their private views that
Pakistan is duplicitous on counterterrorism matters.
Recently, the administration openly implicated Pakistan’s
military leaders in the murder of a Pakistani journalist,
and now, Mullen has said the ISI and Pakistani army use the
Haqqani network as “proxies.”  But pressure tactics haven’t worked. Pakistani
officials counter U.S. threats of unilateral action with
talk of closing supply routes to Afghanistan and ending all
counterterrorism cooperation. In private, they say they
have written off U.S. assistance as too small and
inconsistent to influence their decision-making. Given the
economic climate, they say, Congress would have trimmed the
aid anyway.  Pakistan’s leaders also believe they can make friends
elsewhere. For instance, when the U.S. rolled back energy
assistance, which had been a big part of the bilateral
relationship from 2009 to 2011, Pakistan restarted talks
with Iran about building a  gas pipeline  between the two
countries. This initiative undermined U.S. efforts to
isolate Iran in the region. What’s more, such a pipeline
would compete with the U.S.-supported TAPI project, which
would bring natural gas from  Turkmenistan  to  India  and
Pakistan through Afghanistan. The U.S. has been promoting
the idea of Afghanistan as a transit corridor connecting
resources in Central Asia to markets in  South Asia  and the
rest of the world, creating a New Silk Road that would
foster stability in Afghanistan.  Pakistan has been generally supportive of the New Silk
Road but sees Iranian gas as a quicker and easier
alternative to the Turkmenistan option. And this isn’t just
about filling Pakistan’s energy needs. President Asif Ali Zardari has lauded the pipeline to  Iran  as a new paradigm
for the region, a homemade alternative to the U.S.-backed
New Silk Road. In seeking rapprochement with Iran, Pakistan
is sending a clear message of defiance to  Washington .  If Pakistan is willing to forgo American aid, what can
the U.S. do to win Pakistan’s cooperation on stabilizing
Afghanistan and fighting terrorists? The answer is simple:
It needs to talk to Pakistan about Afghanistan’s future.  Afghanistan has been at the center of Pakistan’s
strategic outlook for the past three decades. Officials in
Islamabad worry that a future Afghanistan, at least as
America envisions it, will make common cause with India to
squeeze Pakistan and even snatch away its restless Pashtun
region on the border with Afghanistan. Pakistan continues
to look to the Taliban to protect its interests in
Afghanistan. Pakistan won’t break with these and associated
extremists unless it believes that an independent
Afghanistan, with a strong military, won’t pose a threat.  The U.S. has done little to assuage such fears.
Rather, it has decided to shape Afghanistan on its own. It
is building a strong military and promoting reconciliation
between the government of President  Hamid Karzai  and the
Taliban. Afghanistan’s neighbors aren’t a part of this
process but are expected to support its outcome. U.S.
officials aim to accelerate the course of events with a
regional conference in  Turkey  in November followed by an
international conference in  Germany  in December.  Pakistan isn’t happy sitting on the margins; it wants
a major role. The government in Islamabad would like to
bypass the international conferences and deal with the U.S.
directly in setting the terms of reconciliation talks,
controlling the agenda, and keeping a firm hold on the
Taliban as they negotiate for turf and power.  The U.S. isn’t ready to give Pakistan this role,
especially with the current state of relations. And Afghan
officials reject the idea that Pakistan should have a say
on the future of their country. They would actually like to
secure a U.S. promise to keep Pakistan out of  Afghanistan 
indefinitely. But that would require a continuing, large
U.S. troop presence, and the U.S. already has decided to
leave.  Somewhere in this, there is a middle ground. The U.S.
should reach out to Pakistan and attentively discuss with
its leaders their interests and objectives in Afghanistan.
Such meetings should precede any further U.S. steps,
including talking with the Taliban, setting the stage for
the upcoming conferences and signing off on any agreements.  This does not mean giving in to Pakistan’s demands,
but rather treating Pakistan, rightfully, as a party with a
special interest in Afghanistan’s future. The U.S. should
make engagement with Pakistan on these issues contingent on
tangible progress in Pakistan’s counterterrorism efforts.
That would give Pakistan an incentive to rein in extremism
on both sides of the border, which is what the U.S. needs,
if it is to leave Afghanistan on schedule.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of international politics at the Fletcher School
of Law and Diplomacy at  Tufts University . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net  