-- 
McCartney’s ‘Kingdom,’ Wilco, Coen Film, Met Gala: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/paul-mccartney-s-kingdom-wilco-coen-film-diva-netrebko-n-y-weekend.html
Wilco comes to Central Park’s
Rumsey Playfield on Friday night.  For more than 15 years, singer-songwriter Jeff Tweedy and
his motley crew have crafted some of the most compelling rock
around -- impressionistic, poly-rhythmic, yet approachable and
catchy.  Wilco’s new album, “The Whole Love,” showcases the band’s
talent for song craft. Each tune is packed with the casually
thoughtful flourishes most other bands would neglect.  Fifth Ave. at 69th St. Doors open at 5 p.m. Information:
 http://www.bowerypresents.com/event/53741 .  Saturday  Check out the Dumbo arts celebration, including Janet
Biggs’s “Wet Exit,” combining video, drummers, singers,
musicians and kayakers in the  East River .  There will be open studios, workshops and street revelers,
as more than 500 artists converge upon  Brooklyn  for the annual
festival.  How about 15 blindfolded wrestlers battling it out in a
steel cage? That’s Shaun ‘El C.’ Leonardo’s recreation of the
opening scene of Ralph Ellison’s “The Invisible Man.”  Starting at noon Saturday and Sunday between the Brooklyn
and Manhattan Bridges. Information:
 http://dumboartsfestival.com .  Saturday Matinee  Plunge into  Paul McCartney ’s first dance score, “Ocean’s
Kingdom,” choreographed by Peter Martins for the  New York City
Ballet .  Set in four movements -- “Ocean’s Kingdom,” “Hall of
Dance,” “Imprisonment” and “Moonrise” -- it’s a love story
that takes off when human beings come to threaten the subaquatic
realm.  The production is a family affair: Paul’s daughter, Stella,
designed the costumes.  Also on the program, Balanchine’s “Union Jack.”  David H. Koch Theater,  Lincoln Center . Information: +1-212-
870-5570;  http://www.nycballet.com/nycb/home .  Saturday Night  Step back in time and be entertained like a king: Lully’s
elegantly arch “Atys” returns to the Brooklyn Academy of Music
with William Christie.  The 1676 opera applauded by Louis XIV tells the story of a
hapless mortal who, loving a river nymph, attracts the erotic
attention of the goddess Cybele. The result? Dancing, madness,
murder and suicide.  At the end, the hero is transformed into a supple pine
tree. Could be worse!  Ed Lyon, Emmanuelle de Negri and Anna Reinhold head the
excellent cast.  BAM is at 30 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn. Information: +1-718-
636-4100;  http://www.bam.org .  For a different sort of experience, try a “Medea” dropped
into 19th-century Meiji-era  Japan .  Directed by Satoshi Miyagi, the explosive, multi-media
production of the Euripides play -- part Greek tragedy, part
kabuki, with a bit of bunraku puppetry added to the mix --
explores ever-relevant themes of misogyny and violence.  Presented by the celebrated Shizuoka Performing Arts Center
at Japan Society, 333 East 47th St. Information: +1-212-715-
1258;  http://www.japansociety.org .  Sunday  The full red lips are made of rubies and the teeth are
small round pearls. The brooch by  Salvador Dali  is on view at
the Museum of Arts and Design, along with a silver chastity belt
necklace by Louise Bourgeois and a Jeff Koons rabbit pendant.  In all, the show contains more than 180 baubles.  Then grab a bite at Robert, the 9th floor restaurant with
its great views of Central Park.  Savor a Bloody Mary and the lobster risotto with coral
butter, along with the mellow jazz trio.  “Picasso to Koons: The Artist as Jeweler” runs through
Jan. 8 at 2 Columbus Circle. Information: +1-212-299-7777;
 http://collections.madmuseum.org .  Sunday Matinee  Ethan Coen, Elaine May and  Woody Allen  have come up with
“Relatively Speaking,” a triple bill of one-act comedies,  Coen’s contribution is “Talking Cure,” about family
craziness, May’s “George is Dead” looks at the funny side of
dying, while Allen’s “Honeymoon Motel” casts a comic eye on
weddings.  John Turturro directs a stellar cast including Julie Kavner, Steve Guttenberg and Mark Linn-Baker.  In previews at the Brooks Atkinson Theatre for an Oct. 20
opening. 256 W. 47th St. Information: +1-212-719-4099;
 http://brooksatkinsontheater.com .  At Blue Fin, glide past the decorative school of fish and
settle in for a dozen oysters.  At 1567 Broadway, near 47th St. Information: +1-212-918-
1400.  Looking Ahead  Diva  Anna Netrebko  steps out as the doomed queen in
Donizetti’s “Anna Bolena,” as the  Metropolitan Opera  opens its
new season with a Monday night gala.  The production of this melodious songfest is by David McVicar and stars Ekaterina Gubanova as Jane Seymour and Ildar
Abdrazakov as Henry VIII.  No ticket? Catch the show on giant screens in Lincoln Plaza
(free tickets will be distributed at noon on Sunday) and at
Times Square, where it’s first come, first served. Curtain is at
6:30 with Deborah Voigt presiding over festive chatter half an
hour earlier.  Lincoln Center. Information: +1-212-362-6000;
 http://www.metoperafamily.org .  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch and Daniel Billy. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 