-- 
Republican Ryan Sees Supercommittee Falling Short of Deficit-Cutting Goals

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-09-24T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/paul-ryan-sees-supercommittee-falling-short-of-deficit-goals.html
House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan 
predicted a congressional supercommittee will fall short of its
goal of finding $1.5 trillion in savings, while saying it should
be able to find roughly half that without raising taxes.  Finding $600 billion in budget cuts ought to be “pretty
easy,” said Ryan, pointing to a requirement for automatic cuts
of $1.2 trillion, from both defense and nondefense programs,
beginning in 2013 if the committee fails to meet its target.  “I think there will be” an agreement, though “I don’t
know how large it will be,” Ryan said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing
this weekend. Ryan, architect of a plan to replace Medicare with
subsidies to help the elderly buy insurance, said he expects his
party will stand by that proposal.  “We can show many different ways of arriving at $1.2
trillion in spending cuts,” said Ryan, noting that an effort
overseen by Vice President  Joe Biden  came close to that. “We’ve
had talks earlier that got very close to that number, so I’d
like to think we can get pretty close.”  He said President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs proposal
is probably dead, including his call to extend and expand a
payroll tax cut expiring at the end of this year.  Ryan criticized the payroll tax cut, saying “temporary tax
rebates, we have learned from the Bush and the Obama
administration, did not work very well.” Ryan said, “I’m fine
with the idea of people keeping more of their own money, but we
would like to go with ideas that are proven to work, not ideas
that are proven to fail.”  Tax Expenditures  Asked about presidential candidate  Jon Huntsman ’s proposal
to eliminate tax breaks including the home-mortgage deduction,
Ryan said, “You don’t have to do that in what we proposed.” He
said the U.S. should have a “two-tier flat-tax system that fits
on a postcard” for those who prefer that. Taxpayers should also
have the choice of the current system, he said.  Policymakers ought to be able to agree on several free
trade agreements as well as a corporate tax overhaul that would
help produce jobs, he said. “Those are a couple of things that
the president said would create jobs that we agree with,” said
Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican.  A Bloomberg News poll released last week found 57 percent
oppose Ryan’s Medicare plan while 37 percent support it.  Saving Medicare  Yet “we just won two special elections where this was a
big piece of the debate,” Ryan said. “The program’s going
bankrupt -- you’ve got to do something to save the system.”  While Republicans have called Obama’s proposals to raise
taxes on the wealthy class warfare, Ryan rejected suggestions
that his own budget plan -- which would slash taxes for the rich
as well as funding for  food stamps  and other low-income
assistance programs -- also amounts to class warfare.  The difference, he said, is “the president is using
rhetoric that divides people, that preys on people’s sense of
anxiety, fear, envy.” He said: “what we’re trying to do is
appeal to people’s sense of hope, aspiration. We want an equal-
opportunity society. We want a society of upward mobility, and
that is what we’re striving for.”  Ryan added that spending on food stamps, Medicaid and other
programs for the poor would continue to rise under his budget,
which also calls for cutting Medicare benefits for the wealthy.  Ryan declined to endorse Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Perry ’s likening of Social Security to a  Ponzi scheme .  “It’s not the word I would choose to describe it. Ponzi
was a criminal enterprise,” Ryan said. “Obviously that’s not
the case with Social Security.”  “But there are problems with it, with Social Security,
that we all acknowledge. It’s going broke,” he said. “If we do
nothing,” then “a critical program that millions of people
rely on, and the next generation, will get a bankrupt system and
so let’s save it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  