-- 
Philippine Stocks May Have Peaked This Year, Union Bank Says

-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-09-23T07:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/philippine-equities-may-have-peaked-this-year-union-bank-says.html
Philippine stocks may have passed
this year’s peak as concerns about Europe’s debt crisis and U.S.
economic growth outweigh slowing domestic inflation, according
to Union Bank of the  Philippines .  “It would be foolish to expect the market to rally from
now until the end of the year and exceed the peak it reached in
August,”  Michael Garcia , who runs the nation’s best-performing
stock fund in the past three years at the bank, said in a phone
interview. “It’s not the time to place aggressive bets.”  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index has fallen 14 percent
from a peak on Aug. 2 amid a rout in global equities. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index slumped 23 percent in the same period.
The nation’s stock gauge may trade between 3,700 and 4,500 for
the rest of the year, Garcia said.  “We won’t see a strong trend in the short term because
sentiments will be damped by developments in the U.S. and
 Europe ,” he said. Touching this year’s low “wouldn’t be out of
the question, especially if markets panic on the back of the
European contagion.” The index dropped to this year’s lowest
closing level of 3,730.84 on Feb. 24.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 6.3 percent to 880.64
yesterday, the sharpest loss since November 2008 and the lowest
close since May 2010, after the  Federal Reserve  said on Sept. 21
it will purchase $400 billion of long-term debt amid
“significant downside risks” to  U.S. economy . The gauge
dropped 1.7 percent at 3:01 p.m. Singapore time, bound for an 11
percent loss this week.  Valuation Premium  The Philippine  stock index  slumped 5.1 percent to 3,885.96
at the noon close today in  Manila , the sharpest loss since
October 2008 and a 9.4 percent decline this week.  Inflation eased to a four-month low of 4.7 percent in
August. Philippine economic growth slowed for a fourth straight
quarter in the three months through June, expanding 3.4 percent
from a year earlier as faltering global demand curbed exports
and investment eased.  The Philippine central bank will “remain mindful of
ensuring policy settings that could help sustain the growth we
are now enjoying, given the lower risk of inflation that is
looming,” bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday.  Companies on the Philippine index traded at 15.2 times
reported earnings on Aug. 19, compared with 13 times on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, the widest premium since December 2002, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Philippine shares traded at 13.3
times today, compared with 12.3 times on the Asian gauge.  ‘Next Investment Wave’  “Those valuations are not going to get any higher without
earnings doing their part,” said Garcia, who helps manage $1
billion. “First-half earnings were generally disappointing, not
what most people expected.”  Still, Philippine government infrastructure projects will
help stoke profits and economic growth, he said.  “Infrastructure will be a very dominant sector moving
forward and will lead the next investment wave,” Garcia said,
recommending investors buy into industries that gain from these
investments, such as banks, cement and property.  The UBP Large Capitalization Philippine Equity Portfolio
fund run by Garcia has returned 167 percent in the past three
years, the most among Philippine equity funds tracked by
Bloomberg and more than twice the benchmark index’s 66 percent
advance. The fund has declined 4.4 percent from end-2010 through
yesterday, compared with a 2.5 percent loss in the index, data
show.  Overseas funds were net buyers of $475 million of
Philippine shares, and a net $1.27 billion of Indonesian stocks,
making the two nations this year’s most “crowded” equity
trades, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a Sept. 20 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  