-- 
Philippines Appeals WTO Ruling Against Its Taxes on Liquor

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-09-23T18:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/philippines-appeals-wto-ruling-against-its-liquor-import-taxes.html
The Philippines today appealed a
World Trade Organization ruling that found its taxes on imports
of spirits from the U.S. and the European Union to be illegal.  WTO judges on Aug. 15 rejected the Philippines’ argument
that imported liquor such as Jim Beam whiskey, Brandy de Jerez
and Southern Comfort don’t compete with locally made distilled
spirits and therefore different taxes based on the raw material
used to make the liquor should be legal.  The Philippines applies a lower  tax rate  on sugar- and
palm-based drinks produced within the country. Levies on foreign
spirits may in some cases be almost 50 times higher than those
on domestic liquor, according to the EU. WTO judges in Geneva
urged the Philippines to revise the taxes.  Members of the Distilled Spirits Association of the
Philippines produced 66 million cases of liquor last year with
gross sales of almost 50 billion pesos ($1.1 billion), according
to the organization. The association said the day after the
ruling that WTO judges had failed to “seriously and carefully
analyze the Philippines’ basic defenses.”  The 27-nation EU, the world’s biggest liquor exporter with
sales overseas exceeding 7 billion euros ($9.4 billion) last
year, shipped 16.5 million euros of spirits to the  Philippines 
in 2010, down from almost 37 million euros in 2004, according to
the European Commission in Brussels. Trade between the two
economies was worth 9.1 billion euros last year.  U.S. distilled-spirits exports worldwide averaged more than
$1 billion a year from 2006 through 2009. Philippine imports of
liquor haven’t exceeded 5 percent of total sales of spirits in
the nation since 2003.  WTO appellate judges generally issue their rulings within
three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  