-- 
Pimco’s Kiesel Favors Cash Over Junk as Europe Hits Recession

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-09-23T12:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/pimco-s-kiesel-favors-cash-over-junk-as-europe-hits-recession.html
Bond investors should cut risk and
hold more cash as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may lead to a
recession that will hurt companies around the world, according
to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Mark Kiesel .  “Investors should wait to see whether policy makers can be
effective in formulating a coordinated and credible solution for
Europe before taking on more risk,” Kiesel, Pimco’s global head
of corporate bond portfolios, wrote today in a report.  Pimco, the Newport Beach, California-based manager of the
world’s largest bond fund, expects Europe to fall into a
recession over the next year as policy makers cut spending and
debt to avoid defaults by Greece and other heavily indebted
countries, Kiesel said. He favors bank loans and debt issued by
well-capitalized corporations over speculative bonds.  “It is too soon to be aggressively buying high yield
now,” Kiesel said yesterday in an e-mail. “My sense is that
you’ll get a better entry point and that it is best to remain
cautious and wait.”  As investors speculated that Italy and  Spain  may be forced
to follow Greece, Portugal and Ireland in seeking bailouts,
high-yield, or junk, bonds dropped 4 percent last month, the
most since November 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money
manager, and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s top-ranked high-yield
strategist say the market is overestimating the chances
companies will fail.  “We have a more cautious economic outlook than most,”
Kiesel said in the e-mail. “Our portfolios have been building
cash and taking a more defensive stance.”  ‘Draconian Scenario’  James Keenan, who oversees BlackRock’s $28 billion
leveraged finance unit, said in a Sept. 20 telephone interview
that junk bonds are a “great long-term investment” as the
market is “factoring in a pretty draconian scenario.”  JPMorgan’s  Peter Acciavatti , the top high-yield strategist
in Institutional Investor magazine’s annual poll, wrote in a
Sept. 16 report that the junk bond market is in “good shape.”
Relative yields on high-yield debt imply a default rate of 7.4
percent, more than the 6 percent peak rate that would likely be
seen in a recession, Acciavatti wrote.  Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer of Pimco, said at an event in Washington
yesterday that the world is on the eve of a financial crisis and
that the  European Central Bank  hasn’t put in place a “circuit
breaker” to contain the region’s debt crisis. His co-chief
investment officer at Pimco,  Bill Gross , said on Twitter that
“Euroland” is already in recession. Gross manages the $245.3
billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the largest bond fund.  Greece said yesterday it will accelerate budget cuts to
keep emergency loans flowing, as leaders from the Group of 20
nations gather in Washington for the annual meetings of the
 World Bank  and  International Monetary Fund . Germany and other
countries with strong finances will have to decide whether to
keep helping struggling nations or “potentially move forward
with a smaller, stronger group,” Kiesel wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 