-- 
Polish Spending Cuts Can’t Come at Growth’s Expense, Boni Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-23T13:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/polish-spending-cuts-can-t-come-at-growth-s-expense-boni-says.html
Polish spending cuts by the next
government can’t come at the expense of economic growth amid
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s
chief adviser said.  Voters in the  European Union’s  largest post-Communist
economy head to the polls in a general election on Oct. 9.
The government that emerges from the vote shouldn’t preclude
“pro-growth spending” given the current economic climate,
 Michal Boni , a minister in Tusk’s chancellery since 2009, said
in an interview yesterday in Warsaw.  “We have to consolidate public finances, that’s a vital
task for the next parliamentary term,” said Boni, one of the
premier’s closest co-workers. “But we have to manage it in such
a way that we don’t hamper growth.”  Concern that Poland won’t be able to control its deficit
after the election increased the cost of insuring the country’s
debt against default. The nation’s A- credit rating may come
under negative pressure as the vote raises the risk of looser
budget policy, according to  Fitch Ratings , which said on Sept. 8
that the government’s revenue forecasts are “too optimistic”
and austerity measures “definitely aren’t sufficient.”  The  budget deficit  has more than quadrupled since 2007 and
exceeded the EU’s ceiling for a third year in 2010. Tusk has
said he plans to lower the general government deficit to within
the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of economic output in 2012 from
7.9 percent last year. The European Commission has given Poland
until next year to exit its excessive-deficit procedure. Public
debt, at 52.8 percent of GDP in 2010, is near a legal ceiling of
55 percent that triggers mandatory austerity measures.  ‘Quite Absurd’  Five-year credit-default swaps, used to speculate on a
borrower’s ability to repay debt or hedge against losses, were
trading at 304 basis points today, compared with Slovakia’s 210
and the  Czech Republic ’s 148, figures from data provider CMA
show. The level of Poland’s default swaps is “quite absurd,”
Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said in an interview
with Bloomberg this month.  The Polish economy expanded 4.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier after growing 4.4 percent in the
first three months. While consumption growth, at 3.5 percent on
the year, was lower in March-June than in the quarter before, it
still remained a driver of economic growth.  The International Monetary Fund  this week cut its Polish
2012 growth estimate to 3 percent, below the government’s 4
percent forecast, citing weaker global activity.  ‘Absolutely Crucial’  Criticism of Tusk’s deficit-reduction efforts is
unwarranted as the government has cut early retirement
eligibility and increased labor-market flexibility, Boni said.  “The argument that you can only either spend or save is
nonsense,” he said. “We looked very hard at the components of
Polish GDP, and keeping consumption at healthy levels is
absolutely crucial.”  Boni said Poland should steer clear of making changes to
the pension system similar to  Hungary , which last year funneled
private-pension assets into the budget by taking away the right
to state retirement pay from those who opted against the move.  “It would be crazy to cut contributions to the private
pension funds any further than they have been already,” he
said. “That instrument has been used already and we’ve reached
the limit of its practicability.”  The Polish zloty’s recent weakness is a major worry for the
government as it has been caused mainly by external factors such
as the uncertainty surrounding  Greece ’s ability to avoid a
default and the  Federal Reserve ’s comments on the  U.S. economy ,
Boni said.  The zloty has slumped more than 18 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  this quarter, the second-weakest performer of 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “I’m very concerned about the zloty’s depreciation,” he
said, adding that domestic institutions in  Poland  were acting
appropriately to shore up the currency. “Ensuring currency
stability will be one of the first tasks of the next
government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  