-- 
Pope Benedict Disappoints German Protestant Leaders Seeking Common Ground

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-09-23T15:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/pope-benedict-disappoints-german-protestant-leaders-seeking-common-ground.html
Pope Benedict XVI  disappointed
Protestants seeking common ground with Catholics by stressing
differences between the two groups, as he continued a  four-day
journey  in his native  Germany .  The Evangelical Church of Germany, or EKD, an umbrella
group of German Evangelical and Lutheran denominations, had
raised the issue of joint communion for married couples of
different Christian denominations. Speaking in the eastern city
of Erfurt today, the Catholic leader rebuffed expectations by
saying that one can’t “think through or negotiate” faith.  “I’d like to point out that this represents a political
misunderstanding of faith and ecumenism,” Benedict said in a
speech to a joint-faith group in the  St. Augustine cloister ,
where Martin Luther, the founder of Protestantism, began his
monastic studies in 1505.  Benedict arrived yesterday in Berlin, where he met with
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  and warned in a speech to Parliament
that  Europe  risks falling into “culturelessness” that invites
extremism, such as Nazism. His remarks today recalled his views
when he policed Catholic doctrine as head of the Congregation
for the Doctrine of Faith under his predecessor,  John Paul II .  “In the run-up to this papal visit, there has been various
talk of an ecumenical gesture that could be expected of it,” he
said. Yet rather than comparing religious tendencies, unity
requires “intensified thinking and living” in one’s own faith.  Reformation Jubilee  While the meeting between the 84-year-old pontiff and
leaders of Germany’s protestant denominations was “open and
friendly,” Bishop Johannes Friedrich, head of the United
Evangelical-Lutheran Church of Germany, said he would have
wanted to see closer ties. He also expressed disappointment that
Benedict declined to discuss the  Reformation Jubilee  in 2017,
five centuries after Luther issued the 95 theses that
represented his movement’s rupture from the Catholic Church.  “The pope unfortunately didn’t concretely discuss the
Reformation Jubilee in today’s talks,” Friedrich said in a
statement posted on the group’s website.  Nikolaus Schneider, chairman of the EKD, lauded the pope’s
appearance, while adding that “our heart burns for more,”
according to the group’s website. Although he didn’t mention the
2017 anniversary, Benedict praised Luther as a theologian.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  