-- 
Potash Producer Civil Antitrust Suit Rejected by U.S. Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-23T19:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/potash-producer-civil-antitrust-suit-rejected-by-u-s-court-1-.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
and six other producers of the fertilizer chemical won a U.S.
appeals court ruling rejecting purchaser claims they conspired
to fix prices in violation of federal antitrust laws.  The buyers sued in 2008, claiming violations of the U.S.
Foreign Trade Antitrust Improvements Act, which can extend the
reach of American antitrust law to foreign anticompetitive
conduct that affects U.S. imports.  The Chicago-based court today ruled that Minn-Chem Inc. and
its co-plaintiffs failed to state a plausible “direct,
substantial and reasonably foreseeable,” link between the
allegedly anti-competitive activity of the producers -- all of
whose mining operations are based in  Canada , Russia or Belarus -
- and the U.S. market for their product.  “All of the anticompetitive conduct identified in the
complaint is alleged to have occurred outside the  United
States ,” U.S. Circuit Judge Diane Sykes wrote in the court’s
unanimous 27-page decision.  Also named as defendants in the case were Calgary-based
Agrium Inc., Plymouth, Minnesota-based  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , as well as
Russian and Belarussian companies. As of 2008, they accounted
for about 71 percent of the world’s supply of potash, according
to today’s court ruling.  600 Percent  The direct and indirect purchasers had claimed U.S. potash
prices climbed 600 percent from 2003 to 2008, an increase they
attributed to an agreement among the producers to limit
production and raise prices, as they allegedly did in  China ,
 India  and  Brazil , the court said.  “We are evaluating the opinion and making decisions about
what we will be doing,” San Francisco attorney Bruce Simon, who
argued the case for the purchasers on June 3, said today in a
phone interview. He declined to comment further.  “We believe the court made the right ruling,” Rob Litt, a
spokesman for Mosaic, said in a phone interview.  “We’re certainly very pleased with the decision of the
court,” said Bill Johnson, a spokesman for Saskatoon-based
Potash Corp.  Today’s ruling reversed a November 2009 decision by U.S.
District Judge Ruben Castillo in  Chicago . The appeals court
today returned the antitrust case to Castillo with instructions
that he dismiss it.  Joining Sykes in the ruling was U.S. Circuit Judge Daniel Manion. U.S. Circuit Judge Terence Evans, who was part of the
three-judge panel that heard the attorneys’ arguments in July,
died a month later without taking part in the decision.  The case is Minn-Chem Inc. v.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , 10-1712, U.S.
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  