-- 
Rambo Preacher Saves Orphans; Addict Fights Big Pharma: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/rambo-preacher-saves-orphans-addict-lawyer-fights-big-pharma-rick-warner.html
Rambo meets Mother Teresa in
“ Machine Gun Preacher ,” the true story of an ex-con biker who
finds God and devotes his life to aiding orphans in war-ravaged
 Sudan .  Sam Childers, played with manic intensity by Gerard Butler,
is a do-gooder with a nasty streak. He rescues desperate African
kids, but doesn’t hesitate to mow down members of the Lord’s
Resistance Army who slaughter civilians and force child soldiers
to kill their own parents.  Childers is a charismatic figure worthy of big-screen
treatment. Regrettably, director Marc Forster (“Monster’s
Ball,” “Quantum of Solace”) and screenwriter Jason Keller
never explain his remarkable transformation or schizophrenic
personality.  When Childers gets out of prison, he returns home to his
ex-stripper wife (Michelle Monaghan) and daughter in rural
 Pennsylvania , where he resumes his criminal ways with troubled
best friend Donnie (Michael Shannon).  Soon, Childers follows his wife’s lead and finds Jesus.
Inspired by a visiting preacher, he visits  Africa  and becomes
obsessed with rescuing the youngest victims of a savage civil
war. He neglects his thriving construction business and his own
family while risking his life for strangers.  It’s yet another film about African suffering told through
the eyes of a white person. The black children are mostly
nameless symbols, except for a mute boy who teaches Childers an
important lesson.  “Machine Gun Preacher,” from Relativity Media,” is
playing in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: **1/2  ‘Puncture’  “ Puncture ” is a David versus Goliath legal drama about a
couple of young Houston ambulance chasers who battle
pharmaceutical and health-care giants trying to block the use of
a safer syringe in hospitals.  Directed by brothers Adam and Mark Kassen, it’s a low-rent
version of “Erin Brokovich.” Despite its less-than-polished
look, the film packs emotional power and a serious message about
corporate behemoths more interested in profits than the public
good.  The real-life story centers on Mike Weiss ( Chris Evans ), a
drug-addicted, personal-injury lawyer who persuades his partner
(Mark Kassen) to take on the case of a nurse (Vinessa Shaw) who
contracted HIV from an infected emergency-room needle.  Safer Needle  They push for widespread use of a retractable syringe that
could prevent such incidents, but hospitals and medical
suppliers resist to preserve their sweetheart deal on the older,
more dangerous needles.  Weiss persists, putting his practice and his health in
jeopardy, while fighting the companies and a slick, high-priced
defense attorney (Brett Cullen). The film barrels toward its
tense climax, with few distractions along the way.  Evans, the hunky star of “Captain America: The First
Avenger,” shows some acting chops as the flawed hero determined
to do right no matter what the cost.  “Puncture,” from Millenium Entertainment,” is playing in
New York,  Los Angeles  and Houston. Rating: **1/2  ‘Toast’  “ Toast ” is a savory coming-of-age story about growing up
as a foodie in 1960s  England . The aromas of pies, cakes, roasted
turkey and fresh fish practically waft from the screen.  The film is based on a memoir by Nigel Slater, who went on
to become a famous food writer.  Slater’s beloved mom (Victoria Hamilton) is lost in the
kitchen, where she heats unopened canned food in a pot. After
she dies, his stodgy dad (Ken Stott) hires a fun-loving cleaning
woman he later marries -- much to the dismay of Nigel, who
considers her a low-class gold digger.  Nigel’s epicurean nature baffles his father and annoys his
jealous stepmother (Helena Bonham Carter), a gourmet cook who
makes heavenly lemon meringue pies.  The cast is exceptional, led by Stott, Bonham Carter and
Freddie Highmore, who plays Nigel as a teenager.  “Toast,” from W2 Media, is playing in  New York  and Oct. 7
in Los Angeles. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 