-- 
Travelport Bondholders Seek to Block Blackstone Debt Swap

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-09-23T17:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/travelport-bondholders-seek-to-block-blackstone-debt-exchange.html
Travelport Ltd. bonds climbed after
holders of at least 25 percent of its notes attempted to block a
debt exchange, saying the company is engaging in a fraudulent
transfer of assets, according to a regulatory filing today.  “The noteholders demand that Holdings and its affiliates
cease and desist from taking any steps to document or consummate
the restructuring,” according to a letter sent by Dewey &
LeBoeuf to Travelport dated Sept. 22.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which bought the travel-reservation
system provider from Cendant Corp. in June 2006 for $4.3
billion, needs to restructure the company to avoid falling out
of compliance with a debt-to-earnings ratio requirement in its
loan agreement. Travelport expects earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization to fall as a result of UAL
Corp.’s merger with Continental Airlines Inc.  The noteholders object to the Atlanta-based company’s plan
to transfer a $135 million second-lien term loan to a newly
formed restricted unit, saying that any investment must be made
with an expectation of an economic return, according to the
letter.  Bondholders also object to Travelport’s plan to issue
$342.5 million of second-lien term loans and the payment of $85
million in cash for the sole benefit of the owners of the
company’s so-called payment-in-kind notes. This would “likely
be fraudulent transfers,” the letter said.  PIK Loans  The company’s $247.2 million of 11.875 percent senior
unsecured bonds due September 2016 rose 3 cents to 42.5 cents on
the dollar at 11:18 a.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The debt yields about 39 percent and has plunged 40
percent since the end of August.  Travelport is asking lenders to consent to a restructuring
of its $715 million PIK loan that matures in March 2012,
according to a regulatory filing. PIK notes allow borrowers to
pay interest with more debt instead of cash and typically pay
margins double those of senior-ranking loans.  If the company doesn’t receive unanimous consent from the
holders of the debt it intends to begin voluntary Chapter 11
bankruptcy proceedings at the holding company level in order to
complete the transaction. Holders of a majority of the PIK loans
have agreed to the restructuring, the filing said.  If Travelport were to file a prepackaged bankruptcy it
wouldn’t affect the operations at Travelport Ltd., the company
said in a Sept. 19 press statement.  Prepackaged Bankruptcy  Travelport Holdings began soliciting votes for its
prepackaged bankruptcy plan yesterday, according to a regulatory
filing. The initial PIK loan, in March 2007, was used to finance
a dividend to Blackstone and affiliated equity owners, according
to yesterday’s filing.  The restructuring will exchange the PIK loan for $85
million in cash to pay down the debt; $207.5 million in a new
second-lien PIK term loan due Dec. 2012; a $287.5 million PIK
loan that matures Dec. 2016; and a $135 million PIK loan that
expires Sept. 2012, which if not repaid in one year would
convert into a second-lien portion due in 2016, according to the
filing. Lenders would also get a stake of 15 percent to 44
percent in Travelport’s parent company, depending on when the
PIK loans are repaid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 