-- 
RBA Says Banks Face Weaker Credit, Assets Than Pre-Lehman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-23T01:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/rba-says-banks-face-weaker-credit-assets-than-pre-lehman.html
Australian banks face slower
credit growth and weaker asset quality than prior to the
global credit crunch sparked by the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers  Holdings Inc. in 2008.  While the nation’s lenders are better placed to cope
with market shocks than three years ago, the proportion of
non-performing assets on their balance sheets remains close
to its recent peak, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in
its financial stability review released today in Sydney.  “The Australian banking system remains in a
relatively strong condition compared with some overseas,”
the RBA said. “Should conditions deteriorate materially,
the effect on the banking system would occur from a
somewhat weaker starting position on asset quality than had
been the case at the beginning of the crisis.”  Since the implosion of Lehman Brothers, the Australian
banking system has increased capital levels, cut its
reliance on short-term wholesale funding and made greater
use of deposits as a source of funding, the RBA said in its
half-yearly report. Even so, credit growth has slowed to
the weakest since 1977 and  house prices  are weakening.  “With house prices softening, borrowers cannot sell
their property as easily if they get into payment
difficulty, meaning fewer cases of arrears are likely to be
resolved by the sale of the property than when prices were
rising,” the central bank said today.  Lending Caution  In an environment of low credit growth, the Reserve
Bank said lenders shouldn’t “imprudently” expand balance
sheets by easing lending standards or take on “excessive
risks.” As a result, shareholders may need to revise
expectations of future profit growth, the RBA said.  Australia’s four biggest lenders --  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia (CBA) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB) , and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
-- reported aggregate profits of A$12.4 billion in their
latest half-yearly results, the central bank said. That’s
about A$1.6 billion higher than a year earlier, mainly
driven by a further reduction in bad and doubtful debt
charges, the RBA said.  Australia’s overall mortgage arrears rate remains low
by international standards and most of the loans that are
behind payment are well collateralized, the RBA said.  About half of mortgage borrowers are continuing to
make “substantial” excess principal repayments, which is
improving their resilience to any change in financial
conditions, the central bank said.  Financial Turmoil  The report follows turmoil in financial markets since
the start of August. Stocks fell yesterday, pushing the
MSCI All-Country World Index of 45 nations into a  bear
market  for the first time in more than two years, after the
worsening European debt crisis and threat of a U.S. slump
erased more than $10 trillion from equities since May.  While Australian banks have faced a favorable funding
environment for much of the past year, the latest bout of
global market uncertainty has caused some tightening of
wholesale funding conditions since July, the RBA said.  Growth in deposits remained strong over the past six
months, averaging more than 10 percent on an annual basis,
and continuing to exceed credit growth by a “significant
margin,” it said.  High Savings  The RBA raised  interest rates  seven times from October
2009 to November 2010 to a developed-world high, tempering
a rise in  consumer debt , which more than tripled in the
past 20 years to 153.7 percent of disposable income in the
second quarter. Investors predict almost 1.5 percentage
points of cuts from the current 4.75 percent rate over the
next 12 months, interbank cash rate futures showed before
today’s report.  RBA Deputy Governor Ric Battellino said this week that
 Australia ’s economy should extend its two-decade expansion
and indicated financial-market pricing of interest-rate
cuts is based on a “pessimistic” view.  Australia’s economy grew 1.2 percent last quarter, the
fastest pace in four years, driven by recovery from natural
disasters in the northeast of the nation and rising
consumer spending.  Consumers putting aside income is “a positive
development from a national risk-management perspective,”
RBA Assistant Governor  Philip Lowe  said this week. “These
higher saving rates are likely to be quite persistent and
they represent a return to more traditional patterns.”  Mining Bonanza  Australia is undergoing a surge in resource investment
as mining and energy firms boost output to meet demand from
China and  India . That’s helped bolster demand for
Australia’s dollar, which reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest level since it was freely floated.  It has since fallen 12 percent since then as a
European debt crisis and the downgrade of the U.S.
government’s credit rating led investors to scrap bets on
rate increases.  Australian banks’ loan exposure to the euro area was
1.8 percent of total assets as of March 31, the RBA said
today. That compares with 5.1 percent by U.S. banks and 9.3
percent for U.K. lenders.  The nation’s lenders are “well placed” to meet
international banking regulations as they have bolstered
their capital position in recent years, the RBA said today.
The Australian banking system’s aggregate Tier 1 ratio rose
0.3 percentage point in the six months to June to 10
percent.  “While the latest market strains have not been on the
same scale as 2008-09, it is difficult to tell at this
stage whether this will be another temporary bout of market
uncertainty, of the kind seen several times in the past few
years, or the beginning of a more serious market
dislocation,” the central bank said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  