-- 
Real Solyndra Scandal Is U.S. Approach to Energy Subsidies: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-23T00:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/real-solyndra-scandal-is-u-s-approach-to-renewable-energy-subsidies-view.html
Executives of the failed solar-
panel maker Solyndra LLC are refusing to answer questions at a
 congressional hearing  today, a sign that the first serious
financial scandal of the Obama administration has arrived.  Several issues cry out for investigation: Did government
officials rush to approve a $535 million loan guarantee to the
company two years ago? Did company officers paint an overly rosy
picture of Solyndra’s finances after trouble set in? Why,
earlier this year, did the Energy Department agree to let
private investors get their money back from Solyndra before
taxpayers did?  Lawmakers should dig deep for answers. But their most
pressing duty at this stage goes beyond finding partisan dirt.
Members of Congress need to figure out a more effective way to
support the quest for cheaper alternative energy.  Right now, the U.S. government underwrites less than $2.5
billion a year in fundamental energy research, far less than the
$3.6 billion it spent in 1980. Stepped-up support for research
is overdue. By spreading small grants among hundreds of labs,
the government can help ideas that are too tentative to win
corporate support today but can turn into epic breakthroughs
years from now.  Meanwhile, an infatuation with loan guarantees is scattering
government money in unproductive ways. Since 2009, the
 Department of Energy  has awarded or conditionally committed more
than $30 billion in guarantees to support construction of 42
alternative-energy projects. About $9 billion of proposed
guarantees are awaiting final approval by Sept. 30. But in this
build-out phase, private-sector financing works far better than
government backing.  Energy-related loan guarantees arose from the stimulus
legislation of 2009. Policy makers thought a huge infusion of
low-cost loans would create many thousands of jobs at solar-
panel factories, alternative-energy power plants and the like.
There was an implicit assumption that most of these ventures
would succeed.  Barring fraud, Solyndra’s failure reflects the company’s
bet on an inadequate technology. Its tubes, coated with an
unusual four-metal compound, were supposed to cut power costs
more than 20 percent. That wasn’t nearly enough. Production
costs fell much faster for a rival technology, conventional flat
silicon panels, and Solyndra couldn’t compete.  Other giant loan guarantees have likewise been steered
toward technology that turned out to be unsuccessful. Solar
Millennium AG of  Germany  got $2.1 billion in U.S. loan
guarantees to build power plants that used sunlight and mirrors
to create thermal energy. In August, Solar Millennium walked
away from those guarantees, in favor of cheaper photovoltaic
power.  Such sudden, unpredictable shifts epitomize the way
progress happens. No single person, company or agency can
predict which technology will prevail. The winner emerges
through constant competition between different approaches and
the workings of a free market as it allocates capital.  The government’s rightful role in this competition is at
the beginning -- and the end. We favor government support for
research labs that can put hundreds, even thousands, of
interesting ideas in play. Trying to pick winners in the midst
of the action is ill-advised. The government can accomplish
more, with less risk, by simply becoming a big, reliable
customer for solar, wind and geothermal power.  A well-conceived alternative energy program could save the
U.S. many hundreds of billions in the years ahead. If the
Solyndra debacle gets U.S. policy pointed in the right
direction, the loan-guarantee losses won’t have been totally in
vain.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 