-- 
Treasury 10-Year Note Yields Decline to Record Low on Recession Concern

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-23T14:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/treasury-futures-fall-as-g-20-pledges-to-tackle-economic-risks.html
Treasury 30-year bonds headed for
their biggest weekly gains in almost three years as investors
sought refuge in  U.S. government debt  on concern the global
economy is on the brink of another recession.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fluctuated after dropping
today to a record low amid speculation central banks will take
coordinated measures to prevent a financial crisis. Bonds have
rallied since the  Federal Reserve  said on Sept. 21 that it would
buy longer-term debt to lower borrowing costs because there are
significant risks to the economy.  “The fear level is high,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of
Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New York. “People
feel there’s going to be a contagion effect spreading from
Europe to the U.S. and the world.”  Thirty-year yields fell 50 basis points this week to 2.81
percent at 9:54 a.m. New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices, the biggest decline since November 2008. The 3.75
percent bond due August 2041 fell 8/32, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
value, to 119 27/32. The 10-year rate dropped to a record low of
1.6714 percent.  Ten-year Treasury yields have fallen more than 1 percentage
point in the past three months amid concern  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis is deepening and as data showed the U.S. economic
recovery is stalling.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.9 percent, after
dropping 4.6 percent yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
was little changed.  Returns  Treasuries have returned 9.8 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. Ten-year notes have
returned 18 percent, while 30-year bonds have returned 36
percent.  “Yields are extremely low and they will stay anchored in
this lower range for quite a long time,” said  Michael Markovic ,
a senior fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich. “The economic situation is very bad and the Fed’s
action will hold down longer-dated yields.”  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook,” the Fed said in a statement on Sept. 21. The central
bank said it will extend the maturities of its Treasury holdings
by purchasing $400 billion of long-term debt and selling an
equal amount of shorter-term securities.  Greece  Commitment  Greece committed to additional measures this week to secure
the next payment in its 110 billion-euro ($148 billion) bailout
and convince European lawmakers to pass its second bailout worth
159 billion euros. Eight Greek lenders had their credit ratings
lowered today by Moody’s Investors Service on concern over their
holdings of the nation’s government bonds.  The difference between two- and 10-year Treasury yields
narrowed to 1.50 percentage points yesterday, the least since
January 2009. The extra yield 30-year bonds offer over two-year
notes narrowed to 2.56 percentage points yesterday, the least
since March 2009.  Treasuries dropped earlier today after the G-20 pledged in
a statement that it would “commit to take all necessary actions
to preserve the stability of banking systems and financial
markets as required.”  The  European Central Bank  may act to aid growth as soon as
next month if economic data fall short of expectations,
Governing Council member Luc Coene said yesterday.  “The ECB has never ruled out things beforehand,” Coene,
who heads the Belgian central bank, said when asked if an
interest-rate cut is warranted. “If the data in early October
shows that things are worse than we anticipated we will look at
the kind of decisions we have to take for that.”  The TED spread, the difference between what lenders and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, widened to 36
basis points today, the most in 14 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  