-- 
Treasuries Decline on Speculation G-20 Will Act on European Debt Crisis

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-09-23T21:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/treasuries-decline-on-speculation-g-20-will-act-on-european-debt-crisis.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing yields
on benchmark 10-year notes up from a record low, on speculation
Group of 20 leaders will act to prevent the European sovereign-
debt crisis from worsening.  Thirty-year bonds pared their biggest weekly gains in
almost three years as global stock markets recovered. Investors
have sought refuge in U.S. government debt on concern the global
economy is on the brink of another recession. The Federal
Reserve said Sept. 21 it would buy longer-term debt to lower
borrowing costs because the economy faces significant risks.  “Treasuries are coming off some as equities are performing
better and there has been no more bad news to speak of,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There is constructive chatter
out of Europe about a potential rate cut, but the flight-to-
quality motivation in the market remains the dominant theme.”  Ten-year yields rose 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 1.83 percent at 5:05 p.m. in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the yields’ first increase
in six days. They fell earlier to 1.6714 percent, the lowest
level in Fed figures going back to 1953, and lost 21 basis
points this week. The 2.125 percent notes due in August 2021
dropped 1 2/32, or $10.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 20/32.  The 30-year bond yield increased 10 basis points to 2.90
percent. It was down 41 basis points this week, the most since
the midst of the global financial crisis in December 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose as much as 1.1
percent, after losing 0.7 percent earlier.  G-20 Pledge  Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to address rising risks
to the global economy and pushed  Europe  to contain its sovereign
debt crisis. Policy makers are “committed to a strong and
coordinated international response to address the renewed
challenges facing the global economy,” they and central-bank
governors said in a statement late yesterday in  Washington .  The  European Central Bank  may also step up efforts to boost
growth and ease financial-market tensions as early as next
month, Governing Council members said.  Austria’s Ewald Nowotny and  Belgium ’s Luc Coene said in
Washington that potential measures include the reintroduction of
12-month loans to banks. Asked if an interest-rate cut is
warranted, Coene said while that wouldn’t help to bring down
longer-term borrowing costs, “the ECB has never ruled out
things beforehand.”  The ECB raised its main financing rate to 1.5 percent this
year after keeping it at 1 percent since 2009 to support the
region’s economy.  Greek Lenders  Greece  committed to additional measures this week to secure
the next payment in its 110 billion-euro ($148 billion) bailout
and convince European lawmakers to pass its second bailout worth
159 billion euros. Eight Greek lenders had their credit ratings
lowered today by Moody’s Investors Service on concern over their
holdings of the nation’s government bonds.  The difference between two- and 10-year Treasury yields
narrowed to 1.62 percentage points, the least on a closing basis
since January 2009. The extra yield 30-year bonds offer over
two-year notes narrowed to 2.6 percentage points yesterday, the
lowest on a closing basis since March 2009.  “The G-20 countries pledging help eases the safety trade
some on the margins, but until we really have a concrete plan in
place for Greece we are going to maintain the same market that
we have been in,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New
York  of government and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich &
Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional
investors. “In this market, you just can’t be short Treasuries
and you want to look to buy dips in prices.” A short position
is a bet that a security will fall.  Return for Year  Treasuries have returned 9.8 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. Ten-year notes have
returned 18 percent, while 30-year bonds have returned 36
percent.  Bonds rallied after a two-day policy meeting that ended
Sept 21 as the  Federal Open Market Committee  cited “significant
downside risks” to the  U.S. economy  and announced it will buy
securities due in six to 30 years through June while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less.  The central bank also announced a measure to support the
mortgage market by reinvesting maturing housing debt into
mortgage-backed securities instead of  U.S. government debt .  The Senate rejected, 59-36, a House-passed stopgap measure
to fund the government until Nov. 18 and provide $3.65 billion
in aid to victims of  Hurricane Irene  and other natural
disasters. Senate Democratic leaders opposed the Republican-led
House bill’s spending cuts to offset the disaster aid and said
it didn’t provide enough money to help affected communities.  Government Shutdown  The action escalates a fight that threatens a shutdown of
U.S. government operations.  Next week, the government will sell $35 billion of two-year
notes, the same amount of five-year debt and $29 billion of
seven-year securities in separate offerings.  “Today there is a bit of natural resistance given how far
we’ve come and how fast we got there,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of
the 20 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .
“The market won’t go for from these levels until the domestic
and international stories play out one way or another. People
are bracing themselves for a disaster scenario in Europe.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  