-- 
Reliance Said to Plan Acquiring Canadian Shale Assets After U.S.

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-09-23T08:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/reliance-said-to-plan-acquiring-canadian-shale-assets-after-u-s-.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  is
studying shale-gas assets in Canada after agreeing to spend $3.4
billion to acquire and develop reserves in Pennsylvania and
Texas last year, a person with direct knowledge of the plan
said.  The Mumbai-based energy explorer and refiner controlled by
Indian billionaire Mukesh Ambani may also use part of its $16
billion cash reserves to invest in clean energy ventures, the
person said, asking not to be identified because the plans are
private. The person declined to elaborate.  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  are among Canadian
companies seeking partners to help develop their gas and oil
resources. Adding reserves of natural gas trapped in shale rock
may help Reliance,  India ’s biggest company by market value,
offset a drop in output of the fuel at home that has led to a 27
percent slump in its shares this year.  “How they transform themselves into a global oil and gas
producer will determine their growth,” said  Alok Deshpande , an
analyst at Elara Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, who has a “reduce”
rating on Reliance shares. “Money won’t be a problem.”  Tushar Pania, a spokesman for Reliance, declined to comment
on acquisitions or the use of the company’s cash, when reached
by telephone today.  Reliance declined 0.9 percent to 779 rupees at 1:31 p.m. in
Mumbai trading, heading for its lowest close since Aug. 29. The
benchmark Sensitive Index dropped 0.8 percent.  Reliance was India’s most acquisitive company by number of
deals last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company paid $946 million to acquire shale-gas assets in the
U.S. from three companies and to spend $2.5 billion on the
fields on behalf of its partners.  Expanding Deals Team  The company plans to expand its mergers and acquisitions
team after hiring Navin Wadhwani from Rothschild to head the
group, the person said. Reliance also plans to hire Tony Fountain, who quit as chief executive officer of the U.K.
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority this month, to head its
refining and marketing division, the person said.  Fountain was BP Plc’s vice president of marketing and
refining before he moved to the nuclear authority and was U.K.’s
highest paid civil servant last year, earning 680,000 pounds ($1
million), the London-based Times reported Sept. 21  Encana,  Canada ’s biggest natural-gas producer, said July 21
it’s looking for partners to help it develop reserves in British
Columbia and  Alberta . In June, PetroChina Co. walked away from a
C$5.4 billion ($5.3 billion) purchase of a 50-percent stake in
Encana’s Cutbank Ridge assets.  Cenovus, Canada’s fifth-largest energy company, is
discussing partnership opportunities with companies from  Asia ,
the U.S. and Canada for a deal worth “billions” of dollars,
Chief Executive Officer Brian Ferguson said April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  