-- 
Ringgit Drops Most Since May 2010 on Recession Fear; Bonds Gain

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-09-23T08:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/ringgit-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-2010-on-growth-outlook.html
Malaysia’s ringgit completed its
biggest weekly decline in 16 months as stocks and commodities
tumbled on concern the global economic recovery is stalling.
 Government bonds  advanced.  The currency fell to the weakest level since July 2010 as
Prime Minister Najib Razak said he “fears” a new global
recession. Reports this week showed Americans filed more jobless
claims than economists predicted and manufacturing in  China  as
well as the  euro zone  contracted. Suspected market intervention
around the region is stemming losses in Asian currencies,
according to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd.  “Economic data is not supportive of the market, so we can
expect more ringgit weakness next week,” said Akira Banno, a
treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in Kuala
Lumpur. “Central banks in the region don’t want to see such
rapid depreciation.”  The ringgit dropped 3 percent this week to 3.1713 per
dollar as of 4 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, the biggest slide since a 3.5 percent loss in the
five days through May 21, 2010. The currency has depreciated 7.4
percent since hitting a 14-year high of 2.9335 on July 27.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index of local stocks was
headed for a 4.3 percent slump this week, a rout unmatched since
October 2008. The benchmark has lost 14 percent from its peak on
July 11. Foreign investors cut their holdings of the nation’s
shares by $1.2 billion in August, the most since at least
October 2009, according to exchange data.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Malaysia jumped 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point, to 172 in  New York  yesterday, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The cost
of credit protection is now the most expensive since April 2009.  The ringgit pared the week’s losses by 0.1 percent today.
Declines in regional currencies were limited after the Group of
20 nations pledged a “strong and coordinated” response to
challenges facing the global economy. The government is
monitoring economic developments closely, Premier Najib told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.  Investor concern the global economy is facing a crisis is
exaggerated because Europe’s debt problems are likely to remain
within that region while the economic recovery in the U.S.
hasn’t yet been stalled, according to Franklin Templeton
Investments.  ‘Temporary Panic’  “We view what has been happening to the South Korean won,
Malaysian ringgit and Australian dollar, among other currencies,
as the result of temporary panic and contagion as opposed to
fundamental problems,”  Michael Hasenstab , co-manager of the
$59.4 billion Templeton Global Bond Fund, said in an e-mailed
statement. “With respect to the U.S., fears that the ongoing
recovery may be coming to an end are overstated.”  Malaysia’s three-year notes gained, erasing losses during
the week, on speculation slower growth and inflation will prompt
the central bank to keep or cut  interest rates .  The yield on the 3.434 percent note due August 2014 fell
two basis points to 3.09 percent from a week ago, according to
Bursa Malaysia. The rate reached 3.4 percent on Sept. 19, the
highest level since April.  Bank Negara Malaysia  maintained its overnight rate at 3
percent at reviews on July 7 and Sept. 8, citing risk to
external demand amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. Policy makers hold
their final meeting of this year on Nov. 11.  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in August from a year
earlier, compared with 3.4 percent in July, the government said
on Sept. 21. Prices jumped 3.5 percent in June, the most since
March 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  