-- 
Romney Rips Perry for ‘Heart’ Debate Comment on Aid to Illegal Immigrants

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-24T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/romney-rips-perry-for-heart-comment.html
Rick Perry  was chastised yesterday
by his top rival in the Republican presidential race for his
support of allowing illegal-immigrant students in  Texas  to pay
in-state tuition at public universities, an issue posing a
political vulnerability for the Texas governor.  The day after a nationally televised debate in which
Perry’s immigration stance sparked sustained criticism and his
defense of it drew audience boos, former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney spotlighted the issue at a gathering of
conservatives in Orlando, Florida.  “My friend Governor Perry said that if you don’t agree
with his position on giving that in-state tuition to illegals,
then you don’t have a heart,” Romney said. “I think if you’re
opposed to illegal immigration, it doesn’t mean that you don’t
have a heart; it means that you have a heart and a brain.”  Romney, who is Perry’s closest competitor in polls on the
Republican race, was reprising Perry’s defense of the tuition
program at the Sept. 22 debate in  Orlando .  “If you say that we should not educate children who have
come into our state for no other reason than they’ve been
brought there by no fault of their own, I don’t think you have a
heart,” Perry said at the forum that featured nine presidential
contenders.  Perry’s Challenge  For Perry, the immigration issue could present a unique
challenge. His stance fits the profile of his state, which has a
large and growing Hispanic population. Yet it threatens to
alienate many of the fiscal and social conservatives outside of
Texas who hold sway in Republican nominating contests and oppose
government aid to illegal immigrants.  Perry, speaking to the same audience as Romney yesterday,
didn’t address the immigration matter, although he suggested a
poor debate performance shouldn’t be held against him.  “It’s not who is the slickest candidate or the smoothest
debater that we need to elect,” he said. “We need to elect the
candidate with the best record and the best vision for this
country.”  Perry criticized Romney on health care, equating a plan
enacted during his governor’s term in  Massachusetts  with
“socialized medicine,” and calling it “misguided.”  Perry’s immigration position drew sharp opposition from
other rivals at the debate, including Minnesota Representative
 Michele Bachmann . She also came back to the issue during her
appearance yesterday before the conservative activists, saying,
“We will not have taxpayer-subsidized benefits for illegal
immigrants or their children.”  Border Fence  Bachmann reiterated her debate vow to build a border fence
the length of the U.S. border with  Mexico , which Perry has
denounced as impractical and ineffective.  Bachmann said at the debate: “I would build a fence on
America’s southern border -- on every mile, on every yard, on
every foot on every inch of the southern border.”  Romney said yesterday that what he “still can’t get over
is the idea that a state would decide to give a $100,000
discount to illegals to go to school in their state.”  His comment referred to the estimate he had used at the
debate of how much more a four-year degree would cost an illegal
immigrant student at a Texas college who paid out-of-state
tuition.  Florida  Republican leaders and activists are meeting in
Orlando for a three-day conference that culminates in a non-
binding straw poll of the presidential candidates today.  Romney earlier this year said he wouldn’t actively campaign
in any straw polls. In Florida, Perry was favored among 28
percent of the Republicans surveyed by Quinnipiac University
Sept. 14-19, and Romney was favored among 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Orlando, Florida at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  