-- 
Ruble Drops to Two-Year Low; Trading Band Shifts, Citi Says

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-09-23T16:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/ruble-weakens-to-3-year-low-to-basket-bank-rossii-pares-defense.html
The ruble declined to its weakest
close since September 2009 against the central bank’s target
dollar-euro basket as oil retreated. The weakening currency
forced Bank Rossii’s so-called floating corridor higher,
according to Citigroup Inc.  The ruble lost 0.2 percent to 37.1336 against the basket at
the 7 p.m. close in Moscow, extending this week’s loss to 3.8
percent. The ruble was unchanged at 32.0475 per dollar and 0.5
percent weaker to 43.35 per euro.  Urals crude,  Russia ’s chief export earner, posted the worst
worst weekly retreat since May amid concern the global economy
is headed for recession. Russia’s central bank may have sold as
much as $3.4 billion in the past two days defending its
unofficial trading band, according to VTB Capital and Citigroup
estimates.  “Russian monetary authorities are doing their best to keep
the situation under control,” Nikolay Podguzov, head of fixed-
income strategy in Moscow at VTB Capital, the investment-banking
arm of VTB Group, said by e-mail today. “Not everything depends
on the central bank -- external factors matter. If we see a big
event in  Europe , it will be difficult to remain optimistic.”  Bank Rossii uses the basket to smooth currency movements
that can hurt exporters, selling more dollars and euros the
closer the ruble gets to the weaker end of the floating
corridor. The bank probably spent as much as $1.6 billion
yesterday, Podguzov said. Sales may have reached $1.8 billion
today,  Denis Korshilov , Citigroup’s Moscow-based head of fixed
income, currencies and commodities, said by e-mail.  Corridor Shifts  Bank Rossii’s band for the ruble may have shifted up to
32.30 to 37.30 after today’s retreat breached the upper limit of
the previous corridor of 32.15 to 37.15, according to Korshilov.
The bank is keeping its ruble policy unchanged, RIA Novosti
reported today, citing deputy central bank chairman Sergey Shvetsov.  A spokesman for the central bank declined to comment on
intervention levels on Sept. 21 when e-mailed by Bloomberg.  The country’s gold and currency reserves fell $6.8 billion
in the week to Sept. 16, the biggest decline in three months, to
$532 billion, the central bank said in a statement on its
website yesterday.  Investors increased bets that the ruble will weaken further
with non-deliverable forwards showing it at 32.5895 per dollar
in three months, compared with 32.4855 yesterday. The contracts
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest-rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency shifts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  