-- 
India Rupee Has Worst Week in 18 Years on Global Economic Woes

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-23T12:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/rupee-set-for-worst-week-since-1993-on-global-market-turmoil.html
India ’s rupee completed its worst
week in 18 years as investors sold emerging-market assets for
the relative safety of the dollar amid concern the global
economy is slowing.  The currency rebounded from a 28-month low today as  Reserve
Bank  of India Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told a local
television station policy makers may intervene in the market to
curb volatility. The currency had plunged the most in 15 years
yesterday after the Federal Reserve said there are “significant
downside risks” to the world’s largest economy.  “Unless global slowdown fears moderate, we are unlikely to
see steady inflows into India,” said Emmanuel Ng, a currency
strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “All
Asian central banks will work to limit losses in their
currencies as long as extreme volatility is prevalent in the
market.  The rupee fell 4.6 percent this week to 49.4338 per dollar
at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, the biggest weekly drop since March 1993. It rose 0.3
percent today after being down as much as 0.6 percent earlier.
It touched 49.89 today, the lowest level since May 14, 2009.  The RBI may intervene if the rupee falls to levels seen
during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, a finance ministry
official said in New Delhi today, asking not to be identified as
he’s not authorized to speak on the matter.  South Korea ’s
finance ministry said today it will ‘‘take action” to stabilize
the currency market and the rupiah gained after Bank Indonesia
said it will remain in the market.  India’s rupee has fallen 6.8 percent this month, even as
the Group of 20 Nations sought to quell the turmoil in financial
markets. The G-20 said in a statement late yesterday that it was
“committed to a strong and coordinated international response
to address the renewed challenges facing the global economy.”  Forwards Drop  Central bankers and finance ministers will discuss the
economic outlook today at the annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  in Washington.  “Sovereigns’ room to maneuver is much less now than it was
in 2008-09,” said Patrick Perret-Green, head of  interest rates 
and foreign exchange at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50.27 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 50.21
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  