-- 
Rupiah Gains Most Since Sept 2009 on Intervention; Bonds Drop

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-23T09:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/rupiah-gains-most-since-sept-2009-on-intervention-bonds-drop.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah climbed the most
since Sept. 2009, paring a weekly loss, after the central said
it intervened in the market. The government’s benchmark notes
declined.  Bank Indonesia  will continue to buy bonds and intervene in
the  currency market  “until the market cools,” Governor  Darmin
Nasution  told reporters in Jakarta today. The central bank is
“pleased the rupiah stabilized, following our intensified
intervention in the forex market and buying  government bonds 
from the market yesterday,” Perry Warjiyo, director of economic
research at Bank Indonesia, said by mobile-phone text message
today.  The central bank “will try to make the currency not too
volatile,” said Wiling Bolung, head of treasury at ANZ Panin
Bank in Jakarta. “Some of the foreign funds need dollars, so
they liquidate their rupiah portfolios.”  The rupiah strengthened 1.3 percent to 8,984 per dollar as
of 4:28 p.m. in Jakarta, after rising as much as 3.1 percent
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That pared
this week’s loss to 1.6 percent. The currency traded at 8,783
rupiah to the dollar as of 3:59 p.m. according to a narrower
Bloomberg composite that exclude some offshore banks.  Indonesia’s economic fundamentals are strong and investors
shouldn’t panic amid declines in financial markets, Coordinating
Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said in Jakarta today.
Government officials are meeting with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono today to discuss developments in the global economy,
Rajasa said.  The rupiah reached 9,365 per dollar yesterday, the weakest
level in 16 months, as foreign funds sold stocks and bonds on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will slow global growth.  Foreign investors sold $255 million more Indonesian stocks
than they bought this week though yesterday, exchange data
showed.  Overseas holdings  of Indonesian government bonds fell
5.9 percent this month to 232.81 trillion rupiah ($26.2 billion),
according to debt management office data.  The yield on Indonesian government’s benchmark 8.25 percent
securities due July 2021 rose five basis points today to 7.52
percent, according to prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association. The rate rose 37 basis points this week. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bank Indonesia bought 1.74 trillion rupiah of government
bonds through an auction in the secondary market yesterday,
Perry Warjiyo, the bank’s director of economic research, said in
a mobile-phone text message. The central bank received 2.3
trillion rupiah of bids, less than the 5 trillion rupiah target,
Warjiyo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 