-- 
Russia Urges U.K. to Extradite Citizens After Cameron Visit

-- B y   A n d r e w   L a n g l e y   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-23T15:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/russia-urges-u-k-to-extradite-citizens-after-cameron-visit-1-.html
Russia  is urging Britain to
extradite 43 of its citizens who are wanted by judicial
authorities in their home country, said Alexander Yakovenko, the
Russian ambassador to the U.K.  Such a move would help improve relations between the two
nations after U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  made the first
visit to Russia by a British leader in five years, Yakovenko
said in a phone interview in London yesterday.  “Now we have 43 extradition cases, unfortunately things
are not moving,” he said. Russia hopes that “especially after
the visit of Mr. Cameron, the two sides will cooperate more
actively in this area.”  Relations soured to a post-Cold War low after the 2006
assassination of dissident ex-KGB agent  Alexander Litvinenko  in
London. Russia, which has refused to hand over Andrei Lugovoi,
the chief suspect in the murder, has unsuccessfully sought the
extradition of Chechen separatist leader Akhmed Zakayev, one-
time billionaire  Boris Berezovsky  and other businessmen accused
of fraud, some of whom have received political asylum.  Berezovsky, a Kremlin opponent who got the status of a
political refugee in the U.K. after fleeing in 2001, has been
sentenced to prison in absentia in Russia for embezzlement.  ‘No Cooperation’  “For five years there was basically no cooperation in this
area, there was no political dialogue, there were no visits,
they didn’t talk to each other,” Yakovenko said. “Now I
believe the situation will change.”  Extradition from the U.K. has to meet with statutory
safeguards, including reference to human rights, and can be
refused if the request is judged to be politically motivated,
the U.K.’s Foreign Office said in an e-mailed statement today.
Whether or not the person extradited will receive a fair trial
is a factor in courts’ decisions and “this underlines the
importance of President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s rule of law agenda,”
the FCO said.  Giving people asylum in Britain doesn’t mean the U.K.
supports their views and Britain is bound by the 1951 refugee
convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, the FCO
said. The Asylum and Immigration Tribunal, which is independent
of government, makes decisions on refugee status, it said.  Borodin, Baturina  The former chief executive officer of Bank of Moscow,
Andrei Borodin, is the subject of an international arrest
warrant. Russian authorities are seeking him in connection with
a $400 million loan alleged to have ended up in the accounts of
ousted Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov’s billionaire wife,  Yelena Baturina .  Borodin’s current whereabouts is unknown. The state-run RIA
Novosti news service initially said he was in  London . Both he
and Baturina have denied any wrongdoing.  Luzhkov, whose wife earlier this month agreed to sell her
construction empire, is living in the U.K., Yakovenko said in an
interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. published on its
website Sept. 9.  Russian state media ran a series of critical reports
against Luzhkov and Baturina in the run-up to the ex-mayor’s
sacking last September by Medvedev. They accused Luzhkov, 74, of
corruption and favoritism toward his wife, Russia’s richest
woman, during his 18-year stewardship of  Europe ’s largest city.
Both denied any impropriety.  Pragmatic Dialogue  Cameron said after talks in Moscow Sept. 12 that the
nations hadn’t resolved their dispute over the Litvinenko case.  “The fact is that the two governments don’t agree,” he
said. “We haven’t changed our position, and the Russians
haven’t changed their position. I don’t believe that means we
have to freeze the entire relationship.”  Litvinenko, who died of radiation poisoning, in a deathbed
statement blamed then-President  Vladimir Putin  for his murder.
The Kremlin dismissed the accusation as “absurd.”  The U.K. and Russia each expelled four diplomats and Russia
forced the closure of British cultural offices outside Moscow.
That followed Russia’s refusal to hand over Lugovoi, who is
wanted by the U.K. for the November 2006 murder, because the
country’s constitution forbids the extradition of its citizens.  The U.K. also froze cooperation with Russia’s Federal
Security Service, the main successor to the KGB, a move that
won’t be reversed unless Russia hands over Lugovoi, U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said Sept. 12.  Russia is satisfied with Cameron’s visit to Russia, said
Yakovenko. “That event was a very important step toward a
pragmatic dialogue between our two countries,” he said. “It
is, of course, a green light to activate the political
dialogue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Langley in London at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  