-- 
Russian Battle-Tank Maker Seeks Investor

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-23T10:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/russian-battle-tank-maker-seeks-investor.html
OAO Uralvagonzavod, the Russian
state-owned tank and railcar maker, will seek a strategic
investor as the government sells 1.2 trillion rubles ($36
billion) of assets to raise funds for upgrades.  “Most likely is an initial placement of 25 percent to a
strategic investor through an additional share sale, an asset
swap or other forms,” Deputy Chief Executive Officer Ruslan
Kondrashov said by e-mail. “It won’t happen before 2013-2014.”  Russia , aiming to breach the top five global economies by
2020, is selling assets to help finance the overhaul of the
sprawling infrastructure it inherited from the  Soviet Union .
Russia’s expanding defense spending may also benefit
Uralvagonzavod as Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government
pledges 19 trillion rubles to buy new arms and replace 70
percent of its armored fleet in the next decade.  Putin pledged 64 billion rubles to Uralvagonzavod after
visiting the plant and an international weapons and ammunition
exhibit in the Ural Mountains city of Nizhny Tagil. There he
 took off  his suit jacket and climbed into an upgraded T-90
battle tank, versions of which Uralvagonzavod makes for  India 
and the domestic army.  Uralvagonzavod has “a very good future” with enough
defense and civilian orders to keep it busy for three or four
years, Putin said Sept. 14. The tank maker is expanding
production of railcars for state-owned OAO Russian Railways and
cisterns for OAO Transneft, the country’s oil pipeline operator.  Seeking Acquisitions  Uralvagonzavod will use the money Putin pledged to create
new production lines with modern technologies, Kondrashov said.
It may also borrow to finance acquisitions, he said, without
elaborating. Borrowing plans may be disclosed by the end of
November, he said.  The company’s debt stood at 33 billion rubles as of Sept.
1, Kondrashov said. Uralvagonzavod plans to increase profit to
about 48 percent to 10.2 billion rubles this year as sales rise
37 percent to 102 billion rubles.  With an eye on the state share sale in about two years,
Uralvagonzavod, which rolled out a third of the Soviet army’s
tanks in World War II, wants to increase its value by switching
focus to civilian goods, Kondrashov said. The share of civilian
production will reach 75 percent this year he said. Kondrashov
declined give details on defense orders.  Uralvagonzavod hasn’t had any additional orders for this or
next year after completing a three-year contract to deliver 189
T-90 tanks for the Russian armed forces, said Mikhail Barabanov,
an expert at the Center for the Analysis of Strategies and
Technologies in Moscow. This year it is making about a hundred
T-90 assembly kits for India, with no export contracts reported
for next year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  