-- 
Russia May Lend $3.4 Billion to Cyprus as Fiscal Woes Mount

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-09-23T16:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/russia-may-lend-3-4-billion-to-cyprus-as-fiscal-woes-mount-1-.html
Russia may lend as much as 2.5
billion euros ($3.4 billion) to Cyprus by the end of the year as
the eastern Mediterranean island seeks cheaper funding amid
surging borrowing costs.  “We’ll probably reach a final agreement only by the end of
the year, no sooner,” Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak told reporters late yesterday in Washington.  The amount will depend on the country’s needs, he said.
Cyprus is negotiating a loan at an annual rate of 4.5 percent,
compared with as much as 14 percent demanded by other investors,
the Cyprus News Agency reported today, citing President Demetris Christofias.  Greece  is struggling to convince international creditors it
deserves its next bailout payment to stave off a default,
stoking fears that contagion will engulf Cyprus, the euro area’s
third-smallest economy. The Cypriot government needs to raise
funds to help finance its fiscal deficit, which may reach 5.5
percent of gross domestic product this year and 2 percent in
2012 and to refinance 1.7 billion euros of debt maturing in the
period.  The yield on the Cypriot euro-denominated bond due February
2020 fell 146 basis points, or 1.46 percentage point, to 11.638
percent, the lowest since Aug. 2. The notes yielded a record
14.779 percent on Aug. 31.  Financing Needs  A Greek default would raise Cyprus’s financing needs above
the amount it’s negotiating with  Russia , said Marinos Gialeli,
general manager of the Hotel Employees Provident  Fund , the
country’s largest with 266 million euros in assets.  Loans to the Greek private sector account for an estimated
35 percent of gross loans at Bank of Cyprus and 46 percent at
Marfin Popular Bank, the nation’s two biggest lenders, Moody’s
Investors Service said July 28 when it cut their credit ratings
to non-investment grade, or junk. Greece is Cyprus’s biggest
trading partner.  In the case of a Greek restructuring, Cyprus’s needs “will
depend on the extent of the haircut and above all on the ability
of bank clients to service their debts,” Gialeli said. “The
problem is not the  government bonds  Cypriot banks have in their
possession worth 5 billion euros but the 23 billion euros in
loans extended to the private sector.”  The government may need to earmark as much as 1.5 billion
euros for banks if holders of Greek debt are required to accept
“extensive” losses, Gialeli said.  Largest Capital Exporter  Russia is the largest capital-exporting country among
emerging markets, Commerzbank AG said in Sept. 9 report. The
world’s biggest oil producer has recorded an average of $90
billion a year of outward capital flows since 2004 and $60
billion in the first half of 2011, according to Commerzbank.  The country helped grant a $3 billion bailout loan to
Belarus by the Russian-led Eurasian Economic Community’s anti-
crisis fund in June. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said Aug.
24 that he hopes to complete a $4 billion loan from Russia
within weeks.  Russia turned down Iceland’s request for $500 million in
2009 after more than a year of negotiations.  The loan to Cyprus isn’t politically motivated and aims to
ease unprecedented financial-market “turbulence,” Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said today
by telephone.  Not the Time  “Now is not the time to give away money for free in the
name of political interests,” Peskov said, declining to comment
on the terms of the loan. Issuing the funds will be “mutually
beneficial.”  Mainly Russian non-residents hold one of every two euros
deposited at Cypriot banks, directly or indirectly, according to
Theo Parperis, chairman of the Institute of Certified Public
Accountants of Cyprus.  Foreign companies that use Cyprus as a base or vehicle for
offshore operations contribute about 15 percent to the island’s
economy, said Parperis, who is also a partner in
PricewaterhouseCoopers Cyprus.  The loan “makes sense given the heavy Russian offshore
activity in Cyprus,”  Barbara Nestor , an emerging-markets
strategist at Commerzbank in  London , said by e-mail today. “I
think the financial system stability of Cyprus is in Russia’s
interest and I could imagine that Russia would be a major
bailout partner to Cyprus.”  Securing the loan from Russia may help Cyprus overcome its
fiscal woes and “structural problems,” Alexandros Michaelides,
Professor in Finance at the  University of Cyprus  said by e-mail
today.  “Things with Greece are deteriorating and this highlights
the need to take decision even more but it seems the government
does not share this sense of urgency,” he wrote. “Probably,
securing the loan from Russia and the expected revenues from
natural gas exploitation may justify such a stance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in  Washington  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Athens at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  