-- 
Saad Group’s Al-Sanea Hit With $88.6 Million U.K. Asset Freeze

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/saad-group-s-al-sanea-hit-with-88-6-million-u-k-asset-freeze.html
The investment unit of  Saad Group ,
a Saudi company in global litigation over its default in 2009,
won a U.K. court order freezing 57.3 million pounds ($88.7
million) held by its billionaire founder Maan al-Sanea.  Saad Investments Company Ltd., which is being liquidated in
the  Cayman Islands , won the asset freeze in the  High Court  in
 London  yesterday after claiming there was a risk al-Sanea would
spend the money before paying potential damages. The unit also
claimed al-Sanea failed to return hundreds of documents he
removed from its legal offices in Geneva two years ago.  “There is a risk of dissipation in this case” and a
“failure to cooperate with the liquidators,” Saad Investment’s
lawyer, Stephen Atherton, said of al-Sanea, one of  Saudi
Arabia ’s richest men. The company also claims al-Sanea removed
$60 million at the time he took the documents.  Al-Sanea has been sued in courts around the world by Saudi
Arabia’s Algosaibi family, which he married into before founding
Saad Group. Their Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co., a group
of companies spanning multiple industries, defaulted in 2009 on
about $15.7 billion in loans. Al-Sanea won dismissal this week
of Algosaibi’s $9.2 billion asset-freeze against him in the
Cayman Islands.  Al-Sanea, who is banned from leaving Saudi Arabia and has
had his accounts there frozen, was ordered by the U.K. judge to
provide a list of his assets worth more than $100,000. His
lawyer, Richard Morgan, denied the claims behind the U.K. asset-
freeze and said al-Sanea should be able to spend his money to
repay Saudi Arabian creditors.  The Cayman Islands court appointed  Grant Thornton  as
liquidator for Saad Investments in July 2009. Grant Thornton
also sued Algosaibi for about $8 billion -- a lawsuit Algosaibi
has said is baseless. Algosaibi claims al-Sanea heaped debt on
the company by taking out fraudulent loans obtained with forged
documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  