-- 
Saleh Calls for Yemen Truce as Rallies, Violence Mark President’s Return

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-23T15:34:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/saleh-calls-for-yemen-truce-as-rallies-violence-mark-president-s-return.html
President Ali Abdullah Saleh called
for a truce as he returned to Yemen today after more than three
months abroad, amid fighting between government troops and
opposition forces demanding his ouster.  Saleh believes a truce and a cease-fire are needed so that
a solution to the crisis can be reached through dialogue, Tarik
al-Shami, spokesman for the ruling General People’s Congress,
said today in a telephone interview. The president will address
the nation on Sept. 25, al-Shami said.  Six people were killed today in the shelling of al-Hasaba,
a neighborhood north of the capital and home to Sheikh Sadiq al- Ahmar, chief of Yemen’s most influential tribal confederation,
the Hashid, according to the al-Sahwa opposition website.
Gunfire erupted in the area hours after Saleh returned, Sameer
Mahdi, a witness, said by phone.  Unrest escalated this week after the Organization Committee
of the Popular Youth Revolution urged Yemenis to intensify
protests demanding an end to Saleh’s three-decade rule. At least
a dozen people were killed yesterday during demonstrations in
Sana’a, bringing this week’s death toll to almost 100.  Demonstrations began in the Arab world’s poorest country in
February, inspired by revolts that ousted the leaders of Tunisia
and  Egypt , and deepened with military and tribal leaders, such
as al-Ahmar, joining the opposition. Efforts by Gulf Arab
countries to broker a power-transfer agreement have failed.  ‘Transfer of Power’  “Tell the returning mass killer, we will prosecute him,”
crowds chanted in al-Siteen Street in Sana’a today. In the
capital’s al-Sabeen Square, another group gathered in a show of
support for the president.  The U.S. urges Saleh to “initiate a full transfer of
power” and arrange for elections this year, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said.  “The Yemeni people have suffered enough and deserve a path
toward a better future,” he told reporters at a briefing. The
U.S. urges all parties to refrain from violence, Carney said.  The protesters in Sana’a today were participating in the
funeral of 40 people who died this week. Afterward, the bodies
of 21 soldiers loyal to Saleh who were killed in recent violence
in the capital were buried, state television said.  ‘Legitimate President’  Saleh has “returned because he’s the legitimate
president,” said Abdu al-Janadi, deputy information minister,
in an interview on Al Jazeera television today. “It will put an
end to a lot of dispute that has been going on.”  Saleh, a U.S. ally against al-Qaeda’s Yemen-based
militants, left for neighboring  Saudi Arabia  in June to receive
treatment for injuries sustained in an attack on his compound.
The president will chair a meeting of the General People’s
Congress today, Al Arabiya television said.  “His return does not mean anything to us and we are happy
because it will take him to jail,” said Nadeem al-Madani, a
protester in Sana’a.  In the southern city of Taiz today, Saleh supporters
celebrated his return with gunfire, and government forces fired
shells at demonstrators, said Ahmed al-Wafi, a protest
organizer. He said at least two people were injured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 