-- 
Scene Last Night: McCartney, Paulson, Falcone, Buscemi, Cashin

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/scene-last-night-paul-mccartney-druckenmiller-falcone-buscemi-cashin.html
In the David H. Koch Theater at  New
York ’s Lincoln Center Thursday night, audience members craned
and swiveled to catch a glimpse of Paul McCartney sitting in the
first ring.  For a few moments, everyone of a certain age was young
again, women and men.  The occasion was the world premiere of “Ocean’s Kingdom.”
Paul McCartney wrote the cinematic music and libretto (his first
for a ballet) and  New York City Ballet ’s Peter Martins
choreographed. Daughter Stella McCartney designed the costumes.  In attendance:  Stanley Druckenmiller ,  John Paulson , Steve Schwarzman,  Philip Falcone , Dick Cashin, as well as Steve Buscemi, Ed Norton, Naomi Watts and Sarah Jessica Parker.  Before Princess Honorata and Prince Stone began their
romance in an underwater world inhabited by mohawked warriors
and rainbow-colored nymphs, there were a few more moments of
McCartney adulation.  New York City Ballet ’s music director, Faycal Karoui
emerged from the pit with his players to introduce the score,
playing excerpts.  Then Martins appeared in front of the stage’s gold curtain
for a champagne toast (a tradition started by  George Balanchine ,
he said). He put a British twist on it for McCartney, holding
out a tea cup and saucer. From behind the curtain an arm
appeared with a teapot to fill it up.  Finally, the time had come to dive into the “Ocean’s
Kingdom,” where things never got too dark.  Lords in Zoot Suits  Three drunken lords in zoot suits amiably stumbled across
the stage to clownish trombones.  Even when Honorata went to prison, her cell glowed white,
with bars easily broken by her prince. Yes, the story had a
happy ending.  Paul McCartney  came to the stage for bows, attired in a
slim-fitting suit with chestnut hair down to his ears. From the
back of the hall, it was easy to time-travel to the Beatles
days. He looked great. He waved.  Then everyone headed into a tent behind the theater for a
pasta supper to be worked off on the dance floor.  “This is a very nice night,” said Paulson, president and
co-fund manager of Paulson & Co.  “We loved it,” concurred  Wilbur Ross , chairman and chief
executive of WL Ross & Co. “The staging, the costumes, the way
the story builds.”  The event raised $4 million for New York City Ballet.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 