-- 
Weidmann, Schaeuble Say G-20 Shares German Debt-Cutting Goal

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-09-23T15:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/schaeuble-weidmann-say-g-20-shares-german-deficit-cutting-goal.html
Germany ’s rejection of more
stimulus to bolster the economy is “widely shared” among
fellow Group of 20 nations and a recession in Europe’s biggest
economy is unlikely, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said.  Stimulus financed by increasing the  budget deficit  in
Germany is “not appropriate,” Weidmann told reporters in
Washington today before the annual meeting of the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank . Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told the same press briefing that governments have to
stay on the path of deficit reduction.  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition has thrown its weight
behind lowering deficits as essential to tackling the root cause
of the euro-area debt crisis rocking markets worldwide. That
didn’t stop the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index tumbling to its lowest
level in more than two years today. It later pared some of those
losses.  “The Bundesbank expects Germany to go through a dent in
growth only, but at clearly increased risks,” Weidmann said,
adding that the economic situation is better than current
sentiment indicates. “A spillover of financial market
turbulences can’t be excluded.”  German gross domestic product grew just 0.1 percent in the
second quarter after jumping 1.3 percent in the first three
months of the year. Growth in the euro area, Germany’s main
export market, slowed to 0.2 percent from 0.8 percent as
governments from Greece to Spain cut spending to rein in budget
deficits.  Credit Risk  The crisis has spawned as much as 300 billion euros ($406
billion) in credit risk for European banks, the  International
Monetary Fund  said this week as it called for capital injections
to support markets.  Greece , Ireland and Portugal have already
sought international bailouts and speculation is increasing that
the next countries to fall will be Spain and Italy.  While an appropriate capital base is important for lenders
against the background of uncertainty in financial markets,
German banks’ capital situation is better than it was in 2008
during the financial crisis and “undifferentiated” calls for
more bank capital are not helpful, Weidmann said.  German banks are in an “orderly situation,” Schaeuble
said. Germany is in better shape as regards its banks than it
was in 2008 because of the bank restructuring law that provides
a mechanism for aiding troubled lenders, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in  Washington  via 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  