-- 
SEC Employees `Weeping With Fear' Under Scrutiny: The Ticker

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-09-23T13:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/sec-employees-weeping-with-fear-under-scrutiny-the-ticker.html
To hear the ranting and whining surrounding the flap over the Securities and
Exchange Commission's former general counsel, you would think we are supposed to
rally around the agency just because some of its 3,800 employees feel bad about
getting picked on for rotten performance. David M. Becker, the former SEC general counsel who was under the hot lights
yesterday before the House Financial Services and Oversight and Government
Reform committees, may have violated criminal law by taking a lead role in
deciding how investors should be compensated for losses in Bernard Madoff's
Ponzi scheme, according to a report issued this week by the SEC's inspector
general. Becker and his two brothers were sued in February by the trustee in the
Madoff bankruptcy case, who says they inherited $1.5 million in fictitious
profits after their mother died. The inspector general, David Kotz, says Becker
pushed a legal concept for compensating Madoff victims that could have benefited
him financially. Becker said yesterday that he worked on Madoff issues only after getting
clearance from the SEC ethics office, but he also took the occasion to carry on
about how the heat on the agency is traumatizing employees. He quoted from his
farewell speech to staffers in February, in which he said SEC employees came to
his office ``weeping with fear'' when their behavior came into question. The diatribe had a familiar ring. On Sept. 15, former SEC Chairman  Harvey
Pitt  told the financial services committee that Kotz had an ``unprincipled
approach'' to SEC matters and that his work was known to ``terrorize'' SEC
employees. Kotz didn't return an e-mail query about Pitt's comments, but Pitt
got back to me to say that Kotz leaks reports and ``doesn't know what he is
talking about.'' We probably should expect more of what looks like a campaign to distract
attention from the agency's failings. Fifty-two lawyers, including two officials
of a self-regulatory agency overseen by the SEC, the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, sent a letter to lawmakers yesterday defending Becker. By
leaving private practice to join the agency in 2009 he was willing to forgo
``millions of dollars,'' the writers said. It looks like Kotz has irritated enough people in high places that the next
round of planted stories will be about him. ( Susan Antilla  is a columnist for Bloomberg View.)    