-- 
Senator Feinstein Seeks Missing Campaign Donations in Suit Against Bank

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/senator-feinstein-sues-california-bank-to-track-down-missing-campaign-cash.html
Democratic U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of  California , trying to trace and recover millions of
dollars in campaign donations allegedly embezzled by her
treasurer, sued the bank where the money was deposited.  Feinstein filed suit yesterday in California Superior Court
in  Los Angeles  against, among others, Westlake Village-based
First California Bank and Kinde Durkee, the former treasurer,
who was arrested Sept. 2 charged with stealing money from
lawmakers’ campaign accounts.  According to her complaint, Feinstein’s Senate campaign
account received statements saying she had $2.5 million in the
bank at the end of July. In fact, there was only $356,250 in the
accounts, the suit said. Feinstein’s committee reported a
balance of $5 million at the end of June,  Federal Election
Commission  reports show.  “We are obviously in a situation where we’re trying to
find out where our money is,” said her chief campaign
consultant,  Bill Carrick . “What we want is a full accounting of
our records in that bank and to be reimbursed for everything
that was taken from us. All of this happened inside their bank,
which they had to have full knowledge of.”  A call to bank headquarters wasn’t returned.  Carrick said the suit was filed only after the bank refused
to release records to the Feinstein campaign unless it agreed to
hold the bank harmless for losses. The suit itself says the bank
should shoulder the blame.  ‘Illegal Transfers”  Durkee’s actions “required the assistance of willing
financial institutions,” the suit said. “In this case, First
California Bank was at the heart of the illegal transfer of
money” from Feinstein’s accounts.  The suit said Durkee, “with the substantial assistance”
of the bank and others, used money from Feinstein’s accounts
“to cover her personal and business expenses and to reimburse
other elected officials’ campaign funds from which she had also
embezzled.”  Feinstein, 78, and California Democratic Representatives
Susan Davis and Loretta Sanchez were among the lawmakers who
employed Durkee. Davis earlier this month sent a letter to
supporters saying “We have been robbed!!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 