-- 
Senate Votes to Renew Tariff Preferences, Extend Worker Aid

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-23T00:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/senate-votes-to-renew-tariff-preferences-extend-worker-aid-1-.html
The Senate voted to renew trade
preferences for developing nations after adding aid for workers
who lose their jobs to overseas competition, opening the way for
President  Barack Obama  to submit three free-trade deals.  Lawmakers voted 70-27 for the trade-preferences system
today after adding a scaled-back version of Trade Adjustment
Assistance negotiated by Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat,
and Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican. Seventeen
Republicans voted for the measue. The legislation moves to the
House, where Speaker  John Boehner  said debate will begin only
when Obama sends Congress the trade accords with South Korea,
Colombia and Panama.  Obama has taken a different approach, saying he would send
lawmakers the trade agreements reached under President  George W. Bush  once Congress commits to renew the worker aid.  “The process is beginning to show some momentum,” Bill
Brock, a former Republican National Committee chairman and U.S.
Trade Representative in the  Reagan administration , said in an
interview. “I’m modestly optimistic that this will put these
issues behind us and allow us to move forward on some much
larger objectives.”  Trade Adjustment Assistance augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of stimulus legislation in 2009,
it was expanded beyond manufacturing to include service workers
such as call-center employees. Republicans say renewing the
extended aid would be too costly when lawmakers are struggling
to reduce the federal deficit.  $320 Million Cost  The proposal to renew aid for service workers, estimated by
the Senate Finance Committee to cost $320 million annually,
would continue most of the assistance through 2013 and provide
retroactive benefits to those left out so far this year.  “We await the president’s submission of the three trade
agreements sitting on his desk so the House can consider them in
tandem” with preferences and worker aid, Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, said in a statement.  The South Korea trade deal, the biggest for the U.S. since
the  North American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994, would boost
U.S. exports by as much as $10.9 billion in the first year it’s
in full effect, according to the U.S. International Trade
Commission. The accord with Colombia would increase exports by
as much as $1.1 billion a year.  South Korea, Colombia  Companies such as  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
have led the effort to get the South Korea deal passed, while
Caterpillar Inc.,  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , have
been among the biggest backers of the accord with Colombia.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington welcomed the
Senate vote, Myron Brilliant, senior vice president for
international policy at the largest business lobbying group,
said in a statement. “It clears the way for approval of the
job-creating trade agreements, and not a moment too soon,” he
said.  The Chamber estimates the trade agreements will prevent the
loss of 380,000 jobs.  Democrats staved off a push by Senate Republican leader
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky on Sept. 20 to add “fast-track”
authority intended to require that Congress act on trade
agreements within a limited time and without changes after the
president submits them. The mandate expired after Democrats
gained control of Congress under Bush in 2007.  Obama hasn’t requested renewal of the authority. A push for
it may “trigger an all-out ideological struggle over U.S. trade
policy,” a Council on Foreign Relations panel that included
former Democratic Senate leader Tom Daschle and Andrew Card, the
White House chief of staff under Bush, said in a Sept. 19
report.  The amendment to add worker aid to the trade preferences
bill passed 69-28, with 16 Republicans joining the Democrats.  The bill is H.R. 2832.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  