-- 
Seven Said to Seek Refinancing Commitments by Early October

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-09-23T06:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/seven-west-said-to-seek-refinancing-commitments-by-early-october.html
Seven West Media Ltd., owner of
 Australia ’s top-rating television network, is asking for
commitments from banks by early October as it seeks to refinance
A$2.25 billion ($2.3 billion) of debt, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  Seven is seeking debt maturing in three, four and five
years, the people said, asking not to be named as the talks are
private. Lenders are currently arranging internal credit
approvals and Seven, which is negotiating with banks
individually, will select a lead banking group after evaluating
the commitments, the people said.  West Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd. bought Seven Media
Group earlier this year, creating Australia’s biggest media
company. Both companies were chaired by billionaire  Kerry
Stokes , who now chairs the merged entity. Seven West also owns
the nation’s second-largest magazine publisher, Perth’s sole
daily newspaper and a half share of the second-most visited web
portal in a venture with Yahoo! Inc.  Seven Media Group signed a A$2.55 billion facility in
February 2007, which matures in 2013, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Seven West spokesman Simon Francis said by phone today that
the company was still on course to complete its refinancing by
the end of the year, as outlined in its Aug. 24 results
briefing.  Banks which helped to arrange the 2007 facility include
Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial
Group Inc., according to the data.  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and
Westpac Banking Corp. were among the some 16 banks also
committing funds, the data show.  West Australian Newspapers said it would acquire Seven
Media for A$1.98 billion from Seven Group Holdings Ltd. and
buyout firm KKR & Co. on Feb. 21. Including assumed debt, the
A$4.09 billion offer made it the biggest ever purchase of
Australian media assets, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 