-- 
Silvercorp Sues Chinastockwatch.com Alleging Attempt to Drive Down Shares

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-23T20:55:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/silvercorp-sues-chinastockwatch-com-alleging-attempt-to-drive-down-shares.html
Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , a Canadian
miner of silver in  China , sued two websites and their operators
for allegedly spreading false information in an effort to drive
down the company’s stock price.  Chinastockwatch.com, a New York-based  website  that posts
reports on public companies, and operator Jerry Katz published
“false, defamatory and fraudulent statements,” Silvercorp said
in the complaint filed yesterday in  New York  State Supreme Court
in  Manhattan .  Alfredlittle.com  website operator Alfred Little and an
editor, Simon Moore, also were named as defendants in the
lawsuit. Silvercorp seeks punitive damages of at least $10
million and compensatory damages of more than $1 million.  The defendants sought “to artificially drive down the price
of Silvercorp common stock in order to obtain illicit profits on
short sales,” the Vancouver-based company said in the
complaint. Short investors sell borrowed shares with plans to
buy them back later at a lower price.  No contact information was listed on Chinastockwatch.com
and Katz couldn’t be reached to comment on the lawsuit. The
complaint is “frivolous” and Alfredlittle.com has “nothing to
do with” Chinastockwatch.com, Moore said.  “Every statement that was made in every single report that
was published on Silvercorp from Alfredlittle.com is completely
factual,” Moore said in a telephone interview. “Absolutely
nothing in any of our previous reports on other companies that
we’ve published on including Silvercorp has ever been
exaggerated.”  The case is  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM)  v. Chinastockwatch.com,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan),
150374/2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  