-- 
Singapore Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerates, Complicating Policy Decision

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   P h a n g
-- 
2011-09-23T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/singapore-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-complicating-policy-decision.html
Singapore ’s inflation unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest pace since 2008 as housing and food
costs climbed, complicating the central bank’s decision ahead of
a policy review next month as risks to growth rise.  The  consumer price index  rose 5.7 percent in August from a
year earlier, the Department of Statistics said in a statement
today. That compares with the 5.2 percent median estimate of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Inflation was 5.4 percent
in July, according to previously reported data.  The Singapore dollar has declined this quarter along with
most regional currencies outside  Japan , as a struggling U.S.
economy and Europe’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports
and prompted officials from  China  to the Philippines to avoid
further rate increases. The island, which uses the  exchange rate 
to manage inflation, will release its twice-yearly monetary
policy decision in October.  “Higher than expected domestic inflationary pressure has
kept inflation elevated in the near term even when global energy
and commodity prices have eased,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said in a note before the
report. “This will change in the months ahead.”  The Singapore government has lowered its forecast for the
economy’s expansion in 2011 even after the central bank raised
its inflation estimate. The island’s currency has appreciated to
unprecedented levels since the central bank said in April it
would allow further gains to tame price pressures, the third
monetary tightening in a year.  Policy Stance  While Singapore’s central bank will most likely maintain
its current policy stance of a gradual appreciation in the
 Singapore dollar ’s nominal effective exchange rate, “downside
risks to growth and easing inflation could tilt the policy
decision towards a more neutral policy stance,” Seah said.  Singapore’s consumer prices may climb 4 percent to 5
percent this year, more than a previous forecast of 3 percent to
4 percent, the central bank estimates.  The monetary policy stance remains appropriate, Ong Chong Tee, deputy managing director at the central bank, said Aug. 10.
Policy makers are giving equal priority to containing inflation
and spurring growth, Kwek Mean Luck, a deputy secretary at the
Ministry of Trade and Industry, said the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  