-- 
Sistema Sees Gain From Quicker-Than-Forecast Rebound at Russneft

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 
2011-09-23T12:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/sistema-sees-gain-from-quicker-than-forecast-rebound-at-russneft.html
AFK Sistema, the Russian telecoms-
to-energy group controlled by billionaire  Vladimir Yevtushenkov ,
expects to profit from a faster-than-expected turnaround at oil
producer OAO Russneft.  Sistema acquired a 49 percent stake in Russneft last year
for $20 million. Since then, the producer’s increased output 17
percent to 280,000 barrels a day and sold assets, cutting debt
quicker than planned. Sistema Chief Executive Officer Mikhail Shamolin said the stake may eventually be worth as much as $3
billion and options for the holding including selling it or
folding into the group’s larger oil company, OAO Bashneft.  “Once we create value in our stake, then we will decide if
we should do anything else with it,” Shamolin said in an
interview. “We are not there yet, but we are well on the way.”  Sistema has not consolidated Russneft into its accounting
and in its 2010 financial statement gave the stake no value.  Even so, Urals crude prices have topped $100 a barrel since
February, helping Russneft has shed $769 million in debt in the
first six months of the year. That’s more than the $500 million
to $700 million annual reduction Shamolin estimated in June.
Russneft said total debt had fallen to $5.44 billion in a Sept.
14 statement.  The reduction supports the case for buying Sistema shares
now on the basis that Russneft will contribute to the group
later on, said Artem Konchin, an oil and gas analyst at
UniCredit SpA who has a ‘buy’ recommendation on Sistema shares.  Bargaining Chip  Sistema, which holds stakes in telecoms, retail, tourism
and medical businesses, has identified Russneft as a possible
bargaining chip in talks to create a venture with  India ’s Oil
and Natural Gas Corp., it said in December. It additionally sees
Russneft’s output as feedstock for Bashneft’s refineries near
Ufa in  Russia .  “Sistema shares will move when there is an agreement with
ONGC or Bashneft that forces the market to react,” Konchin
said.  Sistema also may just take dividends, which Russneft may
pay as soon as 2013, Shamolin said. Sistema shares have lost 17
percent since the start of the year and traded at 22.50 rubles
at 4:25 p.m. in Moscow today.  Sistema agreed to buy 49 percent of Russneft from founder
Mikhail Gutseriev in April of 2010 after the Russian billionaire
returned to Russia from three years of self-imposed exile.
Gutseriev fled the country in 2007 amid criminal charges and tax
probes that were later dropped.  Russneft’s largest creditor OAO Sberbank holds a 2 percent
stake in the company. Glencore International AG holds stakes in
Russneft subsidiaries and is also a Russneft creditor. Russneft
had assets at $6.22 billion and liabilities at $7.21 billion,
according to a Sistema financial statement in 2010 .  Russneft “is not a bad investment,” Shamolin said. “I
don’t think the market sees it at this point, but at some point
we will make it transparent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 