-- 
Slovenian Rating Cut by Moody’s, Another Downgrade Possible

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-23T11:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/slovenian-debt-rating-cut-by-moody-s-another-downgrade-possible.html
Slovenia’s credit rating was cut
one level by Moody’s Investors Service, the latest euro-region
member to be downgraded in a sovereign debt crisis that forced
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek financial assistance.  The local- and foreign-currency government bond ratings
were lowered to Aa3, the fourth-highest level, from Aa2, Moody’s
said in a statement today. It warned another reduction may come
on concern the banking system will need state support as
Europeans struggle to cut spending and boost economies.  Slovenia follows Italy,  Spain , Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus
and Greece as euro-region countries to be downgraded this year
as contagion from the region’s debt crisis prompts rating
companies and investors to step up scrutiny of credit risk.
 Standard & Poor’s  on Sept. 19 cut Italy 1 level to A, its first
downgrade in five years, and Moody’s Investors Service will
finish reviews on  Italy  and Spain in the coming weeks.  “Medium-term economic growth risks have developed due to
the ongoing need for deleveraging in the highly indebted
corporate sector,” Moody’s said in the statement. “The banking
system’s significant vulnerabilities are another risk for the
country’s economic growth outlook.”  The former Yugoslav republic was plunged into political
turmoil after Prime Minister Borut Pahor’s Cabinet was toppled
in a Sept. 20 vote that threatens to delay approval of the
European Financial Stability Facility, the European Union’s
rescue fund, meant to help Greece and other indebted nations
stay afloat.  Political Turmoil  Moody’s said its review of Slovenia’s sovereign rating will
focus on the government’s ability to achieve “ambitious fiscal
consolidation targets and structural reforms” to stabilize and
reverse public debt over the medium term. It said it will also
analyze the effect of the current political uncertainty.  Pahor’s minority government was ousted after coalition
partners left the ruling group over the pension overhaul and
early elections that may now be held as early as December.
Lawmakers are set to vote on the approval of the rescue fund on
Sept. 27.  “The government isn’t surprised by the downgrade because
it was itself warning of consequences of a failure to approve
much needed structural reforms,” the  Finance Ministry  in
Ljubljana said today in an e-mailed statement. “The government
regrets that the pension overhaul was rejected in a referendum
and that the no-confidence vote deepened the political
uncertainty.”  ‘Sound Economy’  Slovenia has a “sound economy,” capable of overcoming
current challenges, the European Commission said today after the
credit-score cut.  “We remain very confident in the capacity of the Slovenian
economy to face these challenges in the coming months,”
commission spokesman Olivier Bailly told reporters in Brussels
today.  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. needs 400 million euros ($541
million) of fresh capital, the second such move this year, to
improve its capital ratio after Slovenia’s biggest lender barely
passed an EU stress test in July, meant to show its ability to
withstand another recession and a sovereign debt crisis.  The crisis “exposed significant vulnerabilities in the
solvency and short-term external funding and overall business
model of the Slovenian financial sector as evidenced by the
banks’ need for government support” and “by the deterioration
in banks’ profitability and asset quality with further potential
negative impact on the economy,” Moody’s said.  Debt, Deficit Concerns  The government is the majority owner of the country’s two
biggest lenders, Nova Ljubljanska and Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor d.d.  Central bank Governor Marko Kranjec, who’s also a member of
the  European Central Bank ’s governing council, warned in May
that Slovenia risks a ballooning budget gap and debt level,
similar to what happened in Greece, Ireland and Portugal, if the
country continues to help state-owned companies.  The government aims to narrow the gap to 4.6 percent of
total output this year, or 5.5 percent by the European
accounting standards, after lawmakers passed the reviewed budget
spending on Sept. 16., the Finance Ministry said today.
Slovenia’s public debt ballooned to 45.2 percent at the end of
June, according to the statistics office data.  Market Reaction  The extra yield investors demand to hold Slovenia’s bond
maturing in 2021 rather than similar-maturity German debt more
than doubled since the pension changes were rejected in June.  The difference advanced to the highest on record to 333
basis points, or 3.33 percent at 1:37 p.m. in Ljubljana,
compared with 147 basis points on June 6.  Nova Kreditna Banka plunged the most since the initial
public offering in December 2007. The stock fell 11.7 percent to
4.15 euros, compared with 27 euros at the IPO and a high of
43.63 euros on Dec. 24 2007.  Slovenia’s credit-default swaps, which rise as the
perception of creditworthiness deteriorates, rose to 248 basis
points yesterday from 221 basis points, according to CMA, which
compiles price quotes from dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The economy expanded 0.9 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, down from 2.3 percent growth in the previous
three months as demand for its exports in  Europe  waned. Banks’
reluctance to lend added to the slowing economy, according to EU
and Development Minister Mitja Gaspari.  Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  last week reduced his
estimate for an expansion this year to 1.5 percent from a
previous forecast of 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  