-- 
Soccer Official Klass Banned for 26 Months After Bribery Hearing

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-09-23T16:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/soccer-official-colin-klass-banned-for-26-months-after-bribery-hearing.html
Caribbean soccer official Colin
Klass was banned for 26 months and fined 5,000 Swiss francs
($5,500) by the sport’s governing body over involvement in a
meeting where former presidential candidate Mohamed  Bin Hammam 
allegedly offered bribes, FIFA said.  Klass, president of the Guyana soccer federation, is the
first of 16 officials from the Caribbean to receive a sanction
after FIFA opened proceedings against them on Aug. 11. FIFA
announced the ban today in an e-mailed statement. Klass didn’t
answer calls or an e-mail.  The governing body on July 26 gave officials from the
Caribbean Football Union 48 hours to come forward with
information about a May meeting whereBin Hammam allegedly
offered envelopes stuffed with $40,000. Bin Hammam, the former
head of soccer in  Asia , is appealing the lifetime ban he was
given from the sport.  The meeting of the regional body was held in May at a hotel
in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.  Klass was only one of the 16 officials suspended pending a
hearing after FIFA said it had received “specific information”
about his conduct. The other 15 were able to keep their posts
pending hearings.  Bin Hammam became the highest-ranked soccer official to be
excluded from the sport on July 23.  FIFA  has spent a year trying
to deal with corruption allegations linked to the presidential
election as well as the choice of host for the  World Cup , which
brings in $4 billion.  One of FIFA’s vice presidents, Trinidad-based Jack Warner,
quit the sport after being suspended pending the investigation
into him and Bin Hammam. He arranged the Qatari’s meeting with
the CFU and the duo were banned May 29.  Warner’s Case  FIFA dropped its case against Warner, saying “the
presumption of innocence is maintained,” following his
withdrawal from the sport. Warner was also head of Concacaf, the
regional soccer body for North and Central America and the
Caribbean.  Bin Hammam is taking his case to the Court of Arbitration
for Sport, denying the charge against him and saying it is
politically motivated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  