-- 
Southeast Europe Faces Euro Debt-Crisis Fallout, McGuire Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-09-23T09:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/southeast-europe-faces-euro-debt-crisis-fallout-mcguire-says.html
Southeast Europe’s emerging
economies must brace for a slowdown as the euro-region debt
crisis saps demand for their exports and investment dries up,
said  Richard McGuire , an economist Rabobank International.  Nations in the region, a “victim” of the crisis in the
bloc that some of them aspire to join, must keep sound fiscal
policies without necessarily resorting to austerity to weather
the fiscal storm, McGuire, a fixed-income strategist, said in an
interview in the Serbian capital of Belgrade yesterday.  A lack of bank credit and declining business and consumer
confidence in the euro area will damp demand for exports from
southeast Europe and foreign-direct investment there, he said.
That may “limit the scope at least for any upgrade of country
ratings and perhaps increase the risk of downward movements in
country ratings.”  The euro-region economy is cooling as governments struggle
to restore investor confidence in their ability to prevent a
Greek default and halt contagion from the debt crisis. Spanish
and Italian bond yields have surged to record highs, forcing the
 European Central Bank  to buy their debt in a bid to bring down
borrowing costs.  While the bond purchases initially shaved off about 100
basis points from  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield, it has crept back
up toward 6 percent even as the Frankfurt-based central bank
continues to prop up the nation’s debt. Policy makers such as
Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  have said collective-
debt instruments backed by all the currency members, so-called
euro bonds, may solve the sovereign crisis.  Fiscal Union  “Tensions have increased and pushed politicians to where
the market thinks is the eventual endgame -- a possible fiscal
union and euro-bond issuance,” London-based McGuire said.
“Ultimately, the market will want to see the fiscal unity.”  He said Rabobank was “attributing a 70 percent probability
to the  euro zone  remaining in its current form and that nobody
leaves.” A 30 percent probability of “someone leaving” would
be “more likely driven not by a group led by  Germany  telling
 Greece  to leave, but Greece perhaps leaving of its own accord.”  Spain and Italy will feel continued pressure as investors
realize there’s not enough money under European Union financing
mechanisms to bail them out, McGuire said. Euro-area nations are
in the process of approving upgrades to the region’s 440
billion-euro ($595 billion) rescue fund. Italy has 1.9 trillion
euros in debt, more than four times the fund’s capacity.  Lowering Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 predicted
“severe” repercussions if  Europe  fails to contain the crisis. In
the euro area, the IMF cut its economic-growth forecast to 1.6
percent from 2 percent this year and to 1.1 percent from 1.7
percent next year. The Washington-based lender also said it’s
“very worried” that European banks will seek to boost their
capital buffers, leading to a “credit crunch.”  Southeast Europe, which includes EU-members Bulgaria and
 Romania  as well as Croatia and  Serbia , will continue to grow at
“less than pre-crisis average,” the IMF said. The four
economies, with a combined gross domestic product of close to
$400 billion, will expand between 0.8 percent and 2.5 percent
this year, the IMF said, with Croatia “continuing to struggle.”  Southeast European nations should ensure their budgets
remain “in good health” to avoid higher debt-servicing costs,
McGuire said. The region should neither refrain from new
borrowing nor turn to austerity measures, as much of the euro
region has done, he added.  “You can provide stimulus if the market is confident that
it’s part of a broader, credible, medium-term plan that will
bring the budget back toward balance,” McGuire said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  