-- 
Korean Won Jumps Most in Four Months as Authorities Decide on Intervention

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-23T09:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/south-korean-won-set-for-worst-week-in-16-months-as-intervention-flagged.html
South Korea ’s won gained the most
in almost four months, reversing losses in the final two minutes
of trading, after authorities said they were prepared to
intervene to curb declines. The nation’s currency, bonds and
stocks all declined in the week.  The  finance ministry  said it will “take action” to
stabilize the currency market, after holding an emergency
meeting with the central bank before markets opened. “The herd
behavior on one-way bets has been excessive in the recent
currency market,” the ministry said. Authorities seemed to have
intervened “much more strongly” than in previous days, said
Kim Seong Soo, a Seoul-based trader with Kyongnam Bank.  “It looks as if the government waited until there was a
lot of dollar demand in the market, and then pushed the won up
by selling dollars,” said Kim.  The currency rose 1.1 percent to 1,167.31 per dollar at the
3 p.m. close in Seoul, reversing a loss of as much as 1.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won
tumbled 4.7 percent this week, the biggest decline since May
2010, as the benchmark  stock index  fell to the lowest level
since July 2010.  Global funds sold $1.4 billion more South Korean,
Indonesian and Taiwanese equities than they bought this week
through yesterday, according to exchange data. South Korea’s
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 5.7 percent to 1,697.44 today, bringing its
losses this week to 7.8 percent.  “If market sentiment continues to be bad, which is likely
in the near term, then the government will need to keep
intervening to prevent the won from weakening,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .
“From government action today, the 1,200 mark is closely
watched.”  Monitoring Markets  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
2011 global economic growth this week to 4 percent from 4.3
percent, and for 2012 to 4 percent from 4.5 percent, predicting
a “severe” fallout if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis.  South Korea will expand monitoring of overseas investment
trends in the country and capital outflows amid rising financial
market volatility caused by the European fiscal crisis, the
Financial Supervisory Service said today. Bank Indonesia and the
 Reserve Bank  of India also said they were ready to intervene to
slow currency declines.  Central banks intervene in currency markets by arranging
purchases or sales of foreign exchange. South Korea has $312
billion in reserves with which to defend the won.  The yield on the 3.5 percent notes due June 2014 rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, this week to 3.44
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. The rate fell six
basis points today.  Overseas investors boosted their holdings of won bonds by
164.8 billion won ($139 million) this month through Sept. 21,
according to the  Financial Supervisory Service . European
investors cut their holdings by 888.3 billion won during the
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  