-- 
Staffing Woes Harm Fannie and Freddie Oversight, Government Watchdog Says

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/staffing-woes-harm-fannie-and-freddie-oversight-government-watchdog-says.html
Regulators lack the staff to
effectively oversee  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac and have scaled
back examinations of the two mortgage companies as a result, a
government watchdog reported.  A hiring campaign by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  has
missed targets and, when completed, will still leave the agency
shorthanded. Those conclusions were part of a report released
today by the FHFA’s Office of Inspector General.  The report singled out the agency’s monitoring of the
housing inventory that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own. Despite a
surge in foreclosures that has increased Fannie Mae’s inventory
sixfold since 2007, “FHFA has yet to conduct a targeted
examination” of how the companies manage repossessed homes,
known as real-estate owned properties or REO, the report said.  “REO represents a significant financial risk to the
enterprises” because they cost money to maintain, the report
found. “These costs increase the longer it takes to resell the
REO, and all the while the value of the properties may be
declining.”  Congress established the FHFA in 2008 to oversee Fannie
Mae,  Freddie Mac  and the  Federal Home Loan Banks . The
government-sponsored entities, which supply qualified lenders
with funds to make home loans, were created to ensure a reliable
and abundant source of mortgage credit. Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac were taken under government control after losses from
subprime lending threatened them with insolvency.  The report criticized the agency for failing to scrutinize
the companies’ stable of outside law firms until late last year,
after evidence of bogus legal documents led most mortgage
companies to suspend foreclosures.  HAMP Problems  An Obama administration effort to modify mortgages for
delinquent homeowners contributed to FHFA’s woes in 2009 and
2010, the report found. The Home Affordable Modification
Program, or HAMP, is administered by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
on behalf of the Treasury.  FHFA diverted credit risk examiners to ensure that the
enterprises handled the program “in a safe and sound manner,”
the report found. “As a result, the enterprises’ credit risk
operations were insufficiently covered.”  The FHFA this year set out to recruit and hire 26 people to
join its team of about 120 examiners. Even if those hires are
completed, agency executives told the inspector general they
will have only about half the examiners they need.  FHFA Deputy Director Stephen M. Cross said the agency has
hired 18 examiners since January.  “It is one thing to say that the agency should increase
examination staffing or that the hiring of examiners is behind
schedule, but quite another to say that FHFA cannot carry out a
credible or effective examination program with the staff
available,” Cross said in a written response to the report.  ‘No Evidence’  Noting that the inspector general’s conclusions were based
on interviews with unnamed FHFA officials, Cross said the report
offers “no evidence” that the agency’s oversight has been
compromised.  With a $176 million operating budget and a staff of about
550, the FHFA oversees the dominant source of U.S. mortgage
financing. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac backed about 70 percent of
all loans made in 2010. They guarantee almost $5 trillion worth
of loans and have another $1.5 trillion worth of loans in their
portfolios.  The 12 home loan banks, which make cheap loans to mortgage
lenders with the support of government backing, had $878 billion
in assets at the end of last year.  Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,
 Virginia , were taken under U.S. conservatorship in 2008. Since
then, the two companies have drawn more than $170 billion in
U.S. Treasury Department aid to continue operating.  In a separate report released today, the inspector general
faulted the agency for failing to force Fannie Mae to quickly
adopt internal risk controls. Better controls could have alerted
the company to the robo-signing foreclosure scandal sooner, the
report found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 