-- 
Steelworkers Leader Says Strike Possible Over Refinery Safety

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-09-23T17:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/steelworkers-union-approves-bargaining-policy-with-oil-industry.html
The lead negotiator for the  United
Steelworkers  said the union representing employees at 69 U.S.
oil refineries is prepared to strike if companies don’t agree to
stricter safety procedures at plants and pipelines.  The USW, which failed during contract negotiations in 2009
to get companies to agree to have a USW-trained safety
specialist at each refinery, will make a similar demand during
talks that begin in January for a new three-year pact, Gary Beevers, a USW vice president, said today.  About 300 delegates to the union’s annual oil bargaining
conference in  Dallas  today approved a bargaining policy for
contract talks with the companies.  “We were not in a position to strike the last time
because the recession told us we couldn’t do that to the
American public,” Beevers said. “We’re still not where we need
to be economically, but the companies’ margins are better. We’re
either going to get some changes in health and safety or we’re
going to have a strike.”  Refinery and pipeline union members, which number about
30,000, haven’t struck since 1980, when a work stoppage lasted
three months. A strike would affect almost two-thirds of U.S.
refining capacity, according to union research.  During the last contract talks in 2009, the union accepted
higher wages while relenting on new safety provisions after 12
days of negotiations in Austin,  Texas . The three-year agreement
included 3 percent annual raises and $2,500 bonuses.  Anacortes Blast  A chemical explosion at  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s Anacortes,
 Washington , refinery on April 2, 2010, killed seven people, the
deadliest accident at a U.S. plant since 2005.  Five percent of U.S. refineries had significant incidents
in the previous two years,  Robert Hall , the U.S. Chemical Safety
and Hazard Investigation Board’s lead Anacortes investigator,
said April 5, 2010.  “We always ask for better wages but we’re tired of taking
chances with people’s lives,” Beevers said.  The policy, agreed upon unanimously today by the delegates
to the bargaining conference, will be sent Sept. 26 to local
unions representing workers at refineries and pipeline units.
Ratification by 75 percent of the locals is needed within 45
days for the policy to become the official position for
negotiating a new three-year contract with employers.  Most of the local contracts expire Jan. 31 and the rest
later in the year.  Talks are scheduled to begin in January with
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which will bargain on behalf of companies
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)   If approved, a deal between Shell and the USW will become
the pattern used to negotiate local contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  