-- 
Strauss-Kahn to Face Accuser in Attempted Rape Probe, Prosecutor Says

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-23T11:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/strauss-kahn-must-face-french-accuser-banon-over-2003-attempted-rape-claim.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn  will be
questioned by police alongside the French writer who has accused
him of attempted rape, the Paris prosecutors’ office said today.  Police interviewed the former International Monetary Fund
chief Strauss-Kahn 11 days ago about Tristane Banon’s
allegations. Their 2003 encounter “didn’t involve any
aggression, any violence,” Strauss-Kahn said in a television
interview, calling her accusations “imaginary.”  “Dismissing this out of hand would have been
problematic,” said Christopher Mesnooh, a Paris criminal
defense lawyer who isn’t involved in the case. Given “the
sensitivity of the whole thing,” Mesnooh said, “the best way
of getting it out is to have the two of them face to face.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, resigned from the IMF in May while jailed
in  New York  on charges of attempting to rape and sexually
assault the chambermaid at the Sofitel Hotel in Manhattan. The
case was thrown out last month after prosecutors said the maid
had lied to them. Strauss-Kahn, who led French polls for the
2011 presidential election prior to his arrest, returned to
Paris this month.  Prosecutors didn’t give a date for the so-called
confrontation in an e-mailed statement today. Strauss-Kahn made
his televised remarks, his first public comments on the New York
and Paris investigations, on TF1 on Sept. 18.  Strauss-Kahn and Banon’s lawyers didn’t immediately return
calls for comment on the police interview. Strauss-Kahn is at
his home in  Morocco ,  Agence France-Presse  said today.  Paris Protest  Banon sought the confrontation in television and newspaper
interviews and organized a demonstration scheduled for tomorrow
in front of the Paris courthouse in support of stricter
penalties for violent crimes against women.  By holding a confrontation, “nobody can say afterwards
that she did not have a chance to put her case forward” or
“you were prejudiced against women or in favor of powerful
men,” Mesnooh said.  The confrontation will also protect Paris prosecutors from
critical comparisons to the New York investigation, where
 Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. took three months to
investigate the maid’s claims before deciding to dismiss the
indictment, said Mesnooh, a partner at Field Fisher Waterhouse.  “There is some pressure on the French judiciary after what
happened in New York to at least take this far enough to see
whether there is any fire behind the smoke and this is one way
of doing it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 