-- 
Sudan Army, Opposition Fighters Clash in Southern Kordofan

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-09-23T13:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/sudan-clashes-resume-in-southern-kordofan-state-smc-reports.html
The Sudanese army and rebels
clashed in Southern Kordofan state near the border with newly
independent South  Sudan .  Violence erupted late yesterday in Sudan’s main oil-
producing state, according to the state-run Sudanese Media
Centre, as government forces killed 30 members of the northern
branch of the ruling Sudan People’s Liberation Movement in South
Sudan.  SPLM-North fighters won a “solid victory” in the Rashad
district in eastern Southern Kordofan, killing 60 Sudanese Armed
Forces troops and destroying 13 armed land cruisers, the party
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Fighting in the border states of Southern Kordofan and Blue
Nile started after President Umar al-Bashir’s government tried
to disarm soldiers who fought during a two-decade civil war
alongside the forces of South Sudan, which gained independence
on July 9.  The northern branch of the SPLM became an independent party
in Sudan after the south’s secession.  SPLM-North fighters are “now in full control” of the
Khour al-Dalib area in Rashad district, Abdullah Tia, a former
health minister, said by phone today from Juba, the capital of
South Sudan. The Army carried out aerial bombardments near the
town of Talodi in eastern Southern Kordofan, said Tia, who’s a
member of the SPLM-North.  Al-Swarmi Khaled, the spokesman for the Sudanese Army, and
South Sudan army spokesman Philip Aguer didn’t answer calls
seeking comment.  Civilians Flee  As many as 150,000 people have fled their homes in Southern
Kordofan since June 5, according to  Amnesty International  and
 Human Rights Watch . Fighting this month in Blue Nile state has
displaced about 100,000 people, the  United Nations News Centre 
reported on Sept. 13.  In an Aug. 15 report, the UN Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights called for an investigation into
possible crimes against humanity and  war crimes , allegedly
committed mainly by government forces, during clashes in
Southern Kordofan with insurgents from SPLM-N.  Southern Kordofan accounts for 115,000 barrels a day in
crude production, according to Sudan’s minister of state for
oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  