-- 
Swire Pacific Falls Most in Almost 3 Years on Spin-Off Plan

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-23T07:13:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/swire-pacific-falls-most-in-almost-3-years-on-spin-off-plan.html
Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) , the Hong Kong
commercial landlord and owner of the city’s biggest airline,
fell the most in almost three years in Hong Kong trading after
saying it is planning to spin off its property unit.  The stock dropped as much as 7 percent, its biggest decline
since January 2009 and was trading 4.6 percent down at HK$87.35
as of 2:54 p.m. on the city’s stock exchange. That brings its
loss this year to 32 percent, compared with the 23 percent drop
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The group, the owner of the Pacific Place and Island East
commercial complexes, is considering the spinoff a year after
shelving an initial public offering of the property unit, it
said in a statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange yesterday.
Swire in July sold the Festival Walk shopping center for HK$18.8
billion ($2.4 billion), its biggest property transaction, to
fund its development projects in other parts of China.  “The announcement does suggest that Swire Properties may,
over time, tap the equity markets in order to fund its
expansion,” Bank of America Corp. analysts Karl Choi and Karen Fan wrote in a report yesterday. “Holding companies typically
trade at a discount to their operating property companies,”
said the analysts in the bank’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  Swire Pacific last year scrapped a planned IPO of Swire
Properties Ltd. to raise as much as HK$20.8 billion because of
“deteriorating market conditions,” the statement said.  The company hasn’t made any formal application to the stock
exchange for the spin-off, it said in the statement.  Swire Properties has no “medium-term” need to raise fund
as the sale of Festival Walk has given it enough capital to meet
its expenditure for its current projects in  China , Martin
Cubbon, Chief Executive Officer of the unit, said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV in  Guangzhou  today.  “It’s really just getting the vehicle for the medium to
long-term,” Cubbon said. “We are much less concerned about
market volatility. It’s less relevant in this case.”  Swire’s properties in China include the Sanlitun Village
retail complex in Beijing, the 99-room luxury hotel Opposite
House in the capital’s Chaoyang district and the Beaumonde
Retail Podium in the southern city of Guangzhou. It is building
five projects with a total gross floor area of 12.9 million
square feet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  