-- 
Swire Plans to Add China Land as Local Rivals Face Tightening

-- B y   S t e p h e n   E n g l e   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-23T09:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/swire-plans-to-add-china-land-as-local-rivals-face-tightening.html
Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) , the biggest
developer in  Hong Kong ’s Island East district, plans to add
projects in other parts of China as local rivals face credit
tightening.  “We’re looking and seeing what opportunities are there,”
Martin Cubbon, chief executive officer of Swire Properties Ltd.,
the group’s real estate unit, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Guangzhou today.  Swire in July sold the Festival Walk mall in Hong Kong for
$2.4 billion, the biggest transaction for the company, to help
fund the five projects it is developing in Chinese cities
including Beijing and Guangzhou. The group said yesterday it’s
planning to spin off its property business, a year after
shelving an initial public offering of the unit.  Chinese regulators told banks to tighten lending for real
estate on concern credit risks will increase as the impact of
government curbs deepens, a person familiar with the matter said
last month. Lenders were told not to extend the maturity of
loans to developers, not to grant new credit to help repay
maturing debt, and to set higher standards on loans for
commercial properties than residential, the person said.  China ’s tightening measures “probably does give us a
little bit of an advantage,” said Cubbon. “There are still
plenty of well-capitalized and strong residential players on the
mainland. As you know, most Hong Kong developers are extremely
well capitalized and right now that’s obviously an advantage,
but I don’t think it’s an overwhelming advantage.”  Less Debt  Builders in Hong Kong hold far less borrowings than other
Chinese developers following a two-and-a-half-year property boom
in the city of 7.1 million people. The top 60 developers in the
city have an average debt-to-common-equity ratio of about 50
percent, compared with the average 150 percent of counterparts
in other parts of China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swire’s properties in China include the Sanlitun Village
retail complex in Beijing, the 99-room luxury hotel Opposite
House in the capital’s Chaoyang district and the Beaumonde
Retail Podium in the southern city of  Guangzhou . It is building
five projects with a total gross floor area of 12.9 million
square feet.  “We’re in an opportunistic mode,” said Cubbon. “Having
five projects may mean we’re not quite aggressive in buying
right now. But for the medium term we certainly are.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  