-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance for Third Day in Four as UBS Shares Rally

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-23T16:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/swiss-stocks-climb-for-third-day-in-four-roche-rises-abb-falls.html
Swiss stocks climbed for the third
time in four days as Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to
address rising risks to the global economy.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest lender, gained 4.8 percent.
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission gear,
dropped 1.6 percent. Petroplus Holdings AG, Europe’s biggest
independent refiner, slid to its lowest price in six weeks.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the largest and most actively
traded companies increased 0.2 percent to 5,298.83 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has still declined 21 percent
from this year’s high on Feb. 18 as the Swiss franc’s strength
curbed exports and concern mounted that the global economic
recovery is stalling. The broader Swiss Performance Index was
little changed.  Policy makers are “committed to a strong and coordinated
international response to address the renewed challenges facing
the global economy,” G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors said in a statement late yesterday in  Washington . Many
urged Europe to implement a July promise to expand the powers of
a rescue fund, Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said.  “After the strong selloff yesterday, I think we
will move sideways,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, the head
of investment advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank in Brugg,
Switzerland. “I don’t think that, on a Friday, investors
want to take risks over the weekend.”  ECB Assistance  The  European Central Bank  may act to address risks to
growth as soon as next month should economic data disappoint,
Governing Council member Luc Coene said.  ‘‘The ECB has never ruled out things beforehand,’’ Coene,
who heads the Belgian central bank, said in an interview in
Washington late yesterday when asked if an interest-rate cut
were warranted. ‘‘If the data in early October shows that things
are worse than we anticipated we will look at the kind of
decisions we have to take for that.’’  UBS rose 4.8 percent to 10.12 Swiss francs and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  gained 1.6 percent to 21.28 francs.  Health-care companies climbed as  Roche Holding AG  gained
0.9 percent to 136.60 francs and  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the maker of
pulmonary arterial hypertension drugs, rallied 2.5 percent to
29.59 francs. Nobel Biocare AG, the second-biggest maker of
dental implants by sales, rose 1.4 percent to 8.01 francs.  ABB, Petroplus  ABB dropped 1.6 percent to 15.16 francs as a gauge of
industrial goods and services companies was the worst performer
of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Georg
Fischer AG (FI/N) , the machinery maker, lost 1.6 percent to 302 francs.  Sulzer AG (SUN) , the Swiss engineering company, fell 2.3 percent
to 94.55 francs as Oliver Girakhou, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux
cut the stock to ‘‘outperform’’ from ‘‘select list.’’  Petroplus slid 1.9 percent to 5.21 francs as  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the company to B from B+, citing the
‘‘difficult’’ outlook for  Europe ’s refining sector that raises
concern the company may be unable to generate free operating
cashflow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  