-- 
U.K. Construction Companies Offer to Help Fund Developments, Survey Shows

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-09-23T15:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/u-k-construction-companies-offering-to-help-fund-developments.html
Construction companies in the U.K.
are offering to partially finance clients’ projects for the
first time in a bid to kick-start development as banks restrict
lending, according to a survey of more than 70 contractors by
real-estate adviser Davis Langdon LLP.  Some building contractors are also allowing developers to
delay payments so projects can go ahead while funding is being
put together, according to the survey by Davis Langdon, a unit
of Aecom Technology Corp. The aim is to maintain revenue and
avoid firing workers, the survey said.  Construction groups are varying their business models
because many are for the first time only breaking even on
projects, the survey said. British Land Co., the U.K.’s second-
largest real-estate investment trust, told analysts on Sept. 23
that the construction cost of its six current developments are
the same as it paid in 2005, citing figures from Davis Langdon.  “They are looking for a share of the profits in return
for offering the finance and it’s usually for projects on a
bigger scale, meaning 20 million pounds ($31 million) plus,”
said Iain Parker, head of London-based Davis Langdon’s European
office, which surveyed more than 70 contractors in the past
eight weeks. This has discouraged developers from accepting the
aid offers, he said.  Contractors believe there is increased competition
“bubbling under the surface” with French and German firms
looking into entering the market. Subcontractors are facing
increased competition from Ireland,  Europe  and  Asia , according
to the survey.  This year will be a time of recovery and contractors are
optimistic in projections up to 2014 with more projects planned
in the commercial and residential sectors, according to the
survey. Parker said while he hopes the market will pick up
within three years, “we’re going to be bumping along the bottom
for a while.”  Public-sector work now makes up 27 percent of the average
contractor’s revenue, a 35 percent increase since before the
global financial crisis, because of a drop in the number of
commercial, residential and retail projects being built,
according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 