-- 
U.S. Money Funds Cut European Bank Debt to Five-Year Low

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n ,   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-09-23T15:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/u-s-money-funds-cut-european-bank-debt-last-month-fitch-says.html
Money-market mutual funds reduced
lending to European banks further last month, with the biggest
U.S. funds cutting their holdings to the lowest in at least five
years, as the region’s sovereign debt crisis worsened.  The 10 biggest U.S. funds eligible to purchase corporate
debt, with a combined $676 billion, reduced European bank assets
to 42 percent of holdings, the lowest level since at least 2006,
 Fitch Ratings  said today in a report. European funds also are
cutting holdings of Spanish and Italian assets and shortening
the maturities of the investments they keep, Fitch said in a
separate report this week.  The sovereign-debt crisis has raised concern that money-
market funds may suffer losses if banks fail to meet obligations
as a result of defaults. Money funds’ withdrawal has made it
difficult for some European banks to get longer-term funding and
forced the  European Central Bank  to step in.  “The general feeling out there is hostile to risk,” said
 Peter Chatwell , a strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in London.
“The crisis has been going on for so long people are getting
entrenched in that sort of mindset. The longer it goes on, the
greater the likelihood the central banks will have to step in
and take action.”  Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged yesterday to address
rising risks to the global economy and pushed  Europe  to contain
its sovereign-debt crisis after concern the world is on the
brink of another recession sent stocks tumbling.  The MSCI All-Country World Index yesterday dropped into a
 bear market  for the first time in two years.  ECB Sees Mismatch  The European Central Bank may introduce 12-month loans to
banks to ease funding strains, Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny told reporters in  Washington  today. The ECB last
conducted a 12-month loan in December 2009.  “There is no immediate liquidity problems for banks, but
what we do see is a mismatch where banks have difficulties
refinancing themselves longer term,” Nowotny said.  The central bank has already reintroduced a six-month loan
and continues to offer banks as much cash as they want at its
benchmark rate in weekly, monthly and three-month refinancing
operations.  European banks concerned about their peers’ potential
losses have reduced lending to each other, preferring to leave
their cash at the European Central Bank. The average amount
banks deposited with the ECB in the previous 10 days is 140
billion euros ($189 billion), compared with this year’s mean of
49 billion euros, according to the Frankfurt-based central bank.  French Banks  European money funds continue to hold the debt of the
strongest sovereigns and the financial institutions of  France ,
 Germany  and the U.K., Fitch said in a Sept. 21 report.  Debt, certificates of deposit and other securities issued
by the banks and held by U.S. funds fell by about $26 billion
last month, Fitch said. The funds’ holdings in French banks fell
19 percent in August, in dollar terms, to about $76 billion, and
34 percent since the end of May.  French financial firms had $672 billion in public and
private debt in  Greece , Portugal, Ireland, Italy and  Spain  at
the end of March, the most exposure to the euro-area’s troubled
countries, according to the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements.  What the U.S. funds have left in French banks has moved to
shorter maturities. Of cash placed in French certificates of
deposit, the portion due to expire in seven days or fewer rose
to 28 percent from about 7 percent two months earlier.  Looking to  Australia   The U.S. funds’ holdings in U.K. banks declined 14 percent
in August, while German holdings climbed 8 percent. The funds
also boosted lending to banks in Australia,  Canada  and  Japan .  Fitch’s survey included funds that represent about 45
percent of the $1.49 trillion in U.S. prime money funds. The
funds’ holdings in European bank securities were the lowest
within Fitch’s historical time series, which dates to the second
half of 2006.  U.S. money funds have put more of their assets into
domestic securities as European holdings have shrunk, David Glocke, head of taxable money-market funds at Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc., said in a telephone
interview.  Vanguard’s money funds have about 50 percent of their
assets in U.S. Treasury and agency paper, Glocke said. Prior to
the credit crisis in 2008, those securities represented about 10
percent of holdings, he said. European banks accounted for 10
percent of holdings as of the end of August, down from 15
percent the month before, Glocke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  