-- 
Stocks Rise on Belief Policy Makers Will Act

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-23T21:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/u-s-stock-futures-gain-as-g-20-pledges-to-address-economy-risks.html
U.S. stocks advanced, trimming the
biggest weekly decline since October 2008 for the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , amid speculation that policy makers will act
to prevent a global financial crisis from getting worse.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  added at least 2 percent,
pacing gains in companies most-tied to economic growth.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  rallied 4.1 percent, the most in the Dow, as the
lender prepared more asset sales to bolster capital.  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,
the world’s largest sporting-goods maker, jumped 5.3 percent
after profit topped analysts’ estimates and it raised a sales
forecast.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  retreated
more than 3.2 percent as gold and oil prices slumped.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,136.43 at 4 p.m. New York time, trimming its weekly drop to
6.5 percent. The Dow added 37.65 points, or 0.4 percent, to
10,771.48. The gauge lost 6.4 percent since Sept. 16.  “Policy is viewed as inept, inert and basically out of
bullets,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of  asset
allocation  for ING Investment Management, wrote in an e-mail.
His firm oversees $550 billion. “If there was a good policy
response, we could see the stock market rally 10 percent very
quickly.”  A four-day rout this week erased $1.1 trillion in U.S.
market value on speculation that central bankers would fail to
prevent a financial crisis. The  S&P 500  has slumped 17 percent
since April 29 on concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis could derail
the global economic recovery.  Ease Tension  The  European Central Bank  may step up efforts to boost
growth and ease financial-market tensions as early as next
month, Governing Council members said. European governments are
exploring speeding the setup of a permanent rescue fund, an
internal working paper shows.  “There was a mention that if things continue to
deteriorate in Europe that there would be a policy announcement,
a pro-active response,” said  Peter Kenny , a managing director
in institutional sales at Knight Capital Group Inc. in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey . “That could give the market some lift, but
that doesn’t resolve the underlying problem.”  The S&P 500 started the session trading for 12.4 times
earnings in the last 12 months, within 2 percent of a low of
12.2 reached Aug. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ratio
would have to narrow another 18 percent to match its level on
March 9, 2009, the start of the  bull market  in which the gauge
rose as much as 102 percent, the data show.  ‘Pretty Cheap’  The price-earnings ratio as of yesterday was 5.1 percent
below the S&P 500’s average valuation of 13 at its lowest point
in the last nine bear markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
To reach the lowest of those, 7 on June 21, 1982, the index
would have to fall 43 percent to about 640, based on profit in
the last 12 months of $91.41 a share.  “Stocks are starting to get pretty cheap,”  Jack Ablin ,
chief investment officer for Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank ,
which oversees $55 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s reality versus expectations. I don’t know where reality
is going to be, but if their expectations are pretty low, that’s
a good sign for me.”  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy rallied 1.1 percent. Home Depot, the largest U.S.
home improvement retailer, gained 2 percent to $33.72. Intel
rose 2.5 percent to $22.16.  The Dow Jones Transportation Average advanced for the first
time in a week, stopping the worst five-day decline since Aug.
8, as airline shares rallied and traders were lured by the
lowest valuations in about two years.  Delta, United  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and United Continental Holdings Inc.
surged at least 6.3 percent to lead gains as the average rallied
1.7 percent. Con-way Inc., a freight hauler, advanced 3.5
percent while railroad operator  CSX Corp. (CSX)  climbed 3.4 percent.  The benchmark gauge for transportation companies had
slipped 11 percent in five days through yesterday, driving its
price-earnings ratio down to a 26-month low of 18.7. The period
marked the worst slump since early August when S&P stripped the
U.S. of its AAA rating and policy makers struggled to reach a
compromise on raising the nation’s debt ceiling, sending the S&P
500 to its 2011 low.  Bank of America rose 4.1 percent to $6.31. The lender is in
exclusive talks to sell its stake in NPC International Inc., the
biggest U.S. Pizza Hut franchisee, for more than $800 million,
said two people with knowledge of discussions. The lender also
agreed to sell about $880 million in commercial mortgages at a
discount of as much as 25 percent, said another person.  Nike Rallies  Nike rallied 5.3 percent to $88.64. Chief Executive Officer
Mark Parker has been trying to overcome rising costs for raw
materials and transporting goods by cutting operating expenses.
Nike’s gross margin, the percentage of sales left after the cost
of goods sold, narrowed by 2.7 percentage points, less than the
company’s projection for a 3 percentage point decline.  Gauges of energy and raw material producers had the two
biggest declines in the S&P 500 within 10 industries, falling at
least 0.3 percent. Newmont Mining, the largest U.S. gold
producer, slumped 3.7 percent to $62.86. Halliburton decreased
3.2 percent to $31.67.  Stocks are having the worst quarter on record relative to
U.S. Treasuries and gold, which may force investors to buy
equities to rebalance their allocations, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Marko Kolanovic said.  U.S. and emerging-market equities have returned 43
percentage points less, the most during a quarter since at least
2002, according to data compiled by Kolanovic, whose analysis is
based on a model portfolio composed of stocks, bonds and gold.  “This underperformance may trigger significant quarterly
rebalance flows into equities and out of Treasuries at the end
of next week,” Kolanovic, the New York-based global head of
equity derivatives strategy at JPMorgan, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  