-- 
Fallout From Palestinians’ UN Bid May Spark Violence, Hurt U.S. Interests

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 
2011-09-23T16:48:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/u-s-risks-arab-rift-violence-over-palestinians-recognition-bid.html
The Obama administration’s focus on
stopping Palestinians from gaining statehood recognition at the
 United Nations  has diverted U.S. attention from the possible
fallout from the showdown in New York -- a breach with Arab
allies and a spark for violence in the Middle East.  U.S. officials have invested so much diplomatic energy in
pressing Palestinians to drop their UN bid and lobbying 150
nations to oppose it that there has been little planning to
contain blowback on American interests from disappointment and
anger in the Arab world, according to three U.S. officials who
weren’t authorized to speech publicly on the subject.  “I’m worried about the day after” Abbas’s appeal for
statehood at the UN is seen to be thwarted or downgraded, said
Ghaith al-Omari, a former adviser to Mahmoud Abbas, the
Palestinian Authority president. Though no one wants a violent
confrontation in the  Middle East , “that doesn’t mean it’s not
going to happen.”  A similar concern was expressed by a retired former head of
Israeli Defense Intelligence, General Amos Yadlin, now a scholar
at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, a private
think tank.  “The law of unintended consequences is going to really
work hard in the coming months,” warned Yadlin, who said the
fight over the UN bid could result in the end of the peace
process, a “third intifada” uprising by Palestinians, or
worse. “The whole Middle East can go on fire” from Arab anger,
he said.  Late Plans  As it became clear this week that Abbas would go forward,
the U.S. began consultations aimed at heading off potential
violence. That included talks involving Lieutenant General
Michael R. Moeller, the U.S. security coordinator to the Israel-
Palestinian Authority, an administration official said
yesterday. Clinton and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta plan to
meet in  New York  today with Persian Gulf allies for talks that
will include the Israeli-Palestinian situation.  Israeli police bolstered forces around the country by
several thousand officers as security was heightened before
Abbas’s UN speech, anticipating Palestinian demonstrations
following the Muslim midday prayers and continuing today and
tomorrow.  Before the speech, the Palestinian Wafa news agency
reported that one Palestinian had been shot dead in West Bank
clashes with Israeli soldiers. The Israeli army said in an e-
mailed statement that a death may have occurred among three
people who were hurt when Israeli security personnel used live
fire to stop rioting by Palestinians that followed rock-throwing
between Israeli civilians and Palestinians.  ‘Independent Homeland’  Abbas, who has urged restraint by Palestinians, made his
public appeal at midday before the General Assembly, saying that
the time has come for a “sovereign and independent homeland.”
The Palestinians still want a negotiated accord with Israel,
which he said “frantically” continues to build Jewish
settlements in the  West Bank .  “We adhere to the option of negotiating a lasting solution
to the conflict in accordance with resolutions of international
legitimacy,” he said. “I declare the Palestine Liberation
Organization is ready to return immediately to the negotiation
table.”  Shortly before his address, Abbas handed the membership
application letter to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  Diplomatic Push  U.S. officials acknowledge privately that the intense
diplomatic push to avert such a public showdown has made it
difficult to prepare a diplomatic Plan B beyond pressing anew
for peace talks. That reflects what has been a persistent hope
that U.S. and European diplomats would persuade Abbas to
withdraw his UN bid, said the three U.S. officials who spoke
separately.  For a year, the U.S. has unsuccessfully urged Israelis and
Palestinians to return to negotiations over disputes that have
blocked a peace accord for decades: Palestinian borders, Israeli
security, the rights of Palestinian refugees and the sharing of
 Jerusalem  as capital of  Israel  and Palestine.  “I remain committed to working with the parties to obtain
the goal that the  United States  supports -- that is, a two-state
solution,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in
New York.  President  Barack Obama  told the General Assembly on Sept.
21 that the Palestinians’ UN effort harms chances for Israeli-
Palestinian talks. The U.S., consistent with its longstanding
commitment to Israel, made clear it would veto a  Security
Council  resolution recognizing Palestinian statehood.  Clear Position  Obama and Clinton met Abbas separately in New York on Sept.
21 and failed to persuade him to shelve his bid for full
statehood, administration officials said. U.S. deputy national
security adviser  Ben Rhodes  told reporters after Obama’s meeting
with Abbas that “just as we have been very clear about what our
position is,” Abbas has “been very clear what his intent is,
which is to go to the Security Council.”  Administration officials said they recognize that American
opposition to the Palestinian bid may hurt U.S. standing among
Arabs and cooperation by friendly Muslim states such as  Saudi
Arabia  and  Egypt . A July 2011 Zogby International  poll  for the
Arab American Institute Foundation in  Washington , conducted in
six Arab nations, found approval for the U.S. and Obama already
at a record low in the region, in large part because of the
Israeli-Palestinian issue. In five of the six countries
surveyed, the U.S. was viewed less favorably than China or  Iran .  Palestinian-Israeli ‘Prism’  Shibley Telhami, a University of  Maryland  professor and
former adviser to the U.S. mission at the UN, said the so-called
Arab Spring democracy movements appear to have intensified anti-
American sentiment.  “In the age of Arab revolution, Arabs continue to see the
United States largely through the prism of the Palestinian-
Israeli conflict, only more so and with more and more
consequences,” he said.  Arab leaders, for their part, have become vulnerable to
popular uprisings that have unseated leaders in Tunisia, Egypt
and  Libya . That means greater pressure on U.S. allies such as
 Jordan , Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf states to distance
themselves from the U.S., said Richard Murphy, a former U.S.
ambassador to Saudi Arabia and former assistant secretary of
state for the Middle East.  It isn’t surprising that “domestic and regional pressures
will lead to a more independent foreign policy” by Arab allies
such as the Saudis, said Murphy, a scholar with the Middle East
Institute in Washington. “In the Arab world, the Palestinian
issues do loom larger than many in the administration think.”  Saudi View  Prince Turki al-Faisal, a former Saudi ambassador to
Washington, wrote in the New York Times on Sept. 12 that U.S.
influence and alliances will suffer if it vetoes Palestinian
statehood in the Security Council.  “Israeli security will be undermined and Iran will be
empowered, increasing the chances of another war in the
region,” Prince Turki wrote. “Moreover, Saudi Arabia would no
longer be able to cooperate with America in the same way it
historically has.”  Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the foreign minister
of the United Arab Emirates, said in a brief interview in New
York that U.S. and Israeli opposition to the Palestinian UN
resolution is “bad for Israel, bad for the U.S.” because it
hurts the Arab world’s hopes for a peaceful solution.  Anti-American Sentiments  Diplomats from several other Arab and Gulf states, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because their diplomatic talks
were private, said they told their American counterparts that
the campaign against Palestinian recognition will fan anti-
American and anti-Israeli sentiments and may force leaders to
distance themselves from the U.S.  They warned that Iran and Syria may exploit the situation
to rally militants in the Palestinian territories, Persian Gulf
nations, Lebanon, Iraq and  Afghanistan , encouraging them to
demonstrate, incite violence or mount terrorist attacks, said a
U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record about
diplomatic communications.  Even without the statehood fracas, Obama has burned though
much of his early political capital in a region now stirred by
Arab Spring movements, said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at
the Brookings Doha Center, the Qatar branch of the Washington-
based think tank. The Obama administration, he said, has somehow
“managed to alienate both sides in the Mideast -- the Saudi
rulers think he’s pro-democracy and the democrats think he’s
pro-regime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  