-- 
U.S. Has Limited Leverage on Pakistan to Cut Militant Ties

-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-23T16:40:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/u-s-has-limited-leverage-on-pakistan-to-cut-militant-ties.html
The Obama administration has
limited leverage on  Pakistan ’s military and intelligence service
to sever their ties to Afghan militants attacking U.S. and
allied targets, according to American officials and outside
experts.  Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
told the Senate Armed Services Committee yesterday that the
Haqqani extremist network is responsible for attacks on
Americans and others in Afghanistan and “acts as a veritable
arm” of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency.  Haqqani operatives “planned and conducted” the Sept. 13
assault on the U.S. Embassy in Kabul -- with support from ISI,
Mullen said. “We also have credible intelligence” that the
Haqqani network was behind the June 28 attack against the Inter-
Continental Hotel in Kabul “and a host of other smaller but
effective operations,” Mullen said, in likely his last
appearance before the panel because he retires next week.  It was the bluntest public comment to date by an
administration official on the ties between Pakistan and the
Afghan militants. Pakistani officials today denied the
allegations and warned the U.S. of consequences.  “This is not in the spirit of partnership,” Foreign
Minister Hina Rabbani Khar said in an interview on the GEO
television channel. “You can’t afford to alienate Pakistani
people. If you’re choosing to do so, it will be at your own
cost.”  ‘Very Unfortunate’  Army Staff General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani considers Mullen’s
statement “very unfortunate and not based on facts,” according
to a statement on the army’s website today. “ Admiral Mullen 
knows fully well which all countries are in contact with the
Haqqanis. Singling out Pakistan is neither fair nor
productive,” he said.  Obama administration concerns about the Haqqani group have
escalated as it has become more active and more brazen, a U.S.
military official said. The U.S. recently has learned more about
the group and its connections with ISI, the official said, on
condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters.  The alleged Haqqani group attacks overtook a meeting
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  had long planned with her
Pakistani counterpart this week at the  United Nations General
Assembly  in  New York . Clinton had wanted to spend two to three
hours with Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar discussing the
range of U.S. relationships with Pakistan, including economic
issues and peace efforts in  Afghanistan , a State Department
official told reporters in New York on Sept. 18.  First and Last Issue  Instead, counterterrorism and the Haqqani network were the
first and last items on Clinton’s mind, the official said.  The U.S. descriptions of the Haqqanis as a proxy force for
ISI “are nothing more than allegations right now,” Khar told
Pakistan’s Geo Television in an interview broadcast today.
“Anything which is said about an ally or a partner publicly to
recriminate it or humiliate it isn’t acceptable,” Khar said.
“We have seriously conveyed to them that you could lose an
ally.”  The head of ISI, Lieutenant General Ahmed Shuja Pasha, told
Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus this week
that Pakistan will get tougher with the Haqqani network and
other militant groups, said a U.S. intelligence official who
spoke on condition of anonymity because details of the meeting
are private. The U.S. will assess that assurance when it sees
some action, he said.  Afghan Militants  Mullen and other U.S. officials from all levels of the
government have persistently had tough messages on the Haqqani
network. U.S. defense and intelligence officials said the U.S.
frustration isn’t limited to Pakistan’s support for the group.  The ISI and the country’s military also support other
Afghan militant groups that are attacking U.S., NATO and Afghan
forces and they aid Pakistani militants who attack  India  -- a
campaign that, if unchecked, could lead to a fourth
confrontation between South Asia’s two nuclear powers, said the
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
intelligence information is classified.  In addition, the officials said, the Pakistani government
has made only incomplete efforts to curb the finances of Islamic
militants in Pakistan’s remote tribal areas near the Afghan
border. Shipments of fertilizer from two Pakistani factories,
which militants use to make improvised explosive devices, are
unchecked, they said.  Eroding Patience  “The litmus test for Pakistan is whether they are willing
to sever their ties with proxy groups, including the Haqqanis,
in Afghanistan,” said Tom Lynch, a former special assistant to
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs who is now a research fellow
for the Near East and  South Asia  at the  National Defense
University  in Washington. “The patience of the U.S. and its
coalition partners is wearing thin.”  Still, there is little that the U.S. can do, especially in
the short term, to force Pakistan to halt its support for the
militants without endangering what remains of the fragile U.S.-
Pakistani relationship.  “I don’t know that there is any credible ‘or else’ or
anything else to back up the administration’s ultimatums to
Pakistan, except for looking at what they need,” said Lynch.
Given the fragility of Afghanistan, Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal
and the dangers of a new confrontation with India, even the
leverage the U.S. has is very difficult to use, he said.  Clash of Interests  Pakistan’s interests conflict with America’s more than they
converge, said Christine Fair, a Pakistan specialist at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington .  While the Obama administration is seeking a credible  peace
process  between the Taliban and the Afghan government, ISI and
the Pakistani military regard the Haqqani network and other
militants as allies in their campaign to maintain Pakistani
influence in Afghanistan and prevent arch-rival India from
having political influence on Pakistan’s western border,
according to Fair and other specialists.  Pakistani politicians and generals believe America’s
appetite for engaging in Afghanistan is waning, as it did after
the  Soviet Union  withdrew from the country in 1989, so they are
banking on a U.S. withdrawal, the intelligence officials said.  Pakistan’s greatest vulnerability is economic, said Lynch,
including the need to start repaying $11 billion in low interest
loans from the  International Monetary Fund  next February.  Too Important to Fail  Still, Pakistan, with its nuclear weapons, “knows it is
too dangerous for the IMF, with the U.S. behind it, to let it
fail.” What is more, Fair said, “We have never had the
intestinal fortitude to use that leverage.”  While U.S. officials have made veiled threats to mount a
commando raid on the Haqqani group’s sanctuary in Pakistan’s
North Waziristan, carrying one out risks backfiring by causing
the Pakistanis to to halt all counter-terrorism cooperation with
the U.S., said Fair. Pakistan was angered by the May 2 special
forces operation that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, he
said.  “We must take calculated risks, but we need to be
cognizant that there is the potential for these things to
backfire,” said Frank J. Cilluffo, director of the  Homeland
Security Policy Institute  at the George Washington University in
Washington.  Pakistan’s Interior Minister Rehman Malik said his country
won’t tolerate an incursion by U.S. forces pursuing militant
groups, Reuters reported today. He was responding to  Mullen’s
statements  on Sept. 20 at the  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace  in Washington that the ISI needed to
“disconnect from Haqqani and from this proxy war that they’re
fighting.”  Legal Obstacle  A legal obstacle to a military attack on the Haqqani
organization inside Pakistan is the fact that the State
Department has never designated it a Foreign Terrorist
Organization. Three of its leaders have been identified as
terrorists and 49 other groups have been named FTOs.  The use of unmanned aerial drones against the Haqqani
network is hampered by a scarcity of accurate and timely
intelligence on their leaders’ whereabouts, the U.S.
intelligence officials said. While the Central Intelligence
Agency has far greater capabilities now than it had before the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that triggered the U.S. invasion of
Afghanistan, the officials said it still relies on the ISI and
other foreign intelligence services for such information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  