-- 
UAW Says ‘High-Level’ Financial Talks With Ford Motor Start on Sept. 26

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-09-23T14:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/uaw-says-high-level-financial-talks-with-ford-motor-start-on-sept-26.html
United Auto Workers President  Bob King  is scheduled to meet with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  labor negotiators
today, and “high-level financial discussions” will begin Sept.
26, the union said.  The UAW and Ford met yesterday to establish a “framework”
for how talks will progress, according to a posting yesterday on
the UAW Ford Department’s Facebook page. Jimmy Settles, who
leads negotiations for the union with Ford, “has indicated that
high-level financial discussions with the company are expected
to begin Monday,” the statement said.  The UAW said it would focus on Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford in a Sept. 21 statement after extending its contract with
Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler Group LLC and reaching a tentative
agreement with  General Motors Co. (GM)   Ford has said its hourly labor costs are higher than those
of Chrysler and GM, whose four-year agreement with the UAW calls
for $5,000 signing bonuses, boosts in pay for entry-level
workers and added jobs and investment in at least six factories.  The union agreed to no-strike pledges at Chrysler and
Detroit-based GM as part of the automakers’ U.S.-backed
bankruptcies in 2009. UAW members at Ford, which didn’t seek
protection from creditors or receive a U.S. bailout, rejected a
strike ban.  Chrysler and the UAW, having extended their labor agreement
one week already, lengthened the contract by as much as four
more weeks, the company said in a Sept. 21 statement.  Labor Costs  Ford has said it pays U.S. hourly workers $58 an hour
including benefits. GM’s labor costs are $56 an hour, according
to the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.
Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, has said its labor
costs are about $50 an hour.  Workers at Ford have filed an “equality of sacrifice”
grievance against the automaker after salaried workers received
raises, tuition assistance and 401(k) matches last year. An
arbitration hearing on that dispute began Sept. 15.  The UAW traditionally reaches a labor agreement with GM,
Chrysler or Ford and then uses it as a template for a deal with
the other two. The union is seeking new contracts this year to
replace accords reached in 2007 that established two tiers of
wages, with new hires getting less than senior workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  