-- 
UBS Board Extends Meeting as It Reckons With $2.3 Billion Loss

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-09-23T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/ubs-says-board-meeting-to-continue-tomorrow-in-singapore.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
extended a board meeting as it grapples with the aftermath of
the $2.3 billion trading loss reported last week.  “The meeting has not ended,” a Zurich-based UBS spokesman
said by e-mail, after directors met yesterday in Singapore.
“The board has only finished for the day.”  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  was the first to
leave the talks held at the bank’s offices at One Raffles Quay
in Singapore shortly before 5 p.m. local time.  Sergio Ermotti ,
UBS’s CEO of  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa , was among the
other members of the executive board and supervisory board who
left in stages after Gruebel.  UBS directors are meeting this week after discussions with
the Government of  Singapore  Investment Corp., the sovereign
wealth fund that is the company’s largest investor. The GIC
“expressed disappointment and concern about the lapses and urged
UBS to take firm action to restore confidence in the bank,”
according to a statement from the sovereign wealth fund after
its senior management met with Gruebel.  Kweku Adoboli, the UBS trader charged with fraud and false
accounting that may have resulted in the loss, remained in
custody after a hearing in  London  on Sept. 22. He has yet to
enter a plea.  A UBS spokesman, who initially said the board meeting would
continue today, was later unable to confirm when it would
resume.  Unprofitable Quarter  Gruebel, 67, was brought in 2 1/2 years ago to rebuild UBS
after record losses on U.S. subprime mortgage securities led to
a state rescue. Gruebel earned the moniker “Saint Ossie” in
 Switzerland  for helping to restore Credit Suisse Group AG’s
profits and reputation in his previous CEO role, and for a
trading acumen that included spotting the subprime debacle
early.  The board meeting was scheduled before the loss emerged,
and coincides with the Singapore Formula One Grand Prix, where
the firm will entertain clients.  The loss resulted from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500,
DAX and EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months, UBS
said. While the positions were taken within the “normal business
flow of a large global equity trading house,” the size of the
risk was hidden by phony trades, UBS said in a statement.  The company said it may be unprofitable in the third
quarter after the unauthorized trading. The loss, less than two
months after Gruebel said the firm had “one of the best” risk-
management units in the industry, raised questions about the
bank’s controls.  Britain’s Financial Services Authority and its Swiss
counterpart said they would investigate the trading losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net 
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  