-- 
India Plans to Monitor Exchange Rate Before Acting, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-23T21:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/mukherjee-says-india-to-monitor-exchange-rate-before-acting-1-.html
India  will monitor movements in its
currency “for some time,” to assess whether and when it needs
to take steps to curb swings, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
said.  “We will watch the situation for some time,” Mukherjee
said in response to reporters’ questions today in Washington.
“As and when intervention will be required, that will be
considered at that stage.”  India’s rupee completed its worst week in 18 years as
investors sold emerging-market assets in favor of the relative
safety of the dollar amid concern the global economy is slowing.
The currency lost 4.6 percent in the biggest weekly plunge since
March 1993.  Mukherjee said that he had a discussion about the rupee
with India’s central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao while both
are in Washington to attend the annual meetings of the
International Monetary Fund and  World Bank  this week. Still,
“what I feel or what I value is not important” in the context
of steps to be taken, Mukherjee said today.  Two days ago, Mukherjee told reporters in  New York  that the
 Reserve Bank  of India is currently not intervening in the
currency market to curb excessive swings in the rupee. The RBI
will sell dollars to control movements in the exchange rate,
though “right now there is no such situation,” Mukherjee had
said Sept. 21.  The RBI may intervene if the rupee falls to levels seen
during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, a finance ministry
official said today in New Delhi, asking not to be identified
because he’s not authorized to speak on the matter.  The Indian currency reached 49.43 per dollar at the 5 p.m.
close in Mumbai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  