-- 
Lukoil, Rosneft Losses May Reverse With Ruble ‘Sweet Spot’

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-23T16:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/lukoil-rosneft-losses-may-be-reversed-with-ruble-sweet-spot-.html
OAO Rosneft and OAO Lukoil,
 Russia ’s biggest oil producers, may rebound after the worst
weekly losses in 31 months as a weak ruble, an imminent  tax cut 
and high  oil prices  promise larger profits.  “A weak ruble, high oil prices -- it’s a sweet spot for
many Russian corporates,”  Roland Nash , chief investment
strategist at Verno Capital, said by e-mail. “Exporters will
see margins increase.”  Rosneft slumped 14 percent this week, the biggest decline
since February 2009, and fell 4.6 percent today to 183.99 rubles
at the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow. Lukoil dropped 11 percent this
week to close at 1,538.50 rubles.  Policy makers in  Europe  and the U.S. have failed to ease
concern that they’ve run out of ways to prevent a global
recession. The currency closed unchanged at 32.0475 rubles to
the dollar, the weakest in two years.  Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer, OAO Surgutneftegas,
may be cheaper now than an estimated $30 billion cash it carries
on its balance sheet, Alex Fak, an oil and gas analyst at Troika
Dialog, said by telephone today.  Surgutneftegas declined 1.7 percent to 24.073 rubles,
cutting its market value to about $27 billion.  European Weakness  Russian oil producers pay for domestic services such as
drilling, materials, transit and electricity in rubles, while
earning in dollars from crude sales. About half their output is
exported.  “There is a disconnect between where the Brent oil price
should be, given the weakness in European economy, financial
concerns and where it is, given that immediate supply is
tight,” Alexander Burgansky, an oil and gas analyst at Otkritie
Capital, said by e-mail.  Russia’s government may cut its  oil export tax  7.4 percent
in October after Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  backed the use of
a lower  tax rate  to spur output and crude prices declined.  Brent crude  for November settlement lost 0.5 percent to
$104.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
after falling 4.4 percent yesterday to close at its lowest level
since Aug. 9, according to Bloomberg data.  The ruble and asset prices seem to reflect a lower level
than oil prices, but don’t, Burgansky said. Either oil prices
will drop or asset prices and the ruble will rise, he said.  “Russian oil stocks seem very cheap at the moment,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 