-- 
UN Carbon Market Will Survive Should Kyoto Goals End, EU Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-09-23T08:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/un-carbon-market-will-survive-should-kyoto-goals-end-eu-says.html
The United Nation’s carbon market
will survive if the Kyoto Protocol greenhouse gas-reduction
goals for developed nations expire in 2012 without being
immediately renewed, the European Union climate chief said.  The EU, which gives companies in its emissions trading
system the right to import credits from the UN’s Clean
Development Mechanism, will probably remain that market’s
driving force in coming years, said the bloc’s Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard. The European cap-and-trade
system, the world’s largest, was valued at $119.8 billion last
year, according to World Bank estimates.  “The CDM will continue more or less as it is now,”
Hedegaard said in an interview during a visit to  New York . “We
should still try to avoid the gap, but as Europe is the main
player in the game, as we have legislation, targets, rules on
offsetting, I cannot see why we wouldn’t continue to work with
CDM projects.”  The 27-nation EU has a target for a 20 percent reduction in
greenhouse-gas discharges by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, and
it wants to limit them by as much as 95 percent by 2050. The
bloc’s emissions trading program, known as ETS, is a cornerstone
of its climate initiative, putting limits on more than 11,000
utilities and manufacturing companies and leading to a cap in
2020 that would be 21 percent below 2005 discharges.  Cheaper Compliance  The European program allows emitters to use credits
generated under the CDM for investment in greenhouse-gas
reduction projects in developing nations as a cheaper way of
compliance with their EU pollution limits. Last year companies
in the ETS used a record 137 million offset credits, up from
about 81 million in 2009, according to EU data.  EU carbon allowances for December traded at 11.40 euros a
metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange today. UN
Certified Emission Reductions closed at 8.04 euros yesterday.  As of the beginning of 2013 the EU will allow the use of
new offsets only from projects in least developed and most
vulnerable countries. It will also strive to ensure
environmental integrity of CDM projects, Hedegaard said. The
bloc earlier this year banned the import of certain industrial
gas offsets including those from projects to cut
hydrofluorocarbon-23 as of May 2013, arguing the credits offer
“exorbitant” return rates and can create a “perverse
incentive” for investors.  Environmental Integrity  “It’s extremely important for us that CDM projects have
environmental integrity,” Hedegaard said. “We banned HFC-23
and that will probably not be the last ban, but it’s also not so
that every second month we feel tempted to make new bans. There
has to be predictability in the system.”  As global talks on an emissions-reduction framework after
2012 have stalled amid differences between developing and
industrialized countries, the next UN climate summit that starts
in November in Durban,  South Africa , “looks challenging,”
Hedegaard said.  At the previous meeting of more than 190 nations in Cancun,
 Mexico , in December,  China ,  India ,  Brazil  and South Africa
pressed developed nations to make pledges of bigger cuts, while
 Japan ,  Russia  and  Canada  said they don’t want to extend the
 Kyoto treaty  unless the two biggest emitters, China and the
U.S., accept the agreement.  “It’s very important to bear in mind that the issue is as
urgent as ever despite the fact that lots of governments have so
much energy tied to the handling of the economic crisis,”
Hedegaard said.  Single Binding Agreement  EU environment ministers will meet on Oct. 10 in Luxembourg
to discuss the bloc’s negotiating mandate for Durban. While
member states’ preference remains a single internationally
binding agreement to protect the climate after 2012, governments
are divided over the conditions under which the bloc could agree
to extend its Kyoto emission-reduction commitments, officials
close to the EU presidency said earlier this month.  It’d be “absurd” for the EU to sign up to the so-called
second Kyoto commitment period without any conditions for other
major polluters, Hedegaard said.  “I think nobody would in sincerity say that  Europe  is
killing Kyoto,” Hedegaard said. “The problem is those who
don’t want to commit reductions in a binding form under Kyoto
and who so far haven’t said what they would do instead,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in New York 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  