-- 
Hungary’s ‘Creditless’ Recovery in Peril as Corporate Loans Drop

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-23T09:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/hungary-s-creditless-recovery-in-peril-as-corporate-loans-drop.html
Hungary ’s recovery from its worst
recession in 18 years is in peril as the lack of corporate
credit may hamper economic growth, the central bank said.  Lending to companies in Hungary has been declining since
the fourth quarter of 2008, leading to a “creditless
recovery,”  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  said in a study published today.
“Weak corporate lending can’t support economic recovery, and it
may even hamper growth.”  Hungary’s growth stalled in the second quarter, with gross
domestic product unchanged from the previous three months. It
expanded 1.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with 2.5
percent in the first quarter.  The central bank lowered this week its economic-growth
forecast for 2012 to 1 percent, compared with the government’s
1.5 percent projection.  “In a creditless recovery, economic growth is one-third
lower and the GDP’s return to its pre-crisis level is much
slower,” Sandor Sovago, the author of the study, said at a
press conference in Budapest today.  Corporate loans dropped more than 15 percent, or around 900
billion forint ($4.2 billion) from the last quarter of 2008
through 2010, falling to levels last seen early in 2007, the
study said. The decline is the steepest among central and
eastern European countries, according to the central bank.  The main reason for the decline in corporate lending is
banks’ unwillingness to lend, though in recent months, there
have been “radical changes that threaten banks’ ability to
lend,” Marton Nagy, the head of research at the central bank,
said at the press conference. Banks will need to raise their
capital as their buffers have shrunk, Nagy said.  Special Banking Tax  Hungary’s banking business was unprofitable in 2010,
closing the year with a total loss of 17 billion forint as a
result of a special banking tax levied by the government, as
well as higher provisioning for bad loans, according to data
from the financial regulator  Pszaf .  Parliament approved this week a law allowing foreign-
currency mortgage holders to repay their loans at below-market
exchange rates, forcing banks to swallow the losses. The
repayments will “cause significant losses” at local banks,
weakening their ability to boost lending and thus hurting the
country’s economic outlook, central bank Governor Andras Simor
said on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  