-- 
Hungary Fiscal Council Backs Budget, Recommends Tax Rise

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-23T14:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/hungary-fiscal-council-backs-2012-budget-sees-risks-jarai-says.html
Hungary’s new Fiscal Council backed
the 2012 budget draft, while seeing “significant risks” as
revenue may miss targets on slower growth.  The three-member Fiscal Council voted two-to-one to back
the proposal, chairman Zsigmond Jarai told reporters today in
Budapest. Central Bank President Andras Simor voted against the
draft, citing lower growth and higher inflation forecasts, Jarai
said.  Hungary is raising taxes and cutting spending to reduce the
 budget deficit  to below 3 percent of gross domestic product next
year. The government should consider more tax increases for next
year than currently announced as a preemptive measure in case
revenue may miss targets as the economy slows, the council said.  “The extremely risky external environment, slowing euro-
area growth and the risks posed to exports and the possible
reduction in domestic consumption which could cut revenue may
necessitate steps to raise revenue and cut spending during the
year,” the statement said. “To avert this, the Fiscal Council
recommends considering raising revenue now, during the drafting
process.”  The government has cut its 2012 growth forecast to 1.5
percent from 3 percent. Growth may slow to 1 percent next year
from a projected 1.6 percent this year, the central bank said
yesterday, in response to Cabinet plans to raise the main value-
added  tax rate  to a European Union-high 27 percent from 25
percent currently.  The three-member Fiscal Council was set up by Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  last year after he scrapped a previous one
that had criticized budget legislation.  The new council is dominated by Orban’s allies. Jarai was
Orban’s former finance minister who later served as a central
bank president while Laszlo Domokos is a former ruling party
member and who now heads the State Audit Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net  