-- 
Supercommittee May Take Up Obama’s Threat to Muni-Bond Tax Break

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-09-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/muni-bonds-230-billion-tax-savings-make-exemption-supercommittee-target.html
Congress’s deficit-cutting
supercommittee may cap or end a  tax exemption  that helps set
state and local debt prices, raising borrowing costs and
disrupting the $2.9 trillion municipal-bond market.  Bankers, bondholders and issuers are preparing for an
attack on the tax break investors get for interest earned on
some municipal securities, already targeted by President  Barack Obama  in his jobs and deficit-reduction proposals. The
exemption, which has never been cut, lowers the cost of loans
for schools, highways, hospitals and other public works.  “They’re looking at everything, and the tax exemption is
on the table,” said Steven Boyd, principal with Halyard Asset
Management LLC in  White Plains , New York, which oversees $400
million. “It’s a factor weighing on investors’ minds.”  Should the 12-member supercommittee whittle down or erase
the advantage for high-income investors to own municipal bonds,
demand may shrink, pushing up costs for states and local
governments. The exemption is projected to save owners of the
tax-exempt securities $230 billion from 2012 to 2016, according
to the White House’s Office of Management and Budget.  Because federal aid also may be cut to reduce the deficit,
some municipal borrowers already avoid the  debt market , said
Lisa Quateman, the managing partner of Polsinelli Shugart PC’s
Los Angeles office. That’s especially true when the financing
may depend at least partly on dollars from Washington, the bond
lawyer said.  Automatic Cuts  The supercommittee, which began meeting Sept. 8, has a
mandate to find $1.5 trillion of spending cuts or revenue
increases over 10 years. If it fails to meet a Nov. 23 deadline,
that would trigger $1.2 trillion in automatic reductions, about
half taken from defense spending.  Capping or eliminating the exemption “would have the dual
effect of reducing the demand for municipal bonds and increasing
the costs of municipal issuers,” according to a report from
Nuveen Asset Management in  Chicago . “This will exacerbate
fiscal stress at the state and local level.”  Whether Obama’s proposal succeeds in limiting the exemption
to 28 percent of interest earnings, down from 35 percent now,
for couples earning more than $250,000 a year, his inclusion of
the curb raises the chance that the supercommittee will consider
it, said Matt Fabian, managing director with Municipal Market
Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm.  “This should confirm that fear that the tax exemption
could be affected,” Fabian said.  Concern in California  California Treasurer Bill Lockyer estimates the changes
sought by Obama in his jobs plan may cost his state as much as
$7.7 billion in higher borrowing expenses. Lockyer also cited
concern that the exemption is increasingly at risk as a result.  “It opens the door to a much broader debate about the
elimination of tax-exempt bonds,” Lockyer said Sept. 16 at a
Bond Buyer conference in Carlsbad,  California . The state is the
largest issuer of municipal debt.  The renewed threat to the exemption for the securities
comes as a struggling economy and a deficit-cutting Congress add
to fiscal pressures on state and local governments that have
grappled with ways to survive the worst fiscal crisis since the
1930s. Some including  New Jersey  have slashed jobs while others,
such as  Illinois , have raised taxes.  The supercommittee also may look at cutting federal
spending for programs that municipal governments depend on to
pay for health care for the poor and to run schools and
hospitals, said  Richard Ciccarone , managing director at
McDonnell Investment Management in  Oak Brook , Illinois.  Aid at Stake  Federal grants to state and local governments are expected
to total $424.9 billion in fiscal 2012, according to Office of
Management and Budget data.  “It’s like trying to fly through a narrow canyon,” said
Ciccarone, whose company has $14.9 billion of assets under
management, including $8.3 billion of municipal bonds. “It’s
difficult to steer a course that avoids damage.”  Obama’s decision to include limiting the exemption for
municipal bonds, included in the federal income-tax law codified
in 1913, came as a surprise, said Victoria Rostow, director of
government affairs for the National Association of Bond Lawyers
in  Washington . Obama packaged the proposal with ways to pay for
his $447 billion jobs plan.  “It came out of the blue from the White House,” Rostow
said. “They hadn’t endorsed it before.”  Previously Targeted  The idea of phasing out the exemption has been raised in
the past year as part of a broader discussion of ways to reduce
the federal deficit. A proposal in the  House of Representatives 
by Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
sought an end to the break.  A report from Obama’s 2010 fiscal commission led by  Alan Simpson  and Erskin Bowles, which the president embraced in
December, also proposed ending the exemption, Bank of  New York 
Mellon Corp. said in a report.  The “urgent scramble” to address the federal deficit
“will reasonably seek to uncover every scheme to broadly raise
revenues, bringing all major tax expenditure loopholes under
intense scrutiny,” Mellon’s Steven Harvey, a senior portfolio
manager in  Boston , and Nathan Harris, a research analyst, said
in the report. The break is the 11th biggest for taxpayers after
such deductible expenses as employer-provided health coverage
and home-mortgage interest, according to White House data.  Yet limiting the exemption for higher-income taxpayers may
produce relatively little benefit, Harvey said in a statement
released with the report. In 2008, for instance, “more than
half of the 5.5 million tax returns reporting receipt of tax-
exempt interest were filed by taxpayers with adjusted gross
income below $100,000.”  While yields for municipal bonds are near historic lows,
often they pay more than comparable treasury securities, said
McDonnell Investment’s Ciccarone. A top-rated 10-year muni
priced to yield 2.2 percent on Sept. 20 paid 26 basis points
more than a taxable 10-year Treasury, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Prices are very attractive,” Ciccarone said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  