-- 
Tunisia Says It May Need $2 Billion Budget Support in 2012

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-23T19:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/tunisia-says-may-need-about-2-billion-in-budget-support-in-2012.html
Tunisia, the North African country
whose popular revolt set off a wave of uprisings in the  Middle
East  this year, said it may need about $2 billion in
international support for its budget in 2012.  The country’s economic growth may recover next year to
about 4 percent, while the  budget deficit  may approach 7 percent
of economic output after being about 4 percent this year,
Finance Minister Jaloul Ayed said in an interview today at the
 World Bank  in Washington, citing initial estimates.  “We think that 2012, maybe even 2013, may be difficult
years as Tunisia goes through the political transition
process,” he said. “We don’t think the economy is going to go
back to full speed.”  The Tunisian economy, which relies on tourism, foreign
direct investment and exports to  Europe  for growth, has been
struggling to recover from the effects of the uprising that
ended the 23-year rule of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
January. The revolt triggered a wave of uprisings in the Middle
East, leading to the fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  in
February. In neighboring  Libya , forces opposed to  Muammar Qaddafi  stormed the capital Tripoli to end his rule.  Default Risk  Tunisia’s default risk surged 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage point, this week to a record 255, according to data
provider CMA, as investors sought protection against riskier
assets amid concerns about Europe’s debt crisis and the U.S.
economic slowdown. The contract on Tunisian debt is still lower
than Egypt and Bahrain, according to CMA, which is owned by  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The yield on Tunisia’s 4.5 percent euro bond due in June
2020 rose 20 basis points this week to 5.54 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tunisia’s economic growth may grind to a halt this year,
according to government and International Monetary Fund
estimates. The budget deficit may widen next year due to
spending on “large investment engines” to boost growth, Ayed
said. One investment is a “fund of funds” that will start with
$2 billion in equity and increase to $5 billion in three years
to support areas such as tourism and agriculture, he said.  Tunisia ’s credit assessment was lowered by Moody’s
Investors Service by one level in January to Baa3, the lowest
investment grade. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut
Tunisia’s rating this year to BBB-, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  A budget gap of about 4 percent of GDP this year is “quite
manageable,” Ayed said. “We have used some of the reserves to
tackle the immediate needs following the revolution. Obviously
we won’t have those reserves in 2012. We have to tap some
funding sources.”  One potential source is selling international bonds, the
minister said. “I will not be surprised that we will tap the
markets in 2012 but as to the amount and the type of facilities
I couldn’t tell you right now. We have not made a decision but
we leave that option open.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in  Washington  at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  