-- 
Hurricane Hilary Moves Away From Mexico

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-23T21:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/hurricane-hilary-moves-away-from-mexico.html
Pacific Hurricane Hilary moved away
from  Mexico ’s southwestern coast as Atlantic Tropical Storm
Ophelia gained strength east of the Leeward Islands, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said.  Hilary, a Category 4 storm on the five-step Saffir-Simpson
scale with top winds of 145 miles (233 kilometers) per hour, is
moving west at 8 mph into the Pacific. It was 130 miles south-
southwest of  Lazaro Cardenas , Mexico, as of 5 p.m. New York
time, according to a  center advisory .  “While Hilary has apparently not intensified further
today, the cyclone does have the opportunity for some
intensification as it should remain over very warm waters, in
moist air and within low vertical wind shear for the next three
days,” the center said in a forecast analysis.  Hilary is expected to move west for the next three days,
the center said. Computer forecast models differ as to whether
it will stay out to sea or turn back toward Mexico.  “The intensity for once may be easier to predict than the
track forecast,” the hurricane center said earlier.  In the Atlantic,  Tropical Storm Ophelia , the 15th named
system of the season, strengthened as it moves west about 540
miles east of the Leeward Islands, which includes the Virgin
Islands, Antigua and Barbuda. Its top winds are 60 mph, up from
40 mph earlier, according to the 5 p.m. advisory.  The center said earlier today that Ophelia was expected to
weaken to tropical depression level. However, the latest
advisory keeps it at tropical storm status for the next five
days.  The hurricane center is also tracking an area of disturbed
weather in the Atlantic about 385 miles south-southeast of the
Cape Verde islands that has a 30 percent chance of becoming a
depression or storm in the next two days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  