-- 
Vietnam September Trade Deficit Widens, Signaling Dong Pressure

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-23T09:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/vietnam-september-trade-deficit-widens-signaling-dong-pressure.html
Vietnam ’s trade deficit widened in
September from August, threatening to increase pressure on its
currency and undermine efforts to boost foreign reserves.  The deficit reached $1 billion in September, up from a
revised $396 million in August, according to preliminary figures
released by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi today. The
shortfall for the nine months through September was $6.84
billion.  A widening deficit threatens to deplete the central bank’s
holdings of foreign currency and add pressure for a fifth
devaluation of the dong since November 2009. The Vietnamese
central bank’s foreign-exchange reserves were $15.2 billion at
the end of June, a “low” figure given the country’s level of
imports, the  Asian Development Bank   said  this month.  “The trade deficit remains a huge concern,” Jonathan Pincus, a Ho Chi Minh City-based economist at the Harvard
Kennedy School’s Vietnam program, said before the release.
“Everyone is aware that the foreign-exchange market in Vietnam
is illiquid, and when importers start running around looking for
foreign exchange, that can put pressure on the currency.”  The dong was little changed today at 20,807 per dollar as
of 3:01 p.m. Vietnam time. The currency was devalued in February
by about 7 percent, the most since at least 1993, partly to try
and narrow the trade deficit.  Gold trading can skew the trade numbers. Imports of the
precious metal were responsible for the bulk of the deficit in
August, according to Viet Capital Securities Joint-Stock Co.  Global Risks  Imports fell to $9.3 billion in September from $9.64
billion in August. For the nine months through September,
imports climbed 26.9 percent to $76.87 billion.  “A lot of imports in Vietnam are related to machinery for
foreign direct investment,” said Marc Djandji, the Ho Chi Minh
City-based head of research at Viet Capital Securities. “If
Vietnam stopped exporting, then imports would also drop.”  Exports slipped to $8.3 billion in September from $9.25
billion in August. For the nine months through September,
exports have increased 35.4 percent to $70.03 billion.  “The concern about exports is that the global economy is
weakening again, and that concern also applies to inflows of
foreign investment to finance the trade deficit,” said Pincus.
“If you look at the global economy now, it’s a risky time to be
relying on capital inflows.”  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Sunil Jagtiani,
K. Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at +84-91-205-3237 or
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  