-- 
Visa, MasterCard Risk ‘Mom and Pop’ Ire With Debit-Fee Increase

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-23T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/visa-mastercard-risk-mom-and-pop-ire-with-debit-fee-increase.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the
world’s biggest payments networks, may face a merchant backlash
by raising debit-card swipe fees on the smallest purchases to
the maximum allowed under U.S. caps that take effect next week.  MasterCard will impose the highest fees permitted on all
debit transactions, including so-called small-ticket purchases,
for cards issued by the biggest U.S. banks, said a person with
direct knowledge of the matter. Visa will do the same, Thomas McCrohan, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, wrote in a
Sept. 21 note, without saying how he got the information.  The networks, which pass the fees to lenders such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc., now charge retailers
1.55 percent of the purchase price plus 4 cents for small-ticket
transactions of less than $15. That comes to about 7 cents for a
$2 cup of coffee. The cost to merchants for that item would more
than triple under rules created by the  Federal Reserve , which
capped the fees at 21 cents, plus 5 basis points of the total
and a conditional 1 cent for fraud-prevention.  “The mom-and-pop coffee shop that processes lots of $3
transactions is really going to get hurt by this,” said Brian Dodge, a spokesman for the Retail Industry Leaders Association,
a trade group that represents the biggest U.S. merchants,
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Target Corp. and Home Depot Inc.  The new fee structure won’t apply to cards issued by banks
and  credit unions  with less than $10 billion in assets, which
are exempt from the law, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Price Controls  During the debate in Congress last year and the rule-making
process that ensued, banks and payment networks said that
capping swipe fees, or interchange, would be tantamount to
government price controls and result in unintended consequences.  “MasterCard recently informed our issuers that we will
implement a two-tiered interchange structure,” James Issokson,
a spokesman for Purchase, New York-based MasterCard, said
yesterday in a statement. “As we have noted throughout this
process, setting price caps will -- and has -- created
distortions in the market.”  Will Valentine, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Visa,
 John Hall  of the  American Bankers Association  and the Federal
Reserve’s Susan Stawick declined to comment.  Visa, the world’s biggest network, and No. 2 MasterCard
processed 36.9 billion debit-card purchase transactions in the
U.S. last year, company data show. About 20 percent of all
debit-card purchases are small-ticket, according to Brian Riley,
senior research director at TowerGroup, a Boston-based research
and advisory firm.  Lobbying Fight  Retailers and financial firms spent about $30 million and
deployed more than 500 lobbyists in the battle to influence the
legislation and rule-making, people briefed with the
expenditures said in June.  The fee caps, set to take effect Oct. 1, replace a formula
that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or about 44
cents for the typical $38 debit transaction. The change may cut
annual revenue at the biggest banks by $8 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg Government show, and the increase for small-ticket
purchases may help them recoup some of it.  That also may help Visa and MasterCard assuage their
biggest bank customers and stave off competition from other
debit networks, including Pulse, a unit of  Discover Financial
Services (DFS) , and First Data Corp.’s Star.  ‘Fee-Fixing’  “Visa and MasterCard have customers on the bank side so
they have to make sure their issuers are happy, and on the other
side they have to make sure the retailers aren’t getting charged
too much,” said Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for the Electronic
Payments Coalition, which represents banks and networks. “There
are unintended consequences that result when the government
steps in and pretends to know better than the free market.”  The limits, championed by U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , an
Illinois Democrat, have led banks to end debit-card rewards
programs and add fees for checking accounts.  The looming increase in small-ticket swipe fees
“underscores the anti-competitive nature of the fee-fixing
relationship that big banks have with Visa and MasterCard and
reaffirms the need for reasonable regulation of the swipe-fee
system,”  Max Gleischman , a spokesman for Durbin, said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 