-- 
Vuitton’s $1,560 ‘Bebe’ Puts Brakes on Big Bags

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-09-23T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/vuitton-s-1-560-bebe-puts-brakes-on-big-bags-as-women-rejoice.html
After several years of hauling
around back-achingly large bags, women are getting some relief.
Small bags are back in style.  “The fashion consumer doesn’t want to look like she’s
lugging around her entire office anymore,” said Robert Burke,
who runs an eponymous New York luxury consulting firm. “There
is a desire to look more carefree.”  The trend parallels a general shift toward more ladylike
fashion, and may help generate additional sales in the U.S.
handbag market, which grew 10 percent to about $10.3 billion in
the year ending in June, according to  Coach Inc. (COH)  Luxury sales
will rise 7.5 percent this holiday season, faster than the 6.7
percent increase a year earlier, according to the  International
Council of Shopping Centers .  Saks Inc. (SKS)  Chief Executive Officer Steve Sadove is
sufficiently bullish on bags to put more on shelves this fall,
and is sticking to his forecast of a same-store sales increase
of as much as 9 percent in the second half of 2011. Coach sees
small and crossbody bags as a “significant opportunity.”  Fashion houses including Prada, Dior and Gucci ran ads
touting smaller bags in Vogue’s September issue. Louis Vuitton’s
Fifth Avenue flagship this month displayed a top-handled $1,560
“Lockit BB” -- for “Bebe” -- which at 9.4 inches (24
centimeters) is more than a third smaller than the iconic
Lockit.  At New York Fashion Week this month, Ken Downing, fashion
director of Dallas-based luxury retailer Neiman Marcus Group
Inc., spotted plenty of medium-sized, rectangular, hand-held
purses, many accented with the neon colors that dominated the
spring 2012 collections.  ‘Polished Looks’  That shape goes well with the current “polished looks”
that are a nod to the “Mad Men” TV series and the 1950s and
1960s, he said.  Lisa Pak, who co-owns a Tribeca boutique, carried a boxy,
8-inch, yellow patent leather  Louis Vuitton  shoulder bag to the
Vera Wang show -- leaving her oversized bags at home.  “I wanted to wear something special,” said Pak, 45.
“This is all I need.”  The return of smaller bags may put limits on an oversize
trend that began about 10 years ago and by the mid-aughts had
“hit the major leagues,” says Roseanne Morrison, fashion
director of Doneger Group, a New York fashion trend forecaster.
Women liked big bags in part because they could stuff in
everything from their laptops to extra shoes.  They also found pleasing the contrast of a big bag with
skinny jeans, Morrison says. “It” bags included the 15-inch
“Giant” Balenciaga City, priced at $1,945, and the Fendi Spy,
a $2,250 17-inch bag.  Like a Boulder  Over time, however, the bags began to, ahem, weigh on their
owners. On fashion blogs women complained that the bags had
become so large and heavy that it was like carrying around a
boulder. The gripes have prompted handbag wholesaler Rioni to
defend big bags; a post this month was illustrated with a
perspiring, quivering cartoon figure trying to lift a barbell.  Designer Rebecca Minkoff, who once sold a leather tote that
weighed 2 pounds (0.9 kilograms) empty, says just half of her
bags are large, compared with about two-thirds before. She
defines a large bag as one whose width or height is 2 feet (0.6
meters) or more.  Smaller bags are easier to carry and look better with
“statement” high heels than do oversized bags, which make
wearers lean over and “waddle,” she says. Minkoff’s bags are
also more affordable -- $195 to $295 compared with $495 -- and
are selling briskly, she says.  Good for Business  Small doesn’t always equal cheap. Louis Vuitton’s 13.8-inch
“petit modele” version of the Lockit, in anthracite crocodile
with a chained handcuff, sells for $14,760.  The advent of smaller bags “will be good for business
because it shows a new handbag shape and proportion that the
consumer doesn’t have in her closet today,” said consultant
Burke. “It gives the consumer something new to buy.”  Big bags won’t disappear, of course. Women still need totes
to haul around their iPads and other gear, which means retailers
will gain two sales instead of one, Burke says.  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the Seattle-based retailer, has a solution:
a matching envelope clutch and a tote in red and black leather
with leopard-print calf hair, at $128 and $248, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  