-- 
Ponzi Scheme Defendant Weinstein Resists Bid to Revoke Bail

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-23T18:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/weinstein-accused-of-200-million-ponzi-scheme-faces-bail-loss.html
U.S. prosecutors asked a federal
judge to revoke the $10 million bail for Eliyahu Weinstein, a
 New Jersey  man charged with leading a $200 million Ponzi scheme
that targeted fellow Orthodox Jews.  Weinstein, 36, was arrested in August 2010 on charges of
running a real-estate investment fraud that duped victims in New
Jersey, New York,  Florida ,  California  and abroad. Two weeks
later, a federal judge in Newark, New Jersey, released him on
$10 million bail under house arrest after a prosecutor said he
posed a “profound” risk of fleeing before trial.  Prosecutors this week asked a judge to order Weinstein’s
detention because they claim he committed additional crimes
since his arrest, contacted victims in his case, and lied to
U.S. court officials. A hearing scheduled today on the request
led to a closed-door meeting with prosecutors, a defense lawyer
and a magistrate judge, who adjourned the matter until Oct. 6.  “There is probable cause to believe that Weinstein has
committed new federal crimes while on release,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Gurbir Grewal said in a Sept. 20 court filing.  Weinstein attorney Henry Klingeman said in a telephone
interview that the government’s request was “groundless.”  In a court filing yesterday, Klingeman said the government
can’t show that Weinstein committed any crimes while on release,
that he only met with “potential victim/witnesses” in the
presence of his lawyer, and that he never made any misstatements
to the U.S. Pretrial Services office.  ‘Conclusive Evidence’  He wrote that judges normally order bail revocations after
“conclusive evidence of wrongdoing,” like a new arrest or
failed drug test. Prosecutors “presented nothing close to these
examples,” Klingeman wrote.  “Instead, it has strung together a series of misleading
allegations, overlaid them with critical rhetoric, and asked
this court to play along with what is essentially a strategic
gambit to deny Mr. Weinstein the ability to defend himself,” he
wrote.  Weinstein’s ties to the Orthodox community in Lakewood, New
Jersey, where he lives with his wife and six children, are
“strong and deep,” Klingeman wrote.  In his filing, Grewel said prosecutors expect an indictment
in the next several weeks, charging Weinstein and others with
“orchestrating a real estate investment fraud  Ponzi scheme .”  An arrest complaint charged Weinstein with committing bank
fraud and  wire fraud  from 2005 to this month. Vladimir Siforov,
44, who also was charged with wire fraud, remains at large.  Community Ties  By using “lies, threats, deliberate misrepresentations and
even counterfeit checks,” Weinstein and Siforov “exploited the
close community ties of the Orthodox Jewish community for one
goal: to steal money through an elaborate real estate and Ponzi
scheme,” Michael B. Ward, special agent in charge of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s office in Newark, said in a
statement in August 2010.  The FBI arrest complaint said Weinstein falsely represented
that he owned or could buy property and that victims could make
“a healthy profit in a short time period.” He sold his real or
fake interest in property multiple times, fraudulently altered
checks, drew up phony leases and hid zoning changes from his
victims, according to the FBI.  When investors tried to collect their earnings, he ignored
them, promised payments that never came, and paid smaller
amounts than he owed, according to the complaint.  Antique Judaica  Weinstein used proceeds of the fraud to amass manuscripts
and antique Judaica worth $6.2 million, a jewelry and clock
collection that he bought for $7.6 million, and another jewelry
and watch collection valued at $6.2 million.  He also charged $1.7 million to an American Express
account, according to the complaint.  In a letter to the court last year, former Weinstein
attorney Ephraim Savitt said his client was close to settling an
$80 million lawsuit against him in Trenton, New Jersey, and
that judgments had been entered against him of $35 million in
Philadelphia and $6 million in  New York .  At a bail hearing last year, Assistant U.S. Attorney Zach
Intrater said Weinstein had a motive to flee and flew out of the
country 40 times since 2007, including to  Israel ,  Russia  and
Ukraine.  Of the four properties Weinstein was posting to secure his
bond, one was owned by a man who was convicted of failing to
file a currency transaction report, Intrater said. When
authorities searched Weinstein’s house, the prosecutor said, his
wife, Rivka, “attempted to sneak jewelry out of the house in
the undergarments of a housekeeper.”  The case is  United States of America  v. Weinstein, 10-mj-
7115, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 