-- 
Weir Leads Drop of Engineering Stocks as Commodities Tumble

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-23T15:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/weir-leads-drop-of-engineering-stocks-as-commodities-tumble-1-.html
Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  fell the most in
seven weeks in London trading, leading a decline among
engineering companies in  Europe , amid concern that slowing
economic growth will undercut demand for metals, fuel and food.  Weir, based in Glasgow, Scotland, dropped as much as 142
pence, or 8.6 percent, to 1,507 pence, the biggest intraday
decline since Aug. 8, and was down 6.1 percent as of 4:22 p.m,
giving the company a market value of 3.3 billion pounds ($5.1
billion).  Weir Group is “playing catch-up with the rest of the
engineering sector, as well as with worse performances from the
mining and oil & gas sectors,” wrote Oliver Wynne-James, an
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in  London . He has a “hold”
recommendation on the stock.  The company, the world’s biggest maker of pumps for the
 mining industry , said in August that market conditions in the
unit “are expected to remain positive.” Weir’s oil and gas
business has been benefiting from the fact that more than half
of North American rigs are currently focused on oil, a level not
seen since the mid-1990s.  Full-year profit will be “somewhat ahead” of previous
forecasts because of revenue growth at the oil and gas business,
Chief Executive Officer Keith Cochrane said on Aug. 2.  European engineering stocks that dropped today included
Finnish rock-crushing equipment manufacturer  Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , which
fell as much as 7 percent in Helsinki trading, and  Sandvik AB (SAND) ,
the Swedish maker of mining and metal-cutting equipment, which
declined as much as 5.3 percent in Stockholm.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell as
much as 2.2 percent, the most since Dec. 2. The index is down
7.8 percent this week, the most since May 6. Silver slumped 10
percent, copper was down 2.7 percent and nickel dropped 3.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  