-- 
When Marx Met Engels, the Renegade Industrialist: Mary Gabriel

-- B y   M a r y   G a b r i e l
-- 
2011-09-23T00:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/when-marx-met-engels-renegade-industrialist-commentary-by-mary-gabriel.html
Friedrich Engels  had been traveling
from England back home to Germany when he decided to make a
slight detour in Paris.  Karl Marx  knew him as the author of what he considered a
brilliant piece on political economy written earlier in the
year. The two met on Aug. 28, 1844, and talked for 10 straight
days and as many nights.  At 23, Engels was tall, slim, blond, meticulous in his
dress, and athletic. He loved women and horses. At his factory-
owning father’s insistence, he had quit school when he was 17 to
learn the family trade. A reckless bachelor who rode to hounds
and had a gift for discerning good wine, he was also an
impassioned revolutionary, who took a radical Irish factory girl
as a live-in lover and even as a teenager wrote trenchant
newspaper articles on the social evils resulting from
unregulated industrialization in his native Barmen.  It was the revolutionary Engels who introduced himself to
Marx that August, but Marx readily embraced both sides of this
extraordinary character. Engels was a rare combination, a man of
ideas and a reformer who could write articles of great eloquence
and immediacy, but also a man of business who understood the
social, political and economic ramifications of the new
industrial system because he had lived it. He was an envoy from
the material world, arrived at Marx’s door to fill the gaps in
his theoretical studies.  Family’s Savior  Engels recognized in the 26-year-old Marx a powerful
personality and intellect unlike any he had known. He would,
quite simply, be the savior of the Marx family. He not only
provided the material context for Marx’s work but also would
provide the material sustenance for the family’s very existence.  Engels was the heir to a growing textile company begun in
Prussia’s Wuppertal valley by his great-grandfather in the 18th
century. In 1837 the Engels family had joined with the Ermen
brothers in  England  to open  cotton mills in Manchester , and
Engels’s father sent his eldest son there for the next part of
his training.  Manchester was considered the industrial heart of the
world, and there was no better place for Engels to learn the
business -- or for the other Engels, the revolutionary, to learn
how to overthrow the system. When he arrived in November 1842,
on the eve of his 22nd birthday, the town was recovering from a
major workers’ strike.  Crossing Boundaries  One observer noted of  Manchester  at the time: “There is no
town in the world where the distance between rich and poor is so
great, or the barriers between them so difficult to be
crossed.” Engels soon did so, however, with the help of a 19-
year-old Irishwoman named Mary Burns, who worked in his factory.  Burns introduced him to the city’s working-class districts,
where Engels said the filth and stench were so bad it would be
“impossible for a human in any degree civilized to live in such
a district.”  Engels concluded  that the only difference between
slaves and factory workers was that slaves were sold for life,
while the workers sold themselves day by day.  By 1843, his education on the street had been augmented by
a thorough reading of English economics, politics and history.
The result was his 25-page “ Outlines of a Critique of Political
Economy ,” which was published in early 1844.  That article was perhaps the earliest “Marxist”
indictment of the still nascent capitalist system. Engels wrote
that those who owned the machines created economic and social
chaos by engaging in a cycle of overproduction followed by
cutbacks, which forced wages lower, triggered social crisis and
inflamed class conflict. Labor-saving advances did not ease the
plight of the worker, but only increased profits.  By the time they met in 1844, Marx and Engels had reached
the same conclusions. They agreed the best way forward was
through propaganda. Engels planned to return to  Germany  to write
a book on his time in England (it would become the classic
“ Condition of the Working Class in England ”), while Marx would
begin a book on political economy.  In early January 1845, however, the French interior
minister issued an order giving select members of the Vorwarts!
newspaper staff, including Marx, 24 hours to leave Paris. His
wife, Jenny, wanted to stay, and the expulsion order offered
just that possibility, if those named signed a statement
promising they would engage in no further political activities.
Marx refused, and on Feb. 2 he left Paris for  Belgium , where
Jenny joined him a short while later.  She did not know that this would be only the first of many
such moves. The Marx family’s life on the run had begun.  *** *** ***  There seemed to be a curse on  Europe  in 1845. Bad grain
harvests and a potato blight that had begun in Ireland spread to
the Continent, devastating food supplies. Rural populations were
faced with the wrenching decision of leaving all they had ever
known for strange new homes among strange new people, as tens of
thousands chose to emigrate. More than 100,000 moved to the U.S.
alone in 1845, the first in a series of record-breaking years
for such immigration.  But most of those who abandoned their fields descended on
Europe’s increasingly overcrowded urban centers. Food shortages
increased as the number of these small farmers dwindled. Disease
was rife. Crime, vice and child trafficking became boom
industries, and the threat of riots grew as the agricultural
depression deepened and spread.  Meanwhile, the gears of commerce shifted into overdrive.
Europe’s population had grown by nearly 40 percent since 1800,
and industrialists worked as quickly as they could to supply
that huge market. In the past, goods had been made to meet
demand, but now the production process was so much cheaper and
faster that manufacturers created their own markets, and if
there were not enough local consumers to buy what they had to
sell, they used the new railways and steamships to dispatch
their products all over the world.  This mentality was especially prevalent in England, the
most industrialized country in the world. Accelerated commerce
did create jobs, but the new factories and expanded mines did
not produce enough of them to satisfy the growing population,
and they did not necessarily employ the men who had been forced
to abandon long-held trades. Women and children were often the
first to be hired, because they worked for a fraction of the
cost of men. Further, the jobs created by the factories and
mines did not provide the same of kind of security and stability
for families that had worked for the same master or in the same
trade or on the same land for generations. Now jobs were awarded
and retained at the whim of a foreman. Conditions on the factory
floor also had to be considered: Workers were haunted by the
very real prospect of injury or death. With 12- to 18-hour
workdays six and a half days a week, factory families lived to
work and worked to survive.  The Ignored Masses  These unfortunates, and the millions like them who had yet
to make their way into the industrial system, were far more
numerous than the people who enjoyed its riches. But they were
the most easily ignored -- they were a voiceless, powerless,
leaderless, illiterate mass.  Yet in coffee shops and taverns and halls throughout
Europe, artisans and intellectuals debated a myriad of social
changes aimed at alleviating the plight of this proletariat.  Indeed the same easy transport that had helped expand
commerce also helped spread ideas of reform. Literacy levels
still ranked below 50 percent in most of Europe, but there was a
hunger for knowledge. Books had become international, and
authors like Honore de Balzac, Victor Hugo and  Charles Dickens ,
who described society -- from the manor house to the gutter --in
a new realistic style, were recognized as universal writers.
Newspapers, too, moved more quickly from one capital to another,
evading local censors.  Ideas Cross Borders  Perhaps most dangerous of all, however, were the traveling
men and women who carried revolutionary notions in their heads
and hearts. A cross-pollination began that saw French and
American lessons of democracy transported all the way to  St.
Petersburg  and the intricacies of English business debated in
Milan. Throughout Europe a buzz of excitement greeted the new
concepts of socialism and communism, which proponents said would
correct social ills and rescue those left without food, shelter,
or work due to disasters natural and man-made.  Demonstrations of discontent were rare in Europe at that
time. But there had been the  Silesian workers’ revolt  the year
before, and in late March 1845, 100 people were killed in
Lucerne,  Switzerland , when a simmering political-religious
dispute erupted into violence.  To those calling for social reform such incidents were
increasingly emblematic. Crowned heads around Europe also took
note. Society was changing for them, too. Previous threats had
come from other monarchs, with wars fought over land or honor or
religion. The threat to a ruler could now arise from an
enlightened nobility, a bourgeois intellectual or a shopkeeper
wearing a blouse and red sash. Europe was headed into uncharted
territory. The relatively simple social structure that had
prevailed for centuries, in which the decisions of kings and
princes went unchallenged and all members of a society were
bound to (if not owned by) their betters, appeared increasingly
battered. But what would replace it?  In fact, it was possible to visit the future of continental
Europe. All it took was a trip across the  English Channel .
Engels had been there, and in the summer of 1845 he brought
along a companion: Marx.  (Mary Gabriel is the author of the biographies “Notorious
Victoria” and “The Art of Acquiring.” This is the third in a
five-part series excerpted from her new book, “Love and
Capital: Karl and Jenny Marx and the Birth of a Revolution,”
published in September by Little, Brown & Co. Read  Part 1  and
 Part 2 ,  Part 4  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mary Gabriel at  mgabriel1883@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 