-- 
Whitman Proves Beanie Babies Help Her Lead Hewlett-Packard: Tech

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-09-23T22:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/whitman-set-to-prove-beanie-babies-prepared-her-for-hewlett-packard-tech.html
Meg Whitman , who built her career
at companies that sell shoes, toys and Beanie Babies to
consumers, may be ill-prepared to lead computer maker Hewlett-
Packard Co. as it seeks to cater more to large corporations.  Hewlett-Packard named Whitman, former chief executive
officer of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , as CEO yesterday when the board fired  Leo Apotheker  after less than 11 months. Whitman, 55, is charged
with using her experience at the helm of EBay, the largest
online marketplace, to further Hewlett-Packard’s push to pare
consumer businesses and concentrate on enterprise sales.  Shoring up investor confidence and fueling a rebound in
shares that lost almost half their value in a year may prove
difficult for an executive who lacks experience in corporate
turnarounds or sales to multibillion-dollar companies, said
Frank Gillett, an analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  Hewlett-
Packard’s annual revenue of $126 billion is almost 14 times
EBay’s, and its businesses span printing, software, technology
services, storage, personal computers and servers.  “It’s not like she’s going to bring some insight that HP
doesn’t already have,” said Gillett, who has covered the
company for more than a decade. “She doesn’t have the
experience of turning around a large tech-industry conglomerate
where she has to understand a complicated portfolio of services
and a large base of customers.”  Shares Fall  Hewlett-Packard’s shares fell 48 cents, or 2.1 percent, to
$22.32 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange, hitting the
lowest price since May 2005. The stock had jumped 6.7 percent on
Sept. 21 after Bloomberg reported that Apotheker would be ousted,
evidence that shareholders were relieved to see his tenure end.  Whitman, who has served as a Hewlett-Packard director since
January, may also be stymied by the elevation of  Ray Lane  to
executive chairman, a more active role that may leave the two
struggling to share responsibility, said  Charles Elson , director
of the John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the
University of  Delaware . Lane is also a managing partner at
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.  “Naming Whitman CEO and Lane executive chairman is a
recipe for trouble, because in effect you have co-CEOs, which
never works,” Elson said. “Every time you have strong leaders
trying to share responsibility at the top, it doesn’t work.”  Whitman spent at least $141.6 million of her own money in a
losing bid last year to become governor of California. Before
entering politics and her time at EBay, the Princeton
University-educated Whitman worked as an executive at  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG) , toy company  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , floral service FTD Inc.,
footwear maker Stride Rite Corp. and Walt Disney Co.  Website Pioneer  While chief of EBay from 1998 to 2008, she oversaw the
company’s  expansion  from 640 employees in 1999 to 15,000 in 2007,
the year before she stepped down. Whitman pioneered a website
that gave thousands of small businesses and individuals an
online storefront to sell goods, changing the way people did
business on the Internet. She boosted EBay’s sales to $7.7
billion in 2007 from $86 million in 1998 and increased operating
income to $2 billion from $12.8 million.  She joined venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins as a
strategic adviser in March, working part-time to coach companies
in its portfolio. In an interview yesterday, Whitman said her
experience is enough to prepare her for taking over Hewlett-
Packard, which has a market value of $45.3 billion.  “I have run a large company -- not obviously as large as
HP, but I have run a very large company,” Whitman said. “While
I don’t have years of experience in an enterprise business, I
bought a lot of software. I was one of the largest enterprise
customers in Silicon Valley.”  Revamp  Still, Whitman must revamp a company with revenue streams
that dwarf those of EBay, which reported $9.2 billion in sales
last year, mostly coming from Internet auctions and payments
products, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  She will also have to choose whether to persevere with
Apotheker’s plan to make Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest
maker of personal computers, less reliant on those very machines.
Before he was fired, Apotheker was steering the company toward
more-profitable corporate businesses such as servers, software
and network services -- areas in which Whitman has little
expertise, said Gillett, who is based in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Hewlett-Packard, which has lacked a clear sense of
direction, must better define a vision for its enterprise and
services units amid the shift away from consumer products, said
Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco .
A quick and more consistent focus is imperative as Hewlett-
Packard takes on technology veterans such as International
Business Machines Corp.,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
which has become more competitive on price, he said.  PC Spinoff  Whitman will have to decide whether to follow through with
a possible sale or spinoff of the company’s personal systems
group, including PCs, Wu said. Apotheker said in August the
company was weighing options for the unit amid declining demand.  Whitman had a mixed track record at EBay, where sellers
conduct auctions for all kinds of new and used products, from
cars and electronics to sports memorabilia and Ty Inc.’s  Beanie
Babies  stuffed toys. She failed in her attempts to reverse a 43
percent share slump at EBay during her last three years at the
company, said Chuck House, who left Hewlett-Packard in 1991
after 29 years.  Hewlett-Packard’s directors turned to Whitman as concern
mounted about the stock price and its lack of improvement under
Apotheker’s leadership, a person familiar with the situation
said. Some top Hewlett-Packard executives also opposed the $10.3
billion agreement to purchase Autonomy Corp., a deal pushed by
Apotheker, according to a person close to the situation.  House compared the Autonomy deal to Whitman’s three-way
bidding war with Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. over Skype
Technologies SA in 2005. She paid $2.6 billion for the
international calling provider, only to write down the value by
$900 million in 2007 before selling a majority stake in it.  “She has almost no strength in any single aspect of HP
revenue today,” House, now the chancellor of Cogswell
Polytechnical College in Sunnyvale,  California , said in a
telephone interview. “When she ran EBay, she stalled out and
ran it into the ground. Apotheker bought Autonomy, and she
bought Skype.”  To be sure, skills honed during stints at Procter & Gamble
and Disney prior to Whitman’s tenure at EBay will be advantages
in leading Hewlett-Packard, said Terry Connelly, dean of the
Ageno School of Business at Golden Gate University in San
Francisco.  “You’re bringing in a seasoned brand manager to confront a
quintessentially damaged brand,” he said. “She’s proven to be
an excellent communicator. The question is, will she be a good
formulator of strategy?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  