-- 
Worried About America? Visit a Boys & Girls Club: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-09-23T00:06:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/worried-about-america-visit-a-boys-girls-club-jonathan-alter.html
The political world is so toxic
that I needed some relief, so I tuned into a reality show more
real than anything on television. I wasn’t disappointed. The
stories I heard were at once harrowing and inspirational. And
they were deeply connected to the future of the country.  This week, I served as one of five judges in the  Boys &
Girls Clubs of America  National Youth of the Year competition.
This is like the Miss America pageant, except that instead of
judging contestants by how they look in a ball gown, we were
assessing things like “Moral Character,” “Public Speaking” and
“Obstacles Overcome.”  Talk about a man-bites-dog story: The adults in the room --
from a senior White House official to an executive with  Major
League Baseball  -- stood in awe of 17- and 18-year-olds.  In a better world, the Youth of the Year competition would
be on television; there was plenty of suspense over who the
winner would be. Of course, stories of young people doing well
and serving their communities wouldn’t make for a juicy series.
Or would it? “The Situation” in these kids’ lives is a lot more
compelling than getting a tan and going to the gym.  4.1 Million Kids  With little notice, the 4,000 Boys & Girls Clubs in
impoverished areas of all 50 states have become a vital part of
the social safety net. They serve about 4.1 million kids under
18. That’s more than a quarter of the population of so-called
at-risk young people, the ones who would end up in jail, on
drugs or mired in deep poverty without early intervention.  Once they realize it’s not uncool to show up, boys, in
particular, routinely say that the club saved their lives. In
most poor rural and urban areas nowadays, the only social
anchors are the church, the school and the Boys & Girls Club.
It’s hard to find an Indian reservation or housing project that
doesn’t have one.  This year’s finalists each beat hundreds of others with a
daunting combination of essays and recommendations that only
hinted at how impressive they are in person. All the judges were
blown away by our one-on-one interviews, and again when the
students delivered five-minute memorized speeches.  Here’s my reality show cast, each of whom has more maturity
than the entire  U.S. Congress  combined.  Five Stories  Nick was from  Boston . One day, when he was 8 and had
already been beaten by his mother’s boyfriend, he waited at
school for several hours for his mom to pick him up. She never
showed. He was shunted between foster homes before taking his
possessions in two garbage bags and moving to Pittsburgh, where
he lived with an aunt and her partner. Now he’s completed more
than 2,000 hours of volunteer service at the club, feeding
hungry kids and refereeing sports.  Akheem says his family life is like “nothing on TV.” After
his brother was killed in a drug deal in  Orlando ,  Florida , his
family spiraled down. At 16, he became the primary caregiver for
eight younger siblings so that his grandmother could work. After
becoming the first in his family to graduate from high school,
he’s excelling in college and has founded a network of Brother-
to-Brother Clubs to get boys off the streets. “I ask them two
questions: Is this the life you want to live? And if not, what
can I do to help you get someplace better?”  Tamika’s mother is a drug addict, and Tamika has never met
her father. After she got some local publicity in East Chicago,
 Indiana , for advancing in the competition, her father got in
touch and she told him: “I forgive you.” She says that of the 25
or so girls she knows best, only three or four others managed to
avoid teen pregnancy. Most told her they couldn’t afford $500
for an abortion and liked the control of having a baby. She
started a program to bring more parents and grandparents (many
still in their 30s) into her club.  Deshawn, the son of a drug dealer, lived in a housing
project in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , where they had to run
extension cords from apartment to apartment because there was so
little power. When he first showed up at the club, he says, “I
hated it with a passion. It was too strict.” But it soon became
what he calls “my secret hiding place, my home away from home.”
Now he’s a freshman at Morehouse College, focusing on science,
and determined to run a company or cure a disease.  Darnisha raised two sisters amid drug abuse in Boise,
 Idaho . As she watched her neighborhood collapse under crystal
meth, the scourge of many rural areas, she developed her own
problems. “I had fallen into a black hole,” she says. When she
was 16, her father’s cancer was diagnosed. She took care of him.
Then, after he died, she made all the funeral arrangements and
handled his possessions. Like the others, she credits the club
with saving her.  The Future Workforce  Our deliberations were intense. We finally chose Nick --
 Nicholas S. Foley  -- who at 17 is the youngest of the group, but
it could have been any of them. Each finalist was everything we
want our kids to be. All have already escaped their
circumstances and will go on to great success.  The question is how many more can do so. Roxanne Spillett,
the longtime president and chief executive officer of Boys &
Girls Clubs, stepped down recently after more than doubling the
number of clubs and presiding over $1.5 billion in revenue
(including more than $50 million a year from the federal
government). She told me at lunch that many of the local
benefactors now understand that this cause is about more than
saving the lives of these kids.  “This is also about the rest of us,” she says. “It’s about
our self-interest and the workforce of the future.”  For a few years now, venture capitalists and bankers
worried about this future workforce have invested in education-
reform ideas like charter schools. Programs like the Boys &
Girls Clubs are seen as worthy if stodgy charities. They need to
be seen as important and cutting-edge investments in the future.
The Wall Street guy who figures out how to fund a fun, Web-based
remediation program for Boys & Girls Clubs will change the
world.  The good news, for businesses and for poor communities, is
that Boys & Girls Clubs and other proven models are quietly
helping more kids like Nick, Akheem, Tamika, Deshawn and
Darnisha -- a generation of young people with enormous untapped
potential.  When you do something to help them, you find that reality
can be restorative.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 