-- 
WTO Cuts Global-Trade Forecast Amid ‘Uncertain’ Economic Outlook

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-09-23T07:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/wto-cuts-global-trade-forecast-amid-uncertain-economic-outlook.html
The  World Trade Organization  cut
its forecast for worldwide trade this year, saying the outlook
for the global economy is “increasingly uncertain.”  The WTO lowered its 2011 projection for growth in
merchandise trade around the world in volume terms to 5.8
percent from the 6.5 percent predicted in April, the Geneva-
based organization said in a statement today. Exports from
developed economies are seen growing 3.6 percent this year,
while shipments from  developing countries  are projected to
increase 8.6 percent, it said.  “Trade has grown more slowly than expected in recent
months,” the WTO said. “Since the original forecast for 2011
was issued on April 22, developed countries in particular have
been buffeted by strong headwinds, including the lingering
effects of the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , the prolonged
budget impasse and credit downgrade in the U.S. and the ongoing
euro-area sovereign-debt crisis.”  Group of 20 finance chiefs late yesterday promised to
address rising risks to the global economy and pushed  Europe  to
contain its debt crisis after concern the world is on the brink
of another recession sent stocks tumbling. The worsening
European debt turmoil and threat of a U.S. slump pushed the MSCI
All-Country World Index of 45 nations into a  bear market  for the
first time in more than two years.  The euro rallied from a decade low against the yen, paring
its biggest weekly drop since May, as the G-20 nations pledged a
“strong and coordinated” response to challenges facing the
world’s economy. The euro also was higher against the dollar,
trading at $1.3518 at 8:50 a.m. in  London , up 0.4 percent on the
day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  