-- 
Yahoo Advisers Are Fielding Inquiries From ‘Multiple Parties’

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-24T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/yahoo-says-advisers-field-inquiries-from-multiple-parties-.html
Yahoo! Inc. advisers are receiving
inquiries from “multiple parties” interested in various
unspecified strategic options, according to a memo to employees
from co-founder  Jerry Yang .  “Our advisers are working with us to develop ideas that we
will pursue proactively,” according to the memo, which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. “They are fielding inquiries from
multiple parties that have already expressed interest in a
number of potential options.”  The process for reviewing strategic options is likely to
take “months, not weeks,” according to the memo, which was
also signed by co-founder David Filo and Chairman Roy Bostock.  Yahoo, the biggest U.S. Web portal, fired Chief Executive
Officer  Carol Bartz  earlier this month and announced a strategic
review to help the company revive growth and lure more users.
Under Bartz, Yahoo had frustrated investors while grappling with
rising competition from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  Private-equity investor  Silver Lake  is considering a bid
for Yahoo, two people involved in the deliberations said last
week. As part of a deal, Silver Lake would sell off Yahoo’s
Asian assets and then attempt to turn around the main operations
or find a buyer for that business, the people said.  Looking Around  Representatives of Silver Lake have approached other
companies to gauge interest in purchasing Yahoo’s main business,
one person said.  Yahoo replaced Bartz with Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse, who will serve as interim CEO. The board began a search
for a permanent leader, and that process continues, according to
the memo.  “By whatever measure you want to use -- engagement,
quality of products and services, our value to our advertisers
-- we all feel that we have what it takes to succeed,” the
executives said. “Also, our Asia assets remain one of our top
priorities and we continue to work well with the teams there.”  Yahoo’s Asian assets include stakes in Alibaba Group, which
provides e-commerce services in  China , and Yahoo Japan Corp. A
private-equity company would likely seek a buyer for those
assets, which according to Gabelli & Co., account for about 80
percent of Yahoo’s market value. Alibaba Group Chairman Jack Ma
tried to repurchase the stake from Bartz and was rebuffed.  Yahoo’s directors are under pressure from investors such as
Third Point LLC, which urged the board to resign this month
after buying a 5.2 percent stake. The investment firm said
directors erred in spurning a $47.5 billion takeover bid from
Microsoft Corp. in 2008. Yahoo’s market value is now $18.6
billion.  Yang’s memo was reported on earlier by Business Insider.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , rose 72 cents to
$14.71 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have
fallen 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  