-- 
Saleh Returns to Yemen After Three-Month Recuperation as Violence Worsens

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-09-23T07:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/yemen-president-saleh-returns-after-3-months-as-violence-worsens.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
returned to his country today after more than three months
abroad, state television said, amid intensified fighting between
government troops and opposition forces demanding his ouster.  The capital, Sana’a, was rocked by explosions and heavy
artillery and gunfire overnight. At least two protesters were
killed when shells slammed into the square outside Sana’a
University, a center for demonstrations, according to Mohammed
al-Sharabi, an activist camped out there.  Shelling in the city also targeted the home of Sheikh Sadiq al-Ahmar, leader of the Hashid, Yemen’s most influential tribal
confederation. Supporters of al-Ahmar have clashed with Saleh
loyalists since May, about two months after the tribal leader
said he backed the anti-government protesters.  Mass demonstrations began in the Arab world’s poorest
country in February, inspired by revolts that ousted the leaders
of Tunisia and  Egypt , and deepened with military and tribal
leaders joining the opposition. Efforts by Gulf Arab countries
to broker a power-transfer agreement have failed.  The conflict escalated this week after the Organization
Committee of the Popular Youth Revolution urged Yemenis to
intensify protests demanding an end to Saleh’s three-decade
rule. At least a dozen people were killed yesterday during
demonstrations in Sana’a, bringing this week’s death toll to
almost 100.  ‘Legitimate President’  Saleh “returned because he’s the legitimate president,”
said Abdu al-Janadi, deputy minister of information, in an
interview on  Al Jazeera  today. “It will put an end to a lot of
dispute that has been going on.”  Saleh, a U.S. ally against al-Qaeda’s Yemen-based
militants, left for neighboring  Saudi Arabia  in June to receive
treatment for injuries sustained in an attack on his compound.
The president will chair a meeting of the ruling General
People’s Congress within hours, Al Arabiya television said.  In Taiz today, Saleh supporters celebrated his return with
gunfire, and government forces fired shells at demonstrators,
said Ahmed al-Wafi, a protest organizer. He said at least two
people were injured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 