-- 
Youngest Indian Cricket Captain ‘Tiger’ Pataudi Dies in Hospital Aged 70

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-09-23T05:26:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/youngest-indian-cricket-captain-tiger-pataudi-dies-in-hospital-aged-70.html
Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi , who became
the youngest ever captain of  India ’s national cricket team at
age 21, died in a  New Delhi  hospital where he was being treated
for a lung infection. He was 70.  Born in 1941 in Bhopal, the capital of what is now central
Madhya Pradesh state, Pataudi led India to the country’s first
ever overseas Test match and series victory in 1968. The team
beat  New Zealand  in Dunedin and went on to win the series 3-1.  “In an age where a draw was considered as good as a win,
Pataudi encouraged his players to go flat out for victory,” N.
Srinivasan, newly elected president of the  Board of Control for
Cricket in India , said in an e-mailed statement. “He was an
aggressive batsman who excelled in crisis situations, and showed
the nation how to combat adversity.”  A car accident in Sussex,  England , in 1961 had impaired
vision in Pataudi’s right eye six months before he made his Test
debut against England in New Delhi. Pataudi captained India in
40 out of the 46 Test matches he played. The right-handed
batsmen, nicknamed ‘Tiger’, scored 2,793 runs at an average of
34.91, including six centuries, according to  cricinfo.com .  “Tiger Pataudi was the most charismatic cricketer of his
generation,” fellow former Indian captain Sunil Gavaskar said
in a statement reported by  Press Trust of India . “To bat with
almost zero vision in one eye and still to score nearly 3,000
runs and half a dozen centuries in Test cricket tells you what a
genius he was.”  Pataudi is survived by his wife Sharmila Tagore, an
actress, and their three children, two of whom also act in
Bollywood movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  