-- 
Zambian President Rupiah Banda Concedes Defeat in Election

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-09-23T11:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/zambian-president-rupiah-banda-concedes-defeat-in-election-1-.html
Zambian President Rupiah Banda
conceded election defeat to opposition leader  Michael Sata ,
saying “the people have spoken.”  “We must all face the reality that sometimes it is time to
change,” the 74-year-old Banda said in a nationally broadcast
address from Lusaka, the capital. “It’s time for me to step
aside, my time is done.”  Sata, the 73-year-old leader of the Patriotic Front who is
known as “King Cobra” for his temper and aggressive manner,
won the Sept. 20 election after losing in his previous three
bids for the presidency. The vote ends a period of rule by
Banda’s Movement for Multi-Party Democracy that stretches back
to 1991, when Zambia’s founding President Kenneth Kaunda ended
one-party control of the southern African nation.  The Zambian currency, the kwacha, fell to the lowest for
more than a year and traded at 5,155 per dollar at midday local
time.  “An upset by Sata will likely see a more resource
nationalist policy for the mining sector, with potential tax
hikes and greater government equity shares,” Sebastian Spio- Garbrah, managing director of New York-based DaMina Advisors
LLP, a frontier-market risk adviser, wrote in a report to
clients before the election results were known.  Banda won 36 percent of votes to 43 percent for Sata,
according to Ireen Mambilima, chairwoman of the  Electoral
Commission . He said in his address that Zambians should “rally
behind their new president.”  Mining Talks  Sata said in a phone interview that the future “wouldn’t
be easy,” declining to elaborate. Zambia’s state broadcaster
said he would be sworn in as president today at the country’s
 High Court .  The incoming government will be seeking early meetings with
mining companies, Sata spokesman Miles Sampa told Bloomberg in a
telephone interview today.  Talks will address “how we can collect more money
correctly from the mines,” he said. “We want to reduce poverty
as a priority and money from the mines will help us achieve our
plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Lusaka at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Karl Maier at 
 kmaier2@bloomberg.net  