-- 
Polish Central Bank Moves to Bolster Zloty, State Lender Said to Buy Bonds

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-23T16:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-23/zloty-rallies-as-polish-central-bank-announces-it-sold-foreign-currencies.html
Poland’s central bank sold foreign
currencies on the market after the zloty’s plunge to its weakest
in almost 27 months threatened to push its debt to a level that
forces the government to adopt austerity measures.  The zloty surged as much as 2.7 percent against the euro,
the steepest daily gain since May 2010, after the Warsaw-based
Narodowy Bank Polski said it sold “a certain amount of foreign
currencies” today, according to an e-mailed statement from the
bank. Earlier, state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego sold
euros and dollars for zloty on the market and bought  government
bonds , said two traders involved in the transaction who declined
to be named because the information isn’t public.  South Korea ’s won and  India ’s rupee rose today after policy
makers in the two nations said they were prepared to intervene,
while dollar sales by  Bank Indonesia  helped strengthen the
rupiah.  Brazil ’s real rose 1.3 percent, paring its biggest
weekly sell-off since November 2008, on speculation the
government may revoke a tax on foreign-exchange derivatives and
modify other restrictions to lure investment and stem the rout.  “They really are dissatisfied with how the currency has
been performing,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , head of foreign exchange
and currency strategy for central and eastern Europe, the  Middle
East  and  Africa  at BNP Paribas SA, said by phone from  London .
“Given the situation the global markets are in, the central
bank will need to continue selling in order to be successful
because a one-off will not help.”  Belka’s Warning  Central bank Governor Marek Belka warned yesterday that the
zloty is getting out of sync with Poland’s “healthy
fundamentals,” making it harder for policy makers to control
inflation, according to his comments posted on the central
bank’s Obserwatorfinansowy.pl website.  The zloty advanced 2.4 percent to 4.4093 per euro as of
5:30 p.m. in Warsaw, the steepest appreciation among more than
170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on bonds maturing
in October 2021 dropped nine basis points to 6 percent.  The central bank sold 20 million euros ($27 million) to a
Warsaw-based lender twice, a trader involved in the transactions
said. He also bought a total of $30 million from BGK. A bond
trader at another Warsaw-based bank said BGK may have bought a
total of as much as 150 million zloty ($46 million) of
government debt, mainly 10-year benchmark bonds. Both spoke
under condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to
discuss transactions with clients.  First Zloty Purchase  The central bank said it bought the zloty on the market for
the first time since the currency was allowed to trade freely in
April 2000. It bought foreign currencies to weaken the zloty on
April 9, 2010, under Governor Slawomir Skrzypek, who died in a
plane crash the next day.  Poland ’s sales of foreign currency on the market are
justified by favorable exchange rates and the government
“assesses positively” the central bank’s decision today to
intervene, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  was quoted
as saying by PAP newswire. The  Finance Ministry  is working with
the central bank, Radziwill said, according to PAP.  The ministry uses the so-called fixing exchange rate from
the last working day of the year to determine the public debt
level. If debt exceeds 55 percent of gross domestic product,
spending cuts and tax increases would be required under public
finance law. The ratio stood at 52.8 percent at the end of last
year.  Global Outlook  “We have probably reached a level where it hurts,”
 Elisabeth Andreew , chief foreign exchange strategist at Nordea
Bank AB, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. “With the
deteriorating global economic outlook, which may translate into
lower Polish GDP and a larger  budget deficit , the government
would probably prefer a euro-zloty rate not too much above 4.00
at year-end.”  Poland’s BGK sold  Europe ’s common currency before the end
of 2010 to shore up the zloty and keep foreign borrowing from
pushing total debt in local currency terms to levels that would
prompt austerity measures.  The zloty has been the emerging-markets’ third-worst
performing currency this quarter behind the South African rand
and Brazilian real on concern that the European debt crisis will
curb economic growth. Poland sends 55 percent of its exports to
the euro area while 66.2 percent of the country’s banking assets
are controlled by foreign lenders, according to the statistics
office and the country’s financial regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  