-- Obama Backs Secret Service Chief in Prostitution Inquiry
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-04-17T20:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/-embarrassed-pentagon-expands-probe-of-personnel-in-colombia.html
President  Barack Obama  has
confidence in the director of the Secret Service, his spokesman
said, as an investigation widened into allegations that agents
consorted with prostitutes while in  Colombia  preparing security
for a summit.  The agency’s director, Mark Sullivan, “acted swiftly”
when accusations were made that as many as 11 agents were
involved with prostitutes in the resort city of Cartagena before
Obama’s arrival for the Summit of the Americas, White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  said today.  “The Secret Service performs admirably” in protecting the
president, Carney said told reporters in Washington.  Obama’s agenda at the summit on the economy, trade and
engagement in  Latin America , which concluded April 15, was
overshadowed by reports of misconduct among the U.S. personnel.  The allegations, which prompted the recall of 11 Secret
Service agents to the U.S. before the president arrived, also
involved members of the military who were in Cartagena as part
of the summit preparations.  In addition to the internal investigation by the Secret
Service, the Pentagon is conducting its own inquiry.  Classified Information  An investigation is also under way to determine whether any
classified information was lost or compromised, according to two
U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
inquiry is confidential. Authorities are checking the identities
of the women involved and whether they may have been recruited
by a foreign intelligence service or a group with hostile
intentions, the officials said.  Sullivan has asked the inspector general of the Department
of Homeland Security, of which the agency is a part, to begin a
probe as well, said Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican, in a statement. Marty Metelko, a spokeswoman for the
inspector general’s office, declined to comment.  Investigators haven’t discovered any of the women had ties
to any such groups or governments, said House Homeland Security
Committee Chairman  Peter King  in an interview. King said he was
briefed by the Secret Service on the probe.  The 11 Secret Service employees are being investigated for
participating in the incident with 11 women, said King, a New
York Republican. Some of the Secret Service employees have told
investigators the women were prostitutes while others have said
they were companions and met at a bar, he said.  Most of the employees are special agents and at least two
were uniformed workers, King said. All were part of an advance
team that specialized in spotting snipers and dealing with
explosives, he said.  Military Involvement  At one point, the women felt outnumbered in the hotel rooms
and requested that more women join them, Representative Mike McCaul, a Texas Republican, said in an interview. McCaul,
chairman of the House  Homeland Security  Subcommittee on
Oversight, Investigations and Management, also said he was
briefed on the investigation.  One Secret Service employee got into an argument with a
woman over the price for her services, and the Colombian police
were called, King said. After the employee paid the woman, the
police, who routinely report any incident involving a foreign
national, contacted the U.S. embassy, he said.  At a news conference before leaving Cartagena, Obama said
he would await the outcome of a “thorough” investigation.  Previous Incidents  Susan Collins  of  Maine , the top Republican on the Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, told
reporters she will ask Sullivan whether such incidents had
occurred previously and wants the committee to hold a hearing on
the episode.  “I find this to be so appalling,” Collins said. “I can’t
help but think: What if the women involved had been spies? What
if they’d been members of the drug cartel? What if they’d
planted equipment or eavesdropping devices?”  The Senate Judiciary Committee, which oversees the Secret
Service’s budget, has also requested details about the incident,
according to a panel staff member who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the committee hasn’t commented on the
incident.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  