-- ‘Wind-Down’ Power Repeal, Vodafone Probe, CBOE: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-16T12:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/-wind-down-power-repeal-vodafone-probe-cboe-chief-compliance.html
A U.S. House panel will consider a
repeal of the power established by the Dodd-Frank Act to seize
and wind-down systemically risky financial firms.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican and
the chairman of the  Financial Services Committee , has included
the repeal in a measure aimed at finding almost $30 billion in
spending cuts as House Republicans search for ways to avoid
automatic reductions to the Department of Defense.  Republicans opposed the resolution authority during the
2009 and 2010 debate over the financial regulatory overhaul that
would become Dodd-Frank, arguing that the mechanism used to pay
for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to dismantle a firm
would itself lead large Wall Street firms to take undue risks.  The repeal is part of a broader measure the panel is
required to produce that would cut at least $29.8 billion.
Bachus is proposing to cut $35.1 billion over 10 years through
four actions: repeal of the resolution authority; ending the
Obama administration’s Home Affordable Modification Program, or
HAMP; a reauthorization with structural changes to the National
Flood Insurance Program; and placing the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau under the congressional appropriations
process.  The panel is scheduled to consider the measure April 18
and, if it is approved by the Republican-led committee, it will
then be sent to the Budget Committee for use in preparation for
the appropriations process, which is expected to begin soon.
Senate Democrats have already said they will not advance the
House budget adopted in March and the lawmakers, who control the
chamber, have refused to make substantive changes to Dodd-Frank.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Biggest Banks May Need 17% Core Capital Under EU Draft Plans  Europe ’s  biggest banks  may need to hold core-capital
reserves of as much as 17 percent under plans being weighed by
European Union lawmakers.  The region’s parliament is considering allowing regulators
to impose capital surcharges of as much as 10 percent of a
bank’s assets, weighted for risk, according to a set of
suggested compromises on a draft law prepared by  Othmar Karas ,
an Austrian lawmaker guiding the adoption of global bank-capital
and liquidity rules.  The surcharges would be on top of standard requirements
that lenders hold core reserves of 7 percent and would be
applied to banks “in the highest category of systemic
relevance,” according to the document, obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Governments and lawmakers in the 27-nation EU are
considering rules for lenders that would go far beyond
international agreements approved by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. Denmark, which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, has proposed empowering nations to set
surcharges of up to 3 percent across their banking systems.
Karas on April 12 suggested adding language to the legislation
that would ban banker bonuses that exceed fixed pay, following
calls from other lawmakers to rein in excessive compensation.  For more, click here.  CFPB Warns Banks, Nonbanks Against ‘Irresponsible’ Contractors  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau says financial
firms may be held responsible for actions of companies they
hire, according to CFPB statement.  The bureau “will take a close look” to ensure consumers
are protected against dishonest third parties, and will “hold
all appropriate companies accountable” when the law is broken,
the agency said in the statement.  The agency expects firms to have an “effective process for
managing the risks of service provider relationships,” it said
in the statement. It recognizes that the use of third parties is
often an “appropriate business decision for supervised banks
and nonbanks.”  JOBS Act May Allow Small U.S. Banks to Avoid SEC Reporting Rule  As many as 600 U.S. banks will escape some of the Dodd-
Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley rules enforced by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission under the JOBS Act President Obama
signed last week, an  American Bankers Association  lobbyist said.  The number includes institutions that until last week had
to register as public companies and report to the SEC, but can
now deregister, saving them money, said James Ballentine, the
association’s executive vice president for congressional
relations.  The banks will still be subject to regulation -- including
Dodd-Frank provisions -- enforced by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. State-chartered banks will remain subject to
supervision by the  Federal Reserve  and state regulators.  The JOBS Act lifts the shareholder threshold at which banks
must register with the SEC to 2,000 from 500, as long as fewer
than 500 are non-accredited investors. It exempts employee
shareholders from this count. Until now, de-registration
required a bank to have either less than $10 million in assets
or fewer than 300 recorded shareholders. The JOBS Act raises the
shareholder threshold to 1,200.  The shareholder provision will allow institutions to avoid
SEC shareholder registration only. Whether they are subject to
other SEC requirements will depend on a bank’s product
offerings. The SEC would still regulate swaps for non-registered
banks.  SEC-registered companies are subject to most of the
provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley, some provisions of Dodd-Frank and
other SEC mandates.  Bankers have complained that the benefit to
being publicly held is often outweighed by the high cost of
regulatory compliance -- costs that have put pressure on some
banking organizations to keep the number of its shareholders low
to avoid registration.  Compliance Action  Vodafone Faces Expanded EU Probe With O2 on Mobile-Payment Deal  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 and Everything
Everywhere Ltd. face an expanded probe by European Union
regulators examining their U.K. mobile-phone payment system.  The  European Commission  extended until Aug. 27 its deadline
to rule on the deal, it said in an e-mailed statement April 13.
Regulators cited concerns that the companies may be able to
block competitors from offering their own “mobile wallet”
services to U.K. customers or to “degrade the quality” of
services to make them less attractive.  The U.K.’s three largest mobile operators are seeking EU
approval for the joint venture to help banks and advertisers
access services which will allow people to buy items from
groceries to clothes with their smartphones. After losing out to
 Apple Inc. (APPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in offering online application
stores, the companies want to accelerate the development of
additional services to drive revenue and boost smartphone sales.  “The shareholders in the proposed joint venture remain
focused and determined to progress with the project,” the three
companies said in a joint statement. “We remain confident that
an extended review will conclude that the proposed joint venture
is pro-competitive and will provide robust competition.”  The joint venture would have “very high market shares” in
growing markets for mobile-payment applications, mobile
advertising and data-analytic services, regulators said.  For more, click here.  Dutch Bankers Must Take Oath to Put Client First, De Jager Says  Dutch bankers and insurers will have to pledge an oath to
put their clients’ interests first in a government bid to
improve confidence in the financial sector.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  described the
oath, which he expects to “restore the moral authority of the
sector,” in a letter to parliament April 14. The  oath , which
will be enforced by regulator AFM, is part of new financial
regulations scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1, 2013.  The Dutch spent about 30 billion euros ($39 billion) on the
2008 bailout of Fortis’s Dutch units, including its stake in ABN
Amro Holding NV. Separate aid for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,  SNS Reaal NV (SR) ,
 Aegon NV (AGN)  and the collapse of DSB Bank NV and  Landsbanki Islands
hf (LANDSBAN) ’s Dutch Icesave unit drove up costs for the state and the
banking sector, respectively.  A parliamentary committee on April 11 concluded that the
previous Dutch government made “large errors” in its bailouts
of Fortis, ABN Amro and ING, pushing up risks and costs for
taxpayers. The committee in 2010 said the central bank’s
supervision of DSB and Icesave had been insufficient.  Qatar May List Bonds, Sukuk in Drive to Deepen Debt Market  Qatar may list local-currency  government bonds  and sukuk on
the country’s bourse this year as the world’s biggest exporter
of liquefied natural gas seeks to deepen its debt market.  Qatar, which had the world’s fastest economic growth last
year according to the  International Monetary Fund , started
listing treasury bills on the exchange at the end of last year.  The nation started selling treasury bills in May to mop up
excess funds in the banking sector and set benchmark rates for
companies to issue local-currency debt. Qatar, which will host
the 2022 soccer  World Cup , may spend close to $100 billion in
“the medium-term” on projects, including the completion of a
port and airport, a metro system and roads, the IMF said in a
January report.  The nation has riyal-denominated government bonds and
sukuk, or Islamic notes which comply with Islam’s ban on paying
interest, due between 2012 and 2019, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The country sold 14 billion riyals ($3.8 billion) of
treasury bills through the end of March, Central Bank Governor
Sheikh Abdullah Saud Al Thani said in a speech at a Bloomberg
conference in Doha.  Obama’s Bid to End Too-Big-to-Fail Undercut as Big Banks Grow  Two years after President Barack Obama vowed to eliminate
the danger of financial institutions becoming “too big to
fail,” the nation’s largest banks are bigger than they were
before the credit crisis.  Five banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp., 
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
-- held $8.5 trillion in assets at the end of 2011, equal to 56
percent of the  U.S. economy , according to the Federal Reserve.  Five years earlier, before the financial crisis, the
largest banks’ assets amounted to 43 percent of U.S. output. The
Big Five today are about twice as large as they were a decade
ago relative to the economy, sparking concern that trouble at a
major bank would rock the  financial system  and force the
government to step in as it did during the 2008 crunch.  That specter is eroding faith in Obama’s pledge that
taxpayer-funded bailouts are a thing of the past. It is also
exposing him to criticism from Federal Reserve officials,
Republicans and Occupy Wall Street supporters, who see the
concentration of bank power as a threat to economic stability.  As weaker firms collapsed or were acquired, a handful of
financial giants emerged from the crisis and have thrived. Since
then, JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo have continued to
swell, if less dramatically, thanks to internal growth and
acquisitions from European banks shedding assets amid the euro
crisis.  The industry’s evolution defies the president’s January
2010 call to “prevent the further consolidation of our
financial system.”  For more, click here.  Study Reveals Hedge Funds Not Worried About SEC Registration  A majority of hedge funds do not view as “onerous”
registration requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to a survey, BNA reported.  Compliance with the registration, which is required under
the Dodd-Frank law, was studied by accounting and consulting
firm EisnerAmper and Hofstra University’s business school. The
study was released April 11.  In a survey of 41 senior hedge fund and asset management
firm executives, the study found that roughly 68 percent of
funds with more than $1 billion in assets under management, the
so-called large funds, and about 37 percent of funds with less
than $1 billion in assets under management, the so-called small
funds, said that they wouldn’t be affected “at all” by the
Dodd-Frank mandate, BNA reported.  In other findings, 79 percent of large funds and 63 percent
of small funds prefer registration with the SEC rather than the
states, the survey found.  All the large funds and the majority of small funds
reported that they expect operating costs to go up moderately or
significantly as a result of Dodd-Frank. They also expect an
increase in “client inquiries” for additional information
about the funds.  Large funds anticipate organizational changes in areas
relating to liquidity, monitoring of counterparty risk, and
transparency. Small funds expect organizational changes relating
to transparency, monitoring of counterparty risk, liquidity and
monitoring of service providers.  Courts  Ex-EBRD Banker Charged in London With Taking U.S. Firm’s Bribes  Former European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
banker Andrey Ryjenko was charged with accepting bribes and
laundering more than $3 million.  Ryjenko was accused, along with former Standard Bank Plc
employee Tatjana Sanderson, of taking bribes to show favor to a
company called Chestnut Consulting Inc. between September 2007
and March 2010, according to the indictment. The two were also
charged with transferring the funds from Chestnut Consulting’s
managing director Dmitrij Harder to Sanderson’s bank accounts.  The case is scheduled for trial in November, a judge at
 London ’s Central Criminal Court, known as the Old Bailey, ruled
April 13. The pair haven’t entered pleas in the case. Sanderson,
whose last name was formerly Ryjenko, previously worked at
Standard Bank, according to the U.K. Financial Services
Authority’s register of approved people.  Chestnut Consulting is based in Southampton, Pennsylvania,
and arranges financing for the energy, metals and mining,
infrastructure, and industrial production firms, according to
its  website . Harder didn’t immediately respond to a call to his
office or an e-mail.  Georgia Adumata, a spokeswoman for Ryjenko’s lawyer at
Bindmans in London, and Jeremy Summers, a lawyer for Sanderson,
didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment. A call to
Standard Bank’s press office in London wasn’t immediately
returned.  Interviews  EU Can’t Afford to Spurn Successful Bankers, City of London Says  The City of London Corporation, which represents the
capital’s biggest financial district, said Europe can’t afford
to “drive away” talent by giving the impression it doesn’t
welcome high earners as the European Union considers capping
bank bonuses.  “We should be wary of unintended consequences when it
comes to bringing in pay legislation,” Stuart Fraser, the City
of London policy chairman, said in an e-mailed response to
questions April 13. “Banks have cut tens of thousands of jobs,
partly due to the movement away from flexible bonuses to higher
fixed-salary costs that was encouraged following the financial
crisis.”  European legislators may seek to ban banker bonuses larger
than fixed pay as part of a draft law on Basel capital rules.
Othmar Karas, the lawmaker leading work on the rules, said April
12 at a meeting of the EU’s economic and monetary affairs
committee that he’s seeking a compromise deal between different
political groups after lawmakers proposed a variety of bonus
curbs. Some bankers are receiving bonuses about 10 times larger
than their base salary, according to a  European Banking
Authority  survey released April 12.  London, the world’s biggest center for foreign-exchange
trading, cross-border bank lending and interest-rate
derivatives, is already battling the effect of Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis on its services as some politicians blame
financiers for bringing the economy to the brink of collapse.  Comings and Goings  CBOE Hires Chief Compliance Officer Following U.S. Investigation  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  named a former U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawyer to oversee regulatory affairs at its
exchanges, a month after announcing a federal inquiry and the
resignation of a senior compliance executive.  Alexandra M. Albright, an attorney with  Kirkland & Ellis
LLP , will start April 23 as chief compliance officer, the
Chicago-based company said April 13 in a statement. Albright
worked at the SEC from 2001 to 2006, most recently in the
enforcement division’s office of market surveillance.  The owner of the  Chicago Board Options Exchange  hired
Albright a month after saying Patrick Fay quit. The exchange
operator disclosed in February that the SEC is investigating
whether CBOE complied with its obligations as a self-regulatory
organization. Such firms are required to write rules for their
markets, monitor trading and ensure that they and their
customers aren’t breaking securities laws.  Best Buy Board Hires WilmerHale for Probe of Former CEO Dunn  Best Buy Co.’s (BBY)  board hired  Washington  law firm  WilmerHale 
for its investigation of former Chief Executive Officer Brian
Dunn’s personal conduct, with two former federal officials
involved in the probe.  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Director of
Enforcement William R. McLucas and former U.S. Attorney for the
District of Colorado Thomas Strickland are assigned to the case,
Greg Hitt, a spokesman for Best Buy’s board, confirmed in an e-
mail April 13. McLucas declined to comment April 13 in e-mail,
and Strickland didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  Best Buy announced Dunn’s resignation earlier last week,
saying that the change was part of a “mutual agreement” that
new leadership was needed. The company later said that a board
committee was probing Dunn’s “personal conduct, unrelated to
the company’s operations or financial control.”  That investigation centers on Dunn’s relationship with a
female employee, people familiar with the matter said April 12.
The probe is continuing and the board’s findings will be made
public, said Ron Hutcheson, a Best Buy spokesman who works for
Hill & Knowlton Strategies in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 