-- Mc-Kinney Moeller, Denmark’s Richest Man, Dies at 98
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-04-16T13:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/a-p-moeller-maersk-says-chairman-mc-kinney-moellder-died.html
Maersk Mc-Kinney Moeller, the owner
of the world’s largest container-shipping company and Denmark’s
richest man, has died. He was 98.  Mc-Kinney Moeller passed away in his sleep at about 5 a.m.
in Copenhagen at the country’s main hospital, Rigshospitalet,
after being admitted on April 13 because he was feeling
“queasy,” spokesman Michael Christian Storgaard said by phone.  Mc-Kinney Moeller ran Copenhagen-based  A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S (MAERSKB)  for 38 years before stepping down as chairman in December
2003. He took over the closely-held company in 1965 after the
death of his father, Arnold Peter Moeller, who founded the
business with one second-hand steamship in 1904.  “On behalf of the whole family I wish to express our
deepest sorrow at the loss of our father, grandfather and great
grandfather,” his daughter Ane Maersk Mc-Kinney Uggla said in a
statement to the Copenhagen stock exchange today. “My sisters
and I have lost a father who never failed, neither his family
nor his business.”  Mc-Kinney Moeller built the shipping company into a
corporation with annual sales last year of $60 billion --
equivalent to almost 20 percent of  Denmark ’s gross domestic
product -- employing 108,000 people in more than 130 countries.
A slender man who favored three-piece suits, he rarely gave
interviews and sought to limit news around his company.  “I hope you understand our peculiar inclination that we
perhaps have the most to gain by being unobserved,” he said in
1998, according to the book “Moeller the Myth,” by journalist
Jan Cortzen.  Larger-Than-Life  Mc-Kinney Moeller was a larger-than-life person in
Denmark’s corporate world, contributing generously to public
projects unrelated to his business. He funded a 2.5 billion
kroner ($438 million) opera house in Copenhagen that opened in
January 2005. In an August 2010 survey by Denmark’s Berlingske
Nyhedsmagasin, his personal fortune was estimated at 8.3 billion
kroner, while assets under his family’s control where worth as
much as 125.4 billion kroner.  “Every week you would meet him on his way up the stairs to
the sixth floor at the Esplanaden headquarters in Copenhagen,
where he followed  developments closely,” Chairman Michael Pram Rasmussen said in an e-mailed note today. “Should issues in the
business require an opinion or comment, Mc-Kinney Moeller always
made his position clear in no uncertain terms accompanied with
wit and always based on a thorough knowledge of the company and
the history.”  Transformed Maersk  In his last year as chairman, Mc-Kinney Moeller transformed
the company by merging its two publicly traded units,  splitting
its shares  and lifting some of the secrecy surrounding
investments and holdings.  His employees unfailingly called him “Herr Moeller,” rare
in a country that has largely done away with titles and
honorifics. All employees globally would get a Danish pastry
each year on July 13, in honor of his birthday.  “Mc-Kinney Moeller is the most respected and admired
businessman and leader in Denmark,” Thomas Larsen, a political
commentator at newspaper Berlingske and co-author of the 2008
book “Maersk Mc-Kinney Moeller,” said by phone.  “He’s one of the few Danes whom you say ‘De’ and not ‘Du’
to,” Larsen said, referring to the seldom-used formal version
of the second-person singular pronoun in Danish.  ‘Will and Energy’  He handed  day-to-day responsibilities  to Chief Executive
Officer Jess Soederberg in 1993. In 2007, Soederberg resigned
after profit dropped 23 percent and Chairman Michael Pram Rasmussen hired Carlsberg A/S’s Nils Smedegaard Andersen as the
first CEO ever to be brought in from outside the company.
Andersen has been on sick leave after undergoing emergency heart
surgery in December. The company said March 26 he will extend
his leave by as much as eight weeks.  “Will and energy marked Maersk Mc-Kinney Moeller’s
endeavors,” Andersen said in an e-mailed note today. “Vision,
careful preparation and a never-failing engagement minimized an
often-times not insignificant business risk.”  Even after resigning as chairman in December 2003, Mc-
Kinney Moeller appeared daily at the company’s headquarters near
the Little Mermaid statue on Copenhagen’s waterfront.  Some investors said Mc-Kinney Moeller’s hold on the company
was too pervasive, arguing he gave his management team limited
freedom to explore new ventures.  Shares  The company “wasn’t especially investor friendly,”
Charlotte Lindholm, director of the Danish Shareholders
Association, said in a phone interview today. “Now it will be
more open for a more progressive, dynamic, future-oriented
style; it’ll give the company a little more freedom to
maneuver.”  Maersk shares gained as much as 6.4 percent today, the most
since Nov. 30, after the news of Mc-Kinney Moeller’s death was
made public. They were trading 3.4 percent higher at 42,680
kroner as of 3:39 p.m. in Copenhagen.  According to Finn Mortensen, co-author of “Maersk Mc-
Kinney Moeller,” investors shouldn’t expect too much to change
at the company.  “There are no signs the company will change its approach
after the death of Maersk Mc-Kinney Moeller, and the company is
not terribly concerned about what business areas some banks or
analysts believe it should be in,” he said by phone today.
“Maersk has never been enslaved by having to deliver for the
quarterly reports but rather targeted a long-time perspective
and investment plan.”  Adjusting to Markets  The container line, which transports about 15 percent of
the world’s manufactured goods, began losing money in 2008
because of increased competition on trade routes and pressure on
freight rates. Maersk group’s net profit fell 36 percent in 2011
as its container unit lost money. The company has raised rates
and cut supply to adjust to sliding global demand.  Maersk, which also owns the Nordic region’s second-largest
oil explorer, doubled in value to $34 billion between the
announcement of the merger plan in December 2002 and Mc-Kinney
Moeller’s resignation a year later. Its shares have gained 12
percent this year, giving it a market capitalization of 182
billion kroner.  Mc-Kinney Moeller’s wife Emma, who was born five days
before her husband in 1913, died in 2005 after 65 years of
marriage. They had three daughters; Ane Maersk Mc-Kinney Uggla,
Leise Maersk Mc-Kinney Moeller, and Kirsten Mc-Kinney Moeller
Olufsen.  Two of his grandsons, Robert Maersk Uggla and Johan Pederson Uggla, joined the company in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net . 