-- Ader Tapped for Hungarian President as Orban Picks Ally
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-16T19:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ader-tapped-for-hungary-president-as-orban-picks-ally.html
Janos Ader , a 24-year ally of
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , was nominated to become
the country’s next president, succeeding  Pal Schmitt , who quit
after a panel ruled he plagiarized parts of his doctoral thesis.  Orban nominated Ader today at a meeting with lawmakers from
his ruling Fidesz party,  Peter Szijjarto , the premier’s
spokesman, said at a press conference in Budapest. Parliament,
where Orban wields a two-thirds majority, is scheduled to vote
on Ader for a five-year term on May 2, Janos Lazar, head of the
ruling Fidesz party’s parliamentary group, said today.  “I accept the nomination with the respect and humbleness
required by the post,” Ader said in an e-mailed statement.
“I’ve always stood in the service of democracy.”  Hungary ’s premier is turning to an ally to fill the largely
ceremonial post after losing Schmitt, who signed every piece of
legislation the government sent him since taking office in 2010.
European Union concerns over some of those laws, including a
judicial overhaul authored by Ader that the bloc says infringes
on courts’ independence, have blocked Hungary’s talks on an
 International Monetary Fund -led loan.  “Orban is again entrusting the presidency to a party
loyalist, continuing a practice of naming allies to head
independent institutions,” Peter Kreko, an analyst at Political
Capital in Budapest, said today by phone. “Ader won’t be a
counterweight to the government’s agenda in his position.”  Five months after Hungary requested aid from the EU and the
IMF, talks have yet to begin as Orban failed to convince the EU
that independent institutions are free of government influence.
The forint has lost 4.2 percent against the euro since rising to
a five-month high on Feb. 21 as investors question the
government’s resolve to reach an agreement with the IMF.  Fidesz Since 1988  While the bulk of executive power lies with the prime
minister, Schmitt’s predecessors regularly returned legislation
to Parliament or sought review by the  Constitutional Court .  Ader, a 52-year-old lawyer, joined Fidesz in 1988, the year
Orban co-founded the party. He became a member of parliament in
1990 in Hungary’s first free elections after the end of
communism and worked in the legislature until becoming a member
of the European Parliament in 2009.  He has served as the party’s vice president and was
parliament’s speaker during Orban’s first term as premier from
1998 to 2002. He led Fidesz in the legislature in opposition
from 2002 to 2006.  Schmitt, a two-time Olympic fencing champion and another
Fidesz member who served in the European Parliament, bowed to
pressure to quit this month after Budapest-based Semmelweis
University stripped him of his doctoral degree in sports. He’s
the first president to quit since communism ended in 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  