-- Airbus CEO Enders Urges Germany to Ease Foreign Investor Access
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2012-04-16T10:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/airbus-ceo-enders-urges-germany-to-ease-foreign-investor-access.html
Germany  should drop a clause in a
foreign-trade law that lets the government block purchases of
larger stakes in domestic companies because the rule can impede
investments,  Airbus SAS (EAD)  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said.  The clause requires a foreign investor to inform the
government of the intention to purchase 25 percent or more of a
German company, and the government then has a month to study and
potentially halt the offer. Enders said the rule curtails the
entrepreneurial freedom of companies at a time when the inflow
of foreign capital would help support domestic industry.  “We will enter a long drought in Germany and in Europe,
and companies will need to work harder to be successful with
exports,” said Enders, speaking in Berlin as president of the
German BDLI aviation association at its annual press conference.
“It should be in the government’s interest to allow foreign
participation that generates additional business and helps
through this drought.”  Enders declined to say if Airbus parent  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EADS)  should also allow access to a
foreign investor.  Europe ’s largest aerospace company is partly
owned by the governments of France and Germany, an involvement
that Enders has criticized. Enders will move up to lead all of
EADS later this year when current CEO Louis Gallois retires.  Germany’s civil aerospace industry in 2012 will be
similarly successful to last year, as demand for aircraft
supports the business of suppliers, Enders said. Maintaining the
strength of the supply chain is among the main tasks of the
large manufacturers, who are allocating “hundreds” of
employees to collaborate with suppliers, Enders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  