-- Malaga Misses Chance to Go Third in Spain; Italy Mourns Morosini
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-16T00:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/malaga-misses-chance-to-go-third-in-spain-italy-mourns-morosini.html
Malaga missed a chance to take
third spot in Spanish soccer’s La Liga after drawing 1-1 with
Real Sociedad. All weekend matches in  Italy ’s Serie A were
postponed following the death of a player.  Fourth-place Malaga moves to 51 points, one behind
Valencia, which lost 4-0 at Espanyol yesterday for a first
defeat in four matches. Levante is another three points back
with five games left.  Real  Madrid  maintained its four-point lead over Barcelona
atop the standings before their meeting at the Camp Nou on April
21 after both teams won two days ago. Madrid defeated Sporting
Gijon 3-1, while Barcelona beat Levante 2-1.  Lionel Messi  got both goals for Barca, and Madrid’s
Cristiano Ronaldo scored once to put both players on 41 goals in
La Liga this campaign, a single-season record.  Piermario Morosini, a 25-year-old midfielder on loan at
Serie B club Livorno from Udinese, died two days ago after
suffering a cardiac arrest during a match against Pescara. The
Italian Football Federation suspended all the weekend’s
remaining matches.  “He was one of Udinese’s sons,” club President Gianpaolo
Pozzo said on Udinese’s website. “This is a tragedy that needs
to make us think.”  Morosini’s death came less than a month after Bolton’s
Fabrice Muamba, 24, suffered a cardiac arrest during a F.A. Cup
game in  England . Muamba has since started walking again, manager
Owen Coyle said April 5.  Eight-Point Lead  Borussia Dortmund  holds an eight-point lead atop the
Bundesliga with three matches left after second-place  Bayern
Munich  was held to a scoreless tie by Mainz two days ago.  Dortmund, on a German league record run of 25 straight
games unbeaten, won 2-1 at Ruhr rival Schalke and is on course
to retain its title. Fourth-place Borussia Moenchengladbach is
now one point behind Schalke following a 3-0 home win against
Cologne yesterday.  Marseille won  France ’s League Cup for a third straight
season after substitute Brandao scored in extra time to secure a
1-0 victory over Lyon two days ago.  In Ligue 1, Paris Saint-Germain was unable to take
advantage of an earlier defeat for first-place Montpellier as it
drew 1-1 at Auxerre last night. Montpellier lost 2-1 at Lorient
and leads PSG by two points.  Lille, last season’s champion, beat Ajaccio 4-1 and is
seven points off the lead in third position.  Defending champion Ajax holds a six-point advantage over  AZ
Alkmaar  and Feyenoord in Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie following a
3-1 win against  De Graafschap  yesterday.  AZ lost 3-2 at  PSV Eindhoven , while Feyenoord beat
Excelsior 3-0 this weekend.  FC Twente , PSV and Heerenveen are
all one point further back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  