-- Altria Stands by Group for Florida Gun Law as Kraft Quits
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-04-16T13:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/altria-stands-by-group-for-florida-gun-law-as-kraft-quits.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  are among the corporations keeping their membership in a
policy group that helped pass the  Florida  gun law being
scrutinized after the Feb. 26 shooting of Trayvon Martin.  “Our involvement is focused on issues related to our
business,” said Bill Phelps, a spokesman for Richmond,
Virginia-based Altria Group Inc. “As with all organizations
with which we work, we regularly evaluate our support to ensure
that the organization effectively addresses the issues of
concerns to our business and our shareholders.”  Altria and J&J are among the corporations on the private
enterprise board of the American Legislative Exchange Council, a
Washington-based organization that links state lawmakers with
corporate representatives and policy advocacy groups to draft
pro-business legislation. Other members include Wichita, Kansas-
based  Koch Industries  Inc., whose executives have funded
organizations spending millions of dollars on political ads to
support Republican candidates.  A coalition of ALEC opponents, including ColorofChange.org,
Common Cause and People for the American Way, has targeted the
group’s corporate members, which pay dues of as much as $25,000
a year, urging them to withdraw their support.  “For these corporations who have sponsored ALEC, they have
done it behind closed doors,” said Rashad Robinson, executive
director of ColorOfChange, a black civil rights organization
based in  New York . “If a light is being shone on ALEC and their
relationships are no longer private and they have to answer for
it publicly, does it still work?”  Risk to Companies  The boardroom discussions shed light on the risk companies
face as they are being pressed by an increasing number of
politically active groups for donations.  The group is under attack because “our support for free
markets and limited government stands in stark contrast to their
state-dependent utopia,” said Ron Scherberle, ALEC’s executive
director. “This is not about one piece of legislation. This is
an attempt to silence our organization and it has been going on
for more than a year.”  At issue is ALEC’s role in helping to draft the so-called
“Stand Your Ground” legislation enacted with the backing of
the National Rifle Association. That law in Florida allows
individuals who feel threatened to “meet force with force”
rather than back away, and was cited by authorities in Sanford,
Florida, when they did not arrest George Zimmerman when he
claimed self-defense after shooting Martin.  ‘Tragic Mistake’  “ALEC did not write Florida’s ’Stand Your Ground’ law,”
said Common Cause President Bob Edgar, a former Democratic U.S.
representative from Pennsylvania. “But it collaborated with the
National Rifle Association, its member corporations including
Wal-Mart, Coca-Cola and Koch Industries, and spread this tragic
mistake into nearly two dozen states.”  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP)  are among those companies that have decided not to renew
their ALEC memberships.  “We review all organizations in which we have membership
each year to assure they serve a critical purpose for PepsiCo,”
said Heather Gleason, a spokeswoman for the Purchase, New York-
based company. “Our membership expired at the end of 2011 and
we chose not to renew.”  Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft is the only one of the 21
companies and trade groups currently on ALEC’s private
enterprise board to withdraw from the organization so far.  Still a Member  Others are staying.  Bill Price , a spokesman for New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
Johnson & Johnson, said the company participates with ALEC and
other groups “on a broad range of issues and, while we express
our views to organizations with which we work, we may not align
with or support every public position each of these broad-based
groups takes.”  A spokesman for  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Alan Jeffers , said the
Irving, Texas-based company also would remain a member. “We
just value the ability to work on issues related to energy and
business competitiveness,” he said.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  is one of about 300 company-members of ALEC, said
Bryan Iams, a spokesman for the Pittsburgh-based company, and
his corporation’s position “doesn’t always align with the
various positions of all of its member companies.  And that’s
OK. As a company, we have our own positions and advocate for
them in a very clear, transparent manner.”  Public Policy Forum  Bayer’s ALEC membership is “one of numerous nonpartisan
organizations that provide a forum to discuss public policies
and legislation that affects business,” he added.  Other members of ALEC’s corporate board declined to talk
about whether they are reconsidering their involvement with the
group.  Cara Ross, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS) , said, “We’re still a current member,” and would
not elaborate.  Matt Bennett , a spokesman for the Washington-based
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, said in an
interview in Boston that the drug-makers “constantly evaluate
our relationships to make sure they meet out mission.” He
declined to say whether the partnership with ALEC was under
review or would be ended.  Peter O’Toole , a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer Inc.,
declined to comment.  Founded in 1973  ALEC began in 1973, and its founders include former U.S.
Representative Henry Hyde, an Illinois Republican who later led
the unsuccessful effort in Congress to remove President Bill Clinton from office, and Paul Weyrich, the first president of
the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based policy organization
that supports tax cuts for upper-income Americans and an end to
traditional Medicare.  ALEC has championed legislation that would allow states to
limit the effects of President Barack Obama’s health-care law,
which will expand coverage to millions of uninsured Americans,
and to block efforts to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that
most scientists say contribute to global warming.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Flinn  in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 