-- Aluminum Warehouse Orders, Premiums Signal Scarcity of Metal
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-04-16T13:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/aluminum-warehouse-orders-premiums-signal-scarcity-of-metal.html
Rising orders to draw aluminum from
warehouses and higher premiums for the lightweight metal signal
a tightening market even as London Metal Exchange stockpiles
remain near February’s record high.  Thirty-three percent of aluminum inventories monitored by
the LME are awaiting delivery from warehouses, daily exchange
 figures  show. The orders rose to a record 33.5 percent of stocks
on March 9. Premiums are up 27 percent this year in  Europe (MBALFMEP)  and
19 percent in the  U.S. (MBALAL01)  LME inventories come to 5.05 million
metric tons, less than 2 percent below the record.  Almost 75 percent of LME aluminum stocks are locked into
so-called financing transactions and unavailable to consumers,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. Shipping backlogs in LME
warehouses have left consumers struggling for supplies,
Citigroup Inc. said today.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  this month stuck to its
forecast for world aluminum demand to climb 7 percent in 2012.  “The aluminum price may remain relatively well supported
because of the tightness in the physical market,” said  Michael Widmer , a London-based analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“The demand side doesn’t look all that bad.”  The U.S. Midwest premium for aluminum, added to the price
of immediate-delivery metal, rose to a 26-year high of 9.15
cents a pound, according to researcher Platts. Widmer favors
aluminum, used in products from beverage cans to aircraft, over
copper because of the market’s tightness.  Forward Sale  The financing accords have tied up stocks because of the
market’s contango, when contracts with later dates trade at
higher prices than nearer-dated metal. Investors can buy
aluminum for nearby delivery and make a forward sale at the same
time to capitalize on the price structure.  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the LME traded
recently at a $40.50 premium to spot metal, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Withdrawing aluminum from the world’s second-biggest
inventory, held in the Dutch city of Vlissingen, may take as
long as 59 weeks at the LME’s current daily delivery pace of
3,000 tons, according to Bloomberg calculations. The so-called
minimum load-out rate was doubled in April for warehouse
companies storing more than 900,000 tons at a single location.  “Strict adherence to LME minimum load-out rates has
created huge backlogs of material to be shipped, limiting metal
availability and tightening markets and supporting prices,”
Citigroup analysts  Edward Morse  and  David Wilson  said in a
report. “Aluminum premiums have also risen most notably in
those regions where inventory levels are highest, namely the
U.S. and  Europe .”  Canceled warrants account for 85 percent of stocks in
Vlissingen, daily LME figures showed. That compares with 42
percent for  Detroit , which has the largest global holding of
aluminum at 1.41 million tons.  Aluminum for three-month delivery rose 0.4 percent to
$2,078 a ton by 1:57 p.m. on the LME. The metal is up 2.9
percent this year, rebounding from an 18 percent drop in 2011.
Prices may reach $2,350 by the end of this year, Citigroup said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  