-- Ambac Sues Bank of America Over Mortgage-Based Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-16T22:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ambac-sues-bank-of-america-over-mortgage-based-securities.html
Ambac Assurance Corp. sued  Bank of
America Corp.  in  New York  state court, accusing the company of
breach of contract over a mortgage-backed securitization
sponsored by its Merrill Lynch unit.  First Franklin Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch units
“acted in concert” to induce Ambac to issue an insurance
policy covering payments due on securities issued in the
transaction, the bond insurer said in the complaint.  Ambac claimed fraudulent inducement and breach of contract
in the suit, filed today in  Manhattan . Lawrence Grayson, a
spokesman for Charlotte-based Bank of America, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The insurer asked for unspecified punitive and compensatory
damages and an order directing the defendants to repurchase
loans. First Franklin was a subprime-mortgage originator
acquired in 2006 by Merrill Lynch, which was acquired by Bank of
America in 2008.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when defaults on mortgages swamped
the company with claims. It guaranteed about $256 billion of
$1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Plan Approved  A U.S. bankruptcy judge in Manhattan on March 15 approved a
plan to reorganize the $1.7 billion in debt of New York-based
 Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the bankrupt holding company for
Ambac Assurance.  The  mortgage loans  securitized in the transaction began to
default at an “extraordinary rate” shortly after closing and
loans accounting for about 74 percent of the original principal
balance of the trust have defaulted, lawyers for Ambac said in
the complaint.  About 15,812 subprime, second-lien fixed-rate mortgages
with an aggregate principal balance of about $856 million were
securitized in the transaction, lawyers for Ambac said in the
lawsuit.  A consultant found “breaches of representations and
warranties” in about 94 percent of 1,750 loans in the trust,
including misrepresentations of borrowers’ income and
employment, inflated appraisals and violations of underwriting
guidelines.  ‘Enormous Damages’  Ambac has made “hundreds of millions of dollars” in claim
payments to cover the defaults and has suffered “enormous
damages” from the investment, according to the lawsuit.  Ambac has also filed similar lawsuits in the same court
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Credit Suisse Group AG over
mortgage-backed securities, pools of home loans securitized into
bonds that were a central part of the housing bubble that helped
send the U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s.  The case is Ambac Assurance Corp. v. First Franklin
Financial Corp., 651217/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  