-- AmBev Gains Control of Dominican Brewer For $1.2 Billion
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-04-16T15:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ambev-to-gain-control-of-dominican-brewer-in-1-24-billion-deal.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the
world’s largest brewer, agreed to buy control of Cerveceria
Nacional Dominicana for $1.24 billion, boosting its expansion
with the addition of the Dominican Republic’s biggest beermaker.  AB InBev’s AmBev unit will pay CND’s majority owner E. Leon
Jimenes SA about $1 billion cash and contribute AmBev Dominicana
to a new holding company, according to a  statement  today. AmBev
will also acquire a 9.3 percent stake in CND owned by Dutch
competitor  Heineken NV (HEIA)  for $237 million, they said.  “This strategic alliance with ELJ is a key step towards
our dream of becoming the leading player in the Caribbean and
Central America,” Alexandre Medicis, AmBev’s vice-president for
Hispanic  Latin America , said in the statement.  AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , is among beermakers
seeking expansion in regions outside the U.S. and western
 Europe , where sales growth is restrained by high levels of
competition and weak  consumer spending . AmBev will indirectly
own about 51 percent of CND after the transaction.  “The $1 billion investment is very much in the realm of
bolt-on spending” and is small for AB InBev against an
estimated free cashflow of about $5 billion, Giulio Lombardi, an
analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said today in an e-mail.  The combined operations will sell beer, malt and soft
drinks in the Dominican Republic, Antigua, Saint Vincent and
Dominica, and will export to 16 other countries. The transaction
will provide an opportunity to expand CND’s Presidente brand
outside the  Dominican Republic , AmBev said.  Deal Multiple  Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortization of the combined business will be about $190 million
in the first 12 months and the transaction is expected to add to
earnings in the first year of operations, AB InBev said.  The cost of the transaction is more than the average for
recent brewing deals. The implied enterprise value is about 13
times estimated annual Ebitda, the companies said. Bidders have
paid an average 9.2 times current Ebitda for deals in the past
five years, according to Bloomberg data.  AmBev shares were down 1.16 reals, or 1.5 percent, at 77.69
reals as of 12:20 p.m. in  Sao Paulo . AB InBev shares rose 1.6
percent to 55 euros in Brussels. Heineken, which said it expects
a one-time gain of about 130 million euros after tax from the
sale of its stake in CND, rose 1.4 percent to 41.84 euros.  AmBev will nominate five board members for the joint
company, and ELJ four. CND will continue to operate under the
same name, with Franklin Leon as president and Alexandre Medicis
as chief executive officer.  Brewing Consolidation  AB InBev gained the majority of its  revenue last year  from
 North America , and from Latin America through Cia. de Bebidas
das Americas, or AmBev. It has sought to boost revenue by
pushing its Budweiser beer in countries including Russia, China
and  Brazil , and introducing a new variety of its Bud Light beer,
Platinum, in the U.S. as beer sales struggle in the country. The
company was formed in 2008 when InBev NV took over Anheuser-
Busch Cos. in a $52 billion deal.  The takeover of CND accelerates the consolidation of the
global beer market. Molson Coors Brewing Co. agreed to buy
central and eastern European brewer StarBev LP on April 4 to
move into countries including the Czech Republic and Hungary.
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the second-biggest global brewer, acquired
 Australia ’s Foster’s Group last year for A$10.5 billion ($11
billion) and gained a stake in Turkey’s Anadolu Efes Biracilik &
Malt Sanayii AS.  Japan ’s Kirin Holdings Co. agreed to buy
Brazil’s Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes last year.  Dominican Economy  Heineken, the world’s third-biggest brewer, had also been
seeking to buy CND, Reuters reported March 27, citing
unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.  The Dominican Republic’s economy expanded 4.5 percent in
2011, three times faster than the euro region’s. Further growth
is expected in 2012 as a result of nickel and gold mining by
Xstrata Plc and Barrick Gold Corp., President Leonel Fernandez
said in February. The country’s tourism industry brought in
$4.35 billion last year.  The acquisition of CND is expected to close in the second
quarter, AB InBev said. Deutsche Bank AG and Lazard acted as
financial advisers to AmBev, and ELJ was advised by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Heineken was advised by Credit Suisse AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  