-- Manchester Utd. Agrees to Sign Benfica’s Gaitan: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-16T07:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/manchester-utd-agrees-to-sign-benfica-s-gaitan-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  United to Get Gaitan  Manchester United  agreed a deal to sign Benfica midfielder
Nicolas Gaitan for 20 million pounds ($31.6 million) plus Fabio
da Silva and Federico Macheda, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Defender Fabio is likely to go to the Portuguese club on a
season-long loan, while striker Macheda’s transfer may be
permanent as United tries to reduce some of the costs of
acquiring Argentine international Gaitan, who can play as an
attacking midfielder or left-sided winger, the newspaper added.  Guessing Game  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said referee  Martin
Atkinson  had admitted making a mistake by awarding Chelsea a
goal in their F.A. Cup semifinal yesterday even though  Juan Mata ’s shot hadn’t crossed the goal line, the  Guardian reported .  “He must have guessed,” the Guardian cited Redknapp as
saying. “He can’t have been sure. He’s just made a mistake,
unfortunately. A big mistake. I spoke to him. He says he feels
worse than I do. I said: ‘I don’t think so.’ But he says he
feels bad. He knows he’s made a mistake and he says he’ll have a
bad week as well.”  Goal-line Technology  Mata’s goal reignited the debate over goal-line technology
to assist match officials, with Chelsea captain John Terry
leading calls for its introduction even after his team benefited
from a wrong decision, the  Sun reported .  “I thought it hit me and stayed out,” the Sun cited Terry
as saying of Mata’s shot. “We’ve been calling for goal-line
technology for a very long time and let’s hope that the people
make the right decision.”  Final Tests  FIFA confirmed yesterday that final tests on two
shortlisted goal-line technology systems will begin later this
month, before soccer’s governing body makes a definite decision
on the matter in July, the  Daily Mail reported .  The  International Football Association Board , the sport’s
rule-making body, last month approved  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Hawk-Eye and
GoalRef, a German/Danish collaboration, for a second round of
testing in match scenarios before either can be sanctioned for
use in competitive games at a July 2 meeting, the Mail said.  Suarez to Stay  Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  will snub a big-money move to
a European team in the offseason and has committed his future to
the F.A. Cup finalist, the  Daily Express reported .  “I will continue at Liverpool,” the newspaper cited
Suarez, who has been linked with Paris Saint-Germain and
Juventus, as saying. “I have four years left on my contract and
I am very happy and I hope good things continue.”  Drenthe Dumped  Royston Drenthe’s Everton career is effectively over after
manager David Moyes dropped him for the F.A. Cup semifinal loss
against Liverpool because the Dutch winger turned up late for
training last week, the  Sun reported .  Drenthe, who is on loan from Real  Madrid  until the end of
the season, was told to return home after Moyes ran out of
patience with his behavior, the newspaper said. With five games
remaining, Drenthe is unlikely to feature again, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  