-- Anglo Says Chilean Copper Mine Target to Be a Challenge
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   J a m e s   A t t w o o d
-- 2012-04-16T20:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/anglo-says-meeting-copper-target-a-challenge-after-chile-rains.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
will struggle to meet an annual production target at the
Collahuasi copper mine, the world’s third-largest, after
heavier-than-usual rains in Chile curbed output.  Collahuasi was disrupted for 18 to 20 days in the first
quarter,  John MacKenzie , head of Anglo’s copper unit, said in an
April 10 interview in Santiago. Seasonal rains in northern Chile
cause on average 2.5 days of stoppages at the mine, he said.  Global copper supply probably will fall short of demand
again this year, MacKenzie said. Collahuasi will struggle to
recover the first-quarter losses in the remainder of the year
because of the precipitation and as ore quality falls, he said.  “We are looking at what can be done in the remaining nine
months to mitigate the impact of losses from the first
quarter,” MacKenzie said. “That is going to be a challenge.”
He declined to provide information on the company’s targets.  Annual output at Collahuasi declined 10 percent last year
to 453,409 metric tons because of adverse weather, labor
stoppages and lower ore grades. Options to make up lost
production from the first quarter include accelerating waste
removal to access higher grades earlier, MacKenzie said.  Xstrata reported it used back-up water supplies to its
Lomas Bayas copper mine in northern  Chile  in February as stormy
weather cut off regular flows to the site. Codelco’s mines
further south in the Atacama Desert were “minimally” impacted,
Chief Executive Officer DiegoHernandez said in an April 13
interview in Cartagena,  Colombia .  ‘Very Solid’  London Metal Exchange copper prices, which averaged
$8,328.57 a ton in the first quarter, will average $8,900 in the
second quarter, $9,200 in the third and $9,500 in the fourth,
Credit Suisse said in an April 13 report.  Emerging-market growth prospects provide a “very solid”
demand outlook for copper which, combined with constrained
supply, will probably result in a deficit this year, MacKenzie
said.  Recovering European and U.S. demand will help make
availability of the metal “tight” this year, Hernandez told
reporters today. Codelco, the world’s largest copper company,
will produce 1.705 million tons this year compared with 1.735
million tons last year as ore quality declines at the
Chuquicamata deposit, Hernandez said.  “We would expect to see pricing being driven by that
factor - the basic supply and demand equation,” MacKenzie said.
“Also the growing capital and operating costs base is meaning
that margins aren’t increasing at the same pace as prices.”  Global Consolidation  Anglo shares fell 1.5 percent to 2,227.50 pence in London
trading today. Copper for delivery in three month fell 0.1
percent to $7,984.50.  MacKenzie forecasts further consolidation in the global
 mining industry  as new projects become more complex and
expensive to develop. Anglo is “constantly” reviewing merger
and acquisition opportunities, he said.  “Copper has certainly been identified as a commodity in
which we would like to grow,” he said. “So we are actively
looking at opportunities, whether they’re in greenfield
projects, brownfield expansions or in acquisitions.”  At Collahuasi, Anglo and Xstrata are working on a
prefeasibility study of an expansion that may boost output to
more than 1 million tons, he said.  Anglo’s Sur unit, which includes the Los Bronces mine in
central Chile, is operating normally as Anglo and Codelco engage
in a legal battle over an agreement that gave the state-owned
company an option to buy as much as a 49 percent of the unit,
MacKenzie said.  “We’ve expressed a willingness to negotiate a fair
settlement but to date the parties have just been too far
apart,” he said of the dispute.  Hernandez said it would be “difficult to think of any
agreement” between the companies given Anglo disagrees with
Codelco over the value of the option.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  