-- Manufacturing in New York Area Grew at Slower Pace in April
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-16T12:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-expanded-at-slower-pace-in-april.html
Manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded in April at the slowest pace in five months, a
sign the boost to the U.S. expansion from factories may be
moderating.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general  economic
index  unexpectedly decreased to 6.6 this month, less than the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from 20.2
in March. The median estimate in the survey of economists called
for a drop to 18. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Slower economies in  Europe  and  China  may restrain exports
and limit orders to American factories, which have been the
mainstay of the expansion. At the same time, an acceleration in
motor vehicle sales in the first quarter remains a source of
support.  “The outlook for manufacturing still remains positive
but we’re not accelerating,” said  Millan Mulraine , a senior
U.S. strategist at TD Securities in New York. “The slowdown in
global growth” is keeping manufacturing from expanding further,
he said.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 56 economists ranged
from 10 to 22.  Retail sales rose more than forecast in March, a Commerce
Department report showed today. The  0.8 percent  gain was almost
three times as large as projected and followed a 1 percent
advance in February. Eleven of 13 categories showed increases.  Stock-index futures extended gains after the report. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
rose 0.6 percent to 1,372.7 at 8:52 a.m. in New York.  Orders, Sales  The Empire State gauge of new orders fell to 6.5 in April
from 6.8, while the shipments measure slumped to 6.4 from 18.2 a
month earlier.  The index of factory  employment  climbed to 19.3 in April
from 13.6.  The Fed’s index of prices paid decreased to 45.8 in April
from 50.6 a month earlier. A measure of the factory workweek
fell to 6 from 18.5.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now declined to 43.1 from 47.5.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s report on U.S. manufacturing. The Philadelphia
Fed’s gauge, to be released April 19, was little changed at 12
after 12.5 in March, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The national ISM factory data will be released
on May 2.  Fed Survey  The Fed last week said the economy grew in all 12 of its
regions from mid-February through late March as manufacturing,
hiring and retail sales showed signs of strength in the face of
higher fuel prices.  Manufacturers mentioned gains in automotive and high-
technology industries, the Fed said on April 11 in its Beige
Book business survey, published two weeks before the  Federal
Open Market Committee  meets to set monetary policy. The firms
“expressed optimism about near-term growth prospects, but they
are somewhat concerned about rising petroleum prices,” the Fed
said in the report.  Manufacturing output makes up 12 percent of the  U.S.
economy  and about 6 percent of the New York economy.  “We pretty much see growth in all global end markets,”
 Klaus Kleinfeld , chairman and chief executive officer of  Alcoa
Inc. (AA) , said on an April 10 conference call. “ North America  has
strengthened. We have increased our forecast by two percentage
points to 7 percent to 12 percent for 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  