-- Apple's China Supplier List Aids Environment, Group Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-16T11:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/apple-s-china-supplier-list-aids-environment-group-says.html
A Chinese environmental group that
criticized  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for not co-operating on efforts to rein in
pollution at suppliers said the company has become more
transparent, after the group won a role to audit operations at a
supplier to the iPhone maker.  Apple’s decision to list its manufacturing partners for the
first time in January has made it easier for environmental
groups to obtain information from suppliers, Shen Xunan, a
project officer at the  Institute of Public & Environmental
Affairs  in Beijing, said by phone today. Carolyn Wu, Apple’s
spokeswoman in Beijing, declined to comment on the company’s
environmental practices beyond information on its website.  Apple has stepped up environmental monitoring of suppliers,
after criticism from the institute and other pressure groups in
 China , the company’s biggest market outside the U.S. Pollution
caused by suppliers making Apple’s products “greatly
endangers” public health and safety, the institute said in an
August report.  “We are happy Apple is now opening its door,” Shen said.
Previously, Apple’s refusal to disclose its manufacturing
partners made it difficult for the institute to demand
improvements at the  suppliers , she said. The institute will
participate in an audit of a supplier to Apple in the coming
weeks, she said, declining to name the company.  Apple released a  list of 156 companies  that represent 97
percent of procurement costs in January, when it became the
first technology company to join the  Fair Labor Association . The
Washington-based rights group was given permission to inspect
working conditions at suppliers’ factories. Apple Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  visited an iPhone production facility
at Foxconn Technology Group, Apple’s largest contract
manufacturer, during a visit to China last month.  Apple conducted focused audits at 14 sites in 2011,
examining facilities for wastewater management, air-emissions
handling and solid-waste disposal, according to its  website . The
Cupertino, California-based company said it’s working with
government agencies and non-government organizations to improve
environmental practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  