-- Apple Falls for Fifth Day on Concern of Carrier Subsidy Cut
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-04-16T20:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/apple-drops-most-in-almost-six-months-in-intraday-trading-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares fell for a fifth
day amid speculation that demand for the iPad may wane and that
mobile-phone carriers will cut subsidies for the iPhone, eroding
the profitability of Apple’s best-selling products.  Verizon Wireless , a U.S. partner of Apple,  said  last week
that it will begin charging customers $30 to upgrade to a new
phone. The move suggests mobile-phone service providers may take
other steps, including trimming subsidies, to keep sales of the
iPhone from eating into their margins, said  Walter Piecyk , an
analyst at BTIG LLC in  New York .  “Operators are trying to fight back against the impact
that Apple is having on their business,” Piecyk, who last week
reduced his rating on Apple to neutral from buy, said in an
interview on Bloomberg TV’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  Apple fell 4.2 percent, the largest decline since Oct. 19,
after rising 49 percent this year before today. The shares
closed at $580.13, the lowest price since March 13.  Analysts at Wedge Partners said in an April 13 research
note that demand for the newest version of Apple’s iPad is
beginning to wane. That means the tablet may miss analysts’
sales predictions when Apple reports earnings next week.  “Is Apple best name in tech? Yes,” Wedge Partners wrote
in the report. “Have we seen the stock price plummet in the
past, when expectations were out of whack with results? Yes. In
our view, there is some risk to this happening again in the
March quarter, and the result would likely be the stock coming
back down to earth.”  ‘Snowball Effect’  The slide also may be the result of U.S. Mac sales falling
5 percent from a year earlier, said  Gene Munster , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray Cos. That would be a worse performance than
expected, he said. Apple reports its results after U.S. markets
close on April 24.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has added $400
billion in market value since 2008, making it the world’s most
valuable company. Today’s drop took about $23 billion off
Apple’s market value.  “These stocks don’t just go straight up,” said Shaw Wu,
an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. After such a big increase
over the past several months, investors have quicker triggers to
sell if the stock dips, he said. “There is a little bit of
snowball effect,” Wu said.  ‘We’re Sellers’  Apple’s slide may continue in the next few days because
it’s trading above its typical trend line, according to Carter Braxton Worth, a technical analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. “Bottom
line: We’re sellers,” Worth said in a report.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s decision late on April 13 to adjust
the Nasdaq-100 Index may also be driving Apple down, according
to Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co.  First Solar Inc. was replaced with Texas Instruments Inc.
in the Nasdaq-100 Index, the basis for this year’s fifth-most-
traded U.S. exchange-traded fund. Because Texas Instruments has
a market capitalization that’s about 20 times larger than First
Solar’s, other stocks in the index are likely to see their
proportion shrink, Baltimore-based Lutz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  