-- Haqqani Network Behind Afghanistan Attacks, Panetta Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-16T20:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/haqqani-network-behind-afghanistan-attacks-panetta-says.html
The wave of attacks in  Afghanistan 
yesterday was conducted by the Haqqani network, a Taliban
faction that operates from safe havens in neighboring Pakistan,
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  “The intelligence indicates the Haqqanis were behind the
attacks that took place,” Panetta said today in a news
conference at the Pentagon.  Afghan and NATO forces killed 36 guerrillas to end a wave
of attacks in Kabul and three eastern provinces of Afghanistan.
While Panetta and Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, praised the role taken by Afghan forces
in ending the attacks, the assaults underscored the Taliban’s
continued ability to disrupt even neighborhoods adjacent to
President Hamid Karzai’s palace.  The purpose “may well have been for the insurgents to
remind the U.S., NATO, the Afghans and indeed their own
supporters that they’re still in business,” said former British
Army Brigadier Ben Barry, a senior fellow at the London-based
International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Just as NATO
has been pursuing a strategy of fight and negotiate, it may be
that the insurgents are doing the same thing.”  Panetta downplayed the significance of the Taliban’s
ability to spring such surprise assaults.  “There were no tactical gains here,” Panetta said.
“These are isolated attacks that are done for symbolic
purposes, and they have not regained any territory.”  ‘Intelligence Failure’  Karzai called in a statement for an investigation into the
attacks, which he called an “intelligence failure for us and
especially NATO.”  U.S. intelligence found that since March 21, the Taliban
have “wanted to make a statement that they were back,”
according to Dempsey, who spoke today alongside Panetta. The
advance intelligence was “vague” and difficult to act on, he
said.  While intelligence indicates the attacks were waged by the
Haqqani network, which operates partly out of  Pakistan , Dempsey
said there was no evidence “at this time” that the assault
emanated from that country.  The fighting ended with the killing of the last attacker
near the Afghan parliament early today, more than 17 hours after
guerrillas began their rifle and rocket assaults on government
buildings and foreign embassies and bases.  The counter-attack “was very much an Afghan show,” with
the U.S. and  France  providing helicopter support, Dempsey said.  Panetta said 2011 was “a clear turning point” in the war
and that the coalition has weakened the Taliban.  “It is clear we are headed in the right direction right
now,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  