-- Mattel Sinks as Retailers Cut Barbie Brand Inventories
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-04-16T20:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/mattel-declines-after-first-quarter-sales-trail-estimates-1-.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest
toymaker, declined the most in more than a year after Toys “R”
Us Inc. and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  cut inventories of Barbie
dolls, causing first-quarter sales to trail analysts’ estimates.  The  shares  slid 9.1 percent to $31.01 at the close in New
York for the largest decline since July 16, 2010. Mattel has
gained 12 percent this year.  Sales in the three months ended March 31 dropped 2.5
percent to $928.4 million, the El Segundo, California-based
company said today in a statement. The average of 10 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was $984.7 million.  “This was definitely a considerably worse performance than
expected at the top line,” Sean McGowan, an analyst for Needham
& Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. Investors
shouldn’t be too concerned because the first quarter contributes
the least to Mattel’s annual sales, and revenue from “Cars 2”
toys fell from last year, when the film was released, said
McGowan, who recommends buying Mattel shares.  Mattel’s largest retail partners were cautious on orders
and reduced inventories at mid- to high-single-digit percentage
rates, Chief Executive Officer Bryan Stockton said today. Those
chains include Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and  Target Corp. (TGT)   Gross sales of Barbie products, which fell 6 percent
globally and 9 percent in the U.S. during the quarter, were
particularly affected by the retailers’ inventory cuts, Stockton
said.  Retailers More Cautious  “Retailer inventory reductions were more drastic than we
thought,” Stockton said on a conference call with analysts.
Retailers in the U.S. and  Europe  “have been cautious, and we
expect them to remain being cautious.”  The sales decline for Barbie was the brand’s first in 10
quarters, Drew Crum, an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
 Cleveland , wrote in a note to clients. Crum, who rates Mattel
shares hold, had predicted the brand’s sales would increase 1
percent.  U.S. toy sales declined 2 percent to $21.3 billion last
year, according to NPD Group. Mattel posted an annual sales gain
of 3 percent in the U.S. last year.  “At this point, we don’t see anything from a macro basis
that would lead us to believe that there is some secular change
in the toy industry,” said Stockton, who replaced Chairman
Robert Eckert as CEO on Jan. 1. The U.S. has been growing
slower, but we don’t see anything from  consumer spending  or
retail commitments that signals a major change, he said.  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , the world’s second-largest toymaker, is
scheduled to report first-quarter results April 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  