-- Australian Judges Query Tobacco Companies’ Stand on Packs
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-17T08:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/australia-plain-pack-law-challenged-by-tobacco-companies.html
Tobacco companies ’ claims that
Australia was illegally seizing their trademarks with a law
requiring cigarettes to be sold in plain packages was questioned
by judges who said companies would still retain their brand
names on the new packs.  “The name itself would be important for reputation and
goodwill,” said Justice Susan Crennan, a member of the seven-
judge panel of the High Court of Australia in Canberra where the
challenge to the law is being heard. “You and your competitors
will all be in the same boat.”  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s biggest cigarette
maker, and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  were joined by  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM) , the largest publicly traded tobacco
manufacturer, and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , maker of Gauloises
Blondes, in a  challenge  to the Australian ban on logos.  The Australian ban, the first of its kind in the world, is
being watched by  governments  around the globe. A High Court
ruling upholding the law, which is due to go into effect Dec. 1,
might prompt other countries to follow suit, further eroding the
value of the tobacco companies’ brands.  ‘Is Pivotal’  “What happens in Australia is pivotal to the plain
packaging issue internationally,” Rob Cunningham, senior policy
analyst at the  Canadian Cancer Society  in Ottawa, said in an e-
mail. “The industry knows that once plain packaging is
implemented in one country, the dominoes will fall.”  The government crossed a line with the new rules, moving
from regulating tobacco sales by requiring warning messages to
“commandeering people’s property,”  Bret Walker , a lawyer for
 Imperial Tobacco , told the court. The aim was to send out a
“political admonition that you should not smoke,” he said.  Several judges questioned the benefit the government
receives from appropriating space on cigarette packages now
reserved for the companies’ logos and trademarks. To win, the
tobacco companies must persuade the judges the government
benefits from the prohibition on the use of the trademarks and
as a result would have to compensate them.  “The Commonwealth doesn’t have the right to use your
trademark,” Chief Justice  Robert French  said.  Japan Tobacco, the maker of  Camel cigarettes , won’t be able
to use a picture of the animal on its packages and has to turn
all available space on a cigarette pack to the government, to be
used as the government wishes, Gavan Griffith, the cigarette
maker’s lawyer, said at the hearing today.  “They could have a message such as ‘Pay Your Tax on Time,’
or ‘Drive Safely,’’ Griffith said.  ‘A Hard Battle’  Australia’s government is confident the law will be upheld,
Attorney-General Nicola Roxon told reporters before the start of
the hearing.  ‘‘It’s going to be a hard battle,” Roxon said at a news
conference outside the  High Court . “Tobacco companies have made
clear from the beginning that they will fight this battle in the
courts.”  The European Commission,  New Zealand ,  Canada ,  Belgium ,
Iceland and  France  have all indicated an interest in
implementing a plain packaging law on cigarettes.  “We must make plain packaging a big success so that it
becomes the success of the world,” Margaret Chan, the  World
Health Organization ’s director general,  said  March 22 at the
15th World Conference on Tobacco or Health in  Singapore . “This
is the death throe of the addicting industry,” she said in
reference to the Australian law.  First Amendment  The anti-tobacco lobby faces resistance in the U.S., where
cigarette manufacturers also have the protection of the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, which covers the right to
freedom of expression from government interference.  A federal judge in  Washington  ruled on Feb. 29 that the
U.S. Food And Drug Administration’s requirement for graphic
warning labels on cigarette packs violated the tobacco
companies’ free-speech rights. A  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Cincinnati ruled 2-1 in a separate case that tobacco companies
can be forced to put graphic warning labels on packages without
violating their constitutional rights.  ‘Marketing to Youth’  “Packaging is the industry’s last bastion for marketing to
youth,” John Stewart, senior organizer with the lobby group
 Corporate Accountability International , said in an e-mail.  The tobacco companies wrongly characterize the packaging
regulation as an acquisition of property, the government said in
its  filing  to the high court.  The law regulates trading activity in a manner that’s
appropriate to reducing harm to the public, the government said.  Smoking is estimated to have led to the deaths of  more than
900,000 Australians  from 1950 to 2008, according to the
government. Still, almost one-sixth of the Australian population
aged 14 years and older smokes cigarettes on a daily basis, the
government said.  Under the plain packaging law, cigarettes will be sold with
no company logos and the same font for all brands on a dark
brown background. Graphic health warnings will cover 90 percent
of the back of the package and 70 percent of the front. The law
was approved by the Australian Senate on Nov. 10.  JTI and BAT lawyers provided the judges with samples of the
current and new cigarette packages, sealed in clear, plastic
evidence bags to compare.  Easier to Follow  Once a country implements a tobacco control measure, it
becomes easier for other countries to do the same, Cunningham
said.  “We saw this with  Canada being the first  to require
pictorial health warnings on cigarette packages in 2001,” he
said. “There are now roughly 50 countries that have done so.”  BAT makes Dunhill, Pall Mall and Australia’s best-selling
cigarette brand, Winfield.  Philip Morris  is the maker of
Marlboro cigarettes.  Philip Morris is also pursuing the case in international
arbitration. The Australian proposal violates a treaty with  Hong
Kong  and may cause billions of dollars in damages, the maker of
Marlboro cigarettes said.  Honduras has complained to the  World Trade Organization 
about the Australian law, claiming it contravenes WTO
obligations on intellectual property rights and will have
serious economic consequences to the central American country
that relies on tobacco exports.  Ukraine had filed a similar complaint on March 15.  “The tobacco industry has strongly opposed breakthrough
tobacco control measures predicting disaster and that the ‘sky
will fall,’” Cunningham said. “But the sky never falls. And
when other governments see that the sky does not fall, resisting
tobacco industry opposition becomes a lot easier.”  The case is British American Tobacco  Australia  Ltd. v the
Commonwealth of Australia. S389/2011. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  