-- Avoid Asian Currencies, Debt on Slowdown Risk, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-04-16T08:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/avoid-asian-currencies-debt-on-slowdown-risk-jpmorgan-says.html
Investors should be “underweight”
Asian currencies and bonds this quarter because deteriorating
economies in the region and  Europe  will bolster demand for
dollars, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The clear implication of weak European and Asian growth
with no large scale U.S. quantitative easing is a stronger
dollar,” strategists including Hong Kong-based Bert Gochet and
New York-based Ying Gu wrote in a report dated April 13.
“Further large-scale inflows to emerging bond markets make
little sense at these levels without a clear case for currency
appreciation.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar  Index (ADXY)  fell the most in
four weeks after the cost of insuring Spain’s bonds against
default surged to a record last week, with 10-year bond yields
approaching the 7 percent levels that forced Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to seek bailouts.  China ’s economy, which is second only
to the U.S. in size, expanded 8.1 percent from a year earlier in
the first quarter, the slowest growth since mid-2009.  JPMorgan said economic data in the current quarter will
continue to paint “an unclear picture” in China, while the U.S.
will no longer display as strong signs of recovery as it did in
the first three months of 2012. Concerns about Europe “will re-
surface in a meaningful way,” according to the report.  Rupiah, Ringgit  Within Asia, the biggest U.S. bank recommended investors
hold less Indonesian rupiah and Malaysian ringgit than benchmark
indexes suggest, and also underweight local-currency government
bonds in  Malaysia  and  Thailand . In addition, it advised using
interest-rate swaps in Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and China
to profit from a steepening of the yield curve.  The bank announced a new trade for  South Korea  that
involves paying a two-year interest-rate swap at 3.49 percent
against the three-month certificate of deposit, which is
currently 3.54 percent. The swap declined two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, today to 3.48 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan estimated there is a 30 percent chance of a third
round of bond purchases by the  Federal Reserve , a non-consensus
view in the market based on a Bloomberg survey of primary
dealers. The Fed has announced two rounds of quantitative easing
to hold borrowing costs down since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  