-- Tax-Filing Headaches Stem From Stock Basis Reporting
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-04-16T13:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/tax-filing-headaches-stem-from-stock-basis-reporting.html
Taxpayers and accountants rushing
to meet tomorrow’s tax-filing deadline are struggling to adjust
to a new law requiring brokers to report to the  Internal Revenue
Service  what their clients paid for stocks.  The so-called cost basis reporting requirement, which in
this  tax-filing season  applies only to stocks bought and sold in
2011, comes with new forms and tricky calculations causing some
taxpayers to file for extensions so they can get the math right.
Congress required brokers to report the basis so that taxpayers
don’t underreport their gains or overreport their losses.  “It’s a pain in the neck,” said Alan Straus, a certified
public accountant in  New York . “It just adds a tremendous
amount of pages to the  tax return .”  Cost basis reporting will become more complicated for
taxpayers and accountants for at least two years as additional
types of assets fall under the rules. The requirement will cover
mutual funds and most exchange-traded funds starting in 2012 and
fixed-income instruments and options beginning in 2013.  Brokers, accountants and taxpayers are still getting used
to the rules, which will eventually simplify and standardize
basis reporting, said Stevie Conlon, senior director and tax
counsel at Wolters Kluwer Financial Services. The firm provides
software to brokers that calculates cost basis.  “Over the long run, it will get easier,” she said. “Over
the short run, it will probably feel harder.”  Congress created the cost basis requirement in 2008 in the
same law that authorized the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The
requirement is part of the government’s effort to reduce the
estimated $385 billion annual net gap between taxes owed and
taxes paid.  $6.7 Billion  When enacted, the provision was estimated to raise $6.7
billion over a decade, according to the Joint Committee on
Taxation.  Before the rule, the IRS required information only about
gross proceeds from sales of securities, which led to errors and
fraud. Taxpayers had to calculate their cost basis and net
proceeds, sometimes using information from their brokers. With
the new format, the IRS will be able to detect whether taxpayers
are overstating losses or underreporting gains because it will
match brokers’ reports on cost basis with taxpayers’ returns.  Under the law, brokers report cost basis both to taxpayers
and to the IRS. Conlon called the cost basis law the most
challenging reporting rule since the IRS began requiring
employers to inform the government of each employee’s wages.  100 Trades  “It will be interesting to see how the IRS uses this,”
Straus said. “Will they go after the guy with 100 trades and
two that don’t match?”  Companies are spending an estimated $528 million
implementing the regulations, said Arsalan Shahid, program
director at the Financial Information Forum, a group that
represents broker-dealers and other companies that provide
financial data.  Brokers including  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. and Vanguard Group Inc. started educating clients
last year about the changes, the companies said.  Schwab sent about 1.8 million clients redesigned 1099-B
forms with cost basis information this tax season, said Brian Keil, director of cost basis and tax reporting for the San
Francisco-based company.  Trickier cases involve so-called wash sales, when taxpayers
sell shares at a loss and buy within 30 days on either side of
the transaction. In those instances, the loss is generally
disallowed by the IRS and added to the cost basis of the
repurchased shares.  Stock Splits, Spinoffs  Brokers also must adjust basis information to reflect stock
splits, spinoffs, mergers, name changes and other corporate
actions.  The task becomes more complicated when accountants must
combine reports from multiple brokers onto never-before-used
forms for tax filing.  The adjustments for wash sales are particularly difficult
to understand, said Steve Rosenthal, a visiting fellow at the
 Tax Policy Center  in Washington who said he had trouble
reconstructing the calculations on his own forms.  “For me to try to verify that they had calculated it
correctly, I couldn’t do it without the help of another tax
expert,” said Rosenthal, a lawyer who had worked on the issue
while in private practice.  The way financial companies are sending information on cost
basis to investors isn’t standardized, said Kathy Pickering,
executive director of the Tax Institute and vice president of
government relations at  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  The  Kansas City ,
Missouri-based company is the largest U.S. tax preparer.  Purchases Before 2011  Some brokers are providing cost basis information on shares
purchased before 2011 while others are providing it for those
bought and sold last year, so investors looking at different
statements may be confused or have trouble finding the
information they need for their return.  The sales and basis information, reported on Form 1099-B,
were required to be filed by Feb. 15, and some brokers received
extensions from that date.  The flurry of late forms may cause some taxpayers to file
for extensions, said Abe Schneier, senior technical manager at
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants in
 Washington .  Customers who used TurboTax and elected to have tax
software electronically import their brokerage account
information had the 1099-B information on their cost basis
pulled in from financial companies for them, said Bob Meighan, a
vice president at Intuit Inc.’s TurboTax.  “They’re sort of being shielded from all the complexity
that’s going on behind the scenes,” Meighan said. “We did have
to write quite a bit of code to accommodate the new 8949 and all
the exceptions that form is designed to handle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  