-- Tax System Is America’s Biggest Spender
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   a n d   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-04-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/tax-system-is-america-s-biggest-spender.html
If you’re at all like us, chances
are you’ll spend Tuesday evening finishing your taxes. As you
search for every last deduction and credit, it’s worth asking:
Does any of this make sense?  Here’s a way to see through the fog. Instead of looking at
all the breaks for mortgage interest, health care, retirement
savings and so on as deductions, picture the government writing
you a check for each item. This equivalence between  tax
deductions  and government spending leads economists to call them
“tax expenditures.” Reformers have hit on an even more pointed
description: spending through the tax code.  The tax system is also equivalent to a collection of
individual mandates, like the one in the Obama health-care law,
with penalties for Americans who fail to buy insurance. For many
people, that’s how our system works. You and your neighbor might
have the same income, but if, unlike your neighbor, you fail to
have a mortgage or buy as much health insurance, then you have
to pay higher taxes.  You may feel very differently about tax deductions,
government handouts and mandates backed by penalties.
Economically, though, they are identical. They yield the same
outcomes and provide the same incentives.  Insidious Mechanism  In principle, there’s nothing wrong with spending through
the  tax code . Politically, though, the mechanism can be
insidious. Unlike typical government spending, tax expenditures
aren’t reauthorized each year by Congress, so they have immense
staying power. Because they aren’t as visible as outright
spending, they aren’t subject to the scrutiny of campaigns to
pare back waste or assess effectiveness.  Indeed, spending through the tax code is so politically
stealthy that it has  won over  enemies of government largesse,
such as  Grover Norquist , president of Americans for  Tax Reform .
These are the same people who hate mandates, as the current
debate about the legality of Obamacare demonstrates. It’s a
tribute to our psychological biases that getting a subsidy
through the tax system is treated so differently from receiving
a government check or copping a fine.  The result: Even as many areas of  government spending  have
been cut to the bone, our tax code remains larded up with
expenditures that cost taxpayers  $1.3 trillion  every year.
According to the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center , the  biggest tax
expenditures  apply to employer-provided health insurance,
pension contributions and mortgages.  Popular as such tax breaks may be, they differ from typical
government spending in that they give bigger subsidies to
wealthier families. Imagine if we mailed checks to all
homeowners to help them pay their mortgages. Would you support
giving millionaires with mansions 25 times more than the typical
family? That’s effectively what we do: Middle-class families get
an  average benefit  from the mortgage interest deduction of $139,
while families in the top 1 percent get $3,752.  Taken together, individual income tax expenditures are the
 equivalent  of sending $686 each year to those in the bottom
fifth of the  income distribution , $3,175 to those in the middle
fifth, and $30,714 to those in the upper fifth. The average
member of the top 1 percent gets nearly a quarter of a million
dollars a year -- a statistic that might have proved useful for
the folks protesting in Zuccotti Park.  The rich get such big subsidies for three reasons. First,
they spend more on the things the tax system favors, such as
homes and health care. Second, they are subject to higher tax
rates, so they get more benefit from each dollar of deductions.
Finally, they’re rich enough to take full advantage of their
deductions. The poor typically have too little income to
itemize, while many families in the upper middle class find
themselves siphoned off into a separate tax system known as the
alternative minimum tax, which allows fewer deductions.  Honest Discussion  Because spending through the tax code disproportionately
goes to the rich, those commentators who fail to account for it
come to the mistaken conclusion that our tax code is more
progressive than it actually is. If we had a simpler system, we
could have an honest discussion of how much people at the top
should pay.  President  Barack Obama ’s proposed Buffett Rule gets rid of
many tax expenditures for some of the very wealthy. It’s a
good idea, but why stop there?  Here’s our proposal: Let’s replace all tax expenditures
with explicit subsidies -- that is, with actual federal payments
-- so we can really see the costs and debate all spending
programs on an equal footing. Doing so would help us answer
crucial questions, such as whether we get more bang for our buck
by subsidizing homeownership or by spending more on schools.  There’s one more payoff to getting rid of the myriad breaks
hidden in our byzantine tax code: It will be a lot easier to get
your taxes done before midnight.  (Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers , both professors at
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are Bloomberg
View columnists. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on increasing the  minimum
wage  and vetoing the UN  Security Council veto ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on  Afghanistan  after the  U.S. withdrawal ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 Romney and the women’s vote ; Thomas Cooley and Kim Schoenholtz
on  evading Dodd-Frank ; Josef Joffe on why  Europe  needs to  be
more German ;  Steven Greenhut  on the  sports-stadium scam .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 