-- Best Buy Leadership Vacuum Seen Amid Amazon Threat
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/best-buy-leadership-vacuum-seen-amid-amazon-threat.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  has a leadership
vacuum at the top at the very time it’s struggling to find a way
to compete against online retailers.  Directors at the world’s largest electronics retailer are
searching for a new chief executive officer after  Brian Dunn 
resigned last week amid a board probe into his “personal
conduct.”  With few internal candidates prepared to take the
job, the board placed one of its own, four-year director G. Mike Mikan, as interim CEO. While Mikan, a former finance executive
in health care, is keen to take the job, some board members want
an outsider with online-retail experience, said a person
familiar with the search.  With Dunn gone, Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy has a
chance to alter its reliance on leaders versed in its
traditional big-box store business and tap someone able to
compete against digital rivals such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , which are becoming dominant.  “The board would be short-sighted not to see this as an
opportunity to go in a different direction,” said Bryan
Gildenberg, an analyst with London-based research firm Kantar
Retail. “They need someone from Google or Amazon, who are
changing the world. There’s an ecosystem to the digital world
that you can’t understand unless you have competed in it.”  Dunn resigned amid an investigation that he may have
misused company resources while having an inappropriate
relationship with a 29-year-old female subordinate, said two
people familiar with the matter. The board last week hired
Washington law firm WilmerHale to oversee its investigation,
with former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Director of
Enforcement William R. McLucas and former U.S. Attorney for the
District of Colorado Thomas Strickland assigned to the case.  Nine-Month Search  Best Buy director Kathy J. Higgins Victor will oversee the
board’s global CEO search, which will take six to nine months,
the company said in a statement last week.  Chairman and founder Richard Schulze may prefer an insider
as the next CEO because he believes in grooming executives
through the ranks who know the company’s culture, according to a
person familiar with the search. Other directors want an
outsider with more online experience, said the person, who asked
to be named because the matter is private. Looking outside of
its headquarters would be a first for Best Buy, whose only CEOs
after Schulze -- Bradbury Anderson and Dunn -- were company
lifers.  Schulze and other directors, through Ron Hutcheson, a
spokesman for the board who works for Hill & Knowlton Strategies
in  Washington , have declined to comment about the CEO search or
Dunn’s departure.  Operating Performance  Best Buy said Dunn’s departure wasn’t over any
disagreements on the company’s operating strategy. On March 29,
Best Buy reported a $1.7 billion fourth-quarter  loss  and
announced the closing of 50 big-box stores. The company also
said it would speed up the openings of smaller stores that focus
on mobile-phone sales and services. The company’s  operating
margin  narrowed to 4.6 percent for the 2012 fiscal year, which
ended March 3, from 5.6 percent five years ago.  The company has said Mikan will be considered for the
permanent CEO spot. He previously served as chief financial
officer of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and CEO of Optum, a
UnitedHealth affiliate in health-care services.  He has no
retail store or digital experience.  Dunn also lacked digital experience. He started as an
electronics salesman in one of the company’s stores, became a
store manager and worked his way up the corporate ladder.  Trailing Amazon  He became CEO in June 2009 and company sales stagnated.
While Seattle-based Amazon’s  sales  have soared about 40 percent
in each of the past two years, Best Buy’s sales of $50.7 billion
last year are just 13 percent higher than they were the year
before Dunn took over.  In that time, Cupertino, California-based Apple also has
expanded its retail presence to 361 stores that $6.1 billion in
sales in the quarter ended Dec. 31, up 59 percent from the same
period a year earlier.  For this year,  analysts  project Best Buy’s sales will fall
to $50.2 billion, the average of 18 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares declined 27 percent in the 12 months
before today, compared with a 17 percent gain for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Retailing Index. (S5RETL)   While Dunn was active on social-networking sites Facebook
and Twitter, many of his posts were about sports or his personal
life. For all of his online networking, Dunn didn’t find a way
to battle back against companies like Amazon and Apple’s iTunes,
which have been raiding Best Buy’s customer base, said Michael
Fertik, CEO of Reputation.com Inc., a  Redwood City , California-
based company that monitors online postings for companies.  Professional Persona  “Like a lot of guys who are enraptured with social media
but don’t fully understand it, this is an example of someone who
embraced it but may not be able to actually point to anything
that it did for him,” Fertik said in a telephone interview.
“Part of that arises from the fact that he merged his personal
and professional personas. A lot of his tweets are about
sports.”  The appointment of Mikan as interim CEO is a sign the
company lacks a senior executive prepared to take charge and
create change, said Kantar Retail’s Gildenberg.  “Best Buy’s operating culture is a little insular,” he
said. “Management and the board don’t have anyone who has deep
digital experience.”  Of its top executives, only Stephen Gillett, president of
Best Buy’s digital and global business services, has digital
experience, Gildenberg said. He was hired from Seattle-based
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  last month.  Hiring Outside  That’s why the board is likely to go outside to find
someone new, said former Best Buy CEO Anderson, who held the job
prior to Dunn.  “I expect the board will look outside,” Anderson said in
a phone interview last week. “The organization does need some
significant change, and I would expect they are going to look
for someone who can lead that kind of change.”  Anderson said the big-box model can still work. The company
can use the stores for both sales and to offer consumers
expertise in electronics and sell services. The new CEO, though,
will have to come up with a vision that reaches consumers who
are going elsewhere, he said.  “It’s what we’re trying to do with technology in our lives
that the company has to focus on,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  