-- Big City Faces College Town in Wisconsin Recall Primary
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-16T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/big-city-faces-college-town-in-wisconsin-recall-primary.html
Tom Barrett and Kathleen Falk,
 Wisconsin (STOWI1)  governors-in-waiting who have never won statewide
office, sat side by side in a crowded Madison ballroom trying to
convince Democrats that their baggage won’t stop them from
knocking off Republican  Scott Walker  in a June 5 recall.  “I can take it to them,” Barrett, the Milwaukee mayor
whom Walker beat 17 months ago, said at the April 11 forum.  “I am building that big tent,” said Falk, a union-backed
former Dane County executive from Madison.  On May 8, voters will choose among four Democrats and a
Republican-backed candidate to challenge Walker in the third
recall election of a U.S. governor, a contest that has drawn
national attention. Barrett and Falk, the poll-ordained
frontrunners, are performing the awkward dance of promoting
themselves without disparaging the other and damaging the
party’s chances in June.  The recall vote will be the climax of more than 14 months
of turmoil triggered when Walker, 44, pushed restrictions on
collective bargaining through the Legislature. Two senators who
supported the change were recalled in August and more than
900,000 signatures were gathered to force Walker’s recall vote.  Supporters around the nation have rallied to Walker’s
defense, turning this state of 5.7 million into a microcosmic
version of the nation’s polarized politics. Republicans want to
win badly enough to enter an 80-year-old party member as a
stalking horse in the other party’s primary. She’ll join the
four real Democrats, who include state Senator Kathleen Vinehout
and Secretary of State Doug La Follette.  Democratic Stronghold  Falk and Barrett represent the party’s ideological poles.
Falk, 60, is a Milwaukee-born political product of Madison,
which is a bastion of environmental activism and unwavering
Democratic support.  A former environmental attorney, Falk served 14 years as
Dane County’s chief executive, leaving office in 2011. She
earned a reputation for advocating rights for the poor, and
implementing property-tax limits.  At an April 12 reception in Madison before a group of
health-care workers, Falk said she has “one really hard job
left in me.”  Falk promotes her “long history of standing up for the
little people.” She appeals to Democratic outrage at what she
calls Walker’s “major assaults on  Wisconsin  values.” She talks
about budget cuts in education, health care, environmental
protection and Walker’s “hostility to women.”  Falk ran for governor in 2002, finishing third in the
Democratic primary, and lost to Republican J.B. Van Hollen in
the 2006 race for attorney general. The margin was 8,859 votes
out of 2.1 million cast.  ‘Madison Liberal’  Falk was among tens of thousands who gathered at the
Capitol in Madison last year to protest Walker’s labor law.
Unions reciprocated by backing her, as have the  Sierra Club  and
the Wisconsin Education Association. Republicans have attacked
Falk in television ads as a “Madison liberal.”  Falk, who has one son, resigned her county office in April
2011 and then embarked on a three-week bike ride from  Florida  to
 New York City  with her husband, Peter. She announced her
candidacy in January.  Barrett said he would run March 30, the day that election
officials authorized the recall.  The last Milwaukee mayor elected governor was George Peck
in 1890. Barrett, a 58-year-old lawyer, former state legislator
and U.S. congressman, was the most recent mayor to try and fail.  Coming Out Fighting  After his 52 percent to 46 percent loss to Walker in 2010,
Barrett drew criticism that he lacked the fire for statewide
office. He responded in an April 3 interview by promising a
frontal attack: “I will be very blunt.”  “He’s the only sitting governor with a criminal-defense
fund, and I think that is a relevant issue,” Barrett said.  The Milwaukee County district attorney has charged Walker
aides with doing political work on government time when he was
that county’s executive, and the investigation is continuing.  Barrett campaigns as the man who will heal the wounds of a
divided state.  “Scott Walker started a civil war in Wisconsin,” Barrett
said in the Madison campaign forum. “I’m here tonight to tell
you I will stop the civil war.”  He accuses the governor, who is the son of a Baptist
minister, of preaching “the gospel according to Scott Walker.”
That includes, Barrett said, a “Good Friday massacre” on
 women’s rights , when Walker signed a repeal of the state’s
equal-pay enforcement law and restrictions on reproductive
rights.  Urban Politics  “They don’t want me to be the candidate,” Barrett said,
referring to the Republicans. “That’s the reason why you should
want me to be the candidate.”  Barrett, a married father of four, has pushed to get
illegal guns off the streets during his two mayoral terms. In
August 2009, after seeing a woman attacked at the Wisconsin
State Fair, he called 911 and was himself struck and beaten by
the attacker.  Falk and Barrett generally make positive references to each
other and criticisms come from someone else.  The American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, which endorsed Falk, distributed a video it claimed
showed Barrett endorsing Walker’s collective-bargaining
restrictions on a radio show. Barrett denied the claim, and an
analysis by the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel said it was false.  While campaigning with Barrett in Wausau on April 12,
former U.S. Representative David Obey said Falk is “is more
vulnerable to the kinds of ads that Walker would run.”  “It’s just the reality of the situation.”  Running Numbers  A Marquette Law School Poll showed Barrett and Falk as the
strongest candidates to run against Walker. The survey released
March 27 showed that in a hypothetical matchup, Walker led
Barrett 47 percent to 45 percent. He led Falk by 49 percent to
45 percent.   Intrade , an online exchange where investors buy shares in a
market of political outcomes, gives Barrett and Falk each a 50
percent chance of winning the nomination. It also gives Walker a
61 percent chance of keeping his seat.  Democrats, some of whom would have preferred that former
U.S. Senator  Russ Feingold , defeated in 2010, be the nominee,
say they are worried about divisions in the next 50 days. At the
exchange of Democrats on April 11, La Follette made internal
division a central part of his pitch.  “I’m not seen as a Madison liberal or a big-city mayor,”
he said.  It didn’t work. In a straw poll that night, La Follette got
two votes and Vinehout 46. Falk had 118 and Barrett 93.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Madison at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  