-- Biggest Banks May Need 17% Core Capital Under EU Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-16T15:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/biggest-banks-may-need-17-core-capital-under-eu-plan.html
Regulators in the European Union
may be allowed to impose capital surcharges on banks as high as
5 percent in a compromise deal on applying Basel rules in the
region. The core-capital levy is half that suggested by the
lawmaker guiding the law through the EU’s legislature.  Such a surcharge “could be introduced from 2015, thereby
providing  member states  with more flexibility while ensuring the
smooth functioning of the internal market,” according to a
document prepared by Denmark, which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Othmar Karas , the Austrian lawmaker guiding the adoption of
the global bank-capital and liquidity rules in parliament, last
week suggested surcharges for the most systemically important
banks of as much as 10 percent of assets weighted for risk.  Both those figures would be in addition to proposals by
 Michel Barnier , the region’s financial services chief, to fix
banks’ core capital requirements at 7 percent of their risk-
weighted assets, with limited exceptions for national regulators
to set higher thresholds. Nations have clashed over the figure,
proposed by Barnier in 2011 as part of a draft law to apply
rules agreed upon by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  The U.K. and  Sweden  have said the plans would unacceptably
restrain national powers. Other governments, including France
and  Austria , have backed Barnier’s approach.  Core Capital  Nations are also split over what types of securities should
count as core capital, according to the document, which was sent
to ambassadors ahead of this week’s meeting and is dated April
13. Diplomats from the region’s 27 nations will meet on April 19
to weigh the Danish proposals. The meeting is intended to
prepare the way for finance ministers to reach a joint position
on the law for a gathering on May 2.  EU nations are also divided on when banks should have to
start disclosing whether they exceed Basel limits on
indebtedness, and to what extent banks should be able to tap
their insurance arms for capital.  Denmark  previously proposed that nations should be allowed
to impose capital surcharges of as much as 3 percent on their
banks without seeking prior approval from the EU. Some nations
“still have concerns” that this doesn’t give enough
flexibility, the document says, prompting the 5 percent
proposal.  Systemic Relevance  Karas’s suggested compromise on the version of the draft
law that is going through the European Parliament would reserve
surcharges of as much as 10 percent for banks “in the highest
category of systemic relevance.” Other systemically important
banks could face surcharges of as much as 3 percent.  The Danish proposal would allow a supervisor to impose
surcharges across its entire banking system, with the exception
of units belonging to lenders that are based and regulated
abroad.  Preben Aamann, a spokesman for Denmark’s EU presidency,
declined to comment.  The Basel committee brings together banking regulators from
countries including the U.S., U.K. and  China  to set global
capital rules. Its agreements must be written into national laws
before they can be enforced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 