-- Dexus Sells U.S. Warehouses for $770 Million to Blackstone
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-04-16T07:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/blackstone-buys-dexus-s-u-s-industrial-assets-for-770-million.html
Dexus Property Group (DXS) ,  Australia ’s
biggest owner and manager of office properties, will sell 65 of
its U.S. properties to  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  for $770 million to
restructure debt, repurchase shares and boost dividends.  Affiliates of Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII, a
property fund run by the world’s largest private-equity firm,
will buy industrial assets, including three warehouses leased to
Whirlpool Corp. in central U.S., the Sydney-based company said
in a statement to the Australian stock exchange.  Dexus, whose strategy in the U.S. has been to sell assets
in central and eastern U.S. and use the proceeds to buy
properties on the west coast, paused disposals last year as it
sought to boost occupancies to achieve better sale prices. The
group resumed the sales after increasing occupancies in its
central U.S. properties by 12.8 percent in the second half of
2011, it said.  “I suspect they’re flagging, ultimately, an exit from the
U.S. completely,” said Stuart Cartledge, managing director at
Phoenix Portfolios in  Melbourne .  Dexus  shares  rose 0.6 percent to 90.5 Australian cents at
the close of trading in Sydney, compared with net tangible
assets of A$1.01 a share as of Dec. 31, and A$1 following the
sale. The stock has risen 9 percent so far this year, compared
with a 6.1 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  U.S. Properties  Dexus, which valued the properties sold at $762 million as
of Dec. 31., said the price paid by Blackstone is in line with
the estimated book value of the assets for June 30, 2012.  The company will use part of the surplus capital raised to
begin buying back as much as A$200 million ($207 million), or 5
percent, of outstanding shares at current prices, it said. It
will also use about 12 percent of the sale proceeds to
restructure its  U.S. debt , including prepaying some debt
obligations and unwinding some interest-rate swaps.  “This sale is consistent with Dexus’s current strategy to
exit non-core U.S. markets,” Chief Executive Officer Darren Steinberg said in the statement. “A buyback represents a
sensible use of surplus capital while Dexus securities trade at
a discount to their underlying value.”  The company also changed its dividend payout to between 70
percent and 80 percent of funds from operations from fiscal year
2013, compared with 70 percent expected for the year ending June
2012.  Dexus will own 24 properties on the west coast and four in
central U.S. following the sale, representing about 8 percent of
the group’s total assets, it said.  Sale proceeds after transaction costs and the U.S. debt
restructuring will be about $660 million, Dexus said. The
company will consider its U.S. west coast strategy in its group
review and will provide an update at its full-year results
presentation in August, it said.  Blackstone Real Estate  For Blackstone, the purchase of the 16.6 million square
feet of industrial real estate adds to more than 45 million
square feet it already owns through Chicago-based IndCor
Properties Inc.  U.S. warehouse owners have seen a net gain in occupied
space for six quarters as the economy begins to pick up,
according to a March 22 report from Green Street Advisors Inc.,
a property research firm in  Newport Beach ,  California .  While “industrial fundamentals are slowly recovering,” an
increase in rents “remains elusive,”  John Stewart , a senior
analyst at Green Street, said in the report.  Blackstone and other big private-equity managers have
sought to diversify their businesses after the 2008 financial
crisis eroded investor appetite for traditional buyouts.  Blackstone’s real-estate unit oversaw $31.2 billion of fee-
earning assets as of Dec. 31, up 16 percent from a year earlier
and 32 percent from the end of 2009, according to the company.
Profit from the division jumped 56 percent to $1 billion in 2011
from a year earlier.  The firm has raised more than $10 billion in less than a
year for the Real Estate Partners VII fund, and plans to raise
another $2 billion by the end of the year, according to a person
familiar with the plans.  Blackstone in June completed the acquisition of the U.S.
malls owned by Melbourne-based  Centro Properties Group , now
restructured and renamed  Centro Retail Australia (CRF) , for about $9.4
billion, the firm’s biggest deal since the leveraged buyout boom
collapsed in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  