-- BP, Plaintiffs’ Lawyers Get Deadline Extended for Spill Accord
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/bp-plaintiffs-lawyers-win-delay-in-filing-spill-pact-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and lawyers suing the
company over the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill were given two
extra days to submit a proposed settlement agreement to the
federal judge overseeing the litigation.  Attorneys for both sides were due to file the accord
yesterday with U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans 
for preliminary approval. Barbier extended the deadline until
tomorrow morning, after being advised by attorneys and
Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan that more time was needed.  BP in March agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property
damage and exposure-related injuries. The settlement, reached
March 2 days before a scheduled trial on liability for the 2010
spill, doesn’t cover federal government claims and those of the
Gulf Coast states Louisiana and Mississippi against BP.  BP and the plaintiffs “have been engaged in finalizing the
details of the settlement agreement and compiling all of the
necessary documentation and exhibits for formal filing,”
Barbier said yesterday in his one-page order. The extension of
the filing deadline was necessary “for the parties to complete
the compiling of the supporting documentation and exhibits,” he
said.  Hundreds of Suits  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against
London-based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based
owner and operator of the rig; and Houston-based  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  The proposed settlement between BP and the Plaintiffs
Steering Committee, a group of lawyers appointed by Barbier to
handle the lawsuits, doesn’t include government claims or those
by private parties against BP’s contractors on the doomed
Macondo well. It also won’t include claims against BP from some
private plaintiffs, including certain residents and businesses
in  Florida , PSC lawyers have said.  Barbier has scheduled a closed-door status conference on
the lawsuits May 3. No new trial date has been set.  Property Damage  “BP and the PSC are finalizing two separate settlement
agreements -- one resolving economic and property damage claims;
the other resolving medical claims -- that will fairly
compensate people and businesses affected by the Deepwater
Horizon accident and  oil spill ,” the parties said in a joint
statement issued yesterday.  The plaintiffs filed a complaint yesterday in federal court
against BP as a class action seeking damages and/or medical
monitoring for people who may have been harmed by exposure to
oil spilled or chemicals used to clean it up. The proposed
settlement would cover claims against BP for spill-related
injuries and medical monitoring, the plaintiffs’ lawyers said
last month.  The plaintiffs also filed a complaint yesterday seeking
class action, or group treatment, for non-government economic
losses and property damage.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in New Orleans federal court
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 