-- Brazil Futures Yields Rise as Economists Lift Inflation Forecast
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-04-16T18:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/brazil-futures-yields-rise-as-economists-lift-inflation-forecast.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts climbed after economists increased their
inflation forecasts for 2012, damping speculation the central
bank may cut rates to below 9 percent this year.  The yield on the contract due in January 2014 rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.16 percent at 2:54
p.m. in  Sao Paulo . The real appreciated almost 0.1 percent to
1.8371 per  U.S. dollar .  “The data released today were not positive for
inflation,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist in Sao Paulo at
Gradual Investimentos, said in a telephone interview. “The
central bank made it explicit in the last Copom meeting that
there’s not much more room for cuts.”  Consumer prices will increase 5.08 percent this year,
compared with a previous estimate of 5.06 percent, according to
a weekly central bank survey of about 100 economists published
today. Prices will rise 5.47 percent over the next 12 months, up
from a previous estimate of 5.44 percent, according to the
survey. The government targets annual consumer-price increases
of 4.5 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Brazil ’s seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a
proxy for gross domestic product, fell 0.23 percent in February.
Analysts expected a 0.3 percent decline, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists.  U.S. Retail  While higher inflation estimates were offset by signs
Brazil’s economy is decelerating, stronger-than-expected March
retail sales in the U.S. helped keep futures yields higher, said
Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  “The central bank has its arguments, especially with
respect to the external market, as justification for the
reduction in  interest rates ,” Serrano said. “As long as we see
a recovery abroad, this counts as less space for rate cuts in
the short term.”  The central bank will reduce the benchmark interest rate
this week for a sixth straight time to 9 percent, according to
the median forecast of 45 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Policy makers have reduced the benchmark rate 275 basis points
since August to 9.75 percent.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has reduced taxes
on  consumer goods , increased funding to the state development
bank and pledged to boost public investments to ensure economic
growth of 4.5 percent this year.  Analysts forecast gross domestic product will rise 3.2
percent this year, compared with a 2.7 percent increase in 2011,
according to the median forecast in the central bank survey
published today. In 2010, the economy expanded 7.5 percent.  Soybean growers in Brazil, the world’s second-largest
producer after the U.S., harvested 86 percent of the current
crop as of April 13, crop researcher AgRural Commodities
Agricolas said in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  