-- Breivik Claims Self-Defense as Oslo Terror Trial Starts
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d ,   K r i s t i n   M y e r s   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-04-16T13:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/breivik-defends-massacre-as-norway-s-saddest-trial-starts.html
Anders Behring Breivik claimed
self-defense and refused to recognize the authority of the Oslo
court hearing his trial for the murder of 77 people in twin
terror attacks on July 22.  “I don’t recognize the legitimacy of this court, you have
received your mandate from political parties that support
multiculturalism,” Breivik said. While he doesn’t admit to
criminal guilt, he confessed to the murders, arguing they were
committed out of a “principle of necessity.”  The 33-year-old, raised his right arm in a salute to the
court after having his handcuffs removed, and then sat
motionless as prosecutor Inga Bejer Engh read the details of
each of the deaths. He later cried as prosecutors played a 12
minute video he had produced against multiculturalism.  The Oslo native killed 69 people -- some as young as 14 --
at the Utoeya  Labor Party  youth camp and detonated a car bomb by
the prime minister’s office, taking eight lives. He has been
indicted on two terror charges and if deemed sane by the court
may face a permanent detention sentence of at least 21 years.  “I don’t care about Breivik as a person,” Tore Sinding
Bekkedal, 24, who survived the attacks on Utoya, said today at
the court house. “He’s a sad little individual who did this
partly to get attention both for himself and for the political
extremes he’s representing. The most important thing is that
there’s a proper trial and that as much of the focus as possible
is on caring for those who have lost loved ones and as little as
possible on the perpetrator.”  Witnesses Called  Breivik also raised an objection to Judge Wenche Elizabeth
Arntzen, saying she’s a personal friend of the sister of former
Prime Minister and Labor Party leader Gro Harlem Brundtland.  The trial is being broadcast to 17 court houses nationwide
to allow about 2,000 aggrieved relatives and friends of the
victims to follow the proceedings. The 77 people killed are
represented by 162 counsel. The state has two prosecutors while
Breivik has a defense team of four who will argue the case in
front of two district court judges and three lay judges.  The prosecution has called 99 witnesses while Breivik’s
attorneys have summoned 29, including Carl I. Hagen, the former
chairman of  Norway ’s anti-immigration Progress Party, and
Raymond Johansen, secretary general of the Labor Party of Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg.  The Prosecution  Prosecutor Svein Holden today took about four hours going
over in detail the events of July 22. Breivik has told police
that he is a member of a group based on the Knights Templar,
Holden said in his opening statement. His membership of this
organization, which he claims to have joined in May 2002, is of
“great importance to how he leads his life,” Holden said.  “In our opinion there is no such network, at least not one
as Breivik describes,” he said.  An initial psychiatric evaluation last year found Breivik
to be delusional and suffering from paranoid schizophrenia,
meaning he would face compulsory treatment rather than prison.
The decision was criticized by victims and caused the Oslo court
to order a new assessment in January. The second evaluation was
released last week and found him not to be clinically psychotic
and therefore accountable for his actions.  Sanity Wish  Neither evaluation is binding for the court. If found sane
by the judges, Breivik faces a maximum sentence of 21 years and
the possibility of five-year extensions as long as he’s deemed a
danger to society.  “The defendant wishes to be sentenced as a legally sane
person,” Geir Lippestad, Brievik’s attorney said in his opening
statement, which took about half an hour. He asked the court to
accept that Breivik be allowed to read a 30 minute text
tomorrow.  The court administration expects to spend 76 million kroner
($13 million) to cover the costs of the 10-week trial. That
includes providing facilities for about 1,500 accredited
journalists. Police have cordoned off five streets leading to
the court.  “It will be perhaps history’s saddest trial with a review
of 77 autopsy reports,” said Geir Engebretsen, the court chief
justice, at the April 11 opening of the $5 million high-security
room built for the case. A full floor has been set aside for
“Norway’s biggest and most serious criminal trial,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo  at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  