-- Bullard Says Fed Should Focus Debate on Balance Sheet
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-16T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/bullard-says-fed-should-focus-debate-on-balance-sheet.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the Fed’s policy debate should
focus on the size of its $2.87 trillion balance sheet and not on
when to move its main  interest rate  from close to zero.  “Heavy focus on the nature of the Fed’s interest rate
reaction function in the current environment is questionable,”
Bullard said today in a speech in Logan, Utah. “There are many
issues at least as important,” he said, adding most monetary
policy is not currently about interest rate adjustment. So-
called “unconventional” policy, such as asset purchases known
as quantitative easing, has become more important, he said.  Policy makers are holding off on increasing monetary
accommodation unless the economic expansion falters or prices
rise at a rate slower than their 2 percent target, according to
minutes of the March 13 meeting. Bullard is the last Fed
official scheduled to speak publicly before Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues meet to update policy April 24-25.  The Fed’s approach wouldn’t change much if the central bank
was mandated to focus only on  price stability , rather than also
seek to achieve maximum employment, Bullard said at the Jon M.
Huntsman School of Business at Utah State University.  “In practice, monetary policy is viewed in the same way in
 Europe  as it is in the U.S., despite the differing mandates,”
he said. “Achieving the single mandate is still consistent with
the maximum level of employment of households.”  Bullard didn’t comment on the U.S. economic outlook in his
prepared remarks.  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases by the central bank. The Fed pushed down its
target interest rate close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy.  Bullard, 51, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois , Indiana,
Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  