-- Bulltick Suspended as Mexico Calls Trading Error Worst Ever
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-04-16T20:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/bulltick-suspended-from-mexican-stock-trading-pending-review-1-.html
Bulltick  Capital Markets ’s
 brokerage  in Mexico was suspended from the stock exchange after
sparking a market collapse by making what regulators said may be
the worst trading mistake in the country’s history.  The IPC gauge of Mexican shares sank 2 percent in about
three minutes starting at 2:45 p.m. local time on April 13,
according to prices provided that day. The bourse has canceled
the trades, which it said affected 13 companies.  “What happened is extremely serious and it’s not
acceptable for these things to occur,” Guillermo Babatz,
president of the National Banking and Securities
Commission, said in a telephone interview today from Mexico
City. “My impression is that this is the most significant
erroneous trade in the history of the market.”  The Bulltick-triggered collapse is the latest example of
financial-market technology sparking market disruptions. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000 points in the
“flash crash” of May 6, 2010. Last month, Bats Global Markets
Inc. canceled its initial public offering after a computer
malfunction kept the Lenexa, Kansas, company from trading on its
own platform and forced a halt in Apple Inc.  Review of Bulltick  Officials from the Mexican stock exchange and the National
Banking and Securities Commission are visiting Bulltick’s
brokerage today to review its systems, Alejandro Creixell, a
managing partner at the firm, said today in a phone interview.  Mexico  should seek a tool to identify when transaction
sizes and prices are unusual, according to Babatz. The
exchange’s circuit breaker mechanisms, which were strengthened
in the wake of the U.S. flash crash, succeeded in preventing a
deeper crisis, Babatz said.  “We’ll have to see what additional steps the authorities
can take to prevent this type of thing,”  Carlos Hermosillo , an
analyst at Grupo Financiero Banorte-Ixe in Mexico City, said in
a telephone interview. Last week’s plunge shows there are
“holes” in the Bolsa’s maintenance of orderly trading,
Hermosillo said.  The IPC had ended April 13 down 2.3 percent following the
Bulltick errors. The benchmark gauge lost 0.6 percent for the
day after the trades were voided. The index fell 0.2 percent at
3:07 p.m. today in Mexico City. Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB,
the operator of the exchange, increased 1.4 percent.  Sell Orders  Bulltick’s Mexico brokerage executed more sell orders by
volume than any other Mexican brokerage on April 13. In the
previous month, Bulltick was the 19st-most-active seller,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Eight thousand basket orders got away from us with the
wrong price,” Creixell said. “The system wasn’t configured
to stop the orders by price but by volume. That was the
problem.”  Bats priced 6.3 million shares on March 22 and was ready to
begin trading a day later when one of its computers
malfunctioned, triggering events that ended with the IPO’s
cancellation. The “flash crash” almost two years ago erased
$862 billion from stock values in less than 20 minutes.  Miami Firm  Bulltick, a Miami-based investment firm that specializes in
 Latin America , entered the Mexican market as a brokerage in July
2008.  The Mexican exchange has been implementing technology to
allow transactions to be executed more quickly. High-frequency
trading, which uses programs to execute transactions more
quickly, accounts for about 20 percent of cash equities
transactions on the Mexican exchange, Javier Artigas, head of
strategic planning for the exchange operator, said on a Feb. 22
conference call.  Technology in the testing phase at the exchange will give
the exchange the capacity to process 200,000 transactions per
second, according to a transcript of the call.  “If they hadn’t canceled the operations, it would have
been catastrophic,” said Jorge Lagunas, who oversees about
$200 million as a  money manager  at Mexico City-based Grupo
Financiero Interacciones SA. “The Bolsa made the right
decision. The other brokerages also did the right thing.”  Bulltick’s Creixell said the brokerage “didn’t do anything
wrong” and will welcome regulators to help make sure its
systems meet local standards. He declined to project when
Bulltick may get permission to renew operations.  “This is very similar to what happened in the flash crash
of May 2010,” he said. “It’s extremely clear that it was a
technological error that could happen to anyone. It happened to
Bats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  