-- Bulltick  ‘Erroneus’ Trades Voided by Mexico Bourse
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-04-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/bulltick-erroneous-trades-voided-by-mexico-bourse-after-plunge.html
Mexican stock exchange officials
canceled a series of erroneous trades by Bulltick Capital
Markets that set off a plunge in the nation’s  benchmark  index
during the last trading session.  The IPC equities gauge sank 2 percent in about three
minutes starting at 2:45 p.m. on April 13, before ending the day
down 2.3 percent at 38,444.01, according to unadjusted prices
provided at the time. The bourse has canceled the trades, which
it said affected 13 companies in an e-mailed statement that day.  After voiding the trades, the IPC index closed down 0.6
percent at 39,136.99, the Bolsa said in a separate statement on
April 14.  “It was a technological error very similar to the flash
crash” in the U.S., Alejandro Creixell, a managing partner at
Bulltick, said in a telephone interview from  Mexico  City on
April 13.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000
points in the so-called flash crash of May 2010, which spawned
increased regulatory scrutiny for high-frequency traders, who
use complex computer programs to make trade orders sometimes
within milliseconds.  Bulltick  executed  more sell orders by volume than any other
Mexican brokerage on the day. In the past month, it’s been the
19th most active seller, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Due to the problem that said member generated, and upon
its own request, the erroneous offers were canceled,” the
exchange said on April 13, referring to Bulltick.  Modelo, Televisa  Arca Continental SAB (AC*) , Mexico’s second-largest Coke bottler,
sank as much as 14 percent in intraday trading.  Grupo
Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB , the operator of airports in the
Pacific and central regions of Mexico, fell as much as 10
percent.  Beer maker  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  and  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the
world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster, also retreated.  “All of a sudden the index started falling,” said Roberto Cavazos, who manages about 2 billion pesos ($152 million) in
equities at Value Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. “We started
to look at different stocks and realized it was an error. There
were very unusual trades from Bulltick -- big volumes and prices
out of line with the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  