-- Bunge Climate Unit May Cut Staff by End of April, Evans Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-16T15:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/bunge-climate-unit-may-cut-staff-by-end-of-april-evans-says-1-.html
Climate Change Capital Ltd may cut
staff this month as its new owner, U.S. agriculture and food
company  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , seeks to reduce costs after its purchase of
the London-based carbon-project developer and adviser.  “There will be cost reductions before the end of the
month,” Alfred Evans, today named chief executive officer of
Climate Change Capital, said in a phone interview from Geneva.
The company’s 65 employees have already been told, he said,
declining to provide details on potential cuts. Evans was
previously chief investment officer for Bunge’s carbon assets.  Bunge, based in  White Plains ,  New York , bought the climate
business for an undisclosed sum in a deal that closed today. Low
carbon prices probably represent a buying opportunity and Bunge
is building a global climate-protection business, Evans said.  United Nations Certified Emission Reduction  credits  for
December, the benchmark, dropped to a record this month because
the European Union carbon market is oversupplied through this
year and beyond, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The
contract fell 3.7 percent today to 3.89 euros a ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London as of 2:52 p.m. It reached an
all-time low of 3.27 euros a ton on April 4.  “You make most of your money by investing at the bottom of
the business cycle,” he said.  ‘Some Gloom Misplaced’  “There’s a lot of doom and gloom,” Evans said. “A lot of
it is misplaced. We are definitely somewhere near the trough.”  Investors in carbon funds managed by Climate Change Capital
are not seeking to exit, Evans said. That has not been the
subject of our communications with them, he said. Whether some
assets come up for sale depends what’s in the interests of those
investors, Evans said.  Some emission-reduction offsets, such as projects to cut
 greenhouse gases  at landfill sites in Mexico, may be re-badged
for new carbon markets as they proliferate, including
 California (EMISCCA2) , Australia and  Japan , as well as voluntary programs,
Evans said.  UN climate negotiators have so far failed to extend or
replace the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , whose targets for most
developed nations run through this year.  “We think there are some great opportunities in the carbon
market,” Evans said. “The trajectory has turned into a period
of fragmentation.”  Climate Change Capital was also attractive because of its
property fund, he said. The company has invested more than 68
million pounds ($108 million) in commercial property, including
an office-and-retail block in Birmingham, England, where carbon
output was cut 43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  