-- Canadian Mining Companies Decline on Demand Concerns
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-04-16T21:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/canadian-mining-companies-decline-on-demand-concerns.html
Canadian stocks  fell as declines in
mining and metal shares outweighed an advance in financial
shares after a stronger-than-forecast increase in U.S. retail
sales.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) ,  Canada ’s second-largest
publicly traded copper producer, fell 3.4 percent as the metal
slipped on concern over the European debt crisis. Suncor Energy
Inc., Canada’s largest oil and gas producer, rose 1.2 percent.
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the country’s second-largest lender,
climbed 0.9 percent.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  jumped 3.1 percent,
after three people with knowledge of the matter said the
BlackBerry maker is in talks to hire an adviser on its strategic
options.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  declined 2.8
points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,037.59 in Toronto.  “The initial optimism around retail sales drove futures
up,” Brian Huen, a managing partner at Red Sky Capital
Management Ltd. in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. The
firm oversees about C$55 million ($55 million). “Now there’s a
bit of a drag on North American markets as a whole as a result
of the weakness in the U.S. right now.”  The S&P/TSX had its seventh straight weekly decline for the
five days ending April 13, its longest losing streak since 2008,
as weaker-than-forecast U.S. jobs numbers and reports of slowing
growth in  China  raised concern that demand may slip for Canadian
commodities. The U.S. is the world’s biggest consumer of oil,
while China is the number one user of copper.  Mixed Reports  Energy companies increased today as U.S.  retail sales 
gained 0.8 percent in March, almost three times as much as
projected, following a 1 percent advance in February, according
to Commerce Department figures. The median forecast of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.3 percent
rise. A separate report showed manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded in April at the slowest pace in five months.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  rose 1.2 percent to C$30.81.  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) , the developer of the proposed  Keystone XL (TRP)  pipeline,
gained 1.2 percent to C$42.98. Natural gas marketer  Keyera Corp. (KEY) 
decreased 3.6 percent to C$37.60.  Financial shares also advanced on the U.S. retail sales
figures. Toronto-Dominion Bank climbed 0.9 percent to C$82.70.
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest lender, increased
0.7 percent to C$56.29.  Metals Retreat  Materials stocks in the S&P/TSX fell, driven by metal
producers, as gold and copper prices retreated. Gold futures
declined for a second straight session in New York as a stronger
dollar curbed demand for the precious metal as an alternative
asset.  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., Rio Tinto Group’s partner in the Oyu
Tolgoi Mongolian gold and copper mine, fell 5.7 percent to
C$12.03.  Detour Gold Corp. (DGC) , which is developing a mine in
Ontario, declined 1.9 percent to C$24.33.  Copper fell to a three-month low in New York as rising
yields on Spanish  government bonds  stoked concern that the
sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  may worsen, potentially curbing
demand. First Quantum slid 3.4 percent to C$20.88.  RIM rose 3.1 percent to C$13.26, with the entire gain
coming in the last minute of trading. Canada’s largest
technology company is considering hiring one Canadian bank and
one global bank, said one of the people, who asked to remain
anonymous because the deliberations are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  