-- Canada February International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-04-16T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/canada-february-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for February
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investors resumed their acquisition of Canadian
securities in February and added $12.5 billion to their holdings,
concentrated in federal government bonds. Canadian investors
reduced their holdings of foreign securities by $2.2 billion,
marking the first such divestment in 10 months.  Foreign investment in the Canadian  debt market  led by federal
bonds  Foreign investors purchased $13.7 billion of Canadian bonds
in February, the largest monthly investment since May 2010.
These inflows were led by a $10.2 billion foreign investment in
federal government bonds from both new issues and secondary
market acquisitions. Most of these purchases were in shorter
term-to-maturity federal bonds. The remainder of the activity in
Canadian bonds was largely related to foreign purchases of new
bonds issued by public and private corporations, mainly in the
form of US dollar-denominated instruments. Canadian long-term
 interest rates  fell six basis points in February as the long-to-
short spread narrowed to 105 basis points, the smallest
difference since May 2008.  Non-resident investors’ holdings of Canadian money market
instruments decreased by $1.7 billion in February. This second
straight month of foreign divestment in the Canadian money
market was led by further retirements of Federal Treasury bills.
This outflow was partially offset by increased foreign holdings
of paper issued by provincial government enterprises and private
financial corporations. Short-term interest rates gained seven
basis points during the month.  Non-residents add Canadian stocks to their holdings  Foreign investors added $442 million of Canadian stocks to
their portfolios in February, after a $1.5 billion divestment in
January. Foreign investment was all in new issues of Canadian
shares. In contrast, secondary market activity resulted in a
second month of net sales by non-residents. Canadian stock
prices were up 1.5% in February, the second straight monthly
increase.  Canadian investors further reduce their holdings of foreign
bonds  Canadian investors removed $1.9 billion from their holdings
of foreign bonds in February, following a $2.7 billion reduction
in January. The divestment was mainly in medium-term US
 government bonds  and was supplemented by maple bonds, as
retirements outpaced new issues in February. The differential
between long- and short-term US interest rates narrowed to 189
basis points, the smallest spread since February 2008.  Canadians also continued to reduce their holdings of
foreign money market instruments for a fourth straight month,
down $36 million in February. The divestment was led by
retirements of paper issued by European governments and US non-
bank financial institutions. This divestment was moderated by
Canadian purchases of US bank paper. US short-term commercial
paper yields increased nine basis points after two straight
months of declines.  Canadians sell foreign stocks for the first time in more than a
year  Canadian investors sold $238 million of foreign stocks in
February, all US corporate shares. This was the first divestment
in foreign stocks since December 2010, a period during which
they had accumulated $29.3 billion of these instruments. US
equity prices gained 4.1% in February, following a 4.4% increase
in January.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money market
instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well as
warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  