-- Canada Nanos Confidence Index Falls on Waning Job Security
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-04-16T15:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/canada-nanos-confidence-index-falls-on-waning-job-security-1-.html
Canadian  consumer confidence  fell
in April because of waning perceptions of job security and
personal finances, according to the monthly Nanos Research poll.  The  Nanos  Economic Mood Index for April fell to 106.1 from
107.8 in March, according to a report released today by the
Ottawa-based polling agency.  Canadians are feeling less secure about their jobs,
possibly due to widespread media reports of job cuts in the
public sector, Nanos said. Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  last month announced plans to fire 12,000 workers in a
bid to eliminate the government’s deficit.  “Both the widespread news coverage of layoffs in the
federal public service and notifications to affected employees
have likely created a job-security chill effect,”  Nik Nanos ,
president of the agency, said in an e-mail. “It will be
important to monitor this measure in order to understand whether
this is a one-off event or part of a new trend.”  Canada ’s labor market has  slowed  over the past six months,
with the economy creating just 45,300 jobs since October even
after employment rose by 82,300 in March, according to
Statistics Canada data.  The job-security balance of opinion, which subtracts the
percentage of those who say their employment isn’t safe from
those who say the opposite, fell to 39.7 in April, down from
43.9 in March. The Nanos Pocketbook Index, based on questions
related to changes in personal finances and  job security , fell
to 92.5 from 96 in March.  The Expectations Index, based on perceptions of the
economic outlook and housing values, rose to 122.7 from 122.2,
Nanos said. The balance of opinion on whether the economy will
be stronger or weaker in the next six months was 6.6 in April
compared with negative 5.3 in March, the survey found, the
fourth-straight improvement in that gauge.  The Nanos poll of 1,002 Canadians was taken April 13 and
April 14. The survey didn’t report a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  