-- Canadian Solar Gains on Acquisition Report: Toronto Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-04-16T20:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/canadian-solar-rises-on-report-of-cnooc-purchase-toronto-mover.html
Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  gained the most
in more than a month on a report that  China  National Offshore
Oil Corp. is in talks to buy the maker of solar modules.  Canadian Solar climbed 7.6 percent to $3.54 at the close in
 New York , the biggest increase since March 9 and giving it a
market value of $154.1 million. China Business Media  said  the
company is in negotiations to be bought by China’s national oil
producer, without saying where it obtained the information.  The solar company, which is based in Kitchener, Ontario,
and manufactures most of its products in China, denied it may be
bought by CNOOC, Reuters reported.  Canadian Solar and other Chinese panel companies are due
for acquisitions after production surged and prices  fell  by half
last year, said Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst at Auriga
USA in New York.  “Logically, consolidation should happen because you have
an excess supply situation,” Polavarapu said in an interview
today. “The entire industry would welcome it, and the Chinese
solar companies would welcome it as well because there’s a dire
need.”  Canadian Solar produced 1.3 gigawatts of panels, according
to company reports. Its shares had dropped 67 percent in the
past year through April 13.  CNOOC wouldn’t be the first petroleum producer to buy a
solar manufacturer. Paris-based Total SA purchased two-thirds of
 SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  last year.  Oil and Solar  “There’s no obvious connection or strategy rationale” for
CNOOC to purchase Canadian Solar, “but there was no obvious
connection for Total buying SunPower,” Aaron Chew, an analyst
at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in an interview.  “From a strategy perspective, an oil company could say
that renewables are their biggest threat and that they need some
exposure,” Chew said.  CNOOC signaled its intentions as early as 2007 to expand
into renewable energy, and in February formed a $300 million
joint venture with the Spanish solar company Isofoton SA to
develop photovoltaic plants in  Asia .  Canadian Solar didn’t reply to calls and e-mails today. The
 oil company  didn’t immediately respond to a call to its investor
relation department after regular business hours in China.  CNOOC’s discussions with Canadian Solar are stalled over
disagreements on the terms, China Business Media said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  