-- Canadian Dollar Falls to 7-Week Low Versus Yen
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-16T21:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/canadian-dollar-climbs-against-most-peers-before-boc.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened versus the
yen on speculation  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may be
worsening, making currencies of countries that export raw
materials less attractive.  The currency fell to the lowest since February against the
Japanese currency on demand for safety as Spain’s bond yields
touched the highest this year. The loonie, as the Canadian
dollar is nicknamed, was little changed against its U.S.
counterpart as economists predicted Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will hold rates steady at 1 percent with the decision due
at 9 a.m. tomorrow.  “I prefer buying the U.S. dollar on dips and short-term I
think the Canada should underperform,” said  Dean Popplewell ,
head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm
Oanda Corp., in a telephone interview. “The market is basically
waiting for Carney.”  Canada’s currency was little changed at 99.94 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0006. It dropped as much as 1 percent to 80.18 yen, the
weakest since Feb. 27.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  fell 0.1 percent after rising as
much as 0.7 percent and dropping as much as 0.4 percent.  The loonie may strengthen to 98 cents versus the U.S.
dollar during the next three months as traders anticipate Carney
is considering bringing forward the time frame for interest-rate
increases, Shahab Jalinoos, a currency strategist at UBS AG in
Stamford,  Connecticut , wrote in a note to clients today.  Strength Forecast  “The primary driver of the short-term call is the
possibility that the  Bank of Canada  becomes more hawkish,”
Jalinoos said in a telephone interview. “What you might find is
a statement that hints that conditions are good enough now to
warrant further removal of extraordinarily easy policy. That’s
enough to cause a move in the market.”  Jalinoos predicted the loonie will weaken during a longer
time frame against the U.S. dollar as the nation’s exports
suffer from close ties to the sluggish U.S. economy rather than
the faster-growing Asian economies, and as prices for some raw
materials such as natural gas remain subdued and the country’s
current account deficit widens. The strategist forecast the
Canadian dollar will fall to C$1.05 in 12 months.  Carney’s key  policy rate  will likely remain at 1 percent,
according to all 25 forecasts in the Bloomberg survey. The rate
has been at that level since September 2010 in the longest pause
since the 1950s.  The accompanying statement may say the economy will reach
full output sooner than the bank forecast earlier, indicating a
quicker timetable for interest-rate increases and putting upward
pressure on near-term yields.  Yield Difference  The  difference  between two-year and 10-year Canadian
government-bond yields was 79 basis points today, less than the
82 basis points in  Japan , 171 in the U.S. and 241 in  France .
Canada’s yield-curve, the flattest among Group of Seven
countries, was 154 basis points a year ago.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year bonds three basis points higher to 2.01
percent. It touched a record low 1.837 percent on Dec. 16. The
price of the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2021 fell 23 cents to
C$110.31.  Foreign investors purchased C$12.5 billion ($12.5 billion)
of Canadian securities more than they sold in February,
including a net C$13.7 billion of bonds, the highest total since
May 2010,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. Non-residents
also bought C$442 million of stocks while divesting of C$1.68
billion of money-market paper, the agency said.  2012 Rally  Canada’s currency has rallied 2.2 percent this year versus
the greenback on speculation its exports will benefit from an
accelerating  U.S. economy .  Retail sales in the U.S. rose 0.8 percent in March, almost
three times more than forecast, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington , showing consumers are weathering the
jump in gasoline prices heading into the second quarter. The
median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a rise of 0.3 percent.  Canada’s dollar will appreciate to 98 cents by the end of
2012, according to the median of 38 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Against the background of lingering concerns about global
growth and unabated fears about the euro-zone periphery, it will
be very difficult for risk-correlated currencies like the
Canadian dollar to outperform safe havens like the U.S. dollar
and the yen,”  Valentin Marinov , head of European and G-10
currency strategy in  London  at Citigroup Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “I’d express any constructive Canadian
dollar view against the euro or other risk-correlated currencies
like the Swedish krona or the Norwegian krone, given their
proximity to the euro.”  The loonie dropped 0.5 percent to C$1.3133 versus the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  