-- Captain Hook Hams It Up in Boorish ‘Starcatcher’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/captain-hook-hams-it-up-in-boorish-starcatcher-review.html
Donyale Werle may be the most
inventive visual artist working in the theater today.  To enter the Brooks Atkinson Theatre for “Peter and the
Starcatcher” is to find yourself in a life-size Victorian toy
theater, a gilded dazzle of eye candy, with humorous cameos set
in the glittering false proscenium and a glinting sea-blue
backdrop for this tale of how Peter Pan became an ageless hero.  Werle, who also created the fantastic American West setting
for “Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson,” here nearly betters the
filigreed Arthur Rackham illustrations that once accompanied
J.M. Barrie’s stories about the boy who wouldn’t grow up.  There’s plenty more promise in the enterprise as well:
staging by Roger Rees (forever Nicholas Nickleby) and Alex
Timbers (from “Bloody Bloody”); a script by Rick Elice (“Jersey
Boys”); and a starring performance by  Christian Borle , who, in
short order has gone from playing Prior Walter in “Angels in
America” to a leading role on TV’s Broadway soap opera “Smash.”
Here he plays the comically villainous Black Stache, eventually
to become the more familiar Captain Hook.  But there’s no mention of Barrie in the program, and with
good reason. For once the show begins, the humor, wisdom and
delight of the original adventure quickly swirl down the
quicksand funnel of this witless prequel.  Lost Boys  Based on a novel by Dave Barry and Ridley Pearson, Elice’s
script introduces us to the gang of orphans and social outcasts
who eventually become the Lost Boys and Hook’s pirate mates.  The plot involves two ships -- one called the Wasp, the
other, inevitably, the Neverland -- carrying identical trunks,
one filled with treasure, the other with sand. The captain of
the good ship has a willful daughter Molly who befriends the
boys. Eventually we will meet Hook’s lieutenant, Smee, as well
as the crocodile and ticking clock that will later bedevil the
unhanded Hook, not to mention Peter and Tinkerbell.  Aiming to be all things to all audiences -- amusing for
children, knowing for grown-ups, sophisticated for cognoscenti -
- the play recalls Elice’s similarly tin-eared book for “The
 Addams Family .” A monologue by Black Stache (for his Groucho-
like facial hair) includes a reference to a Cadillac Escalade
and a mangled idiom (“splitting rabbit” for “splitting hairs”)
that defies both sensibility and sense, as does another to  Ayn
Rand .  Mystery Island  There are intermittent songs by Wayne Barker and exhausting
“movement” by Steven Hoggett as the two groups meet and do
battle on a mysterious island.  The staging evokes the Story Theater style of “Nicholas
Nickleby,” with actors doubling and tripling roles, the
inventive use of simple objects (a length of rope becomes
everything from the roiling sea to a ship’s cabin) as well as
the breathless energy of “Bloody Bloody  Andrew Jackson .”  Borle’s wink-wink performance is so over the top that I
half expected him to applaud himself at the end. Celia Keenan-
Bolger is delightful as Molly/Wendy, as is Adam Chanler-Berat as
the Boy who would be Peter.  But “Peter and the Starcatcher” just can’t stop crowing
about how clever it is. I wanted to smack it.  At the Brooks Atkinson Theatre, 256 W. 47th St.
Information: +1-877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com .
Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include the  Olivier awards  and
 Faberge eggs .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 