-- Carlyle Seeks IPO That Would Value Firm Below Blackstone
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-04-16T21:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/carlyle-seeking-as-much-as-762-5-million-in-initial-offering.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  is seeking to
raise as much as $762.5 million in an initial public offering
that would give the Washington-based private-equity firm less
than half the market value of  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   Carlyle, the world’s second-biggest buyout firm by assets
under management, will offer 30.5 million shares at $23 to $25
each, a regulatory filing today shows. At the top end of the
range, the firm would be valued at as much as $7.6 billion,
compared with about $16.5 billion for Blackstone, the biggest
private-equity firm, and $9.8 billion for KKR & Co.  The IPO would follow last week’s offering by  Oaktree
Capital Group LLC (OAK) , which raised less than planned and has
dropped for three straight days. Firms such as Blackstone and
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  have also declined since their
debuts. That performance, coupled with the difficulty of
projecting earnings, may have persuaded Carlyle to value itself
conservatively, said Palisade Capital Management LLC’s  Dan Veru .  “These are difficult companies to pay a big multiple
for,” said Veru, Palisade’s chief investment officer. His  Fort
Lee , New Jersey-based firm oversees $3.7 billion. “It’s always
easier to raise the price if there’s substantial demand rather
than lower it.”  Carlyle’s IPO may price as soon as May 2, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm had about $147 billion in assets
under management as of Dec. 31, compared with about $166 billion
for Blackstone. The New York-based firm, which went public at a
market value of $33.5 billion in 2007, has since shrunk by half.  Oaktree’s Performance  Oaktree, the world’s largest distressed-debt investor, on
April 11 carried out the first IPO by an alternative-asset
manager since Apollo sold stock last year. The Los Angeles-based
firm raised $380.2 million, 27 percent less than it sought, as
the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index pared this year’s rally.  The measure of U.S. stock market volatility known as the
VIX has surged as much as 43 percent since March 26, when it hit
the lowest level in almost five years.  “Carlyle is dealing with the uncertainty of the stock
market,” said  Steven Kaplan , finance professor at Chicago Booth
School of Business. “I still think it may be a way for them to
create positive momentum in anticipation of trading. If there’s
demand at the valuation they go out at, they can start raising
the price.”  Carlyle plans to offer about 10 percent of its stock in the
sale, and expects to use the proceeds to repay debt.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  will lead
the IPO, according to regulatory filings. The firm is listing on
the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol CG.  Carlyle’s Investments  Carlyle has helped take over companies ranging from coffee
shop operator Dunkin’ Donuts Inc. to pipeline company Kinder
Morgan Energy Partners LP. The firm’s revenue rose 1.7 percent
in 2011 to $2.85 billion, with $1.36 billion in net income.
Distributable earnings more than doubled to $864.4 million from
$342.5 million in 2010, following $165.3 million in 2009.  Private-equity firms including Carlyle have been selling
older holdings and returning capital to private backers with the
aim of getting those clients to recommit to newer investment
pools. So-called exit activity “is proving to be a relatively
bright spot” for the buyout industry, researcher PitchBook Data
Inc. said in a report this month.  Founders’ Shares  Founders  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein  won’t sell any of the shares in the firm they founded
in 1987, the filing shows. Each of the founders own about 47
million units that will be worth $1.2 billion at the top of the
IPO price range, according to the document.  Carlyle’s other owners include the California Public
Employees Retirement System and Mubadala Development Co., an
 investment company  controlled by the Abu Dhabi government.  In a video of its pre-IPO marketing presentation posted on
RetailRoadShow.com, D’Aniello emphasized Carlyle’s strategy of
opening local offices and funds focused on specific countries or
regions, with 33 outposts on 6 continents. He also sought to
show how investment returns for the funds’ backers would
translate to profits distributed to shareholders.  “We have an intense focus on our investors,” he said.
“We work for them and the better we perform for our limited
partners, the better our results will be for our public unit
holders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  