-- Carlyle Founders’ Stakes May Be Worth $1.1 Billion Apiece
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/carlyle-founders-stakes-may-be-woth-more-than-1-billion.html
Carlyle Group (CG) ’s co-founders stakes
in the firm are likely to be on par with  George Roberts  and
Henry Kravis’s holdings in  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and worth less than  Stephen Schwarzman ’s shares in  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   Carlyle, which updated its initial public offering
registration yesterday, said it will offer 30.5 million shares
at $23 to $25 each.  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and David Rubenstein’s stakes in the firm they founded in 1987 would be
worth $1.13 billion apiece at the midpoint of the expected price
range, compared with $1.22 billion for their KKR counterparts
and $3.38 billion for Schwarzman at yesterday’s closing prices.  The firm, based in Washington, is the world’s second-
largest private-equity manager, with $147 billion in assets as
of Dec. 31. An IPO is one way founders are cashing out after
building firms that control dozens of companies employing
hundreds of thousands of people.  “What determines a good private-equity firm is the guys in
the corner offices,” said Paul Schaye, managing partner of New
York-based Chestnut Hill Partners, which helps private-equity
firms evaluate deals. “These are 21st-century conglomerates.
They’ve created something in reality with underlying value.”  Schwarzman, who created New York-based Blackstone in 1985
with  Peter G. Peterson , held 232 million shares of the firm at
the end of 2011. The 65-year-old Schwarzman sold a portion of
his stake for $684 million when Blackstone went public in June
2007. His remaining stock was valued at more than $8 billion at
the peak that year.  Blackstone, which oversees about $166 billion, is the
largest private-equity firm by assets.  ‘Crystallize the Value’  Peterson, 85, sold the majority of his Blackstone shares in
the IPO for $1.92 billion, which he used to fund philanthropic
efforts. Blackstone President  Tony James  has a stake worth about
$625 million, according to the firm’s government filings.  “Going public would crystallize the value in our work,”
Schwarzman said at a Captains of Industry event last week in New
York. “And I would have something to give to my heirs.”  Carlyle’s founders aren’t planning to sell any shares in
the offering, a person familiar with the firm said this month.
The proceeds of the IPO will go toward paying down debt,
according to yesterday’s  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Kravis and Roberts founded KKR in 1976 with Jerome Kohlberg. Kravis and Roberts, who are cousins, haven’t sold any
shares in KKR, according to the New York-based firm’s filings.  Apollo’s Black  Leon Black’s stock in  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the New
York-based buyout firm he founded in 1990, is worth about $1.24
billion at yesterday’s price.  The founders of the largest private-equity firms already
are billionaires by virtue of profits from their funds known as
carried interest, or carry.  Private-equity funds pool money from so-called limited
partners such as pensions, endowments and sovereign wealth
funds. The limited partners get 80 percent of the profits, with
the remaining 20 percent going to the fund’s managers in the
form of carry.  Carlyle returned a record $18.8 billion to its investors
last year, more than three times its distribution in 2010, as it
reaped profits from taking companies it owned public or selling
them to other corporations. The three founders earned a combined
$413 million in 2011, mainly from distributions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  