-- Carlyle Is Said to Seek Up to $762.5 Million in Initial Offering
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/carlyle-said-to-seek-up-to-762-5-million-in-initial-offering.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the Washington-
based private-equity firm, is seeking to raise as much as $762.5
million in its initial public offering, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  About 30.5 million shares will be offered at $23 to $25
each, said the person, who declined to be identified because
Carlyle has yet to release terms of the IPO. The company plans
to file an updated prospectus as soon as today, the person said.
The firm has already said the stock will list on the Nasdaq
Stock Market under the symbol CG.  Carlyle, which has considered an IPO since 2007, would be
valued at $7 billion to $7.6 billion after the sale, the person
said. The firm follows competitors  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  in
selling shares to the public. Those companies have declined
since their offerings, and  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, dropped in its debut
after raising less than it sought in its April 11 IPO.  Oaktree carried out the first IPO by an alternative-asset
manager since Apollo sold stock last year, raising $380.2
million. The Los Angeles-based firm sold 8.84 million shares for
$43 each, the bottom of its proposed range. Oaktree said it will
pay  Howard Marks  and Bruce Karsh, two of its co-founders, almost
40 percent of the proceeds.  Carlyle’s Owners  Carlyle plans to offer about 10 percent of its stock in the
offering, the person said. Founders William Conway, Daniel D’Aniello and David Rubenstein won’t sell any of the shares in
the firm they founded in 1987, a person with knowledge of the
matter said this month. Owners including the California Public
Employees Retirement System and Mubadala Development Co., an
investment company controlled by the Abu Dhabi government, also
plan to keep their stakes, the person said.  A spokesman for Carlyle declined to comment. The Washington
Post reported the terms of the IPO yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CS)  will lead the IPO, according to regulatory filings.
Carlyle also hired Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and 12
others to help with the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  