-- Cate Blanchett Plays German Goofball in Surreal Comedy
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-04-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/cate-blanchett-plays-german-goofball-in-surreal-comedy.html
“Surreal, dreamlike, and
delicate” are words that strike fear into the heart of seasoned
theatergoers. They usually mean “no plot.”  They’re used by the  Barbican Theatre  in  London  on its
website to describe “Big and Small,” starring  Cate Blanchett .
They should have added “laugh-out-loud funny.”  Botho Strauss’s 1978 German play follows Lotte Kotte
(Blanchett) through a series of bizarre encounters. Lotte is a
good-hearted optimist, a bit dim, and friendly as a puppy. She
dresses frumpily and is prone to speaking in exclamation marks.
“Amazing!” “Gosh!”  The translation is by Martin Crimp. In Blanchett’s low-
pitched Australian accent it sounds goofy and often funny.  In the first scene, Lotte’s in a hotel bar in Morocco.
She’s eavesdropping on two men, whom we can’t hear, walking
under the window. She tries to relay what they’re saying.  “They’re like total philosophers!” she gushes.  Lotte is alone in  Morocco , and lonely. A relationship seems
to have gone wrong. She’s still smiling.  “Wow!” she says, as she gloomily pulls off her fake
ponytail and false eyelashes at the end of the day.  Later, Lotte tries to meet her estranged husband Paul. She
walks into a series of wrong apartments, and has a series of odd
encounters. One of the inhabitants lives enclosed in a tiny
camping tent. The tent darts hither and thither on the floor
like a silent creature. It doesn’t seem to faze Lotte too much,
and she tries to make friends with the tent.  Friendly Lotte  In fact, Lotte accepts pretty much everything that happens
to her with feelings of friendliness, and this forms the core of
the humor and satire. The more absurd the event, the more Lotte
tries to normalize it in her desire to make connections with
people. Blanchett does it beautifully, and it’s often hilarious.  The program notes hint at a critique of our alienated and
fractured society, and at the Cold War fears of 1978. Maybe.  Things turn darker when Lotte eventually finds her husband,
who proceeds to beat her. She still wants to go back to him. He
kicks her out.  Lotte starts wandering around the streets with a plastic
bag, rummaging through rubbish, and talking out loud to God. A
man in a parka is friendly to her, and offers her some vitamins.
Then he goes away.  No Connection  By this stage you know how he feels. For all the oddball
humor of the early scenes, after a while the play resembles a
series of variations on the same themes. Connections are
impossible. People are odd. Fear and madness lie just a hair’s
breadth away from laughter.  Yes, we know, we know. We got it by the end of Act 1. With
a running time of 2 hours 40 minutes, that’s too long to say it
over and over.  Blanchett still makes the journey worth the watch, and she
invests Lotte with humor and vigor. Sometimes she dances,
frantically and energetically. She’s wonderfully gullible, and
occasionally pops out an extraordinary snort, which is half-
derisory, half-believing. Her descent into madness is “like
totally, totally plausible” as she herself would say.  The production is from the  Sydney Theatre Company , and
director Benedict Andrews does a terrific job. The bleak-funny
tone, so hard to pull off, never wavers. He draws cool,
perfectly pitched performances from the rest of the Australian
ensemble too.  Designer Johannes Schutz pares the aesthetic down to
minimalist essentials, setting the action in a big black box,
and making it look bold and clean. A white beam represents a
hotel bar. A high and narrow white wall with a door makes an
arresting entrance to a block of apartments.  That said, the whole show rests on Blanchett’s shoulders.
They prove more than solid enough to support it. Rating: ***.  “Big and Small (Gross und Klein)” is at the Barbican
Theatre through April 29. Information:
 http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-20-7638-8891.  Today’s Muse highlights: Patrick Cole on  Food Bank  for New
York City gala, Philip Boroff on Met Museum  salaries .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 