-- Cheniere Wins Approval for Biggest U.S. Gas-Export Terminal
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-17T20:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/cheniere-wins-u-s-approval-for-natural-gas-export-terminal.html
Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  won federal
approval to build the largest U.S. natural-gas export terminal
as drillers who extract the fuel from shale formations struggle
to find domestic buyers to absorb a glut.  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved an order
yesterday that will let Cheniere build a $10 billion plant
adjacent to its Sabine Pass gas-import terminal in Cameron
Parish, Louisiana, about 170 miles (274 kilometers) west of
Baton Rouge. The Houston-based company said its 91 percent owned
Cheniere Energy Partners LP hired eight financial institutions
to borrow $4 billion to help fund the construction.  As surging shale-gas drilling pushed U.S. production to a
record, importers of liquefied natural gas have switched course
and sought permission to export the fuel to booming energy
markets in  Asia . Cheniere will compete with LNG producers in
Indonesia, Yemen, Qatar and Australia that charge customers in
 Japan  and  South Korea  as much as as 10 times the price of U.S.
supplies.  “Cheniere has been a first mover and a fast mover,”  John Hirjee , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone today from
 Melbourne . “This will potentially help others who are looking
to export LNG from the U.S. to use Cheniere as a template.”  The stock has more than doubled in New York trading in a
year, even as  Standard & Poor’s  said Cheniere was close to
defaulting for a lack of demand for its gas-importing services.
Cheniere climbed 3.6 percent to $17.60 at the close in  New York .  Gas Falls  Gas for May delivery fell 6.5 cents to $1.951 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement price since Jan. 28, 2002. The
futures have declined 35 percent this year, making gas the worst
performer on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities.  “Today’s order finds that the project can be constructed
and operated safely and with minimal environmental impacts,”
the federal agency known as FERC said in a statement yesterday.  The 55 pollution-control and other conditions placed on
Cheniere’s permit by the FERC “didn’t reveal any hurdles that
would appear to threaten a timely start of project
construction,” Christine Tezak, an analyst at Robert W. Baird &
Co. in Houston, said today in a note to clients.  Environmental groups including the San Francisco-based
Sierra Club opposed the project, saying converting natural gas
to liquid form emits carbon dioxide, which is linked to  climate
change . Some critics of the plan had also said exporting the gas
would drive up costs for domestic users.  Customers Lined Up  Cheniere Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charif Souki
has lined up customers for much of the terminal’s planned export
capacity. The clients are London-based  BG Group Plc (BG/) , Barcelona-
based Gas Natural Fenosa,  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  and  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)   Korea Gas, the world’s biggest LNG importer, agreed in
January to buy 3.5 million metric tons of the fuel annually from
Cheniere. The contract may help the utility buy the fuel at
prices about 30 percent cheaper than supplies from Asia, the
state-owned South Korean company said in an e-mail today.  South Korea, Japan and  Spain  are the world’s largest gas
buyers, according to the U.S. Energy Department. Japanese
utilities were paying $20.87 per million Btus for Yemeni gas in
January, more than 10 times current U.S. prices.  Price Outlook  International gas prices have soared because of rising
consumption by power generators and chemical plants, and to plug
the energy gap stemming from the Fukushima nuclear meltdown in
Japan last year. Overseas prices haven’t been pressured by the
U.S. glut because North American supplies are mostly
inaccessible to the rest of the world.  Gas prices outside of  North America  probably will remain
elevated until at least 2018, providing U.S. exporters a window
of opportunity to recoup capital costs and earn profits before
the price spread between the U.S. and the rest of the world
shrinks, Asish Mohanty, senior global LNG analyst at Wood
Mackenzie, said in an April 9 telephone interview.  After 2018, U.S. exporters will face growing competition
from new and expanded LNG projects in  Australia  that probably
will expand global supplies enough to drive down international
prices, Mohanty said.  The U.S. Energy Department granted Cheniere a permit last
year to export to countries that aren’t free-trade partners with
the U.S., a group that includes Japan and Spain. The terminal is
scheduled to begin operations in 2015 or 2016.  Funding Arrangements  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd, Credit Agricole SA,
Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Morgan Stanley, Royal Bank of  Canada  and SG Americas Securities
will arrange the $4 billion in borrowings announced yesterday,
Cheniere Energy Partners said.  Cheniere on March 14 announced a stock offering, the fourth
in less than a year, and it is negotiating a $2 billion pledge
from  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to cover costs of the export terminal.  The Sabine Pass export facility was backed by Louisiana
lawmakers including Senator Mary Landrieu, a Democrat, and by
 General Electric Co. (GE) , which will make equipment for the plant.  Cheniere is planning another export facility near Corpus
Christi, Texas, which may begin operating by 2017 or 2018, CEO
Souki said.  North American LNG  Aside from Cheniere’s Sabine Pass project, other pending
export venture include Freeport LNG Development’s proposal for a
plant at Freeport, Texas. Seven companies, including Freeport,
are seeking U.S. Energy Department’s permission to export to
non-free-trade agreement nations.  Apache Corp., the second-largest U.S. independent oil and
natural-gas producer by market value, said last month it’s
moving toward a decision to go ahead with its Kitimat LNG
project in Canada this year.  “The dawn of North American LNG has arrived,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said in a research note today. “We expect Sabine Pass to be
the first of several LNG projects to be approved in North
America, which will become a major new LNG exporting region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  