-- Chile's Cencosud Falls on Argentina Intervention Concern
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-16T20:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/chile-s-cencosud-falls-on-argentina-intervention-concern.html
Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD) , the Chilean retailer
that gets a quarter of its earnings from  Argentina , fell to the
lowest in two months on speculation that the Argentine
government’s planned nationalization of oil company YPF SA may
be a first step in other expropriations in the country.  Cencosud, which operates more than 300 supermarkets and
home-improvement stores in Argentina, fell 0.9 percent to
2,978.6 pesos, the lowest price since Feb. 8.  Argentina will send a bill to Congress to take control of
Buenos Aires-based YPF from Spain’s Repsol YPF SA, President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said today in a speech. Argentina
accounted for 28 percent of Cencosud’s sales and 27 percent of
earnings before items in the first nine months of last year,
according to the company’s website.  “The fall is directly related to the announcement of the
nationalization of YPF,” said Adolfo Ortuzar, an analyst at the
Chilean unit of  Banco Santander SA. (SAN)  “The market gets nervous
with this kind of news and speculates on other targets. I see a
Cencosud expropriation as very unlikely.”  Today’s announcement follows more than two months of
government pressure on YPF, a unit of Spain’s Repsol YPF SA, to
boost investment and output. The administration sought to block
YPF dividend payments and backed provincial governments’
decisions to revoke 15 oil field licenses since March 13.  Cencosud shares have fallen 1 percent so far this year
while peers  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  and  Ripley Corp SA (RIPLEY)  have gained 13
percent and 9.7 percent, respectively. Cencosud’s
underperformance is explained by the company’s Argentine
operations and its plans to sell as many as 270 million new
shares, Ortuzar said.  Cencosud said March 1 it would announce the price of the
new shares within the next 120 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  