-- Chilean Peso Depreciates as Growth Concern Drags Down Copper
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-16T19:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/chilean-peso-depreciates-as-growth-concern-drags-downs-copper.html
Chile ’s peso weakened on concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis may worsen and that slower growth will
curb demand for the country’s exports, led by copper.  The peso dropped 0.8 percent, the most since April 10, to
488.75 per  U.S. dollar . It has traded between 480 and 490 per
dollar all month. The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency
Index  fell  0.7 percent.  The euro dipped below $1.3 for the first time since January
after Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the country
would be unable to fund itself without spending cuts as yields
on Spain’s debt rose to the highest in four months. Copper
earlier fell to a three-month low on concern that slowing growth
could curb demand for the metal used in homes and cars.  “The European situation has gotten worse,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local markets strategist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’re seeing a retreat. And on
top of that there’s the copper story and there has been some
flow from pension funds buying dollars.”  Offshore investors in the peso forwards market had a $7.2
billion short position in the currency on April 12, the biggest
in two years, according to the central bank.  “That’s huge,” said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco
de Credito e Inversiones in Santiago. “With the yield
differential rising you would expect it to go the other way. It
may show people taking the view that this correction is going to
be more of a long-term thing and seeing weaker copper. There are
compensating flows in the  spot market  from investment in the
mining sector.”  Long Position  Mining companies are selling dollars in the spot market to
finance exploration and investment in Chile, which accounts for
the limited impact the increase in short positions from offshore
investors in the forwards market has had on the spot price of
the peso, Alarcon said. The spot position of Chilean banks and
currency traders fell to a long peso position of $9.2 billion
from $12.1 billion on March 26, implying banks have sold $3
billion-worth pesos in the spot market in three weeks.  The two-year interest-rate swap rate fell five basis points
to 5.26 percent, the lowest in a month. Bond yields declined and
inflation expectations also fell.  The five-year breakeven inflation rate fell five basis
points to 3.26 percent. The six-month breakeven rate fell 25
basis points to 3.10 percent.  The yield on 10-year fixed-rate central bank bonds fell
four basis points to a one-month low of 5.8 percent today.
Yields for the bonds have fallen 20 basis points in April.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield climbed nine basis points to
6.07 percent on concern the country’s sharp budget cuts may
imperil growth and deepen rather than ease its financial crisis.  The central bank will tomorrow leave its benchmark lending
rate unchanged at 5 percent, according to all 15 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  