-- Citigroup Has ‘Plenty of Time’ to Sell All of Smith Barney
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-16T16:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/citigroup-has-plenty-of-time-to-sell-all-of-smith-barney-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  isn’t under
immediate pressure to sell its entire stake in Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney because the bank has made progress in reaching
capital goals, Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  said.  Citigroup has “plenty of time” to dispose of its 49
percent ownership in the brokerage, owned jointly with  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Pandit said today on a conference call. Pandit was
responding to a question of whether New York-based Citigroup
would be open to selling the entire stake this year.  The bank’s investment is included in Citi Holdings, the
unit with more than $200 billion of unwanted assets. Pandit has
been selling riskier assets as the lender, ranked third by
assets in the U.S., moves to strengthen its balance sheet and
win approval from regulators to buy back shares and raise its
dividend.  Morgan Stanley has the option to buy a 14 percent stake in
the venture in May, increasing its ownership to 65 percent, and
can buy the business outright over the next two years. In 2009,
Morgan Stanley bought a controlling stake in the joint venture,
which had more than 17,000 advisers and $1.65 trillion in client
assets as of Dec. 31.  Capital Goal  Grouping the brokerage stake in Citi Holdings signals that
the bank wants to exit the business, Citigroup Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach  said on the conference call.  Glenn Schorr ,
a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst, said in a note last month that
Gerspach indicated to him that the lender would be willing to
sell the whole stake this year if Morgan Stanley makes an
attractive offer.  Pandit said today the bank probably will reach an 8 percent
Tier 1 common equity ratio under new Basel III rules by the end
of this year, even without selling the whole brokerage stake.  Citigroup said a drop in revenue in the brokerage and
asset-management unit was driven by a lower contribution from
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. Gerspach said the bank’s accounting
for income from the stake also includes costs of funding the
stake and valuation of intangible assets.  The brokerage and asset-management unit, of which MSSB is
more than 90 percent, posted negative revenue of $46 million in
the quarter, compared with $137 million of positive revenue a
year earlier, according to a presentation on the bank’s website.
Morgan Stanley, which operates the brokerage venture, is
scheduled to report quarterly results on April 19.  In the first quarter of 2011, Morgan Stanley reported that
it had $257 million of net income on $3.44 billion of revenue
from its global wealth-management division, which is primarily
composed of the brokerage venture. It said $74 million of those
earnings were applicable to noncontrolling interests.  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities, estimated that
Morgan Stanley’s wealth-management revenue rose to $3.48 billion
in the first quarter. Barclays Capital’s  Roger Freeman  and
Atlantic Equities’s Richard Staite estimated a drop in revenue
to $3.3 billion and $3.38 billion, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  