-- Citigroup Shares Advance as Revenue From Bond Trading Climbs
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-16T20:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/citigroup-misses-estimate-on-accounting-cost-as-trading-rebounds.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , rose 1.8 percent in New York trading after reporting
fixed-income trading revenue that more than doubled from the
fourth quarter.  Citigroup gained 59 cents to $34, after rising 27 percent
this year before today. Fixed-income trading revenue jumped to
$4.74 billion from $1.72 billion in the last three months of
2011 and $3.98 billion a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement.  David Trone , an analyst in
New York with JMP Securities LLC, predicted fixed-income revenue
of $2.78 billion.  Wall Street firms’ trading businesses benefited in the
first quarter as U.S. unemployment fell and Europe’s debt crisis
eased. Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, is trying to
reverse last year’s 10 percent revenue slump and return capital
to shareholders after failing part of a Federal Reserve stress
test in March.  “Revenues were better than I thought,” said Tom Brown,
CEO of Second Curve Capital LLC and a Bloomberg News
contributing editor, in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.” “You really have a lot of
earnings power here that the company is beginning to tap.”  Citigroup may wait until it submits a 2013 capital plan to
the Fed to request authorization for dividend increases or share
buybacks, Pandit told analysts after the bank released results.
Pandit had previously said the bank was ready to return capital
this year.  Analysts’ Estimate  First-quarter net income dropped 2.3 percent to $2.93
billion, or 95 cents a share, from $3 billion, or $1 a share, in
the same period last year. The average estimate of 17 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg was $1.02 a share.  Profit at the consumer bank, the company’s largest unit,
jumped 14 percent to $2.19 billion on a 5 percent gain in
revenue, as lending surged in  Latin America . The bank’s
transaction-services business generated profit of $917 million,
a 10 percent increase.  Citigroup’s profit was $1.11 a share excluding a $1.3
billion accounting cost called a credit-valuation adjustment, or
CVA, and gains the bank made on sales of stakes in other
lenders. The CVA costs primarily stem from an accounting rule
tied to the theoretical cost of buying back the bank’s own debt
as market prices fluctuate.  One-Time Items  The one-time items reduced earnings by 16 cents a share.
Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, had
predicted the cost would be 6 cents.  Revenue rose 1 percent to $20.2 billion for the quarter,
compared with $20 billion a year earlier. Including the CVA,
revenue fell 2 percent to $19.4 billion, the bank said.  Citigroup released about $1.13 billion from loan-loss
reserves, allowing the bank to bolster profit with funds that
had been set aside for future losses on bad loans.  Expenses were unchanged at $12.3 billion. Pandit had
pledged in January to “right-size our businesses to match the
environment” after a year in which shares plunged 44 percent.
Total  staff  dropped to 263,000 from 266,000 in fourth quarter.  The trading rebound comes as Pandit seeks to cut more than
1,000 jobs across the division that contains Citigroup’s trading
and investment-banking units. Revenue at the securities and
banking division, overseen by Jamie Forese, tumbled 16 percent
to $19.7 billion in 2011, leading Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  to cite “management and execution challenges” in
parts of the business.  Trading Revenue  Total trading revenue excluding CVA was $5.64 billion in
the first quarter, an 11 percent gain on the same period last
year. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported $6.44 billion in trading
revenue excluding accounting charges, a 3 percent decline from a
year earlier. Francisco “Paco” Ybarra is in charge of
Citigroup’s trading businesses, reporting to Forese.  The fixed-income unit benefited from “strong performance”
in currency-trading -- run by Anil Prasad -- and trading in
interest-rate products such as Treasuries, inflation-protected
bonds and interest-rate swaps.  Trading in credit, run by Carey Lathrop, and securitized
products declined compared with the same period in 2011, though
the bank didn’t break out the size of the drop.  Equities-trading revenue slid 18 percent to $902 million,
excluding CVA, from the same period in 2011, and almost
quadrupled from the fourth quarter.  Equities Trading  Equities-trading chief Derek Bandeen overhauled the
business, shutting a so-called proprietary-trading unit and
appointing new global heads of equity derivatives, cash equities
and “Delta One” trading. The Delta One desk typically helps
clients speculate on or hedge the performance of a group of
securities.  “They happened to be there when the markets took off,”
Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales Partners LLC in  New
York , said of Citigroup’s trading businesses in a phone
interview. “I don’t think it has anything to do with improved
execution.”  Pandit sold stakes in Turkish lender Akbank TAS, Shanghai
Pudong  Development Bank  and Housing Development Finance Corp. in
Mumbai during the quarter.  Citigroup’s net income compares with the $5.38 billion
posted last week by JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank.  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest lender, reported a $4.25 billion
profit.  ECB Lending  Investors took more risks during the quarter as the
 European Central Bank  increased lending to banks, easing anxiety
tied to the region’s sovereign debt crisis. The five largest
Wall Street banks helped clients buy and sell more commodities,
sovereign debt, currencies and mortgages, leading to a 76
percent increase in fixed-income revenue compared with the
fourth quarter of last year, JMP’s Trone estimated in a March 22
note.  “Positive developments out of  Europe  and a general
willingness to take on risk have pushed capital market stocks
higher,” Trone wrote.  Richard Staite, an analyst in  London  with Atlantic Equities
LLP, said the surge in trading in the first quarter is unlikely
to last as investors take fewer risks during the rest of the
year.  “Many investors will remain on the sidelines during a
period of relatively weak and uncertain economic growth,”
Staite wrote March 30. He said a pattern has developed for the
past three years in which a strong first quarter was followed by
“disappointment.”  M&A Business  Fees from providing advice to clients on mergers and
acquisitions, run by Raymond J. McGuire, fell 23 percent to $110
million. Citigroup fell to seventh from fourth among advisers on
completed global deals as the bank’s market share slipped to 10
percent from 19 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tyler Dickson’s underwriting business, which manages the
sales of shares and bonds for clients, posted revenue of $755
million, up more than 6 percent. The bank leapfrogged Bank of
America to become the second-biggest underwriter of  U.S. debt 
after  JPMorgan (JPM) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dickson
and McGuire report to Forese.  Citi Holdings, the division that holds businesses and
assets that Pandit has tagged for sale, posted a $1.03 billion
loss, little changed from last year. Citigroup had $209 billion
of assets in the unit at the end of the quarter, a 29 percent
decline on the previous year. Mark Mason runs Citi Holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  