-- Citigroup May Wait for Capital Plan on Dividend, Buybacks
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-16T18:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/citigroup-may-wait-for-2013-capital-plan-on-dividend-buybacks.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the bank that’s
been paying a 1-cent quarterly dividend since last year, may
wait until it submits a 2013 capital plan to the  Federal Reserve 
before seeking approval to boost the payout or buy back shares.  “As we consider our resubmission for this year, we also
have to keep in mind that we will be submitting the 2013 capital
plan to the Fed a short time later,” Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit , 55, said today on a conference call with
analysts. “We’re having the conversations with the Fed which
will inform what we submit and what we ask for.”  Pandit said the request “could range from resubmitting
exactly what we asked for before all the way to waiting until
the 2013 submission.”  The Fed rejected in March a plan by New York-based
Citigroup to return capital to shareholders. Regulators found
that the proposal, which may have included a higher dividend,
would cause the bank’s capital buffer to fall below a minimum
standard in an economic slump. Pandit had told investors the
bank was ready to return capital this year.  Citigroup, the third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, began
paying the 1-cent dividend in 2011. Pandit’s failure to secure
Fed approval for a higher payout was a “self-inflicted wound,”
according to  Matthew McCormick , who helps oversee $6.2 billion
at Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati. The firm focuses on
dividend-paying stocks and doesn’t own Citigroup shares.  Citigroup advanced 2.8 percent to $34.35 at 2:12 p.m. in
New York trading. It has gained 31 percent this year.  More From Fed  The bank expects to receive more information from the Fed
this month and must submit a revised plan by mid-June, Pandit
said. The central bank then has 75 days to review the
submission, he told analysts.  “We expect to keep building our capital, we will keep
executing our strategy,” Pandit said. “We will take every step
we can to generate strong returns for our shareholders.”  Pandit discussed the stress tests after first-quarter net
income  slipped  $2.9 billion from $3 billion a year earlier.
Revenue rose 1 percent to $20.2 billion, excluding one-time
items. Revenue from bond-trading more than doubled while
consumer-banking profit jumped 14 percent to $2.19 billion.  The Fed allowed  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S.
bank, to boost its quarterly payout 20 percent to 30 cents a
share and authorized a $15 billion stock-repurchase program,
with $12 billion approved for 2012.  Wells Fargo, BofA  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-biggest lender, raised its
quarterly dividend 83 percent to 22 cents a share.  Bank of
America Corp. , the second-biggest bank, didn’t request an
increase.  Pandit scrapped Citigroup’s dividend in 2009, soon after
the bank almost collapsed and took a $45 billion bailout from
U.S. taxpayers. The lender, the third-biggest in the U.S., has
since repaid the rescue funds.  “Why take a risk with something that is a little more
questionable?” McCormick said in a phone interview last week.
“There are other, better banks that are less volatile, better
managed and less risky and with stronger dividend growth, which
is what I would recommend people seek out.”  Citigroup  gained  39 percent in the first quarter, the
third-best performance among the 24 companies of the  KBW Bank
Index. (BKX)  Bank stocks rose as  U.S. economy  improved and amid
“less-than-negative news from  Europe ,” McCormick said.
Citigroup climbed in spite of the Fed’s rejection, he said.  “I don’t think it was because of a rousing performance, a
rousing execution from Citigroup,” McCormick said. “Until I
see a bigger dividend increase, I’m on the sidelines because
that is one of the key differentiators for us, and I think other
investors as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Dickson at   sdickson1@bloomberg.net  