-- Citigroup Funds at Risk Climb in Spain, Four Other EU Nations
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-16T17:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/citigroup-funds-at-risk-climb-in-spain-four-other-eu-nations.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, said its funds at risk rose to $28.6 billion in five
European countries including  Spain , where the government is
seeking to regain investor confidence amid the region’s debt
crisis.  The figure represents the gross amount of funded and
promised loans in the so-called GIIPS countries of  Greece ,
Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and Spain at the end of March,
according to a presentation posted today on the bank’s website.
The amount is 3.6 percent more than the $27.6 billion the firm
had disclosed for the end of 2011. The bank cut its net funded
exposure, which accounts for collateral, margin and protection
the company has obtained, by 7.7 percent to $6 billion.  Spain’s prime minister,  Mariano Rajoy , is pushing through
the deepest austerity measures in at least three decades as he
struggles to get the government’s finances under control and
prevent the nation from seeking a European bailout. Investors
are dumping the nation’s bonds amid renewed concern about bad
assets at the nation’s banks, driving the cost of insuring
Spanish debt against default to a record last week.  “We don’t have any particular worries about our exposure
to Spain,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 58, said
today on a call with reporters.  Shares in Citigroup  tumbled  44 percent last year as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis mounted. The bank gained 27
percent this year through yesterday as the  European Central Bank 
increased support for the region’s lenders.  Spain’s Share  Citigroup said it had purchased $10.5 billion in credit
protection against potential defaults as of March 31 from
financial institutions predominantly outside the GIIPS
countries. It received $4 billion in collateral and margin. It’s
also holding $3.6 billion in additional collateral that it
didn’t include in calculating the net figure, the presentation
shows.  Spain accounts for 37 percent of the firm’s gross GIIPS
exposure, or 48 percent of its net, the presentation shows.
Rajoy’s government is overhauling the nation’s banks, which are
saddled with 175 billion euros ($228 billion) of troubled real-
estate assets after the country’s property boom collapsed four
years ago. A recession may hit those lenders’ profitability as
they seek to clean their balance sheets, Moody’s Investors
Service said Feb. 13.  Citi Holdings, the bank’s unit that manages assets marked
for disposal, held an additional $4.5 billion in Spanish and
Greek consumer loans at the end of March, according to the
presentation.  The bank has written off almost 20 percent of its Greek
consumer loans and 5.5 percent of the Spanish loans by the end
of the first quarter, according to the presentation. That
compares with the 0.6 percent of consumer loans it wrote off in
 India .  Analyst Recommendation  Citigroup said in a Feb. 24 annual filing that it had lent
$7.4 billion, mainly to retail customers and small businesses,
around the five troubled countries, with the “vast majority”
in Spain and Greece. That exposure was one of the reasons
Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC, cited when
he changed his rating on Citigroup shares to “underperform”
from “outperform,” according to a March 14 note. He estimated
that between $5 billion and $6 billion of the loans are in Spain
and that Citigroup made many of them through local branches.  “Given the global slowdown, we are concerned that
Citigroup will start experiencing higher charge-off levels in
its international consumer franchises,” Peabody wrote. “Our
concerns are particularly focused on  Europe , where Citigroup has
locally-funded operations.”  Those loans may have contributed to the  Federal Reserve ’s
decision to reject Citigroup’s capital plan last month following
stress tests, Peabody has said. About 11 percent of the bank’s
commercial-and-industrial loan book would sour under the dire
economic scenario used by the Fed, the worst failure rate of all
banks tested.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 