-- Clearinghouses to Face Tougher IOSCO Capital, Liquidity Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-16T09:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/clearinghouses-to-face-tougher-iosco-capital-liquidity-rules.html
Clearinghouses that handle
securities transactions face tougher capital and liquidity
requirements as part of revamped global rules to make them
“more resilient” to crises.  The measures set “more demanding international standards
for payment, clearing and settlement systems,” the
International Organization of Securities Commissions said in a
statement on its website today.  International clearinghouses for securities trading would
have to hold enough capital to withstand the failure of their
two biggest members. All market infrastructure would need enough
cash and other “liquid resources” to survive “a wide range of
potential stress scenarios,” IOSCO said.  Regulators are seeking to bolster protection of market
infrastructure such as clearinghouses and central securities
depositories, or CSDs, after the Group of 20 countries sought to
push more trading of over-the-counter derivatives through
official venues.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s Eurex Clearing operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  CSDs, including  Euroclear Bank  and Deutsche Boerse AG’s
 Clearstream  arm, are responsible for completing transactions by
ensuring the delivery of the securities against cash. Such
systems settled transactions worth more than $1,000 trillion in
2010, according to European Commission data.  G-20 nations have given themselves until the end of the
year to enforce central clearing of standardized OTC derivative
contracts.  Clearing and settlement operators should also make plans
for how they may be safely wound down if they fail, IOSCO said.  Madrid-based IOSCO brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 