-- Clemens Judge Begins Screening Jurors for Perjury Retrial
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-16T18:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/clemens-trial-judge-begins-screening-80-to-90-potential-jurors.html
The judge overseeing the trial of
 Roger Clemens  began screening 80 to 90 potential jurors for the
ex-New York Yankees pitcher’s retrial on perjury charges.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in  Washington  today began
the process of selecting 12 jurors and four alternates by posing
about 86 questions to the jury pool. He asked whether any of the
potential jurors knew about the case against Clemens or had read
about it in the media.  “We’re merely trying to ensure that the 12 people selected
as jurors in this case decide it solely on the evidence produced
at trial and no other factors,” Walton said.  Clemens, who made his Major League Baseball debut in 1984
and played for four different teams over 23 years, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury in connection with a congressional probe of ballplayers’
alleged use of performance-enhancing drugs. If convicted on all
counts, Clemens, 49, would face as long as 30 years in prison
and a $1.5 million fine.  Walton declared a mistrial in July after finding that
prosecutors improperly showed the jury a video clip of a 2008
congressional hearing in which the wife of government witness
 Andy Pettitte  was discussed. Walton had ruled earlier that the
government could make no references to Laura Pettitte, or an
affidavit she gave Congress.  Clemens’s Wife  The trial, scheduled to last four to six weeks, will
feature testimony from Clemens’s wife, former congressional
investigators and major-league players, including former Yankees
teammate Pettitte. Jury selection may take three days or longer.  Both sides today listed dozens of people who may be called
as witnesses or who may be mentioned at trial including some of
baseball’s biggest names.  The government’s list included  Barry Bonds , the ex-San
Francisco Giants outfielder and baseball’s career home-run
record-holder; Brian Cashman, general manager of the Yankees;
and Jose Canseco, Clemens’s former teammate who wrote a book
about steroid use in baseball.  The defense list included Phil Garner, a former major-
league player and manager;  Jorge Posada , a catcher for the
Yankees who retired last year; and Mike Stanton, a former
teammate of Clemens from the Yankees.  20 Jurors  After reading through the questionnaire, Walton ordered
just 20 jurors to remain for individual questioning today by him
and the lawyers. The other potential jurors were told they would
be called back to court in groups of about 25 over the next
three days as needed.  Of the four potential jurors interviewed before a lunch
break -- all women -- three were ordered to return to court on
April 18. They include: a cashier at a Giant food store who said
she doesn’t like sports; an office administrator whose sister is
a police officer; and a program analyst with the  District of
Columbia  government who said she was glad that George Zimmerman
was charged with the murder of Trayvon Martin.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  