-- Commodity ‘Super Cycle’ May Be Coming to End, Citigroup Says
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-04-16T09:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/commodity-super-cycle-may-be-coming-to-end-citigroup-says-1-.html
The “super cycle” of gains across
commodity prices may be coming to an end as raw material
production rises in response to higher prices and as  China ’s
dominance in demand recedes, according to Citigroup Inc.  Commodity markets are reflecting “increased
differentiation as a group,” the bank said in a report e-mailed
today. While China’s demand for raw materials continues to
dominate the outlook for individual commodities, it is “no
longer the monolithic force” it was in the past decade, the
bank said.  “China’s increasingly differentiated impact across
commodities is providing abundant evidence that the coordinated
commodity super cycle of the last decade may be coming to an
end,” New York-based Edward L. Morse, the global head of
commodities research, said in a report today.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials has
increased fourfold since 2001, gaining every year except for a
43 percent drop in 2008. Copper and oil rose more than fivefold
since 2001 and corn almost tripled. The gauge is up 4.9 percent
this year.  “Precious metals are slowing down from their rapid
appreciation of 2009 and 2010,” the bank said, adding that
industrial metals are entering “what may be a more supply
abundant phase.”  The shift is eroding the appeal of “long-only” investment
strategies, according to the bank. The investment cycle has been
completed for North American natural gas, bringing “an
explosion of supply and lower prices,” with similar cyclical
investment trends under way across base metals, Citigroup said.  Base Metal Demand  Slower growth in China means less demand for base metals,
while the country’s increased investment in raw-material assets
and reforms in domestic refining and fabrication are also
slowing the pace of usage growth, according to the report. China
accounts for 40 percent of copper consumption and 11 percent of
oil demand, according to  Barclays Capital  and the  International
Energy Agency .  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent last quarter, less
than the 8.4 percent anticipated by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, government data showed April 13. Chinese Premier  Wen
Jiabao  cut the nation’s economic growth target to 7.5 percent
last month, the lowest since 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  