-- Companies in U.S. Boosted Inventories in February as Sales Rose
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-16T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/companies-in-u-s-boosted-inventories-in-february-as-sales-rose.html
Companies in the U.S. increased
 inventories  in February as sales picked up, indicating factories
will probably keep receiving orders as businesses rebuild stocks.  The 0.6 percent rise followed a revised 0.8 percent advance
the prior month, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median projection in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 0.6 percent gain. Sales climbed 0.7 percent after a
0.4 percent gain in January.  Inventory swings may diminish in the first half of 2012
after helping the economy grow in the fourth quarter at the
fastest pace in more than a year. Another report today showed
 retail sales  rose almost three times more than projected, showing
consumers are weathering the jump in gasoline prices heading into
the second quarter.  “As domestic demand holds up, then we could possibly see
inventories build as suppliers try to meet the rising demand, so
that will certainly add to activity,”  Millan Mulraine , a senior
U.S. strategist at TD Securities in  New York , said before the
report. “Inventories are not going to be the big factor that
they were a year or two ago, but they still remain an important
factor.”  The median forecast for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 46 economists. Projections ranged from gains
0.4 percent to 1 percent. January’s figure was revised from the
0.7 percent increase originally reported.  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.28 months, the same as in January. The last time
the ratio was lower was in December.  Sales Increase  Retail sales climbed 0.8 percent last month after a 1
percent advance in February, another report from the Commerce
Department showed today. The  median  forecast of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a rise of 0.3 percent. Eleven of
13 categories showed increases.  Also today, other data showed manufacturing in the New York
region expanded in April at the slowest pace in five months, a
sign the pickup in factory production is moderating. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index decreased to
6.6 this month, less than the most pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, from 20.2 in March. Readings greater than zero
signal expansion in the so-called Empire State Index, which
covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Employers in the U.S. boosted payrolls less than forecast in
March, the Labor Department said earlier this month. The 120,000
increase in jobs was the smallest in five months. The
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent.  Retail Inventories  Retailer stockpiles, the only part of today’s data not
previously reported, climbed 0.6 percent in February as sales
jumped 1.1 percent. That caused the number of goods on hand to
drop to a 1.32 months’ supply from 1.33 months in January.  Wholesale inventories, which make up about 30 percent of all
stockpiles, rose 0.9 percent, the same as the Commerce Department
reported last week, following a 0.6 percent gain. Factory
stockpiles increased 0.4 percent.  Greenbrier Cos. Inc., in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon , increased its
production of railcars and ships in the past year and has
accumulated inventory in part to lock in favorable pricing, Chief
Executive Officer William Furman said.  “If you ramp up manufacturing four times where you were a
year ago, that fact alone will cause heavy buildings of
inventories and other items on the balance sheet,” Furman said
in an April 9 earnings call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Company news. 