-- Company Bond Sales Sink to Lowest of Year: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-04-16T15:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/company-bond-sales-sink-to-lowest-levels-of-year-credit-markets.html
Corporate bond sales worldwide are
faltering after setting a record in the first quarter as doubts
about the strength of the economic recovery and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis resurface.  From the U.S. to Europe and  Asia , issuance has fallen to
the lowest levels of the year in the past two weeks, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings this month of $87
billion from borrowers led by  Deere & Co. (DE) , the largest maker of
agricultural equipment, and Royal Bank of Canada compare with a
weekly average of $89.9 billion in the first three months of
2012.  Sales are dwindling even as yields on bonds have fallen
almost 1 percentage point from last year’s high of more than 5
percent in October, showing reduced confidence in the global
outlook among borrowers. Last week, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  singled out a worsening of
the European debt turmoil as the largest risk to growth, while
adding that threats to the economy have diminished.  “You’ve kind of had things turn tail over the last couple
of weeks,” said  Thomas Chow , a  money manager  at Delaware
Investments in Philadelphia with about $170 billion under
management, of which $130 billion is invested in fixed-income
assets. “The message is that we’re not out of the woods yet by
any means, and that the market continues to find faults and
problems with any solution to date that’s been presented.”  ‘Pulled Forward’  Yields on corporate bonds from the riskiest to the most
creditworthy declined to 4.17 percent as of April 13, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
& High Yield index. While that’s down from 5.08 percent on Oct.
10, the average has climbed from 4.12 percent on March 2, the
lowest since November 2010.  “Corporations are still in a better position if they have
to raise money,” Greg Tornga, head of fixed income at Edge
Asset Management in  Seattle , which manages about $22 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “Corporations have pulled
forward their needs for the year and they’ve now run out of
demand, but they don’t necessarily need to access the market.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk was little changed. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.16 basis point to a mid-price of 102 basis points as of 11:46
a.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd.  Rate Swap Spreads  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, added 0.19 basis point to 29.94 basis points
as of 11:47 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp. are the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers today, with 51 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:47
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Corporate bond sales are slowing after soaring to a record
$1.17 trillion in the first quarter as companies took advantage
of the  Federal Reserve  holding benchmark  interest rates  near
zero and the  European Central Bank  made more than a trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) available to the financial system with
three-year loans to the region’s lenders.  Sales Decline  Sales this month have declined 39 percent from $143.5
billion in the same period of 2011, Bloomberg compiled data
show. Issuance last week of $46.7 billion followed $40.1 billion
in the period ended April 6, the fifth straight week of declines
in the longest streak since April 2009.  In the U.S., investment-grade issuance dropped for the
second week, plummeting 65 percent from the previous week to
$4.9 billion, the lowest level since the end of 2011.  “There certainly has been a decline in general appetite
for any sort of risky asset over the last couple of weeks,”
Brett Wander, chief investment officer for fixed-income at
Charles Schwab Investment Management Inc., which has about $220
billion under management, said in a telephone interview. “There
was almost a mini risky-asset euphoria that took place in March.
Now, both investors and issuers are taking a deep breath.”  Royal Bank of Canada  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest lender, sold
C$1.5 billion ($1.5 billion) of 2.58 percent senior unsecured
notes due April 2017 on April 10. The securities yield 107 basis
points more than government debt of similar maturity.  Moline, Illinois-based Deere’s financing arm, John Deere
Capital Corp., sold $1 billion of notes on April 12, split
evenly between three- and seven-year maturities, Bloomberg data
show. That brings its total borrowing this year to $2.7 billion,
or about 44 percent of its 2011 issuance.  Europe’s flaring debt crisis remains the biggest risk to
worldwide economic growth as the region’s governments move to
increase their defenses, Lagarde said April 12 at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington .  Credit swaps on Spanish debt climbed to a record for a
second day and signalled a 37 percent chance the nation will
default as its borrowing costs surged to levels that prompted
its neighbors to seek bailouts.  Contracts tied to Spain’s bonds jumped 19 basis points
today to 521, according to CMA prices. The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western  Europe  Index of contracts on 15 governments rose three
basis points to 283, while swaps on  Italy  climbed eight basis
points to a three-month high of 443.  War Chest  Spain is due to sell new debt tomorrow before European
officials travel to Washington later this week to seek a bigger
war chest to battle the financial crisis. The nation’s 10-year
 bond yield  soared to 6.15 percent, the highest since Dec. 1 and
approaching the 7 percent level that foresaw the international
rescues of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  “Spain is rumbling around in the background like a big
thundercloud that’s threatening on the horizon still,” said
Norval Loftus, chief investment officer at Allegra Investment
Management Ltd. in  London . “The deals are becoming more
cautious.”  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Profit Stalls  Corporate profit growth stalled in the U.S. last quarter as
companies from McDonald’s Corp. to 3M Co. saw gains in the
world’s largest economy eroded by Europe’s continuing slump.
Earnings at S&P 500 Index companies, excluding financials, are
seen gaining 0.6 percent in the first and the second quarter
from a year earlier, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg, the slowest growth rate since 2009.  Confidence (CONSSENT)  among U.S. consumers also cooled in April from a
one-year high following the slowest month of job growth since
October. First-time applications for jobless benefits
unexpectedly rose the week ended April 7 to 380,000, after
employers added half as many jobs in March compared with
February, Labor Department figures showed.  “The recovery in the  United States  is still filled with
questions,” Timothy Cox, executive director of debt capital
markets at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “It really became concerning to the
issuers -- they didn’t want to sell bonds into a softer
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  