-- Conergy Rises on CEO 20% Margin Comment: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-04-16T15:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/conergy-rises-after-ceo-s-profit-comment-frankfurt-mover.html
Conergy AG (CGYK) , a German solar-panel
maker, rose the most in two months in  Frankfurt  after Chief
Executive Officer Philip Comberg said he sees a gross profit
margin of at least 20 percent in the first quarter.  Conergy climbed 14 percent to 0.436 euros a share at the
close at 5:30 p.m. local time, the steepest gain since Feb. 9.
The company projected “low positive” earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization on  March 29 .  Demand for solar panels “continues to be high,” Comberg
said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News. “We see that in
our order books and our operating margin has risen to above 20
percent in the first quarter according to preliminary figures.”
Antje Stephan, a spokeswoman, said the comments relate to the
“gross profit margin.”  German solar companies have struggled with reduced state
aid and competition from Chinese companies that expanded
capacity, creating an oversupply in panels.  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the
biggest solar-cell maker,  Solon SE (SOO1) ,  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and
 Solarhybrid AG (SHL)  have filed for insolvency the past four months.  Comberg earlier confirmed his company’s target for an
operating profit this year after a loss in 2011 in an interview
with  Der Spiegel .  The Hamburg-based company has lost three-quarters of its
value over the past year even with today’s gain. Conergy has
been cutting jobs and halting production of wafers and cells to
focus on end-product modules and non-German markets in a bid to
become profitable. The company is targeting  North America  and
 Asia  for growth, Stephan said April 3.  “We have taken some hard steps earlier than our
competition, and that’s helping us now,” Comberg said in the e-
mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  