-- Congo Urged to Overhaul Military to Avoid Squandering of Aid
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-04-16T14:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/congo-urged-to-overhaul-military-to-avoid-squandering-of-aid-1-.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo
must overhaul its military and police to avoid squandering
billions of dollars in aid meant to develop the impoverished
country, according to a report by 13 Congolese and international
groups.  Government officials lack the political will to reform the
military because they’re profiting from its current structure,
to the detriment of the population, according to the
publication, released today in Kinshasa, the capital.  “The very people in senior positions of the government and
military who are responsible for effecting reform continue to
profit from the current army, either in raking off salaries of
servicemen, kickbacks, or involvement in illegal mining, trade
or protection rackets,” Dismas Kitenge, vice president of
Congo’s International Federation for Human Rights, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Conflict continues to plague the Central African nation,
mainly in the mineral-rich east, almost a decade after a civil
war officially ended in 2003. In the past five years, only 1
percent of $14 billion in international aid went to military and
police reform, according to the report.  The United Nations last year ranked Congo bottom of its
Human Development Index, which measures indicators including
education and income.  The report called for more support for reform from
governments with significant investments in Congo, including
Angola,  South Africa  and  China .  ‘Takes Time’  More money should also be allocated by the government to
reform the country’s security services, Police General Michel
Olesse told reporters today in Kinshasa. Changes in the police
structure are already under way “but to reform you must change
men, and that takes time,” he said.  The report comes a week after President  Joseph Kabila 
called for the arrest and trial of army commanders responsible
for an insurrection of about 300 soldiers in the east. Many of
the soldiers were former supporters of rebel General Bosco Ntaganda, who is wanted by the  International Criminal Court  for
 war crimes .  Ntaganda runs gold and tin ore smuggling rings in the
eastern Congo worth millions of dollars, according the  United
Nations . Kabila said Ntaganda could be arrested if he was found
guilty of crimes, according to a summary of his remarks on the
North Kivu provincial website.  “Military reform is also linked to the reform of the
justice system,” because soldiers are not held responsible for
their crimes, Irene Esambo, president of the Center for the
Study of Justice and Resolution 1325, told reporters in
Kinshasa.  Trade Stopped  Congo is Africa’s largest producer of tin ore, most of
which is located in the eastern conflict zones. Much of the
trade from the region stopped last April, when electronics
industry groups began refusing to buy minerals that may have
funded armed groups in the country.  Vancouver-based  Alphamin Resources Corp. (AFM)  and  Malaysia
Smelting Corp. Bhd (SMELT)  are exploring tin-ore operations in eastern
Congo. Toronto’s  Banro Corp. (BAA)  started shipping gold from the
region last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  