-- Coty Says It’s Confident in Financing for Avon Bid
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-04-16T20:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/coty-says-it-s-confident-in-financing-for-avon-bid.html
Coty Inc., the maker of perfumes by
Heidi Klum and  Beyonce Knowles , said it is confident in
financing for its $10 billion bid to acquire  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) 
as it works to convince investors to support the offer.  BDT Capital partners and Coty’s owner Joh A. Benckiser SE
have committed equity financing totaling more than $5 billion,
the New York-based company said today in a statement. Coty said
it has also received a letter from JPMorgan Chase & Co. for debt
financing. Avon in an e-mailed statement today said the offer is
“opportunistic” and doesn’t reflect the value of the company.  Coty is working to build support for its attempt to buy
Avon, which would more than triple its sales and help expand
into  emerging markets  such as  Brazil . The company proposed no
more than two weeks to hold private negotiations for the deal,
which was valued at $23.25 a share and rejected by Avon April 2.  “The time for Avon shareholders to talk to the Avon board
is now,” Coty Chairman Bart Becht said today in a telephone
interview. “We are not going to stay around forever. If we get
no response from anybody, at some point in time, we will abandon
the project.”  Avon  fell  2.1 percent to $23.03 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 32 percent this year.  Coty said there are “significant items materially
impacting the value of Avon” and it doesn’t know the best price
to offer shareholders because it hasn’t been invited to perform
due diligence.  Legal Issues  The company said it doesn’t know the extent of Avon’s legal
issues concerning an investigation related to the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. In 2008, Avon began a probe into its
Chinese operations centering on the bribery of foreign officials
that led to the firing of executives.  “The key question which is outstanding, clearly, is
price,” Becht said. “We cannot move on price until we do due
diligence, because there are material issues which impact the
value of the business.”  The takeover would be the biggest in the cosmetics and
toiletries industry since  Procter & Gamble Co.’s (PG)  2005 purchase
of Gillette Co. for $57.3 billion including debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Avon, which is working to reverse three years of profit
declines, named Johnson & Johnson’s Sherilyn McCoy as chief
executive officer last week, replacing  Andrea Jung .  Perfume Licenses  The announcement of the new CEO hasn’t given Coty pause,
Becht said. With its resources and “proven” management team
working alongside Avon executives, “we believe that our
solution is superior to what they are pursuing today,” he said.  Coty, which holds perfume licenses for brands including
 Calvin Klein  and  Marc Jacobs , was founded in 1904 in Paris by
Corsican-born Francois Coty. The company helped develop perfume
into a mass product, with 36 million consumers two decades
later. Coty’s previous purchases include $400 million for a
majority stake in Chinese skin-care company TJoy Holdings Ltd.
in December 2010.  Coty is focused on the acquisition of Avon at this time,
Becht said. The company isn’t currently working on an initial
public offering in case the deal doesn’t happen, he said.  “If this project were to be abandoned, we would reconsider
it at some point in time,” Becht said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 Jcallan2@bloomberg.net 
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  