-- U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Little Changed as Spanish Yields Climb
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-16T21:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/credit-default-swaps-in-the-u-s-decline-as-spanish-yields-climb.html
A benchmark  gauge  of U.S. company
credit risk was little changed as a stronger-than-forecast
increase in retail sales boosted optimism about the world’s
largest economy, mitigating a rise in Spanish 10-year bond
yields to a high for the year.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, was little changed at a mid-price of 101.5
basis points as of 4:19 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves, held as retail sales gained 0.8 percent in
March, almost three times as large as projected, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington.  Jaime Garcia-Legaz, Spain’s deputy minister in the economy
department, called on the  European Central Bank  to buy the
nation’s debt to help stem financial-market turmoil. The country
is scheduled to sell bonds tomorrow and on April 19 as the cost
of insuring its debt against default touched a record.  Industrial companies including General Electric Co.,
 Danaher Corp. (DHR) , and  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  are scheduled to report
earnings this week.  Service Sector  Growth hasn’t been directionally indicative, so those
earnings reports will be “your first taste of where things are
going in that sector,” said  Joel Levington , managing director
of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in
New York.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing 
index showed  service industries  in the U.S. expanded less than
forecast in March as orders grew at the slowest pace in three
months. The gauge, which signals expansion with readings above
50, dropped to 56 from a one-year high of 57.3 in February, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed April 4.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, increased 0.31 basis point to 30.06
basis points. The measure falls when investors favor assets such
as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  