-- Credit Suisse Paid $6.8 Billion for AIG’s Home-Loan Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-04-16T18:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/credit-suisse-paid-6-8-billion-for-aig-s-home-loan-bonds.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  paid $6.8
billion to the Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York for $13 billion
of home-loan bonds that had been assumed in the U.S. rescue of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  paid $3.5 billion for $6.2 billion
of the securities in the New York Fed’s Maiden Lane II vehicle
while winning one of the three auctions conducted in January and
February, according to  data  posted today on the central bank’s
website. Credit Suisse won the other two.  The amount sold and buyers were previously disclosed. The
New York Fed had said the prices were sufficient to conclude
repayment of its $19.5 billion loan to the vehicle and earn
taxpayers a $2.8 billion profit. Andrea Priest, a New York Fed
spokeswoman, and  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment, as did Credit Suisse’s Jack Grone.  The central bank had halted a series of regular and more
public auctions of mortgage securities held by Maiden Lane II
last year after traders blamed sales of about $10 billion for
damaging credit markets. It finished selling the rest this year
after opting to conduct auctions through a more limited number
of dealers in response to unsolicited bids.  The New York Fed said this month it’s also considering
selling assets from its separate Maiden Lane III portfolio,
helping to roil the market for commercial-mortgage debt.  Maiden Lane Bids  The central bank this week is also probably accepting bids
on a pool of $672 million of home-loan bonds being held by its
first Maiden Lane vehicle, according to  Empirasign Strategies
LLC . The New York-based provider of data on securitized-debt
trading based the assessment on a list of securities being
auctioned and Fed disclosures on the vehicle’s holdings. Priest
of the New York Fed declined to comment.  The initial Maiden Lane was created to house assets from
Bear Stearns Cos., enabling the emergency sale of the investment
bank to JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2008. It holds a broader range
of assets including government-backed and other securitized debt
as well as real-estate loans and hedges.  The Fed has been slowly reducing that vehicle’s holdings
through sales that it doesn’t announce publicly. The central
bank got $744 million in proceeds last quarter from investment
banks led by RBS Securities Inc., a unit of Edinburgh-based
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which paid $186 million for
Maiden Lane assets, according to data on its website. Proceeds
fell from $3.8 billion in the previous quarter.  ‘Improving Market Conditions’  The district bank is owed $2.9 billion on its Maiden Lane
loan, with the vehicle’s  holdings  valued at about $5.5 billion,
based on Dec. 31 prices, according to its website.  With Maiden Lane III, the New York Fed has decided “to
explore possible sales of some of the assets in the portfolio in
light of improving market conditions and the success of the
Maiden Lane II sales,”  Jack Gutt , a spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement on April 4.  Those holdings were also taken over in the bailout of AIG
and include two collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, with a
face amount of $7.49 billion that are tied to commercial-
property debt. The central bank is owed almost $9 billion on its
loan to Maiden Lane III with the holdings, mainly CDOs tied to
residential debt, valued at about $17.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  