-- Croatia Has One-In-Three Chance of Downgrade Within Year at S&P
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-04-16T14:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/croatia-has-one-in-three-chance-of-downgrade-within-year-at-s-p.html
Croatia has a 33 percent chance of
having its  credit rating  lowered to a non-investment grade
depending on government efforts to spur economic growth,
 Standard & Poor’s  said.  S&P today affirmed the rating of BBB- with a negative
outlook for state-owned development bank HBOR, “mirroring” its
assessment of the country’s sovereign debt, which was affirmed
on April 3. The rating is on par with Iceland, Latvia, Bulgaria
and Romania. Croatia is rated an equivalent BBB-, the lowest
investment grade, at  Fitch Ratings , and Baa3 at Moody’s.  “The negative outlook on the long-term sovereign rating
reflects our expectation of a one-in-three chance that we could
lower the rating over the next year if the scope and
implementation of reform efforts, particularly in the public
sector and labor market, are insufficient to facilitate
sustainable economic growth,” S&P said in a statement today.  Croatia , the second former Yugoslav republic set to join
the  European Union  next year after Slovenia’s entry in 2004, is
struggling to recover from a recession as domestic consumption
slows and  Europe ’s debt crisis damps demand for its exports.  The Adriatic Sea nation’s economy, which shrank 0.4 percent
in the final quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, will contract
about 1 percent in 2012, S&P said. A lack of competitiveness and
its relatively small non-tourism export base are preventing the
economy from recovering, S&P said.  Growth Estimates  The economy will grow 0.8 percent in 2012, Prime Minister
 Zoran Milanovic  said in February, while central bank Governor
Zeljko Rohatinski said in December the country may slide into a
recession again this year after a modest recovery in 2011.  The government, which took power in January, proposed 4
billion kuna ($696 million) in spending cuts through lower
subsidies to state companies and public wages.  The government also plans to revive investment by injecting
8 billion kuna from reconstruction banks and EU funds into
infrastructure and the  energy industry . The  World Bank  said in
February growth this year will probably remain flat, while Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank d.d. in March predicted a contraction of 2
percent, citing a continued investment drought and high external
risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  