-- Crude Drops for Second Day in New York After Iran Talks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-16T12:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/crude-drops-for-second-day-in-new-york-after-iran-nuclear-talks.html
Brent crude  fell, extending last
week’s drop, after the first international talks in 15 months on
 Iran’s nuclear program  yielded an agreement for the parties to
reconvene in May.  Brent futures slipped as much as 1.5 percent in London. The
United Nations’ five permanent Security Council members plus
 Germany  will meet Iranian delegates in Baghdad on May 23 after
“constructive” talks in Istanbul on April 14, the European
Union’s foreign policy chief said yesterday. The U.S. benchmark,
West Texas Intermediate, pared losses after U.S.  retail sales 
rose more than forecast.  “It’s definitely a step forward that the parties are at
least talking again,” said Thorbjorn Bak Jensen, an analyst at
Global Risk Management in Middelfart, Denmark. “There is a
significant  risk premium  in prices related to Iran, and even
small steps towards a solution can have large impacts.”  Brent oil for June settlement dropped as much as $1.80 to
$119.41 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange and was at
$120.07 at 1:46 p.m. local time. Futures fell in four of the
past five weeks.  Crude for May delivery advanced 15 cents to $102.98 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The European benchmark contract’s front-month premium
to WTI was at $16.64, compared with $19 on April 13.  Iran Talks  The 0.8 percent gain in U.S. retail sales for March was
almost three times as large as projected and followed a 1
percent advance in February, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a rise of 0.3 percent.
Eleven of 13 categories showed increases.  Brent futures rose 12 percent this year amid concern that
tension with  Iran  may disrupt global supply. Discussions in
Istanbul lasted 10 hours and were described as constructive by
the Iran’s lead negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , and the EU’s foreign
policy chief,  Catherine Ashton . The Islamic Republic dropped
upfront demands, and the discussions focused almost exclusively
on the nation’s nuclear program, according to two Western
diplomats involved.  Israel’s Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  criticized the
outcome as giving Iran more time to continue enriching uranium,
the process capable of producing fuel for a nuclear bomb. Iran
says it’s developing atomic technology for civilian use,
including energy and medicine.  “The flavor of those talks did seem a little more positive
than the rhetoric of the past,” said  David Lennox , an analyst
at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “Between $90 and $100 a barrel would
appear to be a fair value” for West Texas Intermediate without
the Iran premium, he said.  Support Levels  New York crude has technical support along its 100-day
moving average at around $101.73 a barrel today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Buy orders tend to be clustered near
chart-support levels. Stochastic oscillators have been below a
reading of 30 for the past week, signaling further losses may
not be sustainable.  Hedge funds  reduced bullish oil wagers by 24,860, or 11
percent, to 191,827 contracts in the seven days ended April 10,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitment of Traders report on April 13.  ‘Sustained Strikes’  Nigeria’s Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta
rebel group threatened to mount “sustained strikes on all
pipelines and facilities remotely related to the Nigerian oil
industry,” according to an April 14 statement.  Eni SpA suffered damage to an oil pipeline last week, for
which the rebel group claimed responsibility. Nigeria is
Africa’s top producer.  “There’s certainly a supply-disruption premium of around
about $10 to $15 a barrel in the  oil prices  at the moment,”
 Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “We’ve also got bubbling issues in North
Africa. There’s enough in the market there, I think, for
investors to want to stay long from a supply point of view.”  In  London , hedge funds and other money managers cut bullish
bets on Brent crude by 16,735 contracts in the week ended April
10,  data from ICE Futures Europe showed .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 122,339 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. The figure represents a 12 percent decrease in
speculators’ net-long positions from the previous week,
according to ICE data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  