-- Dimon Widens Gap With JPMorgan as Wall Street Pay Slides
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-17T17:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/dimon-widens-gap-with-jpmorgan-bankers-as-wall-street-pay-slides.html
Jamie Dimon, awarded $23 million
for running  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  last year, earned 67 times the
average amount set aside for his investment bankers and traders,
the widest gap among firms that report divisional pay.  Dimon, 56, chief executive officer of the New York-based
lender, was one of the few bank CEOs who avoided a pay cut for
2011. The ratio of his compensation to the average for all
employees at JPMorgan’s  investment bank  increased from 62 times
the previous year. At Morgan Stanley, CEO James Gorman’s award
was $10.5 million, 25 percent less than for 2010 and 40 times
that company’s average of $264,996.  CEO pay in banking has dropped since peaking before the
financial crisis, bringing the ratio at most firms to between
18-to-1 and 50-to-1 from some that topped 100-to-1 in 2006 and
2007. The ratios probably won’t rebound to those levels in the
next decade because of lower profits, said  Alan Johnson ,
president of compensation consultant Johnson Associates Inc.  “Thirty to 50 times is probably unsustainably low for the
industry, but that’s somewhat consistent with the bummer of a
year we had in 2011,” said Johnson, whose firm is based in  New
York . “If it stays there, that’s probably a really bad sign. It
means the firms are still not doing very well.”  SEC Pay Rule  The ratio gives a picture of the rebound in CEO
compensation from 2008, when most leaders didn’t take bonuses
amid losses and government bailouts. That comes as lawmakers and
regulators increase attention on the pay disparity between top
executives and workers, and the Occupy  Wall Street  protests
targeted income inequality.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is drafting a
rule, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, that would force public
companies to disclose the ratio of CEO compensation to median
pay, the level at which half the employees are above and half
below. The rule was pushed to address concerns about rising
executive pay and income inequality.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  CEO  Lloyd Blankfein , 57, who set a
Wall Street pay record in 2007, was awarded $12 million for
2011, a drop of 35 percent from a year earlier. That’s 33 times
the average amount of $367,057 set aside for all employees at
the New York-based bank, down from 43 in 2010 and 104 in 2007.
Gorman’s ratio fell from the 179 times mark that predecessor
John Mack set in 2005.  Ackermann, Dougan  Josef Ackermann, 64, who will step down as CEO of
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  next month, made 6.3 million
euros ($8.3 million) or 48 times the average compensation costs,
down from 51 last year and 83 in 2007. Credit Suisse AG CEO
Brady Dougan’s 2011 compensation of 5.82 million Swiss francs
($6.4 million) was 18 times the average pay per employee in his
firm’s investment bank, down from 33 for 2010.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , based in London, and  UBS AG (UBSN)  got new CEOs in
2011, and the firms paid them more than their predecessors.
While Barclays’s Bob Diamond, 60, had his pay cut by almost a
third to 6.3 million pounds ($10 million), his compensation was
more than that of previous CEO John Varley. That increased the
ratio to 31 times the average pay for Barclays Capital
employees, from 17 in 2010.  Sergio Ermotti, 51, who took over Zurich-based UBS after a
trading scandal prompted Oswald Gruebel to step down, received
6.35 million euros. That was 19 times the average pay set aside
for  investment-banking  employees, up from 8 in 2010.  The average ratio among the seven lenders was 37 times,
down from 38 a year earlier.  Dimon’s Payout  “If an organization or an industry sector doesn’t perform
well, executive pay is going to suffer most, and we’re starting
to see the rubber hit the road on that,” said Frank Glassner, a
San Francisco-based partner at executive-pay consulting firm
Meridian Compensation Partners LLC. “Both risks and rewards are
greater in the C-suite than it’s ever going to be among the
workforce.”  Dimon bucked the pay trend. His 2011 compensation, the same
as the previous year, was 50 percent higher than that of any
other CEO of a global investment bank. He helped steer JPMorgan
through the financial crisis without posting a  quarterly loss 
while the firm acquired Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual
Inc. in 2008. The bank has since grown to be the largest lender
in the U.S. by assets and the top global firm in investment
banking and trading revenue.  “JPMorgan has outperformed its peers, and its executive
pay reflected that,” Glassner said. “I don’t think there’s a
JPMorgan shareholder out there who would be complaining about
 Jamie Dimon ’s pay.”  ‘Comp Arms Race’  Jes Staley, 55, CEO of JPMorgan’s investment bank, said at
the firm’s investor day in February that the board and
management team decided to pay individual employees a comparable
amount to what other firms paid, rather than a similar
percentage of revenue. That led to a drop in compensation costs
for 2011 even as the division’s revenue climbed. The average pay
at the firm’s investment bank last year was $341,552.  “We delivered the lowest comp-to-revenue ratio on the
Street for the benefit of you, our shareholders,” Staley said.
“It avoided a comp arms race. If we had paid a compensation-to-
revenue ratio on average to the rest of the industry, we would
have paid our traders, our bankers, our sales people
significantly higher than the rest of the industry, and we’d be
right back into the race we saw over the last 15 years.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in New
York, declined to comment.  First Quarter  Average pay has continued to decline this year. Goldman
Sachs said today that it set aside $4.4 billion to compensate
staff in the first quarter, 16 percent less than a year earlier
and enough to give each of its 32,400 employees $135,123.  Compensation costs at JPMorgan’s investment bank fell 12
percent to $2.9 billion in the first quarter, according to
figures posted on the firm’s website last week. The expense was
enough to pay each of the division’s 25,707 workers an average
of $112,849 for the first three months of the year.  The average compensation figures don’t represent individual
workers’ actual pay and are derived by dividing the compensation
pool by the number of employees. Banks including  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and Goldman Sachs said total compensation costs were higher than
actual pay because of deferred payments awarded in previous
years and recognized in 2011. The pay figures for CEOs include
what they were granted for performance in that year and don’t
include gains from previously awarded stock or options.  Citigroup Rejection  The ratio allows for comparisons between banks of different
size and business mix. The companies included are among the
biggest that focus primarily on Wall Street activities such as
underwriting, trading and asset management and that disclose pay
and employee figures for their investment-banking divisions.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  don’t break out compensation costs or personnel
for their investment-banking divisions and feature large retail
banks. Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit earned 155 times the average
pay expense for all workers at the New York-based bank,
including tellers, while Bank of America’s  Brian T. Moynihan 
received 54 times the average pay for employees at his company.  Pandit, 55, was awarded $15 million for 2011, up from $1
the previous year. Moynihan, 52, received $7 million, down from
$10 million.  Citigroup shareholders today rejected the bank’s executive
compensation plan in an advisory vote amid criticism it would
let Pandit collect rewards too easily. About 45 percent of the
votes were in favor of the plan, according to a preliminary
tally at the New York-based firm’s annual meeting in Dallas. In
addition to Pandit’s 2011 pay, Citigroup gave him a separate
multi-year retention package that may be valued at $40 million.  ‘Executive Excess’  Section 953(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act instructs the SEC to
require public companies to disclose the ratio between the
compensation of their CEOs and employee medians. The late
management theorist  Peter Drucker  said that the ratio should
stretch no wider than 25-to-1.  CEO pay in the U.S. in 2010 was 325 times what workers
averaged, according to the annual survey “Executive Excess,”
published by the  Institute for Policy Studies , a Washington-
based research group critical of high executive pay.  Compensation for bank CEOs raises “fairness questions”
that go beyond spreads within their own companies, said  Sarah Anderson , the organization’s global economy project director and
one of the authors of the study.  “They were one of the drivers of the crash that left a lot
of people in horrible financial straits, and now they’re
bouncing back,” Anderson said. “The problems aren’t just how
pay is structured, but when the overall levels of pay get so
high, they encourage outrageous behavior.”  ‘More Complex’  Another 2010 study, using a method similar to the one
outlined in Dodd-Frank and conducted by Culpepper and Associates
Inc., a compensation-survey firm based in Alpharetta, Georgia,
found that the ratio was about 92-to-1 for companies with more
than $2.5 billion in revenue.  The SEC has had many meetings with market participants
about the requirement, which is “quite prescriptive,” agency
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said last month during a Congressional
hearing. Among other things, companies will have to consider the
value of benefits when computing median compensation figures.  “There are a lot of burdens to making the calculation
because it’s an average of all employees that firms are really
struggling with and we’re trying to work through,” Schapiro
said. “It’s not just that we could take the W-2 forms and come
up with an average and then compare it to the CEO’s
compensation. It’s much more complex than that.”  SEC staff is working on a proposal that it intends to
recommend to the commissioners in the first half of this year,
according to a proposed  timeline  on the agency’s website. The
provision has no mandated deadline, Schapiro said.  ‘Fabulously Wealthy’  Some smaller companies have disclosed the data ahead of the
requirement. Bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  disclosed the average and
median pay in its  proxy filing  last month. Excluding the
executive officers named in the filing, the median salary and
bonus of its 373 employees was $180,000. The average salary and
bonus was $247,200.  Jay Brown, CEO of MBIA, declined a bonus for last year’s
performance, collecting only his $500,000 salary. That would
make his pay twice that of the average employee and 2.8 times
the median.  Shareholders and regulators should want the ratio of CEO
compensation to average pay to increase, since it serves more as
an indicator of economic growth than as a breakdown of corporate
governance, Johnson said. Still, Anderson of the Institute for
Policy Studies said shareholders shouldn’t be concerned about
their executives’ well-being.  “Even taking a year or two off from getting a bonus, in
the grand scheme of things, they’re still going to wind up
fabulously wealthy at the end of their careers,” Anderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  