-- Discounted ‘Gray Market’ Goods Draw Top U.S. Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-04-16T14:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/discounted-gray-market-goods-draw-top-u-s-court-review.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to
consider whether discount retailers violate copyright laws by
selling tens of billions of dollars in “gray market” products
after buying them overseas at a reduced price.  The case promises to be one of the top business and
consumer cases in the court term that starts in October,
affecting sales on EBay and at stores including Costco and Wal-
Mart. It will pit supporters of the gray market -- retailers,
distributors and consumer advocates -- against publishers and
manufacturers that say their U.S. sales are being illegally
undercut.  Gray market products are genuine goods sold by U.S.
retailers outside official distribution channels to exploit the
lower prices manufacturers sometimes charge for their products
overseas. Imports of those products to the U.S. costs
manufacturers as much as $63 billion in sales a year, according
to a 2009 Deloitte LLP analysis conducted for Bloomberg.  It “represents a multibillion-dollar benefit to American
consumers,” according to a brief urging Supreme Court review
filed by the Retail Industry Leaders Association, whose members
include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST)   EBay Inc. (EBAY)  filed a separate brief asking the court to take
the case.  The justices today said they will hear an appeal from Supap
Kirtsaeng, who was ordered by a jury to pay publisher  John Wiley
& Sons Inc. (JW/A)  $600,000 for violating the company’s copyrights when
he imported foreign-edition textbooks from his native  Thailand 
and sold them in the U.S. for a profit.  Kagan Decides  The case poses a question that deadlocked the court 4-4 in
a 2010 clash between Costco and  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ’s Omega unit
over discounted watches. Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part
because of her previous involvement in the case as an Obama
administration lawyer. Kagan now stands to cast the deciding
vote on the issue.  The legal dispute concerns the first-sale doctrine, which
says a copyright holder can profit only from the original sale
of a product. In 1998, the Supreme Court unanimously said the
doctrine applies to U.S.-made products sold overseas, meaning
purchasers can bring those goods back into the U.S. through
unauthorized channels even if the copyright holder objects.  The question now is whether that same reasoning applies
when companies manufacture goods abroad. The 2nd Circuit ruled
that it doesn’t, siding with publisher John Wiley and upholding
the jury award.  ‘Astounding’ Consequences  Kirtsaeng contends the 2nd Circuit ruling would have
“astounding” consequences. He argued in court papers that,
under the 2nd Circuit’s reasoning, movie producers could
“demolish” rental services, including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , by
manufacturing DVDs in  Mexico .  The lower court ruling “affords copyright owners not just
one opportunity to sell their works at a bargained-for price but
perpetual control,” Kirtsaeng argued in his appeal.  Wiley urged the Supreme Court to reject the appeal without
a hearing. The publisher said its case is different from the
movie example because its foreign-edition textbooks weren’t
authorized for sale in the U.S.  In a brief filed jointly with a  Pearson Plc (PSON)  unit involved
in a similar case, Wiley contended Congress intended to let
copyright holders charge less for their products overseas.  “Market segmentation creates many benefits for consumers
and producers,” Wiley and Pearson argued. “Among other things,
it permits the copyright holder to license the printing of
lower-priced editions in foreign countries, including  developing
countries , without, in effect, losing U.S. copyright protection
for, and profits on, their higher-priced U.S. works.”  The case is Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, 11-697.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  