-- Dollar General Loans Fetch Discounter Premium: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-04-16T15:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/dollar-general-loans-fetch-discounter-premium-corporate-finance.html
Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the discount
retailer acquired by KKR & Co. in 2007, is fetching a premium in
the debt markets as it approaches an investment-grade rating and
takes market share from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other larger
competitors as the economy struggles to accelerate.  Last week Moody’s Investors Service raised its rating on
the largest U.S. dollar store chain to its highest speculative-
grade level and lenders extended a loan by three years without
demanding stricter terms than its existing bank debt. The loan
trades at 99.75 cents on the dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, higher than the average of 93.41 in the S&P/LSTA
U.S. Leveraged Loan 100  index  as of April 13.  “What differentiates this company from other 2007 LBOs is
that there’s really no correlation with economic cycles,” Matt Nemer, a San Francisco-based analyst at Wells Fargo Securities,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s primarily been a revenue-
improvement story.”  Dollar General , which incurred more than $4 billion of debt
in the leveraged buyout by KKR at the top of the market, has
benefited by the weak recovery from the deepest recession since
the Great Depression. Hourly earnings have risen just 1.9
percent on average since the start of 2010, down from 2.7
percent in 2009, 3.2 percent in 2008 and 3.5 percent in 2007,
according the Labor Department in  Washington .  Beating Wal-Mart  Dollar General’s same-store sales rose 6 percent in the
year ended Feb. 3, after rising 4.9 percent in fiscal 2011, it
said in a March 22 regulatory filing. Wal-Mart’s U.S. same-store
sales gained 1.6 percent in the year ended Jan. 31, after
falling 0.6 percent, it said in a March 27 filing.  Demand for its goods has allowed the Goodlettsville,
Tennessee-based chain, which has had 13 straight quarters of net
income, to cut long-term  debt  to $3.6 billion. Moody’s calls the
company “relatively resistant to economic cycles.”  Dollar General’s  leverage , or the ratio of total debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
fell to 1.48 at the end of its latest year from a high of 11.4
times in its second 2008 quarter.  “We have a less cyclical model than most retailers,” Mary Winn Gordon, vice president of  investor relations  and public
relations, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our belief is that
relatively soon we will receive investment grade rating.”  Peanut Butter, Soap  About 73 percent of Dollar General’s 2011 revenue derived
from consumables, Gordon said in a telephone interview. The
category includes peanut butter, soap, paper towels and aspirin.  Only four of 40 LBOs from the 2006-2008 “bubble era” that
Moody’s reviewed in a Dec. 5 report had higher corporate family
ratings than when their buyouts closed and didn’t default during
that span. Of those, Dollar General showed the most rating
improvement, growth and profitability, Moody’s said. Only 10 of
the entire sample either produced dividends for sponsors, had
IPOs or were sold, according to the ratings company.  “We’re in a macro-environment where people are looking for
value, and Dollar General is perfectly positioned for that,”
John Heinbockel, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in  New
York  said in a telephone interview.  The consumables market is growing 4 percent to 5 percent
annually, while Dollar General’s sales in the sector have been
increasing at low double-digit rates, Heinbockel said.  Shares Surge  “There probably aren’t too many companies, if any, growing
their consumables business faster,” he said. “Outside of a
rare few, I think they’re taking share from just about
everybody.”  Dollar General has  climbed  13 percent this year on the New
York Stock Exchange to $46.30, more than doubling since its 2009
initial public offering. Wal-Mart is up 0.02 percent.  “Wal-Mart’s business strategy is to operate as efficiently
as possible with the lowest possible costs,” Greg Rossiter,
director of corporate communications, said in a telephone
interview.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company reported its second
consecutive positive period of  same-store sales  in the fourth
quarter after “strengthening its commitment to its everyday
low-price business model” two years ago to better address
consumer needs during the recession.  KKR, which owns  31 percent  of Dollar General, purchased the
company for $7.3 billion in 2007. It has been redeeming bonds
and buying back shares from KKR, reducing the New York-based
private-equity firm’s controlling interest. Dollar General’s
 market value  at the end of trading on April 13 was $15.4
billion, and its enterprise value, which includes cash holdings
and debts owed, was $17.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Adding Freezers  Dollar General generated $213 in net sales per square foot
for the year through Feb. 3, up from $201 in fiscal 2010,
according to its March 22 filing.  Among operational improvements the company has made were
the addition of refrigerated coolers and freezers driving
traffic to the stores, Wells Fargo’s Nemer said. Improved check-
out technology and raising the height of its shelves to allow
more products also contributed.  Moody’s upgraded the company on April 13 to Ba1, one level
below investment grade, citing operating performance and credit
metrics that are “expected to remain strong.”  Net income  rose
to $766.7 million last year from $627.9 million in fiscal 2011,
according to the March 22 filing. Earnings before interest
taxes, depreciation and amortization increased to $1.7 billion
from $1.5 billion.  ‘Significant’ Delevering  “Dollar General is one of the few LBOs that has been able
to do a significant amount of delevering, and that’s been a
positive testament to its business position,” Maggie Taylor, a
senior credit officer at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s been a combination of consistent debt repayment and very
strong operating performance given new store openings and the
economy helping the dollar-store space.”  Moody’s has a “positive” outlook on the debt. S&P  rates 
it an equivalent BB+, also with a “positive” outlook.  “KKR’s stake declining below 50 percent triggers
additional board members joining and makes the company more in
control of its financial policy rather than being dictated by
KKR,” Taylor said. Share repurchases are viewed as credit
neutral.  Dollar General, which has 10,000 stores in 39 states,
raised $716 million in its initial public offering in November
2009, receiving 67 percent of the proceeds. The money was used
to pay down debt.  The retailer extended maturities on its asset-backed  credit
line  last month to July 2014 and increased the maximum borrowing
to $1.2 billion. The debt pays interest at 1.75 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate.  ‘Positive Affirmation’  It also extended $879.7 million of its  term loan  into a new
C portion that pays 2.75 percentage points more than the lending
benchmark, the same rate it got in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  “The loan rates it gets is positive affirmation of Dollar
General’s stellar business model,” Mark Montagna, an analyst at
Avondale Partners LLC wrote in an e-mail. “The investment-grade
rating matters very little since the debt is already trading as
though Dollar General is investment grade,” Montagna said.  Dollar General’s $450 million of variable-rate senior
subordinated notes due July 2017 traded April 4 at 108.5 cents
on the dollar to yield 9.77 percent, according to Trace, the
bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The company intends to refinance the notes in the
second or third quarter of 2012, according to Gordon.  “After that, what’s left is fairly low cost,” Heinbockel
said about the company’s borrowings. “There’s less benefit to
paying down more debt and more benefit from buying back stock or
paying a dividend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 