-- Drone Majors Bask in Cool as U.S. Prepares to Open Skies
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-04-16T15:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/drone-majors-bask-in-cool-as-u-s-prepares-to-open-skies.html
Russell Peters is a junior at
 Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University (78211MF) , one of the top U.S.
flight-training schools, who has no intention of taking to the
skies.  Standing next to a 3-foot-wide (91.4 centimeters) plane
that searches for objects on the ground using artificial
intelligence, he talks about how his fascination with robotics
led him to the  Daytona Beach ,  Florida , campus to prepare for a
career building and operating drones.  “I don’t care about flying the planes,” said Peters, of
 Colorado  Springs, Colorado. “I just want to make the planes.
And if we can get rid of the pilots, that’s great.”  As the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  prepares to let
civilian unmanned aircraft operate in domestic airspace,
universities including Embry-Riddle have created majors in
flying and building drones. Enrollment is accelerating as
students look for new opportunities in an aviation job market
pummeled by airline bankruptcies.  The drone industry, estimated worldwide at $5.9 billion
annually, will expand to $11.3 billion by 2021, according to a
 report  last year by the Teal Group Corp. of Fairfax,  Virginia ,
which analyzes the industry. It’s “been the most dynamic growth
sector of the  aerospace industry  this decade,” the firm said in
the report.  Civilian Applications  During the past 10 years, drones have become a vital
military tool in Iraq and  Afghanistan , creating a platform to
attack terrorists without risking pilots’ lives and giving
ground troops a chance to see their opponents from the air.  The FAA is scheduled to release proposed rules later this
year for allowing small drones to operate commercially in the
U.S. without special permission. Congress passed bills in
December and February that ordered the FAA to create six test
sites for flying unmanned aircraft alongside regular planes. The
agency must also complete a plan for integrating unmanned
flights into the aviation system by Sept. 30, 2015.  Unmanned aircraft could be used for photography, police
surveillance and monitoring pipelines and power lines.  U.S.
Customs  and  Border Protection  has special permission to use
drones.  Alex Mirot, a retired Air Force major who piloted Predator
and Reaper unmanned vehicles built by General Atomics Inc. of
 San Diego , coordinates Embry-Riddle’s degree program in  Unmanned
Aerial Systems Science . In less than one year, 75 students have
enrolled to major or minor in the subject, he said.  'Kind of Amazing'  “To me this is kind of amazing,” Mirot said in an office
festooned with photos, ribbons and other memorabilia from his 10
years in the military. “That’s how popular this is as a
technology.”  The program offers two tracks for students: training on
simulators to be drone operators, or non-pilot roles such as
operating remote-controlled cameras and managing unmanned-
aircraft programs.  Students can take classes in how unmanned systems work,
robotics, business management, operating remote sensors such as
cameras and radars, and drone simulator training, Mirot said.
They must take courses in electrical engineering and
programming, he said.  Across campus at the Department of Mechanical, Civil and
Engineering Sciences, students like Peters study how to build
and design unmanned aircraft, Charles Reinholtz, the department
chairman, said in an interview.  Graduates Getting Jobs  The  University of North Dakota  in Grand Forks established a
drone-study major more than two years ago and has graduated 17
students, Benjamin M. Trapnell, an aeronautics professor who
developed the program, said in a phone interview.  Graduates can expect to make starting salaries of at least
$50,000, and perhaps double that if they accept jobs in
dangerous locations, Trapnell said. That dwarfs entry-level
salaries as airline pilots, which can be below $20,000,
according to government data.  He said his graduates, who must obtain FAA commercial
pilots’ licenses, have landed jobs with drone operators and
manufacturers such as the Aeronautical & Space Systems division
of Information Systems Laboratories Inc. of San Diego and  AAI
Unmanned Aircraft Systems , which is owned by  Textron Inc. (TXT)  of
Providence,  Rhode Island .  It’s premature to design courses and pilot training
programs for unmanned aircraft because the government hasn’t yet
outlined requirements for how they must be built and flown, said
the head of the only U.S. civilian test bed for unmanned
aircraft.  No U.S. Standards  “We’re having a hard time understanding how you develop a
bachelor’s degree program when you have no federal standards,”
 Doug Davis , who directs the drone program at the  New Mexico
State University (28344MF)   Physical Science Laboratory  in  Las Cruces , said
in a phone interview.  Gene Gamble, an Embry-Riddle senior, is on a team led by
Peters that plans to enter a national unmanned-aircraft contest
later this spring. He said he relishes seeing the amazement of
people who stop by the drone lab for tours.  “I do enjoy telling people that I work on robots that
drive themselves,” said Gamble, who’s on a five-year program
leading to a master’s degree in software engineering.  Gamble spoke while replacing the battery on a winged device
slightly longer than one foot that hovers like a helicopter with
one blade. The craft is based on the way a maple seed rotates as
it falls from a tree.  Sensor Design  Using a hobbyist’s radio remote-control handset, he flew
the device more than 10 feet up into an atrium. Gamble is
helping design software and sensors that will eventually allow
the device to fly and navigate itself.  “I’d like to work for a company that does things like
this,” he said.  Michael Tagliereni, of Jackson,  New Jersey , an Embry-Riddle
senior majoring in aeronautics, said he enrolled in an
introduction to unmanned aircraft class as a fallback in case he
can’t find a job as a pilot or an air traffic controller.  Sitting next to him in a classroom, Paul Renart, a freshman
from Warwick,  New York , said he chose to major in drone studies
because it will help his military career. Renart is in the Air
Force Reserve Officer Training Corps.  For Peters, the junior drone-building enthusiast, his
fascination with making intelligent machines has put him at the
forefront of a field with a large measure of cool on campus.  “I like to be on the cutting edge,” Peters said. “I
think it’s just the beginning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  