-- Drought Draining Reserves of Oils Amid Record Demand
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-04-17T19:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/drought-draining-stocks-of-oils-amid-record-demand-commodities.html
Demand for edible oils is climbing
to a record as drought damages crops across  South America ,
leaving buyers with the smallest stockpiles in three decades.  The use of soy, palm, rapeseed and six other oils will rise
3.9 percent this year, reducing the ratio of reserves to demand
to the lowest since 1977, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. Palm, the most-consumed oil, will advance 8.5 percent
to 3,800 ringgit ($1,240) a metric ton in Kuala Lumpur by Dec.
31, the highest since February 2011, according to the median of
11 analyst and trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While wheat dropped 23 percent and corn lost 19 percent in
the past year as farmers reaped record crops, oilseed prices are
surging after drought parched fields across South America, the
biggest soybean-producing region. U.S. growers are planting the
most  corn  acres since 1937 and reducing  soybean  plantings to the
smallest in five years, the government estimates. Many farmers
bought most of their seeds by January. Since then, soybeans have
jumped 19 percent and  palm oil  14 percent.  “The edible-oil market is tightening up more quickly than
anyone expected,” said  Wayne Gordon , an agriculture strategist
at UBS AG who warned almost a year ago that drier weather would
parch South America crops. “It’s in rationing mode. We have yet
to see the peak in prices.”  Agriculture Index  Cooking oils advanced as drought in Brazil and Argentina
contributed to a 9 percent slump in global soybean  harvests , the
most since 1996. Palm oil increased 10 percent to 3,503 ringgit
this year and soybean oil rose 7.1 percent in  Chicago  as the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities
declined 2.6 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
 equities  added 9.2 percent and Treasuries were little changed, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Retail sales of bottled oils will reach a record 38.7
million tons this year, lifting the value by 6.8 percent to
$56.5 billion, according to Euromonitor International, a London-
based research group.  Kuok Oils & Grains Pte., a unit of  Wilmar (WIL)  International
Ltd., had a global market share of 8.9 percent in 2010, making
it the biggest supplier to the retail market, Euromonitor
estimates. Shares of Wilmar, the largest palm-oil processor and
with about 50 percent of the consumer-pack edible-oil market in
 China , will advance 13 percent to S$5.44 on the Singapore stock
exchange in the next 12 months, according to the average of
analyst estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.  Billion Ringgit  The Singapore-based company will report a 7.8 percent
increase in net income to $1.73 billion this year, rising to
$1.93 billion in 2013, the mean of analyst  estimates  shows.  Sime
Darby Bhd., (SIME)  the biggest listed palm-oil producer, will make 4.1
billion ringgit in the 12 months to June 30, 12 percent more
than a year earlier, according to the mean estimate of 24
analysts covering the Kuala Lumpur-based firm.  Growers in the U.S., the largest soybean producer, may
plant more than originally anticipated by the USDA after the
oilseed’s  premium  to corn increased since the end of January,
said Brian Basting, a crop analyst at Advance Trading Inc. in
Bloomington,  Illinois . The USDA predicted March 30 they would
cut plantings by 1.4 percent to 73.9 million acres.  In  Brazil , the second-biggest soybean producer, the harvest
may jump 17 percent to a record 77 million tons next year,
according to Jeff Zimmerman, the USDA agricultural attache. The
La Nina weather pattern, which brings drier weather to South
America and heavier rainfall in  Asia , has ended for this season,
 Australia ’s Bureau of Meteorology said in a report March 27.  Global Growth  Cooking-oil costs may drop in the second half of the year
as demand is eroded by  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing global
growth, said Victor Thianpiriya, a commodity analyst at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne .  Palm oil may decline to average 3,078 ringgit in the fourth
quarter, 12 percent less than now, because a projected surplus
for the crop won’t be entirely erased by shortages of  soybean
oil , Thianpiriya said. His prediction would still be 43 percent
higher than the 10-year average.  Demand for edible oils has been resilient to a slowdown in
the global economy, history shows. Consumption of the nine
biggest oils gained 3.8 percent in the 2008-2009 marketing year
as economies grappled with the worst global recession since
World War II, USDA data show.  Production of palm, which represents more than 30 percent
of cooking-oil output, will expand 2 million tons this year,
compared with a 5.5 million-ton increase in 2011, according to
Dorab Mistry, the director of Godrej International Ltd. who has
traded edible oil for more than three decades. He predicts
prices will climb to 4,000 ringgit by June.  Dorab Mistry  Output in  Malaysia , the second-biggest producer after
 Indonesia , will drop in the first half from a year earlier,
Mistry said in remarks prepared for delivery in Beijing on March
27. Production plunged 14 percent in March from a year ago,
cutting stockpiles to a seven-month low, according to data from
the Palm Oil Board.  Declining supplies of soybean oil may drive importers to
buy more palm.  Imports by China  will jump 10 percent and
 purchases  by  India  are poised to increase 8.8 percent this year,
the USDA estimates. India and China represent about 27 percent
of global demand, the data show.  Unilever, the second-largest consumer-goods maker, may pay
as much as 10 percent more for commodities from palm to crude
oil to tea this year, according to  Martin Deboo , an analyst at
Investec Securities Ltd. in  London . That compares with the
company’s own estimate of about 5 percent. Investec cut its
“buy” recommendation on Unilever for the first time in 17
years last month on concern that costs are rising and
competition intensifying.  Margarines and Soap  About 33 percent of commodity-cost inflation at Unilever
came from edible oils in the past year, the company said in a
conference call on Feb. 2. The company uses about 3 percent of
the world’s palm oil to make shampoo, margarine and soap,
according to its  website . Its shares fell 4.5 percent in trading
this year. Flip Dotsch, a spokesman for Unilever in Rotterdam,
declined to comment.  World soybean stockpiles will drop to 18 percent of
consumption by the end of the next marketing year, from 27
percent two years earlier, the lowest level since 1997, Morgan
Stanley estimates.  “We’re just not seeing planting increasing enough to
prevent global stocks of soybeans falling to a fairly critical
level,” said Erin Fitzpatrick, an analyst at Rabobank
International in London. “With the smaller availability of
these other oilseeds, palm oil demand is going to remain
strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  