-- ECB Becomes Campaign Issue as Hollande Slams Crisis Response
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-16T11:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ecb-becomes-campaign-issue-as-hollande-slams-crisis-response.html
The  European Central Bank  could
have prevented the euro region’s debt crisis had it
“massively” bought Greek bonds at the outset, French Socialist
presidential candidate  Francois Hollande  said.  The Frankfurt-based central bank has become a target in the
final days of the French campaign. Hollande’s remarks followed
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s call yesterday to debate expanding
the ECB’s mandate to include spurring growth and not just
controlling inflation.  “He’s been in office for five years, which is a long time
for him to have just noticed that,” Hollande said today in an
interview on France Info radio. “We wouldn’t be in such a mess
if the European Central Bank very early on had massively bought
sovereign bonds.”  Sarkozy had made extending the role of the ECB, in effect
giving it a mandate similar to the U.S.’s  Federal Reserve , an
issue in his successful 2007 campaign. From the start of the
euro crisis, he pushed for greater action from the ECB, clashing
with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, before the two of them
agreed at a December European summit to refrain from comments
that could infringe on the bank’s independence.  France holds the first round of its presidential elections
on April 22 with the runoff on May 6. Hollande would win a head-
to-head race by 56 percent to 44 percent, according to a TNS
Sofres survey on April 13.  Raised Eyebrows  “Many politicians in Paris see the combination of weak
euro and accommodative monetary policy as key to get out of the
European crisis,” Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “The fact
that Sarkozy now blows in the same direction as Hollande will
probably raise some eyebrows in  Germany , especially from his
ally  Angela Merkel .”  Jean-Francois Cope, head of Sarkozy’s political party, said
today in Paris that the ECB “was a subject we can’t not raise
with voters.”  Germany’s stance on supporting ECB independence is
unchanged and well known, including in Paris, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told reporters in Berlin today.  “We see the necessity -- just as the French government
does -- for sustainable economic growth in  Europe  and have
undertaken with it a number of measures that address growth and
employment,” Seibert said. “In our aims, we are one with the
French government.” He declined to comment on the election.  Rule Change  Hollande suggested the ECB’s rules should be changed to
allow it to purchase sovereign bonds at their issue, instead of
just buying on secondary markets. “It would be much simpler if
the central bank could just directly fund the debt of European
countries,” he said in the radio interview. That step is now
barred by the Maastricht Treaty, which established the euro.  “There is not much  France  can change,” Costerg said.
“First, it is unlikely that Germany will accept the proposal.
Then, the ECB’s mandate is governed by a European treaty, which
is almost set in stone and near-impossible to amend.”  The ECB has resisted taking any measures that it sees as
direct financing of governments. It has  bought  214 billion euros
($279 billion) of debt in the secondary market and channeled 1
trillion euros into the banking system in a pair of auctions of
unlimited three-year loans.  The French presidential candidates weren’t the first to
revive talk of the ECB taking stronger steps as the yield on 10-
year Spanish bonds rose more than a percentage point in the past
month. ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure April 11 said
that the higher yields weren’t justified.  “Will the ECB intervene?” Coeure said at an event in
Paris. “We have an instrument, the securities markets program,
which hasn’t been used recently but it still exists.”  And in an April 13 interview, Jaime Garcia-Legaz, a deputy
minister in  Spain ’s Economy Ministry, said “they should step up
purchases of bonds” when asked about the ECB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  