-- EHealth-Led Exchanges Eye $4 Billion Market in Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-04-16T20:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ehealth-led-exchanges-eye-4-billion-market-in-health-law.html
EHealth Inc. (EHTH)  and an array of online
insurance brokers are eying a possible $4 billion-a-year market,
after the Obama administration’s surprise decision to let them
sell government-subsidized coverage under the health overhaul.  If the 2010 health-care law survives a Supreme Court
review, private brokers can offer the plans starting in 2014,
via websites that let consumers compare coverage among a variety
of plans the way  Expedia (EXPE)  users weigh costs and benefits among
airlines. That may give the brokers access to as many as 22
million uninsured Americans.  “It’s going to put these private Internet portals, the
regional brokers, the EHealths, on steroids,” said Cindy Gillespie, head of health-care policy at McKenna Long & Aldridge
LLP, a  Washington  law firm that advises brokers. “It’s no
longer going to be a marketplace exclusive to the state-run
exchanges, and that’s a game-changer, big time.”  The Obama overhaul urges each state to create its own
online market to offer residents health insurance. The markets,
called exchanges, are designed to give consumers the ability to
compare insurance costs and coverage from multiple suppliers,
and to help the less-affluent pay for them through subsidies
supported by the U.S. government.  Under  rules  proposed March 12 by the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services, the exchanges can now also be offered
by companies such as  Mountain View , California-based EHealth,
the biggest online retailer of health plans, and closely held
rivals such as bswift and Liazon Corp.  EHealth Enrollment  EHealth rose 2.8 percent to $16.44 at the close in New York
trading, even as the  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  slipped 0.8 percent.
The web broker has gained 28 percent in the past 12 months. It
had 815,000 enrollees by the end of last year, according to
regulatory filings.  Employers have traditionally paid premiums to insurance
companies to cover their workers with one or two defined plans.
Increasingly, companies such as Liazon offer another option,
allowing employers to give workers a lump sum payment and the
chance to shape their own coverage through a private online
exchange, said Chris Condeluci, an attorney at  Venable LLP (1214L)  in
Washington who works with brokers.  The idea is drawing interest from private-equity firms like
Boston-based Bain Capital Ventures, which last year led a group
of investors that put $12.6 million into New York-based Liazon.
It’s also spurred concern among consumer advocates about whether
private brokers will be too cozy with insurers, steering people
toward more expensive coverage.  ‘Not a Good Idea’  “The whole point of a public exchange is to create a
consumer-friendly marketplace where people have the ability to
make informed choices,” said Ethan Rome, executive director of
 Health Care for America Now , a labor-backed group in Washington.
“Anything that’s called an exchange that does not do those
things is not something we think would be a good idea.”  The new rules were crafted to protect consumers while
giving states the flexibility “to design these marketplaces so
they work well for their markets,” said Brian Chiglinsky, a
spokesman for the federal  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services , in an e-mail.  The regulations require private exchanges to offer all
plans available in a state that meet the health law’s standards
for affordability and coverage. They also forbid the use of
rebates or giveaways that might steer buyers to particular
carriers. Each state gets the final say on whether to include
private brokers in the system.  Income Guidelines  States will still have to keep certain functions for
themselves, such as determining who meets income guidelines for
the federal subsidies. Under the health law, individuals or
families making as much as four times the U.S.  poverty level  --
about $23,000 for a family of four this year -- are eligible for
premium credits. In states that don’t set up exchanges, a
federally run national site will take over.  The administration’s proposal is an acknowledgment that
some states may miss the deadline to have a marketplace up and
running by 2014, Condeluci said. In Republican-run states where
officials have opposed the law, the option may prove politically
popular as well, he said.  “If the law stays around, the path of least resistance may
be to rely on the private exchanges to do all of the front-end
work,” Condeluci said.  While Bain jumped into the industry before last month’s
decision, other investors are waiting to see if the  Supreme
Court  upholds the law’s constitutionality, Alan Cohen,  Liazon’s 
chief strategy officer, said in an interview. If the law stands,
more firms may jump in, he said.  Investors Waiting  “There’s a lot of money waiting on the sidelines,” said
Cohen, whose company serves 2,000 business clients with 20,000
workers. “We definitely are getting calls now from people in
the financial community wanting to know what we’re all about.”  The exchange rule “makes it clear that we can continue to
work with states,” Nate Purpura, an EHealth spokesman, said via
e-mail. “We’re optimistic it will allow us to continue to do
what we do best, which is use our technology to provide a
simple, accessible and efficient way to enroll people in a
quality health insurance plan.”  Along with EHealth and Liazon, Condeluci said the new rules
may help businesses including  NFP Health  Services
Administrators, a New England-focused exchange owned by  National
Financial Partners Corp. (NFP)  of New York;  BenefitMall , a Dallas-
based company that serves almost 2 million employees; and
Chicago-based  bswift , which helped construct  Utah ’s insurance
site.  Rule Surprise  Last month’s rules came as a surprise because the 2010 law
referred only to publicly run exchanges, and consumer advocates
had raised concerns about whether private brokers would steer
people toward more expensive plans, Condeluci said.  The administration nonetheless cited other parts of the
legislation to open the way for web brokers.  The size of the potential market isn’t certain. States
probably won’t allow web brokers to earn large commissions off
of government-subsidized care, Cohen, the Liazon strategist,
said in an interview. A “conservative” figure might be $15 per
person per month, he said. At that rate, if private brokers
enrolled all 22 million people expected to buy through the
exchanges, the industry’s take would reach $4 billion annually.  A $15 commission “seems optimistic” for subsidized
coverage, said Robert Coolbrith, an analyst who follows EHealth
for the investment advisory firm ThinkEquity LLC in  San
Francisco . Insurers have already pressured brokers to lower
commissions due to restrictions in the health law, and states or
the federal government could take further steps that cut into
revenue, he said in a telephone interview.  “There are some potential positives in terms of enlarging
the opportunity to enroll people, but there are still lots of
uncertainties,” Coolbrith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  