-- Electric Cars Cost $1,200 a Year Less to Run, Study Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-04-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/electric-cars-cost-1-200-a-year-less-to-run-study-says.html
Drivers of electric vehicles such
as  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt and Nissan Motor Co.’s
Leaf may save as much as $1,200 a year on fuel compared with a
new gasoline-powered compact, a scientists’ group found.  Assuming  gasoline  costs $3.50 a gallon, drivers who plug
cars into electrical outlets would save $750 to $1,200 a year
instead of buying gas for a new model that gets 27 miles (43
kilometers) a gallon when driving 11,000 miles a year, the Union
of Concerned Scientists said in a study released yesterday.  The study didn’t attempt to compare total costs of
ownership of electric and gasoline-powered vehicles, and didn’t
determine how long an electric-vehicle owner would have to keep
their car for the added cost to pay off.  “The cost of the electric vehicles today vary pretty
widely based on the models that are out there,” Don Anair, the
study’s author, said on a conference call with reporters. “It’s
important for consumers to understand what the potential savings
are on fuel costs, and that can help them make a decision about
buying a vehicle.”  Ford Motor Co. (F) , maker of a Focus electric car already sold
to fleets including those owned by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
said last month the price will start at $39,995 before a $7,500
U.S. tax credit. That compares with the $16,500 base price for
the gasoline-powered version.  A high-end Focus sells for about $27,000, or about $5,500
less than a plug-in version after the tax credit, Eddie
Fernandez, a Ford spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Mileage, Emissions Differences  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
rates the fuel economy of the Focus SFE, a gasoline-powered
model, at 33 mpg for city and highway driving. The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency certified the electric Focus as
offering the equivalent of 105 mpg.  Electric vehicles  also are responsible for fewer emissions
than gasoline models even when taking into consideration the
output from coal-fired  power plants  and other generating
sources, the scientists found. The environmental advantage
varies by part of the country, they said.  Forty five percent of the  U.S. population  lives in regions
where emissions related to a plug-in electric vehicle equate to
those from a gasoline-powered car getting more than 50 miles a
gallon, the scientists found. Those places include most of the
Northeast U.S., most of California and all of the Northwest U.S.  Cost Almost $30,000  Edmunds.com , an auto-researcher, predicts electric vehicles
may reach only 7 percent of U.S. auto sales by 2017 even when
consumers take rising gas prices into account.  The average U.S. gas price was $3.91 as of April 15,
according to U.S. motorist group AAA. That’s a 19 percent
increase for this year.  Passenger vehicles sold in the U.S. have been getting more
fuel-efficient, with the average miles-per-gallon rating rising
to 24.5 last month compared with 21.4 four years earlier,
according to data compiled by Edmunds.com. Small cars as a
percent of U.S. sales gained 3 percentage points to 23 percent,
according to the data.  In that time, the average transaction price for an
advanced-drive vehicle rose 6.5 percent to $29,493 from $27,693,
according to the  Santa Monica , California-based researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  