-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop Amid Europe Debt Cris Worries
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-16T21:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/emerging-stocks-decline-on-korea-growth-europe-debt-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in four days as concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening dimmed the outlook for global growth, offsetting an
increase in U.S. retail sales that was larger than forecast.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 0.6 percent to
1,020.00 at the close in New York, led by materials producers.
 YPF SA (YPFD)  fell 2.4 percent before trading was halted, after
 Argentina  said it plans to seize 51 percent of the oil producer.
The  American depositary receipts  plunged 11 percent before
trading was stopped.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron ore
producer, lost 1.7 percent, dragging  Brazil ’s Bovespa to a
second day of losses.  Yields on  Spain ’s 10-year bonds climbed above 6 percent.
South  Korea ’s economy will expand 3.5 percent in 2012, as a
global slowdown limits exports, the country’s central bank said
today. That compares with a 3.7 percent forecast in December.
U.S. retail sales rose 0.8 percent in March, exceeding the
median forecast for a 0.3 percent rise in a Bloomberg survey of
81 economists.  “There are doubts whether the Spanish government will be
successful in installing all the required fiscal austerity
measures that will be needed to inspire a turnaround,” Daniel Lenz, chief emerging-market strategist at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , said by phone. U.S. retail sales were “definitely a
good thing, but the picture is not clear enough to be sure that
the recovery in the U.S. will be strong and lasting.”  2012 Gain  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 11 percent this
year,  beating  the 7.1 percent advance in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
developed nations. The gauge of developing nations is  valued  at
10.4 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 12.3 times.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
slid 0.5 percent to $41.95 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 0.1 percent to 28.67.  Mexican stock exchange officials canceled a series of
erroneous trades by Bulltick Capital Markets that set off a
plunge in the nation’s benchmark index during trading on April
13. The benchmark  IPC index  fell 0.2 percent today.  Brazil’s Bovespa lost 0.2 percent, sliding for a second
day. Vale fell as  metal prices  slumped to a three-month low.  Russia’s  Micex (MICEX)  declined 1.7 percent, as  OAO Severstal (CHMF)  slid
3.3 percent to the lowest since Dec. 30, based on closing
prices.  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell 0.2 percent.  Celebi
Hava Servisi AS (CLEBI) , an airport ground services operator, lost 4.1
percent after full-year profit plunged 60 percent, missing all
10 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  retreated for a fifth day, its
longest losing streak in eight months, as  South Korea ’s  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.8 percent after the  Bank of Korea  lowered its
growth forecast.  Chinese Currency  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index fell less than 0.1 percent
while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks
in  Hong Kong  lost 0.8 percent.  The People’s Bank of China on April 14 expanded the range
the managed yuan is allowed to trade within against the dollar
for the first time since 2007. The band was widened to 1 percent
from 0.5 percent and takes effect today. The currency weakened
against the dollar by 0.2 percent to 6.3153.  “There seems to be a conviction among policy makers that
the current level of the yuan is at an equilibrium, that the
path of multi-year appreciation has either come to a stop or is
slowing down,” Amer Bisat, a  money manager  at hedge fund Traxis
Partners LP in  New York  and former senior economist at the
 International Monetary Fund , said in an interview. “The
currency is probably fairly valued.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was little changed at 361, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .
Stephen Gunnion at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  