-- Templeton Likes Hungarian Bonds as IMF Aid Dispute ‘Trivial’
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-16T11:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/templeton-likes-hungarian-bonds-as-imf-aid-dispute-trivial-1-.html
Franklin Templeton Investments, the
biggest institutional holder of Hungarian government debt, is
upbeat on its investment as it considers remaining disputes
obstructing the government’s bailout as “surface issues.”  “The issues that are actually at stake that are causing
friction between European Union, the  International Monetary Fund 
and the Hungarian government are really trivial,”  Michael Hasenstab , the manager of Franklin’s U.S.-based $61 billion
 Templeton Global Bond Fund (TPINX) , told reporters in Singapore today.
“We like those with good long-term fundamentals,” and “We
like those which everyone hates, and Hungary fits that bill,”
he said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  turned to the IMF in November
after the forint dropped to a record against the euro and as
Hungary’s credit rating was cut to junk. Five months later,
formal talks on financial aid have yet to start as the nation
remains embroiled in a legal dispute with the European Union
over the independence of the central bank and other
institutions.  The government has done “exactly what the IMF has asked
them to do,” said Hasenstab, who also manages Templeton’s
Luxemburg-based $43 billion  Global Bond Fund. (TEGACEH)  “They just have a
little friction in the market,” he said, adding that he was
still “positive” on the forint in the “medium-term.”  The Hungarian government has been doing “structural
reforms that most of  Europe  hasn’t touched,” including raising
retirement ages, Hasenstab said. The country is also benefiting
from its “economic linkage with German exports,” he said.  ‘Blackmail’  Hungarian bonds have returned 12 percent this year in
dollar terms for the biggest gains worldwide, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. The forint depreciated 0.4 percent to
298.6 per euro by 12:49 a.m. in Budapest, paring gains so far in
2012 to 5.5 percent.  The government’s benchmark 10-year notes maturing in June
2022 slumped for a second day, lifting yields three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, 9.049 percent, compared with
this year’s low of 8.4 percent on Feb. 8. The yield reached 10.8
percent on Jan. 4, the highest ever for that security. Templeton
is the biggest owner of the 2022 bonds with 6.8 percent of the
outstanding amount at the end of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The European Commission shouldn’t make demands of  Hungary 
that aren’t related to economic issues in exchange for a
bailout,  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s chief of staff, told HirTV late
yesterday. Orban told public radio MR1-Kossuth on April 13 that
political conditions to starting talks would amount to
“blackmail” and may lead to a battle at court.  ‘Paid to Wait’  “A new chapter in the story of ’Why the IMF and the
Hungarian government are unlikely to ever reach an agreement’
began on Friday,” Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based strategist
at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a research report today. “The risk
scenario of euro-forint levels above 300 is approaching.”  Templeton’s Hasenstab said it’s worth holding Hungarian
assets because of “pretty significant yields”.  “In the case of Hungary you are paid to wait,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  