-- Henkel Chief Stresses Need to Maintain Single European Currency
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-04-16T09:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/henkel-chief-stresses-need-to-maintain-single-european-currency.html
Henkel AG (HEN3)  Chief Executive Officer
Kasper Rorsted said  Europe  needs to maintain a single currency
as weakening economies and ballooning debt prompt speculation
that some countries may exit the euro.  “We are convinced that the euro in its function as a
common currency is better for our economy in  Germany  and better
for our company,” Rorsted said at the annual shareholders
meeting of the Loctite glue-maker today in Dusseldorf, Germany.
“Countries in Europe differ in terms of their economic strength
and their national debt. Yet they are joined together by a
common currency. A rebalancing of the situation through currency
appreciation or depreciation is therefore no longer possible.”  More than two years since  Greece  set in train the euro
area’s worst financial crisis, bets made at Intrade.com suggest
a  39 percent chance  that the single currency will splinter by
the end of 2013. Concern about Spain’s position have ratcheted
the nation’s borrowing costs to the highest levels this year.  Rorsted said he expects economic conditions in Europe “to
remain tense and difficult over the next few years.”  To combat that, Henkel is seeking to boost the proportion
of sales from  emerging markets  to 45 percent of revenue this
year from 42 percent in 2011. Emerging-market economies probably
grew at the fastest pace in nine months in the first quarter,
led by Brazil and  India , as manufacturing rebounded from a slump
and services expanded, according to a  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  review
of a purchasing-managers survey this month.  ‘Good Start’  Rorsted said the company made a “good start” to 2012.
Henkel today reiterated that earnings before interest and taxes
will reach 14 percent of sales this year, adjusted for one-time
items and reorganization costs.  Henkel is forecasting  sales growth  from continuing
operations of 3 percent to 5 percent in 2012, and an increase in
adjusted earnings per preferred share of at least 10 percent.
The company has expanded through acquisitions and will continue
to, though any such move “must make sense” strategically,
Chief Financial Officer Lothar Steinebach said in March.  Steinebach is scheduled to retire in mid-2012 and be
replaced on July 1 by Carsten Knobel, who currently runs
Henkel’s cosmetics and toiletries business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Dusseldorf via 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  