-- Enron’s Skilling Rejected by Top U.S. Court on Conviction
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-04-16T14:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/enron-s-skilling-rejected-by-top-u-s-court-on-conviction.html
The U.S. Supreme Court left intact
 Jeffrey Skilling ’s conviction for leading the Enron Corp.
accounting fraud, refusing to grant a second hearing to the
imprisoned former chief executive officer.  Today’s rebuff leaves Skilling with nothing to show for his
victory at the Supreme Court in 2010, when the justices said
prosecutors used an improper legal theory to convict him. A
federal appeals court then reaffirmed his 19-count conviction,
saying the verdict would have been the same regardless.  Skilling is serving a 24-year sentence in a federal prison
in Colorado after he and former Enron Chairman  Kenneth Lay  were
found guilty of deceiving investors about the company’s true
financial condition. Lay died in 2006.  The accounting fraud caused Enron, once the world’s largest
energy trading company, to file for bankruptcy in 2001, wiping
out more than 5,000 jobs and $60 billion in  shareholder value .  The 2010  Supreme Court  ruling said Skilling couldn’t be
convicted under a federal statute outlawing fraudulent schemes
to withhold “honest services.” The high court said that law
could be used only in cases involving bribery or kickbacks,
which weren’t at issue in the Enron case.  The honest-services law had come into play on Skilling’s
conviction on one charge of conspiracy. The jury didn’t spell
out whether he had conspired to commit honest-services fraud or
to commit  securities fraud .  In its ruling last year, the New Orleans-based appeals
court said there was “overwhelming evidence that Skilling
conspired to commit securities fraud.”  Skilling’s sentence might be adjusted because the appeals
court concluded in an earlier opinion that the trial judge
overseeing the case erred on one issue.  The case is Skilling v.  United States , 11-674.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  