-- Merkel Offers Spain No Respite as Debt Cuts Seen As Key
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-04-17T15:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/merkel-offers-spain-no-respite-as-debt-cuts-seen-key-to-yields.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opened her
campaign to win back Germany’s most populous state in May 13
elections by appealing to voters to endorse her message of
austerity as the prime means to tackle Europe’s debt crisis.  “It’s partly about still being able to shape our own
future,” Merkel said late yesterday at a rally in the city of
Muenster in North Rhine-Westphalia. Countries in Europe that
have run up debt “are so tightly in the hands of the financial
markets that they can’t make independent decisions anymore. We
have to watch out that high  interest rates  on our debt don’t
lead to the point where we can’t decide and shape anything
anymore” in  Germany .  Merkel’s comments underscore a focus on her government’s
record of pressing for deficit cuts as a core campaign theme for
the state elections next month even as investors and economists
call for Germany to step up its response to the debt crisis now
marauding Spain. The ballots will offer a snapshot of public
support for her crisis handling as well as a foretaste of voter
sentiment before the next federal election due in 2013.  Merkel’s message was reinforced by Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble , who said separately that any amount of
bailout funds and financial firewalls “won’t solve the
problem” without a commitment to reduce debt and raise
competitiveness, the root causes of the crisis.  Debt-Cut Push  “That’s why the countries with too high debt, Germany
included, have to reduce debt,” Schaeuble said in an interview
with SWR television in Berlin as Merkel spoke in Muenster. “And
the countries with insufficient competitiveness have to become
more competitive. Then you need a common finance policy in
 Europe  -- that’s the fiscal pact. And if you need anything else,
then you build the firewall. If you only build the firewall, you
can take 10 trillion and it’s not going to solve the problem.”  Spanish  government bonds  advanced, pushing the 10-year
yield down almost 17 basis points to 5.89 percent, after Spain
sold more than the 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) maximum target
set at a debt auction today. The euro was little changed at
$1.3143 as of 5:01 p.m. in Berlin.  Spanish bond yields touched 6.16 percent yesterday, their
highest this year and closer to the 7 percent level that caused
its neighbors to seek bailouts. Credit-default swaps signaled a
37 percent chance the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy will
default, prompting Spanish officials to call for additional help
from the  European Central Bank . Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
was due to meet ECB President  Mario Draghi  in  Frankfurt  today.  ‘Warning Shot’  “The expectation is that Spain can make it -- while the
widening bond spreads we’ve seen should be taken as a warning
shot from markets,”  Norbert Barthle , the parliamentary budget
spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said by phone
today. “There’s no Spanish bailout talk in Berlin.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has the capacity to
calm financial-market jitters by “sticking to his word on
budget savings,” CDU deputy caucus chairman Michael Meister
said in a separate interview. Further spending cuts may be
necessary to meet budget targets Germany because “we in Germany
can accept one revision only.”  Germany faces criticism for its anti-crisis policy of
spending cuts from economists such as Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman .  Spain  needs a new remedy to its ills since its story
“bears no resemblance to the morality tales so popular among
European officials, especially in Germany,” Krugman said
yesterday in a New York Times article headlined “Europe’s
economic suicide.”  Soros Concerns  Billionaire investor  George Soros  told a conference in
Berlin last week that Europe’s German-inspired fiscal compact to
promote budgetary discipline can’t work in its current format
and that the euro is “broken and needs to be fixed.”  “I know the concerns” of Soros, Schaeuble said in his
interview. “I don’t share them.”  “I think many haven’t really understood what European
integration is,” he said. “It’s something new and that’s
something they don’t really understand. We’re creating step by
step a common financial policy in addition to the monetary
policy we already have. And the fact that we didn’t have this
from the start is something he couldn’t really understand.”  Muenster Cathedral Address  Merkel may be propelled by domestic electoral arithmetic to
listen to opposition calls to do more to fight the crisis. With
support collapsing for her Free Democratic national coalition
partner, Merkel’s chances of winning a third term next year
might hinge on her willingness to hook up with the  Social
Democrats  in a rerun of her “grand coalition” of 2005-2009.
The opposition SPD backs joint euro-area bonds to stop what it
calls the “downward spiral” of “eternal rescues.”  Merkel, addressing CDU supporters yesterday on the square
outside Muenster cathedral, did not mention Spain during what
was the first of 15 campaign stops in 25 days. Schleswig-
Holstein votes on May 6, followed by North Rhine-Westphalia,
which with almost a quarter of Germany’s 82 million people is a
bellwether for national political fortunes.  The chancellor is campaigning to recapture North Rhine-
Westphalia after the Social Democrats took the state from the
CDU at a vote in May 2010, days after she backtracked and agreed
to a first bailout in  Greece . The result deprived Merkel of her
majority in the national parliament’s upper house, the
Bundesrat, where states are represented.  Polls suggest her party is facing an uphill struggle to win
back the state. The Social Democrats lead by 40 percent to the
CDU’s 29 percent, an  Info poll  for Wirtschaftswoche magazine
showed on April 14. With the Greens at 10 percent and the Free
Democrats at 3 percent, the SPD-Greens coalition government that
displaced her bloc in 2010 may be poised to resume power. Info
polled 1,005 voters on April 4-7. No margin of error was given.  Voters in the state face a choice between “living on
borrowed money” and “a good future for you and your children”
that requires reducing debt, Merkel said. Differences over the
importance of cutting debt are “the focus” of the campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Muenster, Germany at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  