-- European Stocks Rise; International Power Shares Advance
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-16T15:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/european-stock-futures-fall-royal-kpn-xstrata-may-move.html
European stocks rebounded from
their longest stretch of weekly losses since August as companies
from  International Power Plc (IPR)  to Royal KPN NV rallied amid an
increase in takeover activity.  International Power jumped 3.2 percent after GDF Suez SA
agreed to pay 6.4 billion pounds ($10 billion) for the stake in
the U.K. utility that it doesn’t already own. KPN climbed after
saying it’s reviewing its Belgian mobile-phone unit. French
banks paced declining shares.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.3 percent to 254.26 at
the close in London, paring an earlier rally of as much as 1.2
percent. The gauge fell last week, for a fourth week of losses,
amid renewed concern the euro area’s debt crisis is worsening
and as  China ’s economic growth slowed.  “There is volatility out there at the moment,” said  Kevin Gardiner , head of global investment strategy at Barclays Wealth
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “When the dust
settles, the underlying profitability of average large quoted
companies is actually pretty resilient. Investors will
eventually come back in and capitalize on that opportunity.”  The benchmark Stoxx 600 has  risen 4 percent this year  as
the  European (SXXP)  Central Bank disbursed more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) to the region’s lenders and as U.S. economic
reports topped forecasts. The number of shares changing hands on
gauge today was 4.8 percent greater than the average over 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. Retail Sales  A report today showed that U.S  retail sales  climbed 0.8
percent in March. The increase was almost three times as large
as  economists had predicted  and followed a 1 percent advance in
February.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 12 of the 17 western-
European markets that were open today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
advanced 0.3 percent and  Germany ’s DAX rose 0.6 percent.
France’s CAC 40 increased 0.5 percent.  Greece ’s stock market was
closed for the Orthodox Easter holiday.  International Power added 3.2 percent to 416.8 pence after
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  agreed to buy the 30 percent stake at a revised price
of 418 pence a share. That’s 7 percent more than an earlier
offer of 390 pence that the U.K. utility rejected as too low.
GDF increased 5 percent to 18.86 euros as  Europe’s biggest
utility by market value  confirmed that it will raise its 2012
targets if the deal goes through.  KPN, Vestas Climb  KPN rose 0.9 percent to 7.12 euros after  the Netherlands’
largest phone company  said it has started a review of Belgian
mobile-phone unit, BASE. The business will probably attract
interest from private-equity firms such as Apax Partners LLP,
according to people familiar with the situation. BASE may fetch
1.8 billion euros in a sale.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  surged 13 percent to 55.55 kroner
for the biggest gain on the Stoxx 600. Jyllands-Posten reported
that Sinovel Wind Group Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. are considering bidding for the Danish company.
The newspaper cited unidentified people it said were close to
the process. Andrew Hilton, a Vestas spokesman, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Denmark ’s government wouldn’t block a bid for Vestas by a
Chinese company, Danish Energy Minister Martin Lidegaard said
today in Copenhagen.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S increased 0.8 percent to 41,600
kroner after Denmark’s biggest company said Maersk Mc-Kinney Moeller, the main owner and son of the firm’s founder, died
today. He was 98.  Pernod-Ricard, InBev  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI)  rose 1.6 percent to 77 euros after Morgan
Stanley upgraded France’s biggest distiller to overweight, the
equivalent of a buy recommendation, citing a recent selloff in
the shares.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  gained 1.6 percent to 55 euros,
after the world’s largest brewer agreed to buy control of
Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana, the Dominican Republic’s biggest
beermaker, for $1.24 billion.  AB InBev’s AmBev unit will pay CND’s majority owner E. Leon
Jimenes SA about $1 billion cash, according to a statement
today. AmBev will also acquire a 9.3 percent stake in CND owned
by Dutch competitor  Heineken NV (HEIA)  for $237 million. Heineken rose
1.4 percent to 41.84 euros in Amsterdam.  BNP Paribas, SocGen  BNP Paribas SA led a selloff in banks amid concern that the
election of  France ’s next president won’t lead to a reduction in
the country’s debt. France’s biggest lender slid 4.6 percent to
29 euros, Societe Generale SA fell 4 percent to 17.10 euros and
Credit Agricole SA lost 4.8 percent to 3.72 euros.  Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande , who’s leading in the
polls ahead of  Nicolas Sarkozy , signaled that he may increase
the minimum wage. He has pledged to push back the  retirement age 
to 60 from 62 for some people and said he wants to hire more
teachers at public schools.  “Many say that the scale is tipping in favor of
Hollande,” said Yves Maillot, the head of investments at Robeco
Gestions SA in Paris, who helps oversee $6.8 billion. “In this
case, there is an argument for the market to question the
subject of debt a bit more. But it’s a concern no matter who
wins the election.”  Kuehne & Nagel International AG tumbled 9.5 percent to
107.80 francs after the company reported a 14 percent drop in
net income excluding one-off payments to 133 million francs
($145 million). The  average estimate of seven analysts  surveyed
by Bloomberg called for profit of 143 million francs.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. dropped 4.6 percent to 129.5 pence
after  Zimbabwe  ordered local and foreign mining companies to
reapply for exploration rights. Aquarius generated 25 percent of
sales in the fiscal year through June from its Mimosa venture in
Zimbabwe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  