-- Ex-BDO Seidman Partner Favato Gets 18 Months for Tax Crimes
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-16T22:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ex-bdo-seidman-partner-favato-gets-18-months-for-tax-crimes-1-.html
Stephen A. Favato, a former partner
at New York-based auditor BDO Seidman LLP, was sentenced to 18
months in prison for two tax crimes related to helping a client
falsify his returns.  Favato was sentenced in federal court in  Newark , New
Jersey, where a jury convicted him in August 2010 of one count
of obstructing the administration of  Internal Revenue Service 
laws and one count of aiding the preparation of a false tax
return. He faced as many as three years in prison on each count.
He was acquitted on one count of  tax evasion .  Prosecutors showed jurors that Favato, formerly a partner
in BDO Seidman’s office in Woodbridge, New Jersey, advised
client Daniel Funsch to include false items on joint tax returns
in 2002, 2003 and 2004, according to a statement by the  Justice
Department  and Internal Revenue Service. Favato gave advice that
“enabled Funsch to fraudulently deduct his personal yacht
expenses as business expenses,” according to the statement.  Funsch, chief executive officer of Intarome Fragrance &
Flavor Corp. in Norwood,  New Jersey , pleaded guilty in 2006 to
conspiracy and tax evasion, court records show. Funsch testified
as a prosecution witness against Favato.  Favato’s attorney, Alan Zegas, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  After Favato’s indictment in April 2009, he was placed on a
leave of absence, BDO Seidman spokesman Jerry Walsh said in an
e-mailed statement at the time of his conviction. A month later,
his partnership interest was terminated, Walsh said.  The case is U.S. v. Favato, 09-cr-237, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 