-- Mexico’s Ruling Party Plays on Corruption Fears in Race
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-04-17T16:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/mexico-ruling-party-plays-on-corruption-fears-in-president-race.html
Mexico’s ruling party candidate is
stepping up attacks on the presidential front-runner to play on
fears of corruption within the once-dominant  Institutional
Revolutionary Party .  Trailing in the polls, Josefina Vazquez Mota of the
 National Action Party  suggested last week that the PRI, which
held power for seven decades until 2000, colluded with drug
traffickers. Her campaign has also called the party’s candidate,
Enrique Pena Nieto, a liar, saying he didn’t complete public
works projects that he’d claimed credit for as a governor.  Vazquez Mota is treading a fine line between unmasking what
she says are her opponent’s weaknesses and breaching a new
election law against negative campaigning ahead of the July 1
vote. Pena Nieto says Vazquez Mota’s accusations hark back to
campaigning in the last election in 2006, which ended with
supporters of the losing candidate alleging fraud and blocking
Mexico City’s main thoroughfare.  “Six years ago, Mexico saw itself divided by dirty
campaigns that only achieved confrontation and rancor between
Mexicans,” Pena Nieto said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“I am not going to divide Mexico.”  Ads by Vazquez Mota’s party in 2006 calling opposition
candidate  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  a danger to Mexico helped
erase the lead he held in early opinion polls. After losing the
race by less than one percentage point,  Lopez Obrador , who is
running again this year, pushed to overhaul electoral laws to
prohibit personal attacks.  ‘Complicity’  Vazquez Mota’s campaign spots show leaking pipes and
unfinished roads that her party claims are among dozens of
projects Pena Nieto failed to complete while governor of Mexico
state. Pena Nieto said he completed all 608 of his pledges.  The PRI filed a complaint with the electoral institute
April 15 to halt airing of the ads, arguing that they distort
the truth. The two parties have agreed to meet to investigate
the allegations.  Vazquez Mota has also criticized the PRI’s record on
tackling drugs gangs.  “Organized crime did not come on its own,” she said on
April 13 at an event in the northern state of Tamaulipas, which
is governed by the PRI and has been hit especially hard by the
recent drug war. “There had to have been complicity or at least
much complacency” from the authorities.  ‘Doesn’t Deliver’  Vazquez Mota’s assertions at public events or on the
Internet do not violate the new electoral law, while negative TV
or radio ads may do so, according to Aldo Munoz, a political
scientist at the Autonomous University of Mexico state.  The law “prevents the voter from receiving information
about the negative aspects of the parties fighting for power,”
Munoz said.  The  PAN  started a website over the weekend called “Pena
Doesn’t Deliver” that reports on dozens of his supposedly
incomplete public works projects.  Vazquez Mota had 21 percent support in a poll released
April 16 by Grupo Economistas Asociados-ISA, up from 18 percent
on April 11. She remains about 19 percentage points behind the
front-runner, Pena Nieto, who had 40 percent support in the
face-to-face survey of 1,148 people from April 14 to April 16.
Lopez Obrador of the Party of the Democratic Revolution was
third with 14 percent support. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus three percentage points.  Former President Vicente Fox, who is from Vazquez Mota’s
party, said last week that it would take a “small miracle” for
her to win the July 1 vote.  The candidates will hold their first debate May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  