-- Falcone Waits for Icahn Doubling Down on Network
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   M a x   A b e l s o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-04-17T03:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/falcone-lightsquared.html
Phil Falcone  waited at the bar of
the Post House in New York with two colleagues and a $199 bottle
of Tignanello. His guest,  Carl Icahn , was late.  Falcone, the hedge-fund manager who has invested $3 billion
in wireless broadband startup LightSquared Inc., said he hoped
the vulture investor, who made billions seizing control of
companies, might become a partner, according to a person at the
restaurant that night in March.  It had been a difficult few months. On Valentine’s Day, the
U.S. Federal Communications Commission said it was preparing to
withdraw LightSquared’s permission to operate a nationwide
network, citing interference with global-positioning devices
used in navigating everything from fighter jets to minivans. The
company said it was cutting 45 percent of its staff, and Chief
Executive Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  resigned.  In December, the Securities and Exchange Commission told
Falcone it may sue him over a $113 million loan he took from his
hedge fund, Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, to pay personal
taxes. Then, for the second time in three years, he blocked
investors from exiting the fund. Weeks later Harbinger borrowed
$190 million at an effective rate of 24 percent to repay debt.  The three men at the bar reassured one another that
LightSquared could meet its loan payments before Icahn, in a red
jacket, walked in.  Treadmill, Hirst  Falcone is fighting to maintain control of LightSquared and
reverse the biggest drop in assets in hedge-fund history -- $23
billion from withdrawals and losses. He’s doing it with the same
obstinacy that led him to gamble his fund on a startup, then
ignore signs that his plan to compete with entrenched
telecommunications companies was in danger.  When backed into a corner, the 49-year-old former
professional hockey player, whose bets against subprime
mortgages propelled his fund to a mid-2008 peak of $26 billion,
puts his head down and charges, according to interviews with
friends, investors and Falcone himself.  “This is pounding every single day and not giving up,”
Falcone said last month, sitting in a Park Avenue office that
features a treadmill in a bathroom and a Damien Hirst spin
painting. “I tend to be pretty aggressive.”  LightSquared’s creditors, including Icahn, 76, have agreed
to wait until the end of the month before deciding whether to
put the company in technical default as a result of the FCC’s
announcement. If Falcone, who heads the firm’s executive
committee, can’t persuade them to extend the deadline,
LightSquared could file for bankruptcy and wage war against debt
holders who want a rapid sale of his spectrum, he said.  Falcone and Icahn wouldn’t comment on their discussions.  Sagaponack Lien  At least $850 million of Falcone’s own money was at risk in
Harbinger’s main fund as of Aug. 31, loan documents show, and
Falcone has written down the value of LightSquared’s spectrum by
70 percent, or about $2 billion, in the past year, according to
people familiar with the fund who asked not to be identified
because the valuations are private.  He has halted construction on a house near the beach in
Sagaponack on the eastern end of  Long Island , where he owes his
former contractor $1.2 million, according to a lien filed last
month in Suffolk County. Falcone said he dismissed the
contractor because of delays. Renovations on a 27-room mansion
near Central Park once owned by former Penthouse publisher Bob Guccione that he and his wife Lisa bought in 2008 for $49
million should be completed next year, he said.  ‘Not Losing Sleep’  Falcone’s spectrum investment accounts for about 40 percent
of his main hedge fund. He said he’s considering a legal
campaign, hiring lawyers including former U.S. Solicitor General
 Theodore Olson , to make the case that the government changed the
rules and undermined his business.  “What’s happening is quite frankly outrageous, it’s un-
American, it’s unfair,” Falcone said during the interview.
“You mandate me to build out a network as a condition to buying
the company, so I go and buy the company. And now you’re not
letting me build out the network?”  Falcone doesn’t look besieged. Dressed in a blue Domenico
Vacca shirt and gray pinstripe pants, he wears his collar-length
hair in the same style as when he played center on Harvard’s
hockey team in the early 1980s. He sports a beaded rainbow-
colored bracelet on his right wrist and purple and pink one on
his left, gifts from his twin, 7-year-old daughters.  “I am not losing sleep on this -- why would I lose
sleep?” he said. “I still believe that we had a great, and we
still do have a great vision.”  ‘Complete Mismanagement’  Some investors have lost patience with Falcone’s vision to
build a 4G network. He was sued in federal court in February by
Lili Schad, a Wallkill,  New York , resident who said she invested
$4 million with Harbinger and wasn’t told how much of the fund’s
money went into LightSquared or that its plan faced obstacles
from regulators. Lew Phelps, a spokesman for Harbinger, said the
fund will respond once an amended complaint is filed next month.  “This has been nothing but a complete mismanagement of the
fund,” said Peter Rup, chief investment officer of New York-
based Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, which invests in  hedge funds 
for clients and doesn’t have any money in Harbinger. “There
should have been constraints on risk and concentration of the
investments.”  Falcone’s doubling down on LightSquared fits a pattern,
said Nathan Pettit, an assistant professor of management at New
York University’s Leonard N. Stern School of Business who has
done  research  on how status colors judgment.  “People of status and power have an illusory sense they
can control more than they do,” said Pettit. “That leads to
unrealistic optimism, increased risk-taking and decreased
inhibitions.”  Concentrated Bets  Falcone said he didn’t add to his LightSquared wager. It
became a larger portion of his portfolio after investors asked
to pull more than $10 billion from the fund between 2008 and
2011.  Most hedge fund managers have shunned illiquid holdings
since the 2008 financial crisis, when they were forced to block
client redemptions to avoid a fire sale.  Eddie Lampert, who runs Greenwich, Connecticut-based ESL
Investments Inc., is one of the few billion-dollar hedge-fund
managers to have taken a bet as concentrated as Falcone’s. After
orchestrating a 2004 merger between his two biggest holdings,
retail icons Kmart Holding Corp. and Sears, Roebuck & Co., the
combined company,  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , has tumbled 46 percent.  Falcone started buying shares and debt of SkyTerra
Communications Inc. as early as 2005 in a bid to control a swath
of scarce radio spectrum that could be used for surfing the Web
and watching YouTube videos. In 2010, he received permission
from the FCC to buy all of the company on the condition he build
a wireless network, using cell towers and satellites, that could
serve 260 million Americans.  ‘New Driver’  Even then, Falcone knew there were interference issues. He
said in the interview they weren’t his to solve because GPS
users were encroaching on his spectrum.  “People who are in adjacent bands have to understand that
there is now a new driver in town driving on that highway,” he
said. “And they can’t be weaving in and out of that highway.”  GPS users and government officials weren’t keen on getting
out of Falcone’s way. They objected after he sought a waiver
from the FCC in November 2010 to lift a requirement that devices
using his network communicate with satellites. The waiver would
let phones, tablets and computers work off nearby towers rather
than distant satellites, allowing LightSquared to compete with
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the two biggest U.S.
wireless carriers.  AT&T Objections  AT&T said in a letter to the FCC on Dec. 2, 2010, that
there was “increasing concern” in the industry about
LightSquared signals interfering with GPS devices. A month later,
on Jan. 12, 2011, the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration wrote that the plan to use airwaves
reserved mainly for satellite communications raised
“significant interference concerns.” Deputy Defense Secretary
 William Lynn , then the Pentagon’s No. 2 civilian, wrote a letter
the same day citing “critical national security” issues.  The letters didn’t stop the FCC from granting the  waiver 
two weeks later. The agency required that interference concerns
be resolved, and a working group was set up to study the matter
while LightSquared signed up wholesale customers.  GPS users, including  Deere & Co. (DE)  and Delta Air Lines Inc.,
formed a lobbying group in March to oppose LightSquared’s plan.
The organization, Coalition to Save Our GPS, said in a press
release that month that Falcone’s network posed “a serious
threat” to GPS and recommended safeguards.  ‘Can’t Believe This’  Senator  Charles Grassley , a Republican from Iowa, told FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  in April that the SEC’s
investigation of Falcone should have led the agency “to  proceed
with caution  rather than step on the gas.” AT&T, based in
Dallas, and Verizon in New York are among Grassley’s biggest
donors, according to campaign-spending  tracker  OpenSecrets.  In June, the Federal Aviation Administration said outdoor
and laboratory tests showed that GPS receivers would be affected
by signals from LightSquared’s 40,000 base stations. Six months
later, the Defense and Transportation departments issued a
 statement , citing an FAA analysis, that said LightSquared’s
signals caused “interference with a flight safety system
designed to warn pilots of approaching terrain.”  While he doesn’t have “direct evidence” of a conspiracy
to thwart him, “common sense will tell me that it’s a concerted
effort on behalf of certain competitors,” Falcone said. “Still,
to this day, I’m like, I just can’t believe this.”  Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman in Washington, said in
an e-mail that his company has been “strictly neutral” on the
matter.  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for Verizon, declined to
comment. The Coalition to Save Our GPS said in a March 30 FCC
filing that LightSquared relied on the “faulty premise” it had
authority to operate a nationwide ground-based network. “This
is simply not the case and continued repetition will not make it
so,” the group said.  LightSquared ‘Blindsided’  LightSquared was “blindsided,” said Martin Harriman, an
executive vice president who left the Reston, Virginia-based
firm this year.  “You’ve bought your really nice house in Beverly Hills,
and someone comes and knocks on the door and says, ‘I’m sorry,
but actually I’m not sure if you can continue to live here,’”
said Harriman, who has been named head of business development
at Telefonica SA’s O2 unit. “You say, ‘Why?’ They say, ‘Well,
we just don’t like it.’”  Others in the industry foresaw trouble. DirecTV, the
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, looked at LightSquared’s
spectrum in 2004, according to CEO  Michael White .  “A young engineer we had went and tested it and said, ‘It
conflicts with GPS, it will never work.’ So we backed away
immediately,” White said in an interview. Falcone “made a bet
that the government would say, ‘Sure, go ahead,’ or somehow make
it right.”  Last-Minute Loan  The December warning that LightSquared signals could cause
planes to crash came less than a week after Harbinger disclosed
in a letter to clients the receipt of a Wells notice from the
SEC saying the agency was considering suing Falcone. The letter
also said New York-based Harbinger was halting withdrawals from
its main fund.  The disclosures led to another crisis: A deal to refinance
the remaining portion of a $400 million loan to Harbinger from
Zurich-based UBS AG collapsed, he said.  As a Jan. 30 deadline to repay UBS approached, Falcone
turned to investment bank  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  for help. That
weekend Falcone was in Wellington, Florida, his daughters riding
horses while he negotiated by phone.  Five Harbinger lawyers worked through the night in New York
hammering out a deal. Six minutes before a 1 p.m. deadline,
Jefferies wired money. Falcone agreed to pay an effective
interest rate of 24 percent for $190 million, four times what
the riskiest corporate borrowers pay.  “People say, ‘Boy, why would you have done that loan? Look
at the terms!’” Falcone said. “There were things that happened
that kind of backed me in.”  Harvard Hockey  Falcone has had the fighting instinct since he played
hockey in Chisholm, Minnesota, where he grew up the youngest of
nine children living in a three-bedroom house. His father, who
moved out when Falcone was 9, never made more than $14,000 a
year as a superintendent at a local utility.  Falcone threw himself into hockey. Harvard University
recruited him, and after graduation he played for a professional
 team  in Malmo, Sweden. He ended up on  Wall Street  in 1985 after
being sidelined by a leg injury, trading high-yield debt at
Kidder, Peabody & Co. in New York.  “He was willing to push things, push hard on things, and
push the limit on things,” said Wade Lau, a Harvard teammate
who was also from Minnesota and is now an executive at
Minneapolis-based real estate investor Founders Properties LLC.
“Phil certainly had that personality as a player and, obviously,
it continued on in business.”  White-Truffle Pasta  Falcone acknowledged his pushiness could be a handicap. He
said it was a mistake to have cold-shouldered the GPS industry.  We should have “reached out and tried to do it in a more
amicable fashion, as opposed to going in and saying they’re
wrong, it’s their problem, they should spend the money to fix
it,” Falcone said. “We tried to bully, not bully, but push our
way through.”  Still, when Falcone and five LightSquared colleagues met
over a meal of white-truffle pasta and Barolo at a Washington
restaurant in January, they failed to come up with anything they
could have done differently, according to a person who was there
who asked not to be identified because the meeting was private.  ‘Desperate and Naïve’  Falcone said he’s spending a day a week in Washington and
is trying to negotiate a spectrum swap with the military or
others that would eliminate the GPS problem. The Pentagon won’t
go along, said Walt Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  “A swap of spectrum isn’t a realistic option,” Piecyk
said. “First, there’s nothing readily available and second, if
there was, that’s spectrum that could be auctioned off for
billions in proceeds.”  Falcone said if the swap doesn’t work he’ll try to
negotiate with GPS manufacturers to put filters on their devices
or to use the lower end of his spectrum. Or there’s the court.  “If I have to, I’ll put it into bankruptcy, I don’t
care.” Falcone said. “ I will maintain control.”  Falcone faces some of the toughest creditors in the
business, said Brad Balter, head of Boston-based Balter Capital
Management LLC, which invests client money in hedge funds. Icahn
along with investors including David Tepper, head of hedge fund
Appaloosa Management LP, have bought about $300 million of
LightSquared debt.  ‘Alpha-Male Investor’  “Icahn is a take-control, alpha-male investor,” Balter
said. “Falcone is both desperate and naïve if he thinks of
Icahn as anything other than an adversary who would wrest
control of the spectrum if LightSquared went into bankruptcy.”  Icahn is nearing agreement to buy a 14.9 percent stake of
Ferrous Resources Ltd., a closely held Brazilian iron-ore
producer, from Harbinger for $1.50 a share, four people familiar
with the transaction said last week. That’s about one-third of
what Harbinger paid when it bought part of the firm in 2008.  Falcone, who last year wrote down the value of
LightSquared’s spectrum by 59 percent and cut it about 25
percent more in February, said the losses aren’t forcing him to
change his lifestyle. He has a house on the Caribbean island of
St. Barts, owns a Gulfstream V jet and said he’s planning to
build a horse farm on Long Island.  Mark Baron, who has known Falcone since they grew up in
Minnesota, said his friend always seems unfazed by adversity.  “When his father left, no one knew what was going on, and
it didn’t seem to affect him, though I’m sure it did,” said
Baron, co-owner of computer-equipment provider Compudyne in
Duluth, Minnesota.  Domenico Vacca  One place Falcone is visiting less frequently is Domenico
Vacca, the New York  boutique  where suits retail for $3,900 and
shirts $490, according to a person with knowledge of his
purchases. He orders every four or five months compared with
every two or three months between 2006 and 2009, and is spending
less money at the Madison Avenue store, the person said. Falcone
said his shopping remains the same.  While one of those shirts appeared darker under the arms in
his office last month, Falcone said he doesn’t sweat and didn’t
when checking his TW Steel watch during January’s down-to-the-
wire loan negotiations.  “This is not for the faint of heart,” Falcone said.
“I’ve never looked at it as having $4 billion or $25 billion as
defining  Philip Falcone . But who’s to say I won’t get back to
$25 billion?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 