-- Fed’s Bullard Says U.S. Growth May Reach 3% This Year
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-16T22:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/fed-s-bullard-says-u-s-growth-may-reach-3-this-year.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  estimated U.S. economic growth will
quicken from a range of 2.5 percent to 2.7 percent during the
first quarter to 3 percent for the entire year.  The economy is “on track” and Fed “policy can stay on
hold for now,” Bullard said today to reporters after a speech
in Logan, Utah. The central bank will probably need to tighten
policy during the “last part of 2013,” he said.  Central bankers are holding off on increasing monetary
accommodation unless the economic expansion falters or prices
rise at a rate slower than their 2 percent target, according to
minutes of their March 13 meeting. Bullard is the last scheduled
Fed official to speak before Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other
policy makers meet April 24-25.  The Fed’s expansion of its balance sheet to $2.87 trillion
through purchases of securities known as quantitative easing
risks eventually spurring inflation, Bullard said in response to
audience questions at the Jon M. Huntsman School of Business at
Utah State University.  “The Fed is taking a lot of risk with its very large
balance sheet,” he said. “It could turn into a lot of
inflation if we don’t play our cards right.”  “Inflation has remained fairly low,” while “a bit above
our target right now” of 2 percent, he said. “I do worry about
it.”  Limited Impact  The recent rise in  oil prices  is part of a long-term trend
rather than a temporary increase with limited impact on
inflation, Bullard said.  “There is a global scramble for resources, and it is led
by emerging market economies which are growing at a very fast
pace,” he said. “They are competing globally and this is
putting pressure on resources. So you could imagine that energy
and other commodities prices will rise faster” than other
prices “for a long period of time.”  U.S. Treasury 10-year note yields were little changed at
1.98 percent even as a report showed retail sales in the U.S.
rose more than forecast. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index also
changed little at 1,369.57.  Bullard, asked by the audience to respond to criticism of
the Fed as too intrusive in financial markets, said, “I want
market solutions to all of our problems.”  “You can’t outmarket me,” he said.  Fastest Pace  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year, as
households spent more freely, the government reported. Growth
will probably slow to 2.2 percent in the first quarter,
according to the median of 73 economists’ forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey from April 6 to April 11.  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases by the central bank. The Fed pushed down its
target interest rate close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy.  Bullard, 51, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,  Indiana ,
 Kentucky , Mississippi,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  