-- Fed’s Pianalto Sees Uneven U.S. Growth With Jobs Reports
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-16T18:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/fed-s-pianalto-sees-uneven-pattern-of-growth-as-job-gains-slow.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said a government report showing
employers added 120,000 workers in March, the fewest in five
months, underscores the choppy nature of the U.S. expansion.  “Recent labor market data provide an example of the uneven
pattern of economic activity,” Pianalto, a voting member on the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee , said today in a
speech in Lexington, Kentucky. “Monthly ups and downs like
these make it hard to confirm the underlying pace of  job
creation .”  The FOMC plans to meet April 24-25 to debate policy for an
economy described as growing at a “modest to moderate” pace in
the Fed’s Beige Book survey released last week. Pianalto spoke
after a report today showed retail sales rising more than
forecast in March, as consumers weathered a jump in gasoline
prices.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed,
following the biggest weekly decline in 2012, as a drop in Apple
Inc. shares overshadowed optimism about the economy after the
increase in retail sales. The  S&P 500  rose 0.2 percent to
1,372.48 at 2:28 p.m. New York time. The  yield  on the 10 year
Treasury touched the lowest level in more than five weeks,
declining as far as 1.94 percent from 1.98 percent on April 13.  ‘Exit Strategy’  Asked about how the central bank would manage its balance
sheet, which reached a record $2.94 trillion on February 15,
Pianalto said the Fed has designed an “exit strategy” for when
economic conditions are right. Meanwhile, the central bank is
making a profit off its portfolio of securities that it gives to
the  U.S. Treasury , she said.  “Our balance sheet is not like a commercial bank’s balance
sheet,” she said. “We don’t use that balance sheet, and our
focus is not profitability of that balance sheet, our focus is
conducting monetary policy for the  U.S. economy .”  Pianalto highlighted data showing recent strength in the
labor market, including a decline in new claims for  unemployment
insurance  and a faster rate of employment increases in the first
quarter of 2012 compared with the fourth quarter of 2011.  “It seems as though the labor market is still improving,
albeit at a modest pace,” Pianalto said at “A Day with the
Commissioner” sponsored by the Kentucky Department of Financial
Institutions.  “The good news is that the economy is displaying forward
momentum,” she said. “The banking industry is healthier than
it has been in several years. Much of the harm caused by the
severe recession is being repaired.”  Far From ‘Gallop’  “If our economy were a  Kentucky  thoroughbred, I’d say we
have moved from a walk to a trot, but we’re far from a gallop,”
she said.  Retail sales rose 0.8 percent following a 1 percent advance
in February, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an increase of 0.3 percent.  The central bank has pledged to hold  interest rates  near
zero through at least late 2014. New York Fed President William C. Dudley defended that date last week, citing a possible surge
in  oil prices  or a worsening of the debt crisis in  Europe  as
risks to the economic outlook.  Pianalto, 57, has been president of the Cleveland Fed since
2003 and first joined the regional bank in 1983 as an economist
in the research department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Lexington, Kentucky at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
NI CEN
NI FED
NI FIN
NI BNK
NI INF
NI LABOR
NI ECO
NI FEDSPEAK
NI OH
NI USS
NI HSNG
NI NORTHAM
NI US 