-- Reds Move Isn’t About Smoothing Path to Wallabies, McKenzie Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-17T03:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/force-coach-graham-to-leave-at-end-of-2012-super-rugby-season.html
Queensland Reds head coach Ewen McKenzie said bringing Richard Graham in as his successor is
about building for the Super Rugby team’s future rather than
preparing a path for him to take the  Australia  national team job.  The Brisbane-based Reds said yesterday that Graham would
replace McKenzie next season with the incumbent head coach
taking a new role as director of coaching in 2013 and then
moving into a position as director of rugby the following year.  After leading the Reds to the 2011 title, McKenzie has been
linked with taking over the Wallabies job from  Robbie Deans ,
whose contract runs out at the end of next year. McKenzie, 46,
said today the  succession plan  was about improving Queensland,
adding that he hasn’t spoken to the Australian Rugby Union about
replacing Deans.  “You can speculate all you want about the motivations,”
McKenzie said at a televised news conference. “In the end we
are trying to put in place the best model for Queensland rugby.
I have had no discussions with the ARU about anything.”  The Sydney-based ARU was criticized for its decision to re-
sign Deans to a two-year contract before last year’s  Rugby World
Cup  in  New Zealand , where the Wallabies finished third after
losing to the All Blacks in the semifinals.  A review into Australia’s 2011 performances has since been
compiled by non-executive ARU directors Brett Robinson, Michael Hawker, John Eales and Mark Connors. Recommendations included
the hiring of two new assistant coaches for Deans.  Executive Skills  McKenzie, who has led the  New South Wales Waratahs , Stade
Francais and the Reds since ending a three-year spell as
Wallabies assistant coach in 2003, will work closely with Graham
next season before turning his attention to broader issues.  “I’m interested in growing my skill set and growing new
skills on the executive level,” McKenzie added. “We’ve got a
chance to look at the coaching group and how we move forward.
Tell me where another Super Rugby team in Australia has had the
opportunity to do that.”  Some Force players are pressuring chief executive officer
Vern Reid into relieving Graham of his duties immediately rather
than leaving him in the head coach’s job until the end of the
season, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Perth-based Force, who joined the southern hemisphere’s
elite provincial rugby competition in 2006, are last in the
five-team Australian Conference, having won two and lost six of
their eight games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  