-- Foreign Demand for U.S. Assets Slowed on European Easing
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-16T13:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/foreign-demand-for-u-s-assets-slows-as-european-crisis-eases.html
International demand for U.S.
financial assets slowed in February as the European debt crisis
showed signs of easing.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$10.1 billion during the month, compared with net purchases of
$102.4 billion in January, the  Treasury Department  said today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net
buying of $42.5 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  “I expect some buying of Treasuries; however, not to the
same magnitude seen in January,” Kevin Chau, a foreign exchange
strategist at IDEAglobal in  New York , said before the report.
“February was more risk on as riskier assets performed well.”
Still, “the European debt crisis will be with us until  Europe 
comes up with a large enough package to boost confidence in the
markets. So far, their attempts have been meager.”  China  remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in February after its holdings rose $12.7 billion to $1.18
trillion, according to the Treasury.  Estimates of purchases of long-term assets ranged from net
buying of $27 billion to $65 billion, according to six
economists surveyed before the report.  Custodial Survey  The Treasury said in February it was shifting from a
transaction-based survey to a custodial survey to keep track of
foreigners’ holdings. As a result, month-to-month comparisons
are invalid.  Japan , the second-largest holder of U.S. Treasuries
increased its holdings in February by $13.1 billion to $1.1
trillion.  Hong Kong , which is counted separately from China,
increased its holdings by $6.2 billion to $140.5 billion.  The Treasury Department’s data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and securities issued by U.S. agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  