-- Former SAC Capital Asia Head to Join Dymon Hedge Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-04-17T03:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/former-sac-capital-asia-head-to-join-dymon-hedge-fund.html
Dymon  Asia  Capital (Singapore) Pte,
the best-performing large hedge fund in Asia last year, hired
Jay Luo, former head of SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Asia-Pacific
operations, allowing Dymon’s founder to focus on investing.  Luo, 44, who headed the Asia office in  Hong Kong  for the
$13 billion hedge fund run by  Steven A. Cohen , will join
Singapore-based Dymon as president and a partner in June, said
Dymon founder Danny Yong. Luo will be based in Hong Kong,
focusing on strengthening risk management and operations. The
appointment is subject to approval from regulators, Yong said.  The hiring will allow Yong to focus on trading as his firm
expanded assets under management to $2.85 billion in February,
including $2.5 billion in its main macro fund. The macro fund in
2011 had a more than 20 percent return, the most in Asia among
hedge funds with assets of more than $1 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Jay has impeccable track record in Asia, helping SAC
build the Asia business,” said Will Tan, managing director at
Singapore-based recruiting firm Principle Partners Pte. “The
biggest plus for Dymon would be Jay’s track record in building a
hedge-fund business.”  Dymon’s Asian macro fund started trading in August 2008
with $113 million of initial capital from  Paul Tudor Jones ’s
Tudor Investment Corp., the Greenwich Connecticut-based hedge
fund, as well as partners and employees, according to the firm.
It started accepting money from outside investors in August 2009,
after it separated from  Abax Global Capital Ltd. , the asset
manager part-owned by Morgan Stanley.  Down 2%  Dymon Asia Macro Fund -- which seeks to profit from
macroeconomic trends by wagering on bonds, currencies, stocks
and commodities -- has lost about 2 percent this year, Yong said.
A Eurekahedge Pte index that tracks macro funds in Asia gained 1
percent through March, after returning 0.6 percent in 2011.  Luo, who was at SAC for 10 years, had run SAC’s Asia-
Pacific operations since 2007. Prior to that, he was a senior
member of SAC’s risk-management team in the firm’s Stamford,
Connecticut-based headquarters since joining in 2002.  “Jay’s risk-management experience is crucial in helping us
to further refine and institutionalize our risk-management
processes and controls, and continue to pursue our core focus of
delivering performance through prudent monitoring and management
of the investment portfolio and financial markets which we
invest in,” said Yong in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.
“SAC is clearly one of the best hedge funds in the world with
outstanding risk-management practices.”  Luo quit the SAC to pursue other opportunities, said three
people with knowledge of his resignation last week, asking not
to be identified because the information is private.  Luo, a Chinese native, graduated from Beijing University
with a bachelor of science in physics in 1987 and then obtained
a Ph.D at  Pennsylvania State University  in biophysics chemistry
in 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 