-- Former GE Bankers Defrauded Cities in Bid Scam, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-16T22:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/former-ge-bankers-defrauded-cities-in-bid-scam-u-s-says.html
Three former  General Electric Co. (GE) 
bankers defrauded cities and the  Internal Revenue Service  in a
bid-rigging scheme involving municipal bonds, a prosecutor told
jurors at the start of a fraud trial in Manhattan federal court.  Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg and Peter Grimm face
charges of conspiracy to commit fraud by manipulating auctions
for municipal bonds. The government claims that from August 1999
to November 2006 the men gave kickbacks to brokers hired by
local governments to solicit bids, to win auctions and to
increase their profits.  “These defendants lied and cheated cities and towns that
were trying to raise money for public projects,” Wendy Waszmer,
a Justice Department lawyer, said today in her opening
statement. Waszmer said the defendants were improperly given
information about other bidders, putting them in a position
“like playing poker and knowing everyone’s cards.”  The charges grew out of a five-year investigation by
federal antitrust prosecutors into the $3.7 trillion municipal
 bond market . In December, GE agreed to pay $70.4 million to
resolve its part of the investigation. The defendants deny any
wrongdoing.  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  have acknowledged illegal activities by
former employees and paid more than $670 million in restitution
and penalties.  Guilty Pleas  In December, CDR Financial Products Inc. and its founder,
 David Rubin , pleaded guilty less than a week before they were to
be tried on bid-rigging charges. Several former CDR employees
are scheduled to testify in the trial that began today.  The case is focused on guaranteed investment contracts, or
GICs, which cities buy with the money raised from selling bonds.
The arrangement lets the cities earn money on the funds until
they’re used for projects including new nursing homes, hospitals
and roads.  Prosecutors said they intend to introduce recorded
telephone calls made by the defendants as evidence of the
scheme, Waszmer said. A lawyer for Goldberg told jurors that the
recordings will show his client doing legitimate business.  “Thank goodness for the tapes,” said defense attorney
John Siffert. “Because they will show he never agreed to
defraud the cities out of any property, much less the IRS.”  Goldberg Testimony  In the afternoon, Douglas Goldberg, a former CDR employee
who pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the government,
testified about helping GE win bids, at the direction of Rubin
and CDR former chief financial officer Stewart Wolmark, in
exchange for later fees on swap transactions. Wolmark and former
CDR vice president Evan Zarefsky pleaded guilty to their roles
in the scheme in January.  In his testimony today, Douglas Goldberg testified about
arranging for GE’s Steven Goldberg, no relation, to submit
winning bids on several deals. In one case, he testified, GE’s
Goldberg bid a 5.04 percent return for CDR’s client, the  Port
Authority  of Allegheny County,  Pennsylvania .  Douglas Goldberg said he allowed CDR to then reduce its bid
to 5.00 percent to its profit at the expense of the Port
Authority. In exchange, CDR received $57,400 in fees for a swap
transaction about two weeks later, Douglas Goldberg testified.  “We did have an agreement with them for him to win the
transaction,” Douglas Goldberg testified today. “I allowed him
to review other bids and to reduce his bid.”  Douglas Goldberg will continue on the stand tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Carollo, 10-cr-00654, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  