-- Gannett Declines Most Since October: Washington Mover
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-04-16T20:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/gannett-falls-most-in-2-months-as-profit-falls-25-on-ad-revenue.html
Gannett Co. (GCI) , the owner of 82 daily
newspapers including  USA Today , fell the most since October
after reporting a 25 percent drop in first-quarter profit as
advertising revenue declined.  Gannett tumbled 7.7 percent to $13.89 at the close in  New
York , the largest decline since Oct. 17. The shares have risen
3.9 percent this year.  Net income fell to $68.2 million, or 28 cents a share, from
$90.5 million, or 37 cents, a year earlier, the McLean,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. Sales dropped
2.6 percent to $1.22 billion, missing the average analyst
projection of $1.24 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Gracia Martore, who took over in
October, is struggling to revive revenue growth as the newspaper
industry loses ad business to Internet companies such as  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  “We see a pretty meaningful deceleration in publishing
advertising revenues from the fourth quarter of last year to the
first quarter of this year,” Citigroup Inc. analyst Leo Kulp
said in a telephone interview.  After a 7.2 percent drop in ad sales in the last quarter of
2011, Gannett saw an 8.3 percent decline in the most recent
quarter, said Kulp, who rates the shares neutral.  Sales in the publishing division, the largest unit,
decreased 6 percent during the most recent period as advertising
and circulation fell, the company said.  Digital Assets  Gannett’s focus on improving digital assets is the best way
to improve growth, said  Paul Sweeney , senior media analyst for
Bloomberg Industries.  “The reality is that such a transformation for any
publisher is a long shot at best” and will likely take some
time, he said.  Profit excluding some items declined to 34 cents a share in
the quarter ended March 25. Analysts predicted 31 cents, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ((The company hosted a conference call at 10 a.m. to
discuss results. Go to  http://www.gannett.com  to listen.))  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  