-- GDF Suez Raises Offer for Rest of International Power
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-16T16:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/gdf-suez-raises-offer-for-international-power-to-10-billion.html
GDF Suez SA,  Europe ’s biggest
utility by market value, agreed to buy the remaining 30 percent
of  International Power Plc (IPR)  it doesn’t own for 8.4 billion euros
($11 billion) to expand in Asia and  Latin America .  The revised bid of 418 pence a share is 7 percent more than
an earlier offer of 390 pence that was rejected this month. GDF
Suez said it would sell 3 billion euros of assets to finance the
takeover. The value of the deal includes convertible bonds.  “This is definitely a good deal for International Power
shareholders,” John Musk, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a little harder
for GDF shareholders to swallow, though I don’t think they’ve
overpaid.”  GDF Suez (GSZ) ’s difficulties in obtaining higher household rates
to cover gas supply costs in France, the prospect of nuclear
taxes in Belgium and lower prices have depressed its shares by
31 percent in the past year. The company is building power
plants and selling gas from  Brazil  to South Korea where demand
for energy is growing faster than in Europe.  “We want to accelerate our growth in rapidly growing
emerging countries,” Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet
said in a Bloomberg television interview. “What is obvious is
the fact that growth in Europe in energy and power generation
will be limited. At the same time demand in Latin America, the
 Middle East  and  Asia  is growing very rapidly.”  Earnings Boost  GDF increased its target for net recurring income to 3.7
billion to 4.2 billion euros from 3.5 billion to 4 billion
euros, while maintaining the same level of earnings to debt. The
2012 dividend will also be at least as large as in 2011 if the
deal goes through, the company said.  The deal would be the second biggest this year after
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s offer for  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)  It would
give GDF Suez complete control over the company it merged some
divisions with last year to create the world’s second-largest
power producer.  “GDF Suez has made an attractive proposal and the
independent International Power directors have concluded it
represents a price that fairly reflects the company’s position
in international power generation markets and its inherent
growth potential,” Neville Simms, chairman of the independent
directors of International Power, said in a statement.  International Power rose 3.2 percent to 416.8 pence in
 London . GDF Suez added 2.9 percent, its steepest gain since
January, to 18.475 euros in Paris.  Final Dividend  GDF’s bid will be funded from bank facilities and cash, the
company said. International Power shareholders would receive
cash as well as a final dividend from 2011, Paris-based GDF said
today in a statement.  “This is close to our expectations, and we see the offer
progressing smoothly to its conclusions,” Angelos Anastasiou,
an analyst at Investec Securities, said in a note.  International Power completed a merger of assets with GDF
last year, boosting its gross generation capacity to more than
70,000 megawatts in 30 countries. The agreement involved
combining International Power divisions with GDF assets in
 Turkey , the U.K. and outside Europe.  Following today’s deal, which the French utility plans to
close in the middle of July, GDF Suez will have a combined
production capacity of 132,000 megawatts when  power plants  under
construction are completed, Mestrallet said. Plants being built
include dams in Brazil, gas-fired plants in the Middle East and
coal generators in Indonesia and Thailand.  LNG Contract  The company is in talks with Japanese companies for a long-
term import contract for liquefied natural gas and has reached
an agreement to develop an LNG terminal on  China ’s east coast,
the CEO said.  The French utility said 6.6 billion euros of asset sales
were achieved last year as part of a plan to sell 10 billion
euros of assets in the three years through 2013.  The takeover of International Power was staged in two
phases to keep debt low enough and avoid jeopardizing the
company’s “A” credit ratings, Mestrallet said.  GDF Suez declined to specify which assets will be sold in
the next 18 months.  “We will choose assets with limited contribution to the
bottom line,” Chief Financial Officer Isabelle Kocher said on
an analyst call.  Priority will be given to selling assets in Europe,
although there are no plans for any sales in  France , Mestrallet
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  