-- GDF Suez Chief Has No Plan to Raise Suez Environnement Stake
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-16T15:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/gdf-suez-chief-has-no-plan-to-raise-suez-environnement-stake-1-.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the French utility
that agreed to take over  International Power Plc (IPR)  today, said it
has no intention of extending its acquisition plans to water
company Suez Environnement.  GDF Suez, which already holds 34 percent of Paris-based
Suez Environnement, isn’t legally bound to bid for the remaining
shares unless it raises its stake by more than 2 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said today in a presentation
to analysts. “This is not at all our intention,” he said.  GDF Suez, Europe’s biggest utility by market value, agreed
to buy the 30 percent of London-based International Power it
doesn’t own for 8.4 billion euros ($11 billion) to expand in
Asia and  Latin America . The transaction, giving GDF Suez full
control over the company it merged some divisions with in 2011,
would be the second-biggest deal this year after Glencore
International Plc’s offer for Xstrata Plc.  GDF Suez’s stake in  Suez Environnement (SEV) , whose largest
competitor in Europe is Veolia Environnement SA, stems from a
2008 merger between nuclear utility Suez SA and state-controlled
Gaz de France SA to create GDF Suez. During Mestrallet’s battle
to push through that deal, he fought to keep a controlling stake
in Suez Environnement backed by a five-year shareholder accord.  “Suez Environnement has a special status in the group,”
Mestrallet said today. “This is a satisfying and comfortable
situation.”  A group of investors controlling about 12 percent of Suez
Environnement have first refusal on holdings offered for sale.
The group includes Areva SA, Caisse des Depots et Consignations,
Belgian billionaire Albert Frere’s Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA
and Group CNP Assurances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  