-- GE Isn’t Grandfather’s Company in Silicon Valley Plant
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-04-18T15:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ge-isn-t-grandfather-s-company-in-silicon-valley-plant.html
(Corrects to show Yahoo! Inc. as Hadoop software’s
developer in 32nd paragraph of story published April 16.)  More than a century after  General
Electric Co. (GE)  built its first research laboratory in an upstate
New York barn, it’s wooing Silicon Valley engineers in a bid to
connect machines the way  Facebook Inc. (FB)  links people.  New hires are coming from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Symantec
Corp. (SYMC)  as well as  Stanford University  and the  University of
California , Berkeley, as GE persuades developers to forgo
potential windfalls from initial public offerings to work for
the last original member of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  GE’s vision for the so-called industrial Internet is to
build networks that harvest data from heavy equipment, boosting
efficiency for commercial users such as railroads and airlines.
The center of the effort is a $1 billion facility in San Ramon,
California, that will be staffed with as many as 400 people. In
the process, GE also aims to disprove the notion that older
stalwarts can’t lure tech talent from younger, cooler startups.  “GE already has a brand, but when people take a step back
they probably think about it as more related to an older
company,” said Shannon Callahan, head of technical talent at
venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. “But the magic about
Silicon Valley is when you come out here and you’re building
something new, you get the opportunity to brand it as something
new.”  Bill Ruh came from  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  last year to lead the
venture as a GE vice president and has been hiring ever since.  “They want to be in on the next big thing,” he said.  Industrial ‘Disruptor’  Technology enabling companies to remotely coordinate
locomotive traffic and monitor  wind turbines  is “going to be a
disruptor in these industries in a way that’s as unpredictable
as it was in the consumer world,” Ruh said.  The field is known as “big data.” Just as information on
millions of Facebook users is prized by advertisers, the details
companies amass on their operations are deemed valuable in
cutting costs and increasing profit. For Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE, it’s also a chance to see products in action.  The data venture is a new front in what Vice Chairman John Rice calls a global war for talent. GE, the world’s largest
maker of medical imaging equipment and jet engines, must recruit
against computer-services companies ranging from unprofitable
startups to  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Companies as new as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which went public in 2004,
tussle for engineering talent with more recent businesses like
Facebook that can dangle the prospect of pre-IPO equity before
candidates. Facebook, which had 3,200 employees at the end of
last year, said in December that it plans to add thousands more
people in the coming months.  Recruitment Challenges  “Even a high-profile startup with great investors and a
skyrocketing valuation has challenges recruiting the best people
in the Valley, because it’s such a tight labor market here,”
said Ashwin Navin, co-founder and chief executive officer of
Flingo, a social-TV service. “I can only imagine whats it’s
like if you’re a large multinational conglomerate without the
same upside in your  stock options .”  Without the lure of IPO riches, GE has to appeal to the
desire of engineers and developers to work on cutting-edge
projects, said Callahan, who is based in Menlo Park,  California .  The software center’s location in San Ramon, in the East
Bay region of Northern California, is also a selling point for
recruiting people, many of whom have five to 15 years of
professional experience and are attracted to the city’s
relatively low cost of living and good schools, Ruh said in a
telephone interview. These are people who have largely outgrown
the dream of becoming wealthy in an IPO, he said.  Poaching From Cisco  GE’s hires include Jonathan Ballon as the software
venture’s chief operating officer, and Chief Technology Officer
Alok Batra, both from Cisco in nearby  San Jose , according to the
company. Chief Marketing Officer John Magee joined from Symantec
earlier this year, while Andrew Crow, director of design, came
from Razorfish, an online marketing business owned by Publicis
Groupe.  Former Google and Oracle employees also are among the
recruits, according to Ruh. He said hiring is about 25 percent
complete, with about 100 people already on board as the business
prepares to move into the renovated San Ramon facility in June.  While Ruh would not discuss compensation specifically, he
said, “When you look at how we pay and the compensation
packages, we are certainly -- if you put the IPO aside -- we’re
very competitive in the market. A lot of people aren’t
competitive in salary and bonuses because they say you’ll make
it up on the IPO.”  Skills Shortfall  Sharoda Paul, 30, one of GE’s first hires for the
initiative, has a doctorate in information sciences from
 Pennsylvania State University  and was a National Science
Foundation research fellow at the  Palo Alto  Research Center,
formerly Xerox Parc, before joining GE late last year.  “There are a few motivations to get into software,” she
said. “One is to IPO, and another is to have people really use
your product.”  “We have a huge amount of resources and backing from GE
that helps us take risks and innovate,” she added.  Callahan of Andreessen Horowitz is not surprised.  “Any company that’s doing something very innovative, very
exciting, something that hasn’t really been accomplished before,
will be able to attract talent,” she said. Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  U.S. demand for skilled workers with the technical
background and education to analyze big data will outpace supply
by 140,000 to 190,000 jobs by 2018, according to a May 2011
 study  by McKinsey & Co. Employers will face an additional
shortage of 1.5 million managers and analysts who can apply
those findings to businesses, the report found.  Preventing Traffic Bottlenecks  GE’s research roots run deep, even if it’s a new arrival in
big data. Founded by Thomas Edison in 1892, the company
established its first  laboratory  eight years later in the barn
of chief consulting engineer Charles Proteus Steinmetz.  GE is developing technologies to help minimize bottlenecks
in train traffic and reduce air travel disruptions from
unscheduled engine maintenance, Ruh said. That will enhance the
service offerings that accounted for 45 percent of last year’s
$94 billion of industrial revenue, according to GE.  Sensors on 6,400 GE wind turbines are already reporting
data monitored in control centers in Salzbergen,  Germany , and at
the headquarters of its renewable energy business in
Schenectady,  New York .  Technicians can reset the turbines in case of a fault or
dispatch crews for repairs, said Lindsay Theile, a spokeswoman.
Analyzing the data ultimately may help GE devise more efficient
and reliable designs.  ‘Just Too Big’  “If I can begin to see that something is starting to
deteriorate and get out there and fix it before it breaks,
that’s a foundational change,” Ruh said. “I don’t care if it’s
a wind turbine or a jet engine or a truck that’s out making
deliveries, in the end what everybody wants is predictability.”  Calculating “a global, economy-wide number” for the
potential market for technologies that aggregate and analyze
such data isn’t possible, said Michael Chui, a senior fellow at
McKinsey & Co. “It’s just too big.”  In health care alone, big-data solutions could save $300
billion annually in the U.S., Chui said. That’s an important
business for GE, providing about 20 percent of the company’s
industrial revenue.  IBM, the world’s biggest computers-services company,
announced its push into big data in May 2010. Its initiatives
include providing analytics to improve public safety, such as
monitoring traffic patterns to pinpointing security breaches.  Splunk, Cloudera  Another aim: extending the lives of oil and gas fields by
improving oil recovery through analytics. IBM is working with
Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the largest maker of wind turbines, to
find better locations for wind farms.  Newer entrants are jumping in as well.  Splunk Inc. (SPLK) , which
may price its IPO on April 19, said its customer rolls exceeded
3,700 as of Jan. 31, with offerings to help companies monitor
and analyze data to improve service, cut operations costs and
reduce security risks. Cloudera Inc. is marketing a version of
open-source analytical software called Hadoop, first developed
at Yahoo! Inc. and now used by IBM and others.  GE is counting on its expertise making industrial equipment
from gas-fired electrical turbines to diesel locomotives to give
it an advantage over rivals focused on exclusively providing
data solutions, Ruh said.  “If you don’t have deep expertise in how energy is
distributed or generated, if you don’t understand how a power
plant runs, you’re not really going to be able to build an
analytical model and do much with it,” Ruh said. “We have deep
insight into several very specific areas. And that’s where we’re
staying focused.”  Innovation Pace  The pace of innovation is accelerating, threatening to
leave latecomers at a disadvantage, according to Ping Li, a
partner at Palo Alto, California-based Accel Partners, a venture
capital firm that’s investing in big-data startups.  “The window of opportunity isn’t closed today, but if
you’re not getting in right now, it’s hard to see how you can
keep up with the pace of innovation,” Li said in a telephone
interview. “These technologies are getting proliferated across
geographies and sectors faster than anyone anticipated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  