-- Gene Links to Memory, Brain Size Found in Global Effort
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-04-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/gene-links-to-memory-brain-size-found-in-global-effort.html
An international effort to
understand the genetic building blocks of the human brain and
its functions found patterns of DNA that may be linked to memory
and intelligence.  The research for the first time tracked genes that affect
the size of infants’ heads, and the volume of the cranium and
the hippocampus, a seahorse-shaped organ crucial for memory.
More than 200 researchers at 100 medical centers worldwide were
involved in creating a database of 21,151 people that helped
lead to findings from a series of four studies.  The reports, published online by the journal  Nature
Genetics , featured two key results. In one, the scientists were
able to link certain DNA to brain size. In another, they found a
gene that may be tied to the rate at which the hippocampus
shrinks as people get older.  Paul Thompson , a researcher at the
University of  California ,  Los Angeles , said the findings
wouldn’t have occurred without the collaboration.  “Our individual centers couldn’t review enough brain scans
to obtain definitive results,” Thompson, a professor of
psychiatry at the Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human
Behavior, said in a statement. By sharing data, “we created a
sample large enough to reveal clear patterns in genetic
variation, and show how these changes physically alter the
brain.”  Traditionally, scientists have screened the genetic makeup
of patients with specific disease seeking to uncover common
mutations that may be linked.  MRI Images  In the most recent research, dubbed  Project Enigma ,
scientists measured the size of the brain and its memory centers
using thousands of MRIs, or Magnetic Resonance Imaging, scans
from healthy people, while simultaneously screening their DNA.  “Earlier studies have uncovered risk genes for common
diseases, yet it’s not always understood how these genes affect
the brain,” Thompson said. Project Enigma “led our team to
screen brain scans worldwide for genes that directly harm or
protect the brain.”  Along with the findings on brain size, one of the teams
studying the database found a weak association between certain
DNA and intelligence quotient points. They reported that the
gene seemed to raise IQ by 1.29 points. An average IQ, measured
by a standardized test, is 100.  Because Alzheimer’s and other brain disorders disrupt
circuitry in the brain, the newly established database will next
be used to search for genes that influence how the organ is
wired, he said. That search will use new technology, such as so-
called diffusion imaging, which maps impulses that that occur in
the living brain.  Australia, Netherlands  Thompson’s team worked with Nick Martin and Margaret Wright
of the Queensland Institute of  Medical Research  in  Australia ,
and molecular psychiatrist Barbara Franke at the Radboud
University Nijmegen Medical Center in the Netherlands, according
to the studies.  Funders for the research included the U.S. National
Institutes of Health in Bethesda,  Maryland , the Netherlands
Organization for Scientific Research, the European Commission
Framework Programme 6, and the National Institute on Aging,
among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 