-- German Tripling of Solar Installs Below Expectations, Lobby Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-04-16T15:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/german-tripling-of-solar-installs-below-expectations-lobby-says.html
A tripling in German installations
of solar panels in the first quarter is less than anticipated,
given the rush to complete projects before subsidy cuts in the
second-biggest market for the industry, a lobby group said.  “This is a clear warning signal,” BSW-Solar President
Guenther Cramer said in a statement. “There’s no further room
in the short term for strong cuts to solar subsidies.”  While installations rose to about 1,900 megawatts, from 513
megawatts a year earlier, they were less than estimates of as
much as 4,100 megawatts, BSW-Solar said, citing “preliminary
figures” for the first quarter. The government and regulator
declined to comment on the numbers, reported today by the
Financial Times Deutschland, which didn’t cite anyone.  Klaus Breil, a lawmaker with the Free Democratic Party
junior coalition partner, said in January  Germany  might be
heading toward 4 gigawatts of new projects through April. Some
businesses speeded up developments before subsidy cuts as high
as 29 percent, while others canceled projects, BSW-Solar said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government wants to lower
by half the pace of annual solar installations after incentives
for the industry pushed new projects to a record 7.5 gigawatts
last year, more than double a target. Subsidy cuts, still going
through parliament, would start April 1, about a year after
Merkel decided to exit nuclear generation and replace reactors
with a mix of renewable and more efficient fossil-fuel plants.  The 1.9 gigawatts is “slightly above expectations,”
Katharina Cholewa, an analyst with WestLB AG, said by phone.
Cholewa had initially forecast 1.6 gigawatts for the quarter.  Juergen Maass, a spokesman for the  Environment Ministry ,
and Renate Hichert, at the Bundesnetzagentur grid regulator,
declined to comment. Hichert said the regulator plans to release
an official figure by the end of this month or in early May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  