-- Germany Reformed Its Social Model. Europe Can, Too
-- B y   J o s e f   J o f f e
-- 2012-04-16T23:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/germany-reformed-its-social-model-europe-can-too.html
Forget  Europe ’s debt disaster for a
moment and look instead at a few numbers that dramatize the
underlying problem.  Unemployment in the euro area just climbed to a record of
almost 11 percent. Do we blame the financial crisis and its
aftermath? Europe didn’t do much better before 2008. Even before
the crash, the jobless rate was stuck at between 7 percent and 8
percent, not exactly full employment. So Europe’s problem is
older than the fall of the House of Lehman.  Now slice the data another way. Eurostat, the European
Union’s statistics agency, estimates that euro-area growth will
be just below zero this year. The U.S. is chugging along at
almost 3 percent, while unemployment there is finally heading
down. So Europe is doing a lot worse than the U.S. in climbing
out of the post-crash recession.  What’s holding Europe back? Is it austerity, a wave of rabid
spending cuts, that makes the economy so anemic? Not really.
After the crash, the euro area went into heavy  deficit spending ,
which peaked at 6.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2009.
Last year’s figure was a bit less, at 6.2 percent. That kind of
public profligacy is hardly austerity; it’s twice the rate
allowed under the EU’s Stability and Growth Pact, the Holy Writ
of monetary union.  It’s the Micro-Economics  The message, then, has to be: It’s the micro-economics,
stupid! It’s about the usual suspects: unresponsive labor
markets; privileged groups, such as public-sector unions and
sheltered professions; cultural taboos that brake innovations in
areas such as bio-engineering; constraints on competition, such
as high barriers to market entry and subsidies that keep dying
companies alive; and high welfare payments that reduce work
incentives.  A number that pulls all this together is Europe’s 22 percent
aggregate youth  unemployment rate . It bespeaks a two-tier labor
market, in which the happy insiders enjoy virtually lifetime
employment at mandated high wages, while the young outsiders
can’t get in. If they are lucky, they snag a temp job or an
internship. If not, they go straight from school to the dole.  But what about Germany? Isn’t Berlin the stellar exception?
Indeed, its budget shortfall has plunged to 1 percent and its
unemployment rate has plummeted. So, Teutonic discipline works.
Joblessness now stands at 5.7 percent, while  France ’s is almost
twice as high at 10 percent, according to Eurostat figures. What
are the Germans doing right?  The short answer is “Agenda 2010,” a package of reforms laid
out by the government of Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder . In the
decade before these changes took effect, 5 million people were
out of work (compared with fewer than 3 million now). Germany
trailed everybody else in growth. It kept breaching the 3
percent deficit limit prescribed by the Stability and Growth
Pact. The social-security system handed out more than it took
in. So on 14 March, 2003, Schroeder went Churchill, delivering
his own “blood, sweat and tears” speech to the Bundestag. “We
will have to cut benefits,” he said. “We shall promote
individual responsibility. And our guiding principle will be
that we can only redistribute what we have earned.”  The lavish welfare state, he meant to say, was yesterday.
Patients would now have to make co-payments for medical
services. The old crafts system, a medieval legacy that
protected insiders, would have to yield. Labor unions would have
to climb down from rigid nationwide collective bargaining and
accept more modest shop-floor agreements geared to a company’s
profitability. The growth of pension benefits would have to
slow. Capital-gains taxes and the top marginal rate of income
tax were cut.  Page From Workfare  The core of “Agenda 2010” was a welfare reform that took a
page from  Bill Clinton ’s “workfare” legislation.  Unemployment
benefits  were limited to 12 months. After that, the able-bodied
would have to make do with a bare minimum. The basic idea was to
get people off unemployment benefits by making them look for
work. To help them, the new Federal Employment  Agency  would
counsel, retrain and place them. It worked.  Yet it was Schroeder’s successor,  Angela Merkel , who would
reap the rewards. In 2005, Schroeder’s Social Democratic Party
was punished at the polls, and Germany’s Churchill lost his job
to Frau Merkel. She has been chancellor ever since. The lesson
is a sad one: To do well for the country is to do badly for
yourself. In  Spain , the reformist government of Jose Maria Aznar
fell in 2004.  Tony Blair , who opted for Thatcherism with a
Labourite face, went out in 2007.  Other European leaders, looking at the sorry fates of their
comrades-in-power, didn’t even try. In France, the government of
 Jacques Chirac  just went into debt to avoid reforming the
country’s statist economy. In  Italy ,  Silvio Berlusconi  promised
the sky, but delivered nothing. The bloated bureaucracy and the
frozen labor market stayed in place. Berlusconi’s mess is now
 Mario Monti ’s to clean up.  Breaking the mold, it appears, is good for the country but
not for those who wield the hammer. That’s bleak testimony to
the rock-like nature of the European social model: high welfare,
rigid labor markets, sheltered sectors and professions, low
adaptability and consistent overspending. It’s an environment
where the state giveth out more than it taketh in for the sake
of social peace, which is a euphemism for more unto each.  ”Europe speaks German now,” the majority leader in the
Bundestag, Volker Kauder, famously crowed back in November,
triggering a storm of indignation in the U.K. Is it indeed
deutsch now for each and all? The Greeks, Spaniards, Portuguese
and, above all, the Italians are trying to take a crash course
in German, reining in expenditures and putting the chisel to
privilege and protection. Whether the French will do the same
depends on the presidential elections this month and next. The
favorite in the race, Socialist Party candidate  Francois Hollande , insists on speaking in the old French style, pledging
to roll back even the timid pension reforms implemented under
 Nicolas Sarkozy .  Make it in German or Esperanto, the prescription is the same
in every language: Adopt Schroeder’s Agenda 2010, and adapt it
to national circumstances. Europe’s post-crash crisis has been
long in the making; the crash just laid the problem bare. The
true roots of Europe’s troubles are overspending that caused
deficits and ran up debts -- bad habits that nourished a social
model much better at redistributing income than at generating it
with improved competitiveness and growth.  Can  Germany  prod the rest to action, be it by suasion or
example? To change its economic fate, Europe will have to change
its politics and its ancient social contract. If not now, when?  (Josef Joffe is editor of Die Zeit newspaper in Hamburg. He
is also a senior fellow at the Freeman-Spogli Institute for
International Studies and an Abramowitz Fellow at the Hoover
Institution, both at  Stanford University . The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on increasing the  minimum
wage  and vetoing the UN  Security Council veto ; Jeffrey Goldberg
on  Afghanistan  after the  U.S. withdrawal ; Ramesh Ponnuru on
 Romney and the women’s vote ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers 
on why  tax deductions are really subsidies ; Thomas Cooley and
Kim Schoenholtz on  evading Dodd-Frank ; and  Steven Greenhut  on
the  sports-stadium scam .  To read other op-ed articles in this series about Europe's 
social contract:  Iain Begg  on the Danish flexicurity model; 
 Ana Palacio  on the difficulty of shedding Franco's labor laws; 
 Fredrik Erixon  on the last days of Europe's welfare states.  To contact the writer of this article:
Josef Joffe at  joffe@zeit.de   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  