-- Ghana Signs $1 Billion Loan With China for Natural Gas Project
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-16T16:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ghana-signs-1-billion-loan-with-china-for-natural-gas-project.html
Ghana signed a $1 billion lending
agreement with  China  Development Bank Corp. as part of the
biggest loan in the country’s history that Vice President John Dramani Mahama said would provide hundreds of thousands of jobs
and develop natural gas.  Ghana signed an $850 million agreement for a gas project
between the Ghana National Gas Co. and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028)  in Beijing and the rest for information
technology projects, Mahama said. The total amount of the loan
will eventually be $3 billion and Ghana will send China 13,000
barrels of oil a day that will be sold at market price on the
day, he said.  China is  Africa ’s largest  trading  partner and has signed
agreements worth billions of dollars with governments on the
continent, seeking natural resources to feed its economic growth
in exchange for building roads and railways, and nurturing a
market for its products.  The Ghanaian oil is not being used as collateral for the
loan, Mahama said. The money will not be paid off using the
country’s natural resources, he said.  “China has emerged as a significant source of credit to
Africa, traditionally our partners have been the  World Bank  and
the IMF,” he said in an interview, referring to the
 International Monetary Fund . “The process for accessing World
Bank and IMF credit has been unfortunately quite tiresome and
comes with a lot of strings.”  Massive Amount  China’s Export-Import Bank lent $67.2 billion to sub-
Saharan Africa between 2001 to 2010, overtaking World Bank
lending of $54.7 billion,  Fitch Ratings  estimated in a Dec. 28
report. Beijing-based China Development Bank has handed out $7
billion to more than 30 countries in Africa, Wang Yuan, the
bank’s chief economist, said Nov. 5.  “We still continue to rely on multilateral funding from
the World Bank and the IMF but we need quite some massive amount
of money for investment in infrastructure and we find it is
easier to go to the BRIC countries,” he said, referring to
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China.  The deal would help complete another 45 kilometer (28 mile)
pipeline to bring natural gas to the shore, officials told
reporters. A plant to process gas for power generation that
would be piped to the Western region will be built, with Sinopec
as the contractor, Mahama said.  Ghana’s rising debt levels are a concern as the government
risks overspending before this year’s elections, restricting the
West African nation’s credit rating, Fitch said in November.
Ghana’s borrowing comes eight years after Ghana won $3.5 billion
in  debt relief  from the IMF and the World Bank.  Jubilee Field  Ghana’s oil find will add about a $1 billion annually to
the national revenues, officials said in Beijing.  China imported 132,208 tons, or 2,655 barrels a day, of oil
from Ghana in 2011, which is 0.05 percent of China’s total 2011
oil imports, according to customs data. Ghana began production
of crude for export at its offshore Jubilee field in December
2010.  China Development Bank  is the largest bank for overseas
financing with foreign-currency loans outstanding of more than
$200 billion, according to its website. It also runs the China-
Africa Development Fund, which has committed almost all of its
first $1 billion, Chi Jianxin, the head of the fund, said in
December.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  