-- Gillard’s Labor Party Close to Record Low in Opinion Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-17T02:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/gillard-s-labor-party-close-to-record-low-in-opinion-poll.html
Support for Australian Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s  Labor Party  hovered near a record low
in the latest opinion survey ahead of elections required by the
end of next year.  Labor’s support rate of 29 percent trails Tony Abbott’s
Liberal National coalition by 19 percentage points, unchanged
from the previous survey last month, according to a Newspoll
published in the Australian newspaper. On a two-party preferred
basis, which takes into account the country’s preferential
voting system, backing for Labor increased by two percentage
points to 44 percent compared with the opposition’s 56 percent.  After fending off a leadership challenge by predecessor
 Kevin Rudd  in February, Australia’s first female prime minister
is focusing on delivering on her pledge to end four years of
deficits in the fiscal year that begins July 1. A landslide loss
for Labor in last month’s Queensland state election left Gillard
with allies governing two of the nation’s six states.  “No matter what the government does or says, voters just
don’t seem to be listening,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political
analyst at Melbourne’s  Monash University . “The worrying thing
for Labor is there doesn’t seem to be anything on the horizon to
change their minds.”  The Newspoll survey of 1,205 people, conducted April 13-15,
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Gillard trails Abbott as preferred prime minister by two
percentage points, according to the survey.  Support for Labor hit a record low of 26 percent in a
Newspoll taken on Sept. 16-18 last year.  Surplus Bid  The Australian government’s bid to deliver the nation’s
first budget surplus since the global financial crisis is being
undermined by lower-than-expected  tax revenue , Treasurer  Wayne
Swan  said April 15. The strategy has been threatened by global
pressures including China’s economic growth slowdown, Europe’s
debt crisis and elevated unemployment in the U.S.  Australia ’s underlying cash balance for the year to Feb. 29
was a deficit of A$29.4 billion ($30.4 billion), compared with a
forecast made in November of a A$27.5 billion gap, according to
Treasury figures. The government’s taxes on carbon, as well as
on  iron ore  and coal profits, are set to take effect on July 1.  Australia unexpectedly posted back-to-back trade deficits
in February as coal and metal exports slumped. The government is
relying on A$456 billion of resource projects to meet Chinese
and Indian demand to drive economic growth and support
employment.  Parliament is on hiatus until May 8 when the government
will announce its budget. Gillard was forced to cobble together
a minority government with independents and Greens after the
closest election in seven decades in August 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  