-- Gilts Vote Down Cameron in Worst Start Since 1996 on Budget
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-16T13:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/gilts-vote-down-cameron-in-worst-start-since-1996-on-budget-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
austerity policies, which helped U.K. debt beat world peers in
2011, are backfiring in the bond market with the economy on the
brink of a recession and borrowing needs approaching records.  Gilts lost 1.92 percent in the first quarter, the worst
start since 1996, after returning 17 percent last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Falling
revenue means government bond sales in the next 12 months will
be 64 percent higher than the average over the past decade.  While Cameron came to power almost two years ago saying
recovery from the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression depended on eliminating the budget deficit and
preserving the nation’s AAA credit rating, his  Conservative
Party  now trails opposition Labour in opinion polls. Gross
domestic product is projected to shrink for a second quarter and
reducing upper-income tax rates amid the biggest government
spending cuts since World War II has traders leaving gilts.  “The government policies in the U.K. have succeeded in
implementing more austerity than in stimulating growth,”  Ed Yardeni , president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni
Research Inc., said in a telephone interview on April 11. “Bond
markets do well in weak economies, but not if weak economies are
weak because they are saddled with huge, unsustainable debt.”  Greek Crisis  Cameron, 45, toppled former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  in
a general election in May 2010, ending 13 years of Labour rule.
He said then that the U.K. deficit was an “existential threat”
to the economy and tackling it would be the focus of his policy.  As the Greek debt crisis deepened, gilts rallied and the
market embraced Cameron’s medicine, which he said would restore
growth, keep borrowing costs low and preserve the nation’s top
rating. Now yields have risen as the economy struggles, with
growth lagging behind Germany and the U.S.  Foreign investors sold a net 5.9 billion pounds ($9.4
billion) of gilts in the three months through February, the
latest  Bank of England  data available show, compared with net
purchases of 10 billion pounds in the same period a year
earlier.  Gilts rebounded last week, pushing  10-year yields  down 12
basis points to 2.04 percent in the approximately 1.2 trillion-
pound market. Thirty-year bond yields fell six basis points in
the period, to 3.25 percent.  Analyst Survey  U.K. government bonds have lost 0.6 percent this year,
while German debt returned 1 percent and U.S. Treasuries slipped
0.1 percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
 European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies .  Yields on 10-year notes will rise to 2.55 percent by the
end of the year, and to 2.75 percent by June 2013, according to
the weighted average estimate of at least 10 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. That’s still below the average 4.19 percent for
the past decade.  Gilt yields across maturities rose 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, on average, in the first three months as the
economy sputtered, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.
 Treasury yields  climbed 27 basis points on signs the U.S.
recovery gained momentum, while those for German bunds increased
three basis points.  “It can be a challenge if bond yields rise when the
economy is still weak,” said Johannes Jooste, a strategist at
Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, which is underweight gilts,
meaning it holds fewer of the securities than recommended by the
benchmark it uses to measure performance.  No Fan  GDP in the U.K. shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months, the  Office for National
Statistics  said on March 28. It may have contracted 0.4 percent
in the first three months of this year, the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said on
March 29.  “I was never a great fan of the austerity,” said Jim Leaviss, a  money manager  at M&G Investments which has about $300
billion in assets. “We are just not growing fast enough, and
that’s got to be a concern for our indebtedness. At times like
this, some fiscal stimulus would have actually been quite
helpful for the U.K. economy.”  Gross debt equaled 80.76 percent of GDP last year, lower
than the 100.05 percent for the U.S. and 82.64 percent for
 Germany , according to International Monetary Fund estimates.
 Switzerland ’s debt-to-GDP was 52.44 percent, the data show.  Voter Backlash?  Waning demand and rising yields may add to Cameron’s woes
as his party’s popularity lags behind Labour by 5 percentage
points, according to a Survation poll for the Mail on Sunday
newspaper published on April 8. Thirty-five percent of voters
said they would back Labour in a general election, with 30
percent supporting the Conservatives. The next election is due
in 2015.  The government is seeking to retain the U.K.’s top credit
rating by eliminating the bulk of the budget deficit, currently
more than 8 percent of GDP, by 2017. The plan includes at least
80 billion pounds of spending cuts, which may lead to more than
700,000 public-sector job losses.  Fitch Ratings  said on March 14 that Britain has limited
ability to deal with shocks and changed its outlook to
“negative” from “stable,” indicating a “slightly greater”
than 50 percent chance that the AAA rating will be reduced
within two years. Moody’s Investors Service said on Feb. 13 that
the U.K. risks a downgrade if the economy deteriorates, which
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  called a “perfectly
reasonable” assessment.  Support for Austerity  Still, the 10-year gilt yield ended last week just 12 basis
points above the record-low 1.917 percent reached on Jan. 18. It
was at 2.05 percent at 2:39 p.m.  London  time today. Through last
week, the equivalent-maturity Treasury yield fell about 58 basis
points since the U.S. was downgraded one level to AA+ by
 Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 and, was at 1.98 percent today.  “U.K. gilt yields are close to an all-time record low,
which demonstrates the government’s commitment to reducing the
 budget deficit ,” Britain’s Treasury said in an e-mailed
statement.  Some investors continue to back austerity. Gilts will
outperform German bonds this year as the government retains the
confidence of investors with its commitment to fiscal
discipline, said  Steven Major , the global head of fixed-income
research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  S&P Affirms  “The U.K. government is doing the right thing,” Major
said in an interview on April 12. “We’ve seen what happened in
the euro region. Its credible fiscal program as well as a
flexible monetary policy sets the country apart from some of its
European peers.”  S&P affirmed Britain’s AAA rating and stable outlook on
April 13, saying in a statement that Cameron will maintain his
focus on closing the budget deficit.  Gains last year were driven by demand for a haven as the
euro-region debt crisis intensified, and by bond purchases by
the Bank of England.  Yields may now rise should the central bank end its so-
called  quantitative-easing program  of buying debt amid the euro
area’s debt turmoil and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s fiscal squeeze, said  Sam Hill , a gilt strategist at
 RBC Capital Markets  in London.  Policy makers voted April 5 to complete their 325 billion
pounds of quantitative easing, or QE. Hill said he sees a 67
percent chance the central bank will refrain from extending the
program when it announces its next decision on May 10.  ‘Unpleasant Reality’  Inflation has been above the target of 2 percent since
December 2009.  Consumer prices  rose 3.4 percent from a year
earlier in February, compared with an increase of 3.6 percent in
January, data on March 20 showed.  “The Bank of England is going to be faced with a very
unpleasant reality that they may have to downgrade their growth
forecasts and upgrade inflation forecasts,” Hill said in an
interview on April 11. “They might not want to pull a trigger
right away on more QE. Gilts are trading with QE premiums and
those premiums will fade at one point.”  The U.K. plans to sell 167.7 billion pounds of gilts in the
12 months through March 2013, down from 179.4 billion pounds for
the fiscal year ended last month. That still exceeds the average
102 billion pounds sold annually over the past 10 years.
Issuance reached a record of 227.6 billion pounds in the period
ended March 2010.  A decline in sales is based on a government forecast that
the country will avoid a recession. The nonpartisan Office for
Budget Responsibility said in March the  economy  will expand 0.8
percent this year, up from a November prediction of 0.7 percent.  Consumer Confidence  Recent data were less optimistic. U.K. manufacturing
output, which accounts for 10 percent of the economy, fell for a
second month in February, dropping 1 percent from a month
earlier, the Office for National Statistics said in London on
April 5. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an increase of 0.1 percent.  U.K. growth will be 0.4 percent this year, half the
official estimate, and will stall until companies boost
investment, Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club, which uses the
Treasury’s economic models for its forecasts, said in a report
published today in London.  Consumer confidence  is around the lowest level in almost
three years after disposable income slid the most since 1977 in
2011, and  unemployment  remains at a 16-year high of 8.4 percent,
according to reports last month.  ‘Too Rigid’  Osborne, 40, used his March 21 budget address to reaffirm
the deficit target. He extended a 20 percent value-added tax to
include hot pasties, a popular pastry filled with seasoned meat
and vegetables, and increased the tax on sales of the most
expensive homes. He also removed an age-related allowance for
retirees, while cutting the top income tax rate to 45 percent
from 50 percent.  “The U.K. fiscal plans were all set out for very good
reasons, but I would suggest they are too rigid for such a
volatile and uncertain economic environment,”  John Wraith , a
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London, said in
an interview on April 12. “There can clearly be big risks in
saying we are going to stick to our fiscal plans come hell or
high water.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 