-- Goldman Joins MetLife to Disclose NYC Workers’ Race, Gender Data
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-04-16T15:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/goldman-joins-metlife-to-disclose-nyc-workers-race-gender-data.html
     April 16 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  agreed to disclose information about the race and gender of
their workforces at the request of New York City’s pension
funds.  Goldman will release the demographics in a June report,
while MetLife will publish the data on its website, Comptroller
John C. Liu said in a statement. He called on other  New York- 
based companies, including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
 Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) , to make such information available.  The requests are part of an effort by Liu and the city
pension funds to expand opportunities for women and minorities
to obtain management-level jobs in financial services and
advertising.  “Many companies say they are making serious efforts to
recruit, retain and promote women and minorities,” Liu said.
“Without quantitative disclosure, shareowners have no way to
evaluate the effectiveness of these efforts.”  As comptroller, Liu serves as investment adviser and
trustee of five  New York City  pension funds valued at $115
billion as of Dec. 31. Combined, the funds hold more than 1.2
million Goldman shares, 2.3 million MetLife shares, 708,906
Omnicom shares and 1.1 million AIG shares, according to Liu’s
statement.  The number of women and minorities holding management-level
jobs in finance didn’t substantially increase from 1993-2008,
according to Liu’s statement.  In 2008, white men held 64 percent of management positions
in the financial industry, while women held 27 percent,
according to the statement. Together, women and minorities held
less than 10 percent of executive positions at financial firms.  “A diverse and inclusive work force has been an ongoing
focus for MetLife, and we have made steady progress over the
years,” said Frans Hijkoop, MetLife executive vice president,
human resources, said in the Liu statement. “At the same time,
we are continuing to make additional strides to promote
diversity.”  The agreement on disclosing diversity data was reported
earlier today by the New York Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  