-- Goldman Sachs Said to Raise $2.5 Billion in ICBC Sale
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-04-16T14:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/goldman-sachs-said-to-raise-2-5-billion-in-icbc-sale.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s private
equity funds are selling a stake in  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China (601398)  Ltd. to  Temasek Holdings Pte (TMSK)  in their largest
divestment of stock in the world’s biggest bank by market value.  Funds affiliated with Goldman Sachs are selling $2.5
billion of shares at HK$5.05 each, according to a term sheet.
Temasek, the  Singapore  state-owned investment group that is
increasing stakes in China’s biggest banks, said it was buying
3.55 billion shares, or 4 percent of ICBC’s Hong Kong-traded
shares. The holding would cost $2.3 billion, based on the per-
share price and stake size.  Goldman Sachs, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Bank of
America Corp. were among foreign banks that spent a combined $22
billion between 2004 and 2006 to purchase stakes in Chinese
lenders ahead of their initial public offerings. Goldman Sachs,
which owns ICBC stock directly and through private equity funds
managed by the firm, has generated $3 billion in gains on ICBC
since the fourth quarter of 2006, according to company filings.  “The ICBC stocks have done well for them,” Sandy Mehta,
chief executive officer at Hong Kong-based Value Investment
Principals Ltd., said by telephone today. “You’ll continue to
see sales of Chinese bank stocks by these banks. It’s a
continuation of the trend. It’s been happening now for a year.”  Shares of ICBC have  rallied more than 40 percent  since
hitting a 2 1/2-year low in October as concern eased that
 Europe ’s debt crisis would lead to a further economic slowdown
in  China . The MSCI China/Financials Index, which includes ICBC,
has tripled in value in the past eight years.  The price of Goldman Sachs’ stake is a 3.1 percent discount
from the HK$5.21 close of ICBC shares on April 13. The stock
fell 9 percent from its Feb. 29 peak this year.  Shares Fall  ICBC shares  dropped 0.8 percent to HK$5.17 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong, the first decline in three days. The stock
 trades  at 6.4 times estimated earnings, down from a multiple of
9.9 a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale is the fourth and biggest by value for  New York- 
based Goldman Sachs. The U.S. securities firm raised $1.1
billion in November selling shares in ICBC at HK$4.88 each.  The deal represents about 40 percent of Goldman Sachs’ 8.78
billion shares of ICBC as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. As of Dec. 31, Goldman Sachs owned $4.71 billion
of ICBC stock on its own balance sheet, down from $7.59 billion
a year earlier, according to the New York-based company’s annual
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Goldman Sachs and funds affiliated with Goldman Sachs
remain ICBC’s second-biggest holder of H shares, based on the
 shareholding data  of the Chinese lender’s Hong Kong-traded
stock.  ‘Healthy Profit’  The company’s stake in Beijing-based ICBC generated a $517
million pretax loss in 2011 compared with a $747 million gain a
year earlier, the firm disclosed on Jan. 18. Goldman Sachs,
which acquired its ICBC stock in 2006, doesn’t report other
individual stock investments in  Asia  in its annual filing.  “Investment banks need a healthy profit,” said Mehta. “I
don’t think Goldman needs the capital as much as others. It’s
certainly not urgent to have a distressed sale on the part of
Goldman, but it just reflects they need a healthy profit from
this transaction.”  Temasek has been increasing holdings in  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  as global lenders divest. It
bought 3.77 billion shares of China Construction Bank from Bank
of America on Nov. 11, increasing its stake in the second-
largest Chinese lender by value, and raised its investment in
 Bank of China , the nation’s fourth biggest, to 7.07 percent from
6.96 percent after buying 97.1 million shares in August.  ‘The Lifeline’  “Temasek’s underlying strategy is investing in growth
areas like China and key sectors like banks and this is
essentially an opportunity that came up,” said Song Seng Wun, a
regional economist at CIMB Research Pte in Singapore. “Asia is
likely to lead the growth in the near-to-middle term, so all
these deals are essentially to anchor that, and banks are
basically the lifeline and heart of any economy.”  The Singapore investment fund, which managed S$193 billion
($154 billion) as of March 2011, said in a statement today that
the purchase will give it a deemed interest of 5.3 percent in
the Hong Kong-listed shares of ICBC, which includes stakes held
by its units and associates.  ICBC widened its lead as the world’s most profitable lender
last month after reporting a 17 percent increase in fourth-
quarter net income. The percentage of financial services
companies in Temasek’s holdings rose to 36 percent from 35
percent as of March 2011.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  last month sold its entire stake in Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank Co. nine years after the purchase for an
after-tax gain of $349 million. Bank of America sold 10.4
billion shares of China Construction Bank in November for a
profit of about $1.8 billion, leaving it with a 1 percent stake.  Strategic Investments  The overseas firms touted the strategic nature of their
investments and pledged to work with their Chinese counterparts
on everything from risk management to  information systems .  Goldman Sachs will continue to reduce its stake in ICBC
because of the capital required to be held against the
investment, said  Michael Werner , a senior banks analyst at
Sanford C Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong .  The bank “purchased its stake in ICBC when it was a
broker-dealer,” said Werner. “Now that it is a  bank holding
company , which means higher  capital requirements  and subject to
the Dodd-Frank rule, it is much less attractive to hold its
stake in ICBC.”  Goldman Sachs converted to a bank holding company and
accepted $10 billion in government rescue funds in 2008. The
Dodd-Frank Act subjects the largest banks to higher capital
requirements.  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  