-- Google Gets Maximum Fine After ‘Impeding’ Privacy Probe
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-16T20:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/google-gets-maximum-fine-after-impeding-privacy-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  “impeded” and
“delayed” a U.S. inquiry into its data-collection practices,
according to the latest in a series of regulatory probes of the
company’s privacy practices.  The  Federal Communications Commission  is seeking a $25,000
fine after examining how Google gathered personal e-mails,  text
messages  and other materials through its Street View location
service, the agency said in an April 13  filing .  The company has come under mounting scrutiny from
regulators over how it handles information. In October 2010, the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission ended its investigation of Street
View after the company said it would improve privacy safeguards.
Last year, Google agreed to 20 years of independent privacy
audits to settle claims with the FTC that it deceived users and
violated its own privacy policies with the Buzz social network.  “Google unlawfully intercepted and stored millions of
wireless communications from Wi-Fi routers,” said  Marc Rotenberg , executive director of the Electronic Privacy
Information Center, which requested the FCC investigation. “We
believe that is a violation of the federal wiretap act.”  The Washington-based policy group, which focuses on
consumer-privacy issues, plans to ask U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to investigate, Rotenberg said yesterday. Some U.S.
lawmakers echoed that sentiment today.  Payload Data  For three years starting in May 2007, Google collected
content from wireless networks that wasn’t needed for its
location-based services, according to the FCC filing. Google
gathered so-called payload data, including e-mail and text
messages, passwords, Internet-usage history and “other highly
sensitive personal information,” the FCC said.  “It was a mistake for us to include code in our software
that collected payload data, but we believe we did nothing
illegal,” Google said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We
have worked with the relevant authorities to answer their
questions and concerns.”  Google’s shares fell 3 percent to $606.07 at 4 p.m. in  New
York .  Google Disputes Filing  Google, the world’s most popular search engine, has 30 days
from the FCC’s April 13 notice to contest or pay the proposed
penalty, issued for what the agency called “noncompliance”
with a probe under way since 2010. The company disputed the
agency’s “characterization of our cooperation,” and said in
its statement it “will be filing a response.”  The FCC said it had decided not to penalize Google for the
Street View activities, saying communications and wiretap law
were unclear and a Google worker the agency identified as
“Engineer Doe” had declined to testify.  “There is not clear precedent,” the agency said in the
filing. In addition, “significant factual questions” couldn’t
be answered without the engineer’s testimony, the FCC said.  The  Justice Department  should investigate and Congress
should review whether laws need to be updated, Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat and member of a Judiciary
Committee panel that reviews technology privacy issues, said in
an interview.  “I’m troubled that Google failed to cooperate,” said
Blumenthal, who investigated Street View as a state official in
2010. “I’m concerned that federal agencies have declined to do
more.”  ‘Mere Slap on Wrist’  Representative Ed Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, said
“more needs to be done” to investigate Google. The company
based in  Mountain View ,  California , recorded  $37.9 billion  in
revenue last year.  “This fine is a mere slap on the wrist,” Markey said in
an e-mailed statement. “Coupled with the company’s recent
changes to its privacy policy, it seems as if Google is making a
U-turn in its commitment to protect consumer privacy.”  The proposed fine is the highest the FCC’s enforcement
bureau, acting on its own, may impose for failure to cooperate
with an investigation, Tammy Sun, an FCC spokeswoman, said in an
interview today. It takes a vote by presidentially appointed
commissioners to levy a greater penalty, Sun said. The FCC has
closed the investigation, she said.  Google violated FCC orders by delaying its search for e-
mails, by failing to identify employees and by not verifying the
accuracy of its submissions, falling “well short of what we
expect and require,” the agency said. Google didn’t fully
respond until September to a query from the preceding December,
the FCC said.  Other Investigations  In May 2010, Google said it would stop using Wi-Fi
information for Street View, which displays pictures of streets
on  Google Maps .  Canada ,  France  and the Netherlands have determined Google
violated data protection, online privacy or similar laws and
regulations, the FCC said in its filing. Regulators outside the
U.S. found that Google had harvested personal e-mails, as well
as financial and health records, Rotenberg said.  Google has come under scrutiny for how it uses data in
other cases. The FTC is examining whether Google deceived
consumers by planting so-called cookies on Apple Inc.’s Safari
browser, bypassing privacy settings in the Apple software, a
person familiar with the matter said last month.  Also in March, customers sued the company, claiming they
were deceived by new privacy rules merging separate policies for
about 60 services into one. The National Association of
 Attorneys General  sent a letter to Google Chief Executive
Officer Larry Page Feb. 22 signed by 36 attorneys general
criticizing the new policy.  While the FCC fine will have little financial effect, it’s
a bigger setback in the court of public opinion, said  Greg Sterling , an analyst at Opus Research.  “This contributes to an image problem,” Sterling said in
an interview. “Many lawmakers and regulators have a negative
view of Google, and this just reinforces that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
Todd Shields at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  