-- Greece’s Lazard Banker Unlocks Deals Over Secret Meetings
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-04-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/greece-s-lazard-banker-unlocks-deals-over-secret-meetings.html
The world of Michele Lamarche, one
of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ’s top advisers to  Greece  on its debt
restructuring, is full of meetings that never happened,
officially at least.  With efforts to cut in half Greece’s 206 billion-euro ($269
billion) debt stalled and a Greek bond payment looming, Lamarche
and two colleagues secretly met in Paris on a Saturday morning
in December with  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  adviser  Jean Lemierre , a
negotiator for Greece’s private creditors, two people involved
in the restructuring said. Out of that 30-minute meeting came
the proposal to offer private creditors cash and give them and
the public creditors parity on new Greek debt, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks were private. It
helped restart the negotiations.  “We had to work something out,” Lamarche, 63, said in an
interview. “The alternative, Greece exiting the euro, was too
dramatic for everybody. Sometimes you need to sit down with the
other side, talk bluntly and in total confidence.”  Over a 30-year career at Lazard, Lamarche has negotiated
such deals all over the world, always on the side of the debt-
strapped sovereigns against their creditors. In  Iraq , Argentina,
the Ivory Coast and now in the glare of Greece, Lamarche, short,
thin and elegant in her Dior suits and  Christian Louboutin  high
heels, is among a small cast of advisers, and one of the rare
women, who show up around the table for almost every major
sovereign debt restructuring. Now with nations including
Portugal and  Spain  struggling with high debt and sluggish
economies, Lamarche’s work is shifting to developed markets in
Europe. With Greece, the largest sovereign debt restructuring,
the team is also becoming a bigger fee generator for Lazard.  ‘Political Instinct’  “Beyond her experience and her understanding of how those
deals work, her talent is her political instinct,” Lemierre,
who represented Greece’s private creditors with Institute of
International Finance Managing Director  Charles Dallara , said in
an interview. “In a stalemate, she’ll be able to stand back,
use her connections and unlock the situation.”  With  Europe ’s debt crisis again roiling markets and pushing
up bond yields in Italy and Spain, the threat of more
restructurings beyond Greece remains. Portugal hasn’t sold long-
term bonds in the public markets for a year and Spain, with
unemployment at a European Union high of 23.6 percent, is
struggling to meet budget targets. The 17-nation euro economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year, the European Commission said.  Lamarche said she hopes Europe will prevent further
restructurings. It should always be the last resort, she said.  Business Is Expanding  “Everybody realized how difficult those restructurings
are,” Lamarche said. “It always makes a return to the market
much more difficult for a country.  Portugal  and Spain are making
big efforts, and I hope an improving economic environment in the
U.S. will help.”  Europe’s crisis is a recipe for growth in Lamarche’s
business. The team is working on other assignments related to
the euro crisis, she said, declining to identify them. Lazard,
based in Hamilton, Bermuda, will earn as much as 25 million
euros alone in fees for advising Greece over the last two years,
the Greek government reported on March 21. The bigger the debt
reduction and level of creditor participation, which is almost
97 percent, the larger the fees are. Lazard’s top 10 clients
paid the bank about $14 million each last year on average,
according to Lazard’s annual report.  “Michele Lamarche never got much publicity for her work,
and she isn’t the type to care,” said Luce Gendry, a partner at
Paris-based mergers-and-acquisitions bank Rothschild, who has
known Lamarche since college. “Sovereign debt wasn’t something
that would make the headlines as much. Now it is grabbing
everyone’s attention.”  Building Consensus  Finding consensus during that secret meeting in December
was just the beginning. Lamarche, accompanied by Lazard Paris
chief Matthieu Pigasse and economist Daniel Cohen, and Lemierre
also had to get their own camps to accept the concept, called
co-financing.  Euro-region nations had agreed to lend Greece 30 billion
euros to sweeten a debt exchange, and creditors wanted it
invested in securities to guarantee the new 30-year bond’s
principal. Greece objected the deal was too costly and some
European countries, including  Germany , had technical concerns.  In the final accord, investors took the 30 billion euro-
cash in the form of European Financial Stability Facility notes,
and received bonds with a face value of 31.5 percent of the old
ones, instead of 50 percent. The new bond and the euro-region
loan have a common paying agent. If Greece defaults on the
private bond, it automatically defaults on the public debt.  ‘A Sensible Bunch’  It is the first time public creditors agreed to be tied up
in such a co-financing with private investors in a
restructuring, Lamarche said. The Greek deal was the most
difficult negotiation of her career, in part because of the
number of European nations and institutions involved, she said,
her fingers playing with one of her golden earrings.  The secret sauce is to find creditors who share her
objective to reach a deal, Lamarche said.  “It’s our job to identify the bondholders that are
constructive and will be able to apply pressure on their more
aggressive peers,” she said. “Everybody has their own
limitations, but at the end of the day, creditors are a sensible
bunch.”  Born near Algiers, the daughter of a French colonel who
fought in  Algeria ’s war of independence, Lamarche was a teenager
when she and her family fled by ferry in 1962 amid retaliation
attacks against Europeans. Although she “never felt the
danger,” Algeria gave her a taste for geopolitics.  “I was a child thrown into a war, and I naturally got
interested in international crises,” she said.  Protesting in Paris  While attending the Paris business school HEC, she took
part in the student riots in May 1968, getting “the scare of
her life” when demonstrators burned the stock exchange.
Rothschild’s Gendry, who used the changing times to swap the
mandatory skirts for jeans at business school, recalled Lamarche
as a strong-willed student who made a point of remaining elegant
under any circumstances.  Lamarche won a scholarship to study for a Masters of
Business Administration at the University of California at
Berkeley, then a hotbed of America’s anti-Vietnam war and hippie
movement. There, she stuck to her studies to “graduate in one
year, get into business and earn my own money.”  After graduation, she turned down a job with  Bank of
America Corp.  to join a French state-owned institution that
helped small businesses export. She quit a few months later
after realizing she was paid less than her male colleagues.  Joins Lazard  She called back Bank of America, working in Paris and
 London , helping to arrange financing for companies such as
Algeria’s state-owned gas producer Sonatrach, and forging
friendships with executives such as Christophe de Margerie, who
heads French  oil company  Total SA.  In 1982, she joined Lazard’s international department in
Paris, which had been created by Helie de Pourtales, a partner
who in the 1970s helped  Indonesia  reschedule its debt. She and a
colleague started a unit that helped lenders swap their
sovereign holdings. She hired former Bank of America colleagues,
including Eric Lalo, now a managing director of the department.
Her team was allowed to invest some of their profit, and the
bank started building its own sovereign debt trading book.  When the late  Bruce Wasserstein  took over Lazard in 2002,
deciding to take the firm public in  New York  and focus on
advisory, Lamarche won mandates in Argentina, the  Ivory Coast ,
Gabon and Iraq. UnderPigasse, the unit added advisers such as
Cohen, a vice president of the Paris School of Economics, and
Mark Walker, a former managing partner at law firm Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP who has worked on debt
negotiations for five decades.  ‘Crisis Isn’t Over’  “This department has become very important for Lazard,”
Pigasse said. “It gives us unparalleled insight into the
European sovereign debt crisis and all the other businesses
benefit. Unfortunately, I don’t think the crisis is over,
Europe’s growth prospects are bleak.”  Pigasse, a former government cabinet member, Cohen and
Walker worked on the Greek talks with Lamarche. Walker, in years
of debt negotiations, is known for making aggressive demands and
sometimes storming out of the room when talks reach an impasse,
according to creditors. Lamarche is known for seeking consensus,
they said.  “I don’t know if putting Michele and Mark together was
intentional, but it worked because they are complementary,”
said Hans Humes, president of New York-based hedge fund Greylock
Capital Management LLC, who was part of the private creditors’
committee negotiating with Greece.  Baghdad’s Back Streets  Lamarche’s connections are stunning, Pigasse said.  “I would go to her and say, ‘I need to talk to this
finance minister, whom I don’t know, at 3:15 p.m. today.’” he
said. “She would come back an hour later apologizing, ‘Sorry, I
only got 3:20 p.m. with the prime minister.’”  While most debt negotiations are held in cities such as
London, Washington or Paris, Lamarche has also learned her way
around the countries she advises. She recalled being shocked by
Baghdad’s deserted streets when speeding through the city on a
scorching July day in 2009. She regularly visits the west
African country of Mauritania, where al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb, the terrorist group that kidnapped and killed foreign
hostages, operates.  One day, after visiting Mauritanian officials, she and
Cohen found themselves in a dune-buggy stuck in the sand with
two guides on an isolated beach. It was getting dark, they
risked missing their flight and Cohen started fretting.  ‘No Big Deal’  “The whole situation was actually very funny,” Lamarche
said. “So we were going to miss our plane. No big deal.”  Lazard’s focus on advisory and its choice not to work for
creditors explain why governments hire the bank, according to
Pigasse. The credit crisis has accentuated this need, allowing
the bank to regain market share lost to the larger institutions
in the 1990s, he said.  “If you are JPMorgan Chase & Co. or Citigroup Inc., you’ve
probably underwritten sovereign bonds and you have a conflict,”
said William D. Cohan, a former Lazard banker and a Bloomberg
columnist. “Lazard has a competitive advantage because they
have been in it longer. Spain, Portugal, Italy, they want the
people who’ve done it for Greece, whether they need to go down
that path yet or not,” said Cohan, who wrote a history of
Lazard titled “The Last Tycoons.”  Some of Lazard’s work has had varying degrees of success.  More than 10 years after defaulting on $95 billion in debt,
 Argentina  is still excluded from world credit markets and relies
on central bank reserves and a local pension agency to pay its
debt. The country continues to fight litigation from  hedge funds 
that opposed the restructuring.  No Retirement Plans  Lamarche’s team also advised  BTA Bank (BTA) , which was taken over
by the Kazakhstan government in 2009, just before it defaulted
on $12 billion of debt. BTA’s bonds were restructured in 2010,
and the bank failed to make a $166 million interest payment in
January. It is now seeking a second restructuring, with Lazard’s
help. Kazakhstan is ranked 120th of 183 nations in Berlin-based
Transparency International’s  2011 Corruption Perceptions Index ,
and parliament changed the constitution in 2007 to allow
President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  to be re-elected indefinitely.  Lamarche, who has raised three daughters from two marriages
and spent half her time outside France over the past year, said
she doesn’t plan to retire any time soon.  “My job is fascinating intellectually, and it is amazing
to help a country jump back on its feet,” she said. “It’s so
rewarding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  