-- GSA Official Declines to Testify on Las Vegas Event
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-04-16T20:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/gsa-official-declines-to-testify-on-823-000-las-vegas-event-2-.html
A General Services Administration
official refused to answer U.S. lawmakers’ questions about the
planning of an $823,000  Las Vegas  conference.  Jeff Neely, a regional commissioner who oversaw the event,
had been scheduled to testify today before the House Oversight
Committee. He cited his Fifth Amendment rights.  Brian Miller , the GSA inspector general who investigated
the spending, told the committee he has asked the  Department of
Justice  to consider criminal charges.  GSA Administrator Martha Johnson resigned April 2 following
the inspector general’s report on the 2010 conference for agency
employees. The five-day event featured a professional mind
reader, a clown and a $75,000 team-building exercise that
involved assembling bicycles.  Johnson apologized at today’s hearing. “I will mourn for
the rest of my life the loss of my appointment,” she said in
her opening statement.  The agency’s deputy commissioner, David Foley, told
committee members that he understands the “outrage” over the
conference. “I sincerely apologize,” he said.  Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Republican from Utah,
questioned why Neely had been granted a bonus after the agency
already was aware of the inspector general’s interim findings.
Neely has been placed on administrative leave.  “He’s still being paid by the taxpayer,” Chaffetz said.
“What does it take to be fired from the GSA?”  Four Hearings  The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, led
by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, was the
first of at least four congressional committees that have
scheduled hearings this week on the GSA’s conference spending
spree.  The others are the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee, the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works
and the Senate Appropriations Committee’s Financial Services and
General Government Subcommittee.  Issa has requested government-wide data about the cost and
frequency of agency-funded overnight conferences and the
individuals hired to plan those events.  The GSA, which manages property and purchases goods and
services for other government agencies, held its gathering at
the M Resort Spa Casino in Henderson,  Nevada . Its outlays also
included $8,130 to print “yearbooks” for participants and
$6,325 for commemorative coins, according to the agency’s
inspector general.  The conference included breakfasts with a price tag of $44
a person, more than triple the $12-a-person government allowance
for Las Vegas, according to the report.  President  Barack Obama  was “outraged by the excessive
spending, questionable dealings with contractors and disregard
for taxpayer dollars,”  Jacob Lew , White House chief of staff,
said in an April 2 e-mailed statement. Johnson fired two senior
agency officials and disciplined others before resigning, Lew
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  