-- ICE Clear Credit Files to Back Markit Emerging Nation CDS Index
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-16T19:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ice-clear-credit-files-to-back-markit-emerging-nation-cds-index.html
ICE Clear Credit, the world’s
largest credit-default swap clearinghouse, is seeking to
guarantee the  Markit CDX Emerging Markets Index (CXPEM517)  of 15 sovereign
nations, according to a regulatory notice.  The clearinghouse, owned by Atlanta-based Intercontinental
Exchange Inc., filed the request for approval by the Securities
and Exchange Commission on April 3, according to a federal
information and news dispatch released today. The emerging
markets index would more than triple the number of sovereign
countries that ICE Clear Credit backs with its clearinghouse
after it began accepting contracts on  Brazil ,  Mexico ,  Argentina 
and Venezuela last year.  ICE Clear Credit believes the index “has become
increasingly important for market participants to manage risk
and express views with respect to emerging market sovereign
credit,” according to the notice. Clearing the index “will
facilitate the prompt and accurate settlement of swaps and
contribute to the safeguarding of securities and funds
associated with swap transactions.”  Clearing credit-default swaps on Latin American nations was
a first step in overcoming one of regulators’ and banks’ biggest
hurdles to curbing the risks that the $26.4 trillion in
outstanding contracts pose to the global financial system. While
banks have moved many of the contracts linked to  corporations 
into clearinghouses, they’re struggling to do the same for
contracts on themselves and countries in which they’re based
without having to require collateral postings that would make
the trades uneconomical.  Big Challenge  The complexity of housing some of the most volatile and
correlated credit swaps in a clearinghouse capitalized by the
same banks whose debt is protected by the contracts has
prevented their inclusion in the risk-mitigating service. The
obstacle extends to contracts linked to countries in which the
banks are based. The issue is one of the derivatives industry’s
biggest challenges, Jeffrey Sprecher, chief executive officer of
 Intercontinental Exchange , said in October.  Contracts on financial companies and government entities
account for the largest part of the so-called single-name
credit-default swap market, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
 Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by absorbing and sharing
responsibility if a member defaults on its payment obligations.
They use daily margin calls to keep accounts current and provide
regulators with access to prices and positions.  The Markit CDX emerging market index comprises debt of
Argentina, Venezuela, Brazil,  Malaysia , Colombia,  Hungary ,
 Indonesia , Panama, Peru,  South Africa , the  Philippines ,  Turkey ,
 Russia , Ukraine and Mexico.  The SEC is soliciting comments on the proposal now, it said
in the notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 