-- LifeLock CEO in Talks With Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan About IPO
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-04-16T18:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/lifelock-ceo-in-talks-with-goldman-sachs-jpmorgan-about-ipo.html
LifeLock Inc., an online provider
of identity-theft protection services, is exploring an initial
public offering, Chief Executive Officer Todd Davis said.  The Tempe, Arizona-based company is talking to banks
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
about handling the IPO to sell a 10 percent to 15 percent stake,
he said.  “The IPO market looks intriguing,” Davis said in an
interview. “We don’t have a sense of urgency, and aren’t locked
into any one path yet.”  Founded in 2005, LifeLock provides its 2.2 million users
with fraud protection for $10 to $25 a month. Membership is
surging more than 10 percent a year, Davis said, keeping pace
with growth in reported crimes and the market for services to
deflect would-be offenders. LifeLock, along with ID Analytics
Inc., a company it acquired last month, had  revenue  of more than
$200 million in 2011.  The company is likely to seek a valuation of as much as 7
times sales, according to a person with knowledge of the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the deliberations are
private. An IPO filing may come within the next year, this
person said.  More than  11.6 million  U.S. adults were victims of identity
fraud last year, according to Javelin Strategy & Research. The
market for identity and access management services  reached  $3.7
billion in 2010, according to consulting firm RNCOS.  “If  identity theft  happens, we try to help and work with
the bank, the IRS, whoever,” Davis said. “We’ll spend $1
million.”  ‘Opportunities for Acquisitions’  Some of LifeLock’s sales come from analytic tools that help
more than 280 corporate clients, including payday loan
providers, predict the likelihood of fraudulent transactions.
LifeLock bought  ID Analytics  for an undisclosed sum to expand
into these theft-prevention services.  More deals are possible, Davis said.  “We’ll still continue to look for emerging technologies,”
Davis said. “I certainly think there will be opportunities for
acquisitions going forward.”  LifeLock has raised about $200 million from investors
including  Bessemer Venture Partners , Goldman Sachs and  Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers (ZZISK) , Davis said.  The company may be worth about $1 billion, or about five
times annual revenue, said  Tom Taulli , who runs IPOPlaybook.com
in  Newport Beach ,  California .  “This would be attractive in the public markets,” because
it has recurring revenue, Taulli said.  Gene Yoon, a managing director at Goldman Sachs, is on
LifeLock’s board of directors, which also includes Google Inc.’s
former Chief Financial Officer George Reyes and  Tom Ridge ,
former U.S. secretary of  homeland security .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland , Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  