-- India’s Maoist Fight Stumbles on Police Shortages, Minister Says
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-04-16T08:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/india-s-maoist-fight-stumbles-on-police-shortages-minister-says.html
India ’s offensive to defeat Maoist
rebels is being hampered by too few police, while the absence of
roads, schools and hospitals makes it hard to win over
sympathizers of the guerrillas, the home minister said.  “Our capacity to execute plans is not commensurate with
the nature of the challenge,” Palaniappan Chidambaram, 66, told
provincial chief ministers in New Delhi today. The rebels have
established a presence in three more states in India’s northeast
and continue to induct new cadres at training camps,  he said.
Extortion to fund their operations remains “rampant.”  The Maoists, known in India as Naxalites after the West
Bengal village of Naxalbari where their insurrection began in
1967, are active in around a dozen of the country’s 28 states,
many of them rich in  iron ore , coal, bauxite, manganese and
other minerals. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has called the
insurgents the greatest threat to India’s internal security.  In a February interview with Bloomberg News, Chidambaram
said the country’s security forces were “albeit slowly”
reversing Maoist advances that began after 2004.  Chidambaram told a conference in 2009 that reinforced
police battalions in heavily forested Maoist enclaves would
eliminate a rebel-run zone whose area is as big as  Portugal . In
February last year, he described the conflict as “a kind of
stalemate.”  Casualties Fall  Execution Noble Ltd. , a London-based financial services
company, said in 2010 that the region affected by Maoist
violence had the potential to draw $80 billion of investment.  The guerrillas target economic infrastructure, including
railway lines, eliminate alleged police informers and extort
money from contractors and company officials. They killed 606
civilians and members of paramilitary police forces last year,
compared with 1,005 in 2010.  “The decline in the overall number of causalities among
civilians and security forces in the left-wing extremist-
affected states may give a false sense of assurance, but that is
not the true picture,” Chidambaram said today. “Even while we
continue with the two-pronged strategy, it is necessary to find
ways and means to blunt the propaganda offensive” of Maoists.  Chidambaram said that 500,000 vacancies in police forces
nationwide remain to be filled, limiting the ability of the
state to build civil administration in Maoist strongholds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  