-- India Plans Test of Missile Capable of Reaching China
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-04-17T05:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/india-plans-test-of-missile-capable-of-reaching-northern-china.html
India  plans this week to test-fire
for the first time the longest-range missile in its arsenal, a
weapon that would enable the South Asian nation’s military to
target parts of northern China and eastern Europe.  The Agni V, with a range of more than 5,000 kilometers
(3,107 miles) and the capacity to carry a nuclear warhead, may
be launched from the eastern India state of  Odisha  as early as
tomorrow, according to a government official. He declined to be
identified because he is not authorized to publicly discuss the
timing of the event.  “This missile is about neutralizing the threat coming from
China,” said Uday Bhaskar, a former commodore in the Indian
navy and now an analyst at the New Delhi-based National Maritime
Foundation, a research group. “The tests are about trying to
create equality with  China  rather than trying to outdo it.”  A successful test of the rocket would take India a step
closer to becoming the sixth country known to deploy
intercontinental ballistic missiles, those that can travel more
than 5,500 kilometers. The five permanent members of the  United
Nations Security Council  -- the U.S., China,  Russia , the U.K.
and  France  -- are the only other countries with that capability,
according to the International Institute for Strategic Studies
based in  London .  Sitanshu Kar, a defense ministry spokesman, declined to
comment on the date of this week’s test. V.K. Saraswat, head of
the state-owned Defence Research & Development Organisation,
which makes the missile series,  said March 19  that a test-firing
of the Agni V was likely in April.  Fighter Jets  The rocket weighs about 50 tons and is almost 20 meters
high, according to Ravi Kumar Gupta, a DRDO spokesman. The
timing of the test depends on factors including weather
conditions, he said.  Economic growth that has averaged 8.5 percent over the last
decade is enabling India to increase spending on military and
space programs as it bids to keep pace with its northern
neighbor, China.  India, the world’s second most populous country after
China, is in the final stages of negotiating the purchase of 126
Rafale fighter jets from Paris-based  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  in
what will be the world’s biggest military contract for warplanes
in 15 years. This month, it inducted a Russian-made nuclear-
powered submarine into its navy.  China, Pakistan  India will increase total defense spending by 13 percent
this financial year as it seeks to modernize its armed forces to
counter China’s military buildup and threats from traditional
rivals such as Pakistan. Total spending will rise to $38
billion, more than four times government spending on health,
according to figures in the federal budget, released March 16.  China is set to raise military spending by 11 percent this
year as rising economic interests, territorial disputes and
expanding global commitments drive demand for warships, missiles
and fighter jets. Its defense outlays of more than $100 billion
per year are second only to the U.S., which along with  Europe 
has maintained an arms embargo against the leadership in Beijing
since a 1989 crackdown against protesters.  The development of the Agni V is significant because it
means India will be capable of reaching distant yet
strategically important targets in parts of northern China for
the first time, according to Bhaskar. The missile will have to
be successfully tested four to five times before it can become
operational, perhaps around 2014, he said.  Missile Series  Agni, named for the Hindi-language word for fire, is a
series of missiles that India has tested since 2002. The
smallest has a range of 700 kilometers aimed at fortifying the
country’s borders.  China and India share a disputed 3,550-kilometer Himalayan
border, with each country claiming territory the other has ruled
since a 1962 war. India has also fought three wars with  Pakistan 
since the two countries gained independence from British
colonial rule in 1947.  India accuses China of occupying 38,000 square kilometers
(14,670 square miles) of territory in  Jammu and Kashmir , while
the government in Beijing lays claim to 90,000 square kilometers
of land in  Arunachal Pradesh , a state in India’s east. The two
sides have been unable to resolve their disputes after more than
a dozen rounds of discussions since 2005.  The test-firing of India’s missile comes at a time of
rising international tension over  North Korea ’s recent failed
test of a long-range rocket.  While North Korea said the launch was intended to put a
satellite into orbit, the U.S. said it violated  United Nations 
sanctions 1718 and 1874, which ban any usage of ballistic
missile and nuclear technologies by the impoverished state.  The U.S. scrapped a February plan to provide 240,000 tons
of food aid after the rocket was fired. It disintegrated within
minutes of liftoff on April 13 and disintegrated into 20 pieces,
according to South Korean officials who monitored the launch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  