-- Lira Heads for Biggest Decline in a Week on Spain’s Debt Concern
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-04-16T15:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/lira-retreats-second-day-heading-for-biggest-decline-in-a-week.html
The lira weakened and bonds fell
for a second day as Spanish sovereign bonds declined,
outweighing  Turkey ’s positive unemployment and  consumer
confidence  data.  The currency slipped 0.1 percent to 1.7993 per dollar at
5:16 p.m., depreciating for a second day, paring its year-to-
date gain to 5 percent. The yield on two-year benchmark debt
rose for a second day, up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 9.42 percent.  Turkey’s  unemployment  rate retreated to 10.2 percent in
January, compared with 11.9 percent a year ago, according to the
statistics office in Ankara.  Consumer confidence  in the country
rose for a fifth month in March, the longest streak of gains
since June 2010. Ten-year Spanish bond yields climbed to a four-
month high ahead of a debt auction tomorrow, while commodities
fell and emerging-market stocks slipped on concern the European
debt crisis may worsen.  “We can’t isolate ourselves from problems in  Europe  and it
is affecting us like everyone else,” Tunc Obuter, head of
trading at Garanti Investment in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments.  The lira performed better than the ruble, zloty, forint and
koruna today after the central bank refrained from lending at
the lowest funding rate of 5.75 percent for a fourth day in its
one-week repo auctions.  “We are decoupled positively because of our stronger
fundamentals,” said Obuter.  Turkey’s central bank varies the funding rate on a daily
basis, maintaining borrowing cost within a 5.75 percent to 11.5
percent interest-rate corridor introduced last year. It has
refrained from lending at the lowest rate since April 11, a day
after the lira weakened to its three-week low at 1.8177.  The current-account deficit in Turkey is about 10 percent
of gross domestic product, the most among 60 major economies
tracked by the  International Monetary Fund . The country’s
inflation rate is 10.4 percent, which is more than twice the
bank’s target for this year.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  