-- Central Bank Said to Buy Anglo Irish Tower for $10 Million
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-04-16T13:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/irish-central-bank-said-to-buy-anglo-irish-tower-for-10-million.html
Ireland’s central bank agreed to
pay about 8 million euros ($10 million) for a half-completed
Dublin office block that’s synonymous with the real-estate
crash, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The bank will buy the building on North Wall Quay from the
National Asset Management Agency, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the details are private. Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. had planned to use the tower as its headquarters
before the company’s collapse helped push Ireland toward the
international bailout the country agreed in 2010.  “We don’t comment on speculation about individual
transactions, but we’ve previously indicated that we are
optimistic that we will secure a satisfactory deal in respect of
this property in the medium term and that remains our
position,”  Ray Gordon , a spokesman for the asset management
agency, known as NAMA, said by e-mail.  The building came to symbolize the demise of Ireland’s
economy. It was constructed by Liam Carroll, one of the
country’s biggest developers, who has seen many of his assets
seized by banks. NAMA was created by the Irish government to
purge banks of toxic property loans.  “No deal has been finalized,” Neil Whoriskey, a central
bank spokesman, said by telephone today. “We don’t comment on
the specifics of individual negotiations.”  The skeleton office block is “becoming a landscape photo
for Ireland internationally,”  Brendan McDonagh , NAMA’s chief
executive officer, told lawmakers on Oct. 26. “Everybody who
comes to Dublin to see us wants to see the Anglo Irish Bank
building; they ask the taxis to bring them around,” he said.
“It is a landscape eyesore and it needs to be dealt with.”  Irish commercial real-estate prices have fallen about 65
percent since September 2007, Investment Property Databank Ltd.
said in January. Office rents were down about 55 percent since
the market’s peak at the end of last year and may increase over
the next 18 months, broker  Lisney  said in a report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 