-- Japan May Be Atomic-Power Free Next Month After Shutdown
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-04-17T06:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/japan-may-be-atomic-power-free-next-month-after-shutdown.html
Japan  may be without atomic-
generated electricity for the first time in more than four
decades next month when its last reactor still running after the
Fukushima nuclear disaster shuts for maintenance.  Since the crisis on March 11 last year, 53 of Japan’s 54
reactors have been shut either owing to damage from the
earthquake and tsunami, government order, or mandatory
maintenance. The plants provided 30 percent of the country’s
electricity prior to March 11. The last one running on the
northern island of Hokkaido goes offline from May 5.  Japan may “momentarily” be without atomic power from that
date, the Mainichi newspaper cited Industry Minister  Yukio Edano 
as saying on April 15 after he spent the weekend in western
Japan and failed to get immediate agreement from local
authorities that reactors run by  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  in
Fukui prefecture passed safety tests and should restart.  “Whether or not we can restart the reactors depends on
future discussions,” he said at a  Tokyo  news conference today.  The utilities powering the world’s third biggest economy
have been forced to turn to coal, oil and gas-fired power plants
to keep factories, offices and households supplied with
electricity. Buying and importing those fuels is driving up
costs and may lead to higher electricity bills and another drag
on an economy that’s contracted in three of the last four years.  “Ultimately, the Japanese citizen will be most affected by
the delay in the restarts in paying higher electricity bills,”
said Tomoko Murakami, a Tokyo-based nuclear analyst at the
Institute of Energy Economics, Japan.  Record LNG Imports  Japan’s 10 regional power utilities bought record amounts
of liquefied natural gas last year to replace nuclear, or 52.9
million metric tons of LNG in the fiscal year ended in March, up
27 percent from the prior year, according to data yesterday from
the Federation of  Electric Power (9501)  Companies.  Use of petroleum, which includes crude and fuel oil, more
than doubled to 23.3 million kiloliters (147 million barrels),
according to the federation’s data. Petroleum consumption was
the highest in at least 10 years.  Fuel costs at the nine regional utilities that have atomic
plants -- Okinawa Electric Power Co. is the exception -- may
more than double to about 7 trillion yen ($86.5 billion) in the
year ending March 2013 if reactors remain shut, according to an
April 9 report by the trade and industry ministry.  Kansai
Electric ’s fuel bills may rise by 800 billion yen to about 1.1
trillion yen, it said.  No Atoms  The country will have no reactor in operation for the first
time since May 1970 if  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509) ’s Tomari No.
3 reactor is taken offline before Kansai Electric starts two
reactors at its Ohi plant in Fukui, said Tetsu Oshikiri, a
spokesman for the Federation of Electric Power Companies of
Japan, in Tokyo yesterday.  Power companies usually take about 10 days to start an
idled reactor, Tomoe Sugimori, a spokeswoman for Kansai
Electric, said by telephone. That means local lawmakers would
need to approve a restart by April 25 for the Ohi reactors to be
online before the Tomari unit shuts.  “We can’t set a deadline on when the government can get
the cooperation of local governments on the restarts,” Chief
Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said at a news conference in
Tokyo yesterday.  Economy of Mexico  The Ohi atomic plant is located about 95 kilometers (59
miles) northeast of Osaka, the nation’s second-biggest
metropolitan area. It help power the Kansai area of western
Japan that’s about the size of Belgium, has an economy worth $1
trillion -- similar in size to Mexico’s -- and is home to the
cities of Osaka and Kyoto as well as factories of Sharp Corp.
and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)   Kansai Electric’s output without nuclear power may be 18.4
percent short of peak demand this summer if Japan is hit by a
heat wave similar to the one in 2010, the national government
said in a statement April 13, revising down its April 9 forecast
of 19.6 percent.  The utility would need to turn on half of its 11 reactors
to avoid the summer power shortages forecast under the
government’s worst case scenario, Murakami at Energy Economics
said. Restarting that number of reactors is very unlikely, she
said.  ‘Rush to Restart’  The governor of Shiga prefecture adjoining Fukui criticized
the government for what she called the “rush to restart the
reactors” in an April 11 interview. The government’s earlier
power shortage forecast was flawed as it was based on Japan’s
hottest summer in at least 113 years and ignored power savings
and private electricity generation capacity, Shiga Governor
Yukiko Kada said.  Kada and the governor of Kyoto prefecture, also adjoining
Fukui, held a joint press conference today and said an
independent body should assess electricity supply and demand,
 Kyodo News  reported.  The government has already decided to do that and will set
power saving targets once the independent review is complete,
cabinet secretary Fujimura said today.  Pending the release, it may be necessary to prepare a plan
on scheduled blackouts, Edano said today.  “If we can be certain we can fill the gap between demand
and supply, blackouts won’t be necessary,” he said.  Japan had rolling blackouts last year in some areas where
Tokyo Electric Power Co. supplies electricity after the March 11
quake and tsunami shut power plants, including the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear station.  Fukui Supporters  A poll suggests Edano, who steered Japan through the early
days of the Fukushima disaster as chief cabinet secretary, will
win agreement in  Fukui prefecture  to start the Ohi reactors.
More than 90 percent of local lawmakers favor the plan, the
Mainichi newspaper said April 10, citing its own survey.  The Ohi reactors would be the first to come back online
since Japan adopted so-called nuclear stress tests or computer
simulations to assess each plant’s ability to withstand
earthquakes, tsunamis and to supply backup power to keep reactor
cooling systems running.  The failure of backup power at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station on March 11 last year caused the
worst atomic accident since Chernobyl in 1986 and radiation
fallout that forced the evacuation of about 160,000 people.  Neighbors Disagree  Winning over authorities in Fukui may help the government
convince other local regions hosting atomic plants to resume
operations before power demand peaks in summer months.  While the government may get local approval to turn on the
Ohi reactors, the extent of the Fukushima radiation fallout --it
covered an area about half the size of  New York City  -- is
worrying neighboring areas.  Shiga Governor Kada said the Fukushima disaster suggests
Shiga may be affected by radiation in the event of a nuclear
accident at the Ohi plant.  In a survey by Greenpeace Japan of 3,000 people living in
the neighboring prefectures of  Osaka , Kyoto and Shiga, 75.6
percent of the respondents said the government’s decision to
allow reactor restarts is too hasty.  About 82 percent said the central and local governments’
measures to deal with a nuclear disaster are inadequate, the
environmental group said April 11, citing the poll results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  