-- JinkoSolar’s CEO Planning for Surge in Developments in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-16T12:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/jinkosolar-s-ceo-planning-for-surge-in-developments-in-china.html
JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS) , the eighth-
biggest solar module maker, said it will increase the scale of
plants it’s building in  China  by five- to 10-fold this year to
make up for slowing sales in  Europe .  “China will be a very, very important market in 2012,”
Chief Executive Officer Chen Kangping said in an April 13
interview. “We’ll develop the projects mainly in the west.”  The company last year built solar farms with a total
capacity of less than 100 megawatts. It expects its domestic
market to account for as much as 12 percent of sales this year,
doubling from a year earlier, Chen said.  Solar manufacturers are suffering from a supply glut as
European governments cut subsidies for renewable energy. Panel
prices have tumbled by 51 percent from a year ago in March to 87
U.S. cents a watt, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Manufacturers currently have no room for further declines
in solar-module prices in terms of gross margins,” Chen said.
The price decline is likely to slow, as the industry
“reshuffles the deck” and depletes inventories, he said.  JinkoSolar had a negative 4.4 percent gross margin in the
fourth quarter compared with 3.7 percent a quarter earlier.  The company expects shipments to rise by 50 percent in 2012
from 950.5 megawatts last year even though global demand may not
grow as strongly, Chen said. “Some will gain share as others
shut down.”  “We won’t see equilibrium between supply and demand in the
next 12 months,” Chen said. “It’s hard for solar-product
makers to make profits this year.”  Chen expects returns to rise enough in the next 2-1/2 years
that more companies take an interest in the solar industry and
existing companies expand their plants.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  