-- Kenyan Shilling Weakens Most in Two Weeks on Higher Fuel Prices
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-04-16T14:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/kenyan-shilling-weakens-against-dollar-as-fuel-prices-increased.html
Kenya ’s shilling fell, weakening
the most in more than two weeks, as fuel prices increased.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy retreated as
much as 0.3 percent, the biggest depreciation since March 30,
before paring its decline to to less than 0.1 percent at 83.18
shillings per dollar by 5:27 p.m. in Nairobi.  “The prices of fuel have depressed the shilling,”
Jeremiah Kendagor, head of trading at Nairobi-based Kenya
Commercial Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview today. Higher
fuel prices can push up inflationary expectations, proving a
negative for the shilling, he said.  Kenya yesterday raised the maximum permissible prices for
gasoline, kerosene and diesel for a second month. The most
commonly-used gasoline grade, super petrol, increased by 6.81
shillings to 118.50 shillings ($1.43) a liter, the Nairobi-based
Energy Regulatory Commission said in an e-mailed statement.
Kenya imports all the fuel products it consumes.  “In the last two months there has been a steep upward
trend in the prices of crude in the international market,” the
regulator said.  Kenya will continue its “tightening monetary policy”
stance to curb inflation and stabilize its currency, Finance
Minister Njeru Githae said April 11. The inflation rate fell for
a fourth month to 15.61 percent in March from 16.69 percent in
February, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said last
month. Rising oil prices are a risk to the inflation outlook,
Central Bank governor Njuguna Ndung’u said March 6.  Uganda ’s shilling strengthened for a second day, up 0.1
percent to 2,500 per dollar.  “The minimal movement was dictated by some dollar inflows
while demand has been subdued as some companies are
concentrating on mid-month tax payments,” Peter Mbowa, a
currency trader at  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) ’s Ugandan unit,
said by phone from Kampala.  Tanzania’s currency appreciated by 0.1 percent to 1,583 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  