-- KPN Weighs Strategic Options for Belgian Mobile-Phone Div
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-04-16T16:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/kpn-weighs-strategic-options-for-belgian-mobile-phone-division.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Netherlands’
largest phone company, said it is reviewing the future of its
Belgian mobile-phone unit, a business that may fetch 1.8 billion
euros ($2.3 billion) in a potential sale.  KPN has started “a comprehensive review” of the BASE
division, the company said today. BASE,  Belgium ’s third-largest
mobile-phone operator, will probably attract interest from
private equity firms such as Apax Partners LLP, according to
people familiar with the situation who declined to be identified
as the plans are private. KPN shares rose 0.94 percent to 7.12
euros at the close in Amsterdam. The stock trades without rights
to the latest dividend today.  “BASE used to be one of the core assets of the company and
this no longer seems to be the case,” said Frank Claassen, an
Utrecht-based analyst at Rabobank International. The Hague-based
“KPN definitely could use the proceeds to strengthen the
balance sheet and invest more in the future -- for instance, in
fiber networks and the spectrum auction that is coming up.”  Europe ’s biggest telecommunications operators are shedding
assets and slashing jobs as they grapple with stagnant revenue
and the cost of building next-generation networks to handle the
data demand of devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s former phone monopoly, in December
agreed to sell its Swiss mobile-phone business to Apax for about
$2.1 billion after the buyout firm beat rivals including EQT
Partners AB and Providence Equity Partners Inc.  Regulatory Hurdles  Last year, KPN sold its Simyo  France  brand to Bouygues
Telecom and the company is in talks to divest its Simyo brand in
 Spain .  Deliberations on BASE are at an early stage, and no formal
auction process has been established, the people said. Initial
information may be sent to potential buyers in May, one of the
people said. KPN reported mobile service revenue of 687 million
euros in Belgium in 2011, with 4.13 million customers.  “It will be tough to find strategic buyers for these
assets as Belgian operators will face regulatory hurdles, and
companies like, for instance,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  would see little
synergies,” said Jeffrey Vonk, an analyst at ING. “It is more
likely private equity will show interest in these assets.”  Dividend Boost  KPN said in January that it would accelerate a
restructuring program that will cost between 4,000 and 5,000
jobs after it predicted lower profit and cash flow this year.
Its shares declined 18 percent since this year through April 13,
compared with a fall of 3.4 percent for the Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunications Index, as KPN struggles to maintain profits
and invest in its domestic network.  The company, which is still increasing its dividend payout
in 2012, may face new competition as the Dutch government
reserves some space for new market entrants in an auction of
mobile frequencies. The arrival this year of a fourth full-
service mobile operator in France,  Iliad SA (ILD) , has eroded sales
for larger competitors.  KPN and France Telecom aren’t the only European phone
companies struggling as consumers depend more on services such
as the Skype Internet calling software and WhatsApp, a free
instant-messaging client.  Telefonica SA, Spain’s largest phone company, in December
cut its dividend forecast for the first time in a decade, citing
“significantly” changed market conditions.  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) , which last year failed to sell its U.S. business to  AT&T
Inc. (T)  after regulators opposed the $39 billion deal, in February
forecast a decline in 2012 profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  