-- Nokia Debt Rating Cut to Lowest Investment Grade at Moody’s
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-16T13:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/nokia-debt-rating-cut-to-lowest-investment-grade-at-moody-s-1-.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  had its debt rating cut
to the lowest investment-grade level at Moody’s Investors
Service less than a week after the Finnish company said its
handset unit will make losses in the first two quarters of 2012.  The senior debt rating was reduced by one step to Baa3,
with a negative outlook, meaning the ranking may be lowered
again if Nokia’s Lumia line fails to pick up or the handset
margin deteriorates further, Moody’s said in a statement today,
citing deterioration in low-end phones. The rating change
affects about 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) in senior debt.  Nokia is burning cash 14 months after linking up with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to make handsets that run on the Windows Phone
operating system. The low-end phones business declined 35
percent in revenues in the first quarter as customers upgraded
to cheap smartphones running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, Moody’s
said. Quarterly adjusted operating margin in handsets will be
minus 3 percent of revenue, and the second-quarter margin will
be similar or worse, Nokia said April 11.  “Moody’s believes that the structural change facing
Nokia’s Mobile Phones segment may not be easy to address, such
as the market share gains recorded by makers of very low-end
phones or new promotions by Chinese carriers,” Moody’s analyst
Wolfgang Draack said in the statement.  Nokia was trading down 2.4 percent to 2.99 euros at 4:30
p.m. in Helsinki. The cut put Moody’s rating  in line  with those
of Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Credit-default swaps on Nokia rose nine basis points today
to a record 516, according to CMA prices at 2:30 p.m. in  London .
The contracts are up from 354 at the start of the month.  Prioritizing Saving Cash  “Nokia will continue to increase its focus on lowering the
company’s cost structure, improving  cash flow  and maintaining a
strong financial position,” Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila said in a statement after the downgrade. The company
has a net cash position of 4.9 billion euros and is prioritizing
saving cash, he said.  The low-end phone division was “still the core income
generator” for Nokia last year, Draack said. Its 12.4 percent
operating margin in the fourth quarter permitted Nokia to report
a profit in mobile phones despite losses on the smartphone side
as it retooled for Windows Phone. The Espoo, Finland-based
company that took in almost half the global revenue from
smartphones in 2007 now claims 10 percent of the $219 billion-a-
year market, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Late to Act’  “The rating agencies have been pretty late to act,” said
Louis Landeman, credit analyst at Danske Bank in  Stockholm .
“There isn’t any flexibility now in the ratings for further
disappointment. Moody’s action was not surprising and it was
good for Nokia that they didn’t cut them below investment grade
now because they would have been justified to do that.”  Landeman rates Nokia’s bonds maturing 2014 “hold” and its
bonds maturing 2019 “sell.”  “If the company continues to disappoint, the  ratings
agencies  may move quicker than previously,” he added.  Nokia still doesn’t offer a Windows Phone priced below
$150. Its cheapest Windows Phone, the Lumia 610, was announced
at a base price of 189 euros, and it’s discontinuing the older
Symbian line. It has added more smartphone-like features to the
low-end Asha line which has announced list prices from 60 euros
to 115 euros.  “Nokia pricing seems out of step with the market,” Morgan
Stanley analysts led by Francois Meunier wrote today in a
report. Smartphones will soon be available for $60 in  China , and
$100 in  India , they said.  The company said today it will break ground on a new
factory in  Vietnam  next week, which will start production of
low-end handsets in 2013. The plant was originally supposed to
operate this year and its startup has been delayed by
negotiations with the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  