-- Norton Rose Wants U.S., China Law Firm Mergers, CEO Says
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2012-04-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/norton-rose-wants-u-s-china-law-firm-mergers-ceo-says.html
Norton Rose Group (324346L) , the 2,900-lawyer
firm combining U.K., Australian, Canadian, South African and
affiliated partnerships, is looking for mergers in the U.S. and
 China , Chief Executive Officer Peter Martyr said.  “I see the world as two pillars, China and the States,”
he said in an interview. “To be a global business you need to
have both of those pillars. What we already have is the hammock
that swings between them now.”  London-based Norton Rose has grown from 1,200 lawyers in
2009 by merging with four firms through a so-called verein
structure, maintaining separate finances.  Asia ’s largest legal
group King & Wood Mallesons was formed last month with a similar
arrangement between Chinese and Australian firms. Both groups
aim to challenge the world’s largest law firms, U.S.-based  DLA
Piper (1191L)  and  Baker & McKenzie (1111L) .  Norton Rose ’s transformation has changed how other law
firms see it, said Martyr who was appointed Jan. 1 to a second
three-year term. While it isn’t in merger negotiations with any
U.S. firms now, he said he receives visits from six or seven a
year, and “we’re constantly talking to other people.”  Any U.S. partner would have to have a strong New York
presence, Martyr said, as a global law firm needs to be in the
world’s capital market centers.  “You have to be in the States,” he said, noting that he’s
said such a merger should occur within two to five years for the
past four years. “If the right thing comes along at the right
time, we’ll do it.”  Anshan Iron and Steel  Martyr, 57, said that Norton Rose, which has offices in
Beijing,  Shanghai  and Hong Kong, hasn’t had any talks with
Chinese firms and the legal market in China isn’t yet mature.  “I don’t think the market is settled,” he said. “We
retain good relationships with a big handful of firms there. I
don’t think we need to force the pace.”  Norton Rose’s clients include China’s  Anshan Iron and Steel
Group  which is developing a A$2.6 billion ($2.7 billion) iron
ore mine with  Gindalbie Metals Ltd. (GBG)   Other clients include  Allied Gold Mining (ALD) , a gold explorer
in  Papua New Guinea  and the  Solomon Islands , which it advised on
its restructuring and listing on the London, Australian and
Toronto stock exchanges last year. The law firm also advised
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  on all the shipping aspects of its A$43 billion
liquefied natural gas Gorgon project off northwest  Australia .  “We were initially invited to handle a discrete part of
the project but ultimately a team from our London, Singapore and
Australia offices are providing a series of services to the
project sponsor,” Martyr said, referring to the Gorgon project.  Brazil, India  Brazil  is the other legal market where Norton Rose thinks
it needs to be, and the country is likely to open to foreign law
firm mergers before  India , Martyr said.  “Fundamentally Brazil’s not such a difficult place to
operate as India where you’ve got that incredibly complex civil-
service kind of mentality, one million lawyers,” he said.  That will be much slower to unravel than Brazil, where
current restrictions may be related to the bonanza of soccer
 World Cup  and  Olympic Games  related legal work that local
lawyers want to service, Martyr said.  The verein structure allowing for central management of
functions such as technology and marketing has been used by
 Baker & McKenzie  and DLA Piper and lauded by Stuart Fuller,
global managing partner of King & Wood Mallesons, as a model for
international law firms where different cultures can coexist.  Baker, DLA  Martyr said that Baker & McKenzie, which was denigrated by
other law firms for many years as being a franchise, was ahead
of its time and its immediate past chairman John Conroy has
created ‘a proper global business.’’ DLA too, has “created a
very powerful brand,” he said.  Norton Rose’s combinations with Australia’s Deacons,  South
Africa ’s Deneys Reitz and  Ogilvy Renault (1447L)  and Macleod Dixon of
Canada are no different from a full financial, total merger,
according to Martyr.  “You can’t half do something,” he said. “If you can’t
commit 100 percent on day one, then either you’ve got an
association or you’ve got a potential disaster on your hands.”  There’s no trial period and financial integration isn’t
stage two of the combination, he said. The technical challenge
is how to manage currency fluctuations, although the London
partnership has already dealt with that with the Euro in recent
years, Martyr said.  Group revenue figures for the year ended April 30 are
estimated to be around $1.3 billion. That compares with 314
million pounds ($464 million) for the London firm in the year
before it combined with Deacons.  “If we weren’t sentimentally disposed to being capable of
being held in one single unitary business, we would not have
done the deal,” he said of the Australian merger.  “If it makes the boat go faster, then we’d do it. We
deliberately didn’t set a time scale.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  