-- Banks Seen Dangerous Defying Obama’s Too-Big-to-Fail Move
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-04-16T18:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/obama-bid-to-end-too-big-to-fail-undercut-as-banks-grow.html
Two years after President Barack Obama vowed to eliminate the danger of financial institutions
becoming “too big to fail,” the nation’s largest banks are
bigger than they were before the nation’s credit markets seized
up and required unprecedented bailouts by the government.  Five banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
Citigroup Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
-- held $8.5 trillion in assets at the end of 2011, equal to 56
percent of the U.S. economy, according to central bankers at the
Federal Reserve.  Five years earlier, before the financial crisis, the
largest banks’ assets amounted to 43 percent of U.S. output. The
Big Five today are about twice as large as they were a decade
ago relative to the economy, sparking concern that trouble at a
major bank would rock the  financial system  and force the
government to step in as it did in 2008 with the Fed-assisted
rescue of Bear Stearns Cos. by JPMorgan and with Citigroup and
Bank of America after the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, the
largest in U.S. history.  “Market participants believe that nothing has changed,
that too-big-to-fail is fully intact,” said  Gary Stern , former
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.  Eroding Faith  That specter is eroding faith in Obama’s pledge that
taxpayer-funded bailouts are a thing of the past. It is also
exposing him to criticism from Federal Reserve officials,
Republicans and Occupy Wall Street supporters, who see the
concentration of bank power as a threat to economic stability.  As weaker firms collapsed or were acquired, a handful of
financial giants emerged from the crisis. Since then, JPMorgan,
Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo have continued to grow internally
and through acquisitions from European banks, reeling from
government austerity measures related to the rising cost of
public debt in Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Italy.  The industry’s evolution defies the president’s January
2010 call to “prevent the further consolidation of our
financial system.” Embracing new limits on banks’ trading
operations, Obama said then that taxpayers wouldn’t be well
“served by a financial system that comprises just a few massive
firms.”  Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the
 International Monetary Fund , blames a “lack of leadership at
Treasury and the White House” for the failure to fulfill that
promise. “It’d be safer to break them up,” he said.  New Safeguards  The Obama administration rejects the criticism, citing new
safeguards to head off further turmoil in the banking system.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in remarks on Feb. 2
the U.S. financial system is “significantly stronger than it
was before the crisis.” He credits new regulations, including
tougher capital and liquidity requirements that limit risk-
taking by the biggest banks, authority to take over failing big
institutions and prohibitions on the largest banks acquiring
competitors.  The government’s financial system rescue, beginning with
the 2008 Troubled Asset Relief Program, angered millions of
taxpayers and helped give rise to the Tea Party movement. Banks
and bailouts remain unpopular: By a margin of 52 percent to 39
percent, respondents in a February Pew Research Center  poll 
called the bailouts “wrong” and 68 percent said banks have a
mostly negative impact on the country.  Riding Out Turbulence  The banks say they have increased their capital backstops
in response to regulators’ demands, making them better able to
ride out unexpected turbulence. JPMorgan, whose chief executive
officer,  Jamie Dimon , acknowledged public “hostility” toward
bankers in a March 30 letter to shareholders, boasted April 13
of a “fortress balance sheet.”  Bank of America , which was
about 50 percent larger at the end of 2011 than five years
earlier, says it has boosted capital and liquidity while
increasing to 29 months the amount of time the bank could
operate without external funding.  “We’re a much stronger company than we were heading into
the crisis,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman.
The bank says it plans to shrink by year-end to $1.75 trillion
in risk-weighted assets, a measure regulators use to calculate
how much capital individual banks must hold.  Still, the banking industry has become increasingly
concentrated since the 1980s. Today’s 6,291 commercial banks are
less than half the number that existed in 1984, according to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The trend intensified during the
crisis as JPMorgan acquired Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual,
Bank of America bought Merrill Lynch and Wells Fargo took over
Wachovia in deals encouraged by the government.  More Concentrated  “One of the bad outcomes, the adverse outcomes of the
crisis, was the mergers that were of necessity undertaken when
large banks were at risk,” said Donald Kohn, vice chairman of
the  Federal Reserve  from 2006-2010. “Some of the biggest banks
got a lot bigger and the market got more concentrated.”  In recent weeks, at least four current Fed presidents --
Esther George of Kansas City,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia,
 Jeffrey Lacker  of Richmond and Richard Fisher of Dallas -- have
voiced similar worries about the risk of a renewed crisis.  The annual report of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was
devoted to an essay by Harvey Rosenblum, head of the bank’s
research department, “Why We Must End Too Big to Fail -- Now”  A 40-year Fed veteran,  Rosenblum wrote  in the report
released last month: “TBTF institutions were at the center of
the financial crisis and the sluggish recovery that followed. If
allowed to remain unchecked, these entities will continue posing
a clear and present danger to the  U.S. economy .”  No Change  Robert Wilmers, chairman and CEO of M&T Bank Corp. of
Buffalo,  New York ,  said  in his 2011 annual message to
shareholders that no one can say “with any confidence that we
have seen a fundamental change in the big bank business
approach, which helped lead us into crisis and scandal.”  The alarms come almost two years after Obama signed into
law the Dodd-Frank financial-regulation act. The law required
the largest banks to draft contingency plans or “living wills”
detailing how they would be unwound in a crisis. It also created
a financial-stability council headed by the Treasury secretary,
charged with monitoring the system for excessive risk-taking.  The new protections represent an effort to avoid a repeat
of the crisis and subsequent  recession  in which almost 9 million
workers lost their jobs and the U.S. government committed $245
billion to save the financial system from collapse.  Banks that received TARP money have repaid the government
$264 billion to date.  Taxpayers Off Hook  The goal of policy makers is to ensure that if one of the
largest financial institutions fails in the next crisis,
shareholders and creditors will pay the tab, not taxpayers.  “Two or three years from now, Goldman Sachs should be like
MF Global,” said Dennis Kelleher, president of the nonprofit
group Better Markets, who doubts the government would allow a
company such as Goldman to repeat  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s Oct.
31 collapse.  Dodd-Frank, the most comprehensive rewriting of financial
regulation since the 1930s, subjected the largest banks to
higher capital requirements and closer scrutiny. The law also
barred federal officials from providing specific types of
assistance that were used to prevent such firms from failing in
2008. Instead, the Fed will work with the FDIC to put major
banks and other large institutions through the equivalent of
bankruptcy.  Protecting the Economy  “If a large financial institution should ever fail, this
reform gives us the ability to wind it down without endangering
the broader economy,” Obama said before signing the act on July
21, 2010. “And there will be new rules to make clear that no
firm is somehow protected because it is too big to fail.”  Officials at the Treasury Department, the Fed and other
agencies have spent the past two years drafting detailed
regulations to make that vision a reality.  Yet the big banks stayed big or, in some cases, grew
larger. JPMorgan, which held $2 trillion in total assets when
Dodd-Frank was signed, reached $2.3 trillion by the end of 2011,
according to Federal Reserve data.  For Lacker, the banks’ living wills are the key to placing
the financial system on sounder footing. Done right, they may
require institutions to restructure to make their orderly
resolution during a crisis easier to accomplish, he said.  Neil Barofsky , Treasury’s former special inspector general
for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, calls the idea of winding
down institutions with more than $2 trillion in assets
“completely unrealistic.”  Banks Need Heft  It’s likely that more than one bank would face potential
failure during any crisis, he said, which would further
complicate efforts to gracefully collapse a giant bank. “We’ve
made almost no progress on ending too big to fail,” he said.  Dimon dismisses such concerns as “chatter” and says U.S.
banks need heft to meet the needs of their globally active
clients. Since 2007, the bank has added more than 80,000
workers, equal to the current combined payrolls of  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and
 Colgate Palmolive Co. (CL)   In his annual  letter  to shareholders, Dimon said JPMorgan
will spend almost $3 billion “over the next few years” and
devote 3,000 full-time employees to complying with regulations
that arose from the crisis.  That regulatory burden could promote further industry
consolidation, according to  Wilbur Ross , chairman of WL Ross &
Co., a private-equity firm.  “We think the little tiny banks, the 90-odd percent of
banks that are under $1.5 billion in deposits, are pretty much
an obsolete phenomenon,” he told Bloomberg Television on March
14. “We think they’ll all have to merge with each other, be
acquired by bigger banks or something.”  Implicit Guarantee  Jake Siewert, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, declined to comment.
Spokesmen for JPMorgan and Citigroup didn’t respond to e-mailed
requests for comment.  Even with policy makers’ claims that the next crisis will
be handled differently, investors still regard the largest banks
as protected by an implicit government guarantee. One sign of
that attitude is that investors continue to demand from the
biggest banks lower interest payments in return for deposits.  That gives larger banks a funding advantage over their
smaller rivals. In 2011, funding costs for banks with more than
$10 billion in assets were about one-third less than for the
smallest banks, according to the FDIC. That gap was only
slightly narrower than the 37 percent advantage the largest
banks enjoyed when Dodd-Frank was signed.  $250 Billion Benefit  For 28 global banks in 2009, that benefit translated into a
cumulative $250 billion, according to  Andrew Haldane , the Bank
of England’s executive director for financial stability.  “Markets have come to believe that what the government did
in 2008 and 2009 isn’t a one-time deal, that the government will
somehow come to the rescue of these big financial firms,” Kevin Warsh, a former member of the Fed’s Board of Governors, said on
the March 28 “Charlie Rose” TV show.  Credit-rating companies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service say they anticipate the U.S. government would
rescue large banks in a future crisis. Both cut the major banks’
debt ratings by one level late last year, while retaining them
as investment grade credits.  Last month, 15 of the 19 largest U.S. financial
institutions passed a Fed “stress test” designed to measure
their ability to withstand a deep recession.  Richard Spillenkothen, the Fed’s director of banking
supervision and regulation from 1991 to 2006, said regulators
are moving in the right direction.  “We’ve made progress. I don’t think we’ve totally resolved
it,” said Spillenkothen. “The proof will be in the next
crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  