-- Lockheed Loses $70 Million Over GPS Satellite Overruns
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-16T14:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/lockheed-loses-70-million-over-gps-satellite-overruns.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  will lose its
entire fee of about $70 million to defray an 18 percent cost
overrun on the first Global Positioning System satellites of a
new design, according to the  Air Force .  The Air Force estimates the first two GPS-III satellites
will cost $1.62 billion, spokeswoman Vicki Stein said in an e-
mailed statement. Lockheed Martin, the biggest U.S. defense
contractor, had estimated the cost for development, testing and
building at $1.5 billion as of Feb. 29.  The  Global Positioning System , operated by the Air Force,
provides navigation for national security as well as civilian
uses from traffic-mapping devices in cars to tracking systems
for freight. The new GPS-III satellites are designed to deliver
more accuracy, an anti-jamming capability and a civilian signal
that can operate with  Europe ’s Galileo system, the company says.  Lockheed Martin’s fee is 5 percent of the target cost that
includes one-time engineering tasks, test equipment and
satellite assembly, the Air Force said.  “Cost incentives on the contract” caused the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company to lose the fee although the government
continues to bear the “cost-risk” for development and
production of the first two satellites, Stein said.  The Pentagon has been withholding fees for deficient
performance on such “cost-plus” contracts after congressional
auditors in December 2005  said  companies received billions of
dollars in bonuses between 1999 and 2004 on systems with major
cost, schedule and performance problems.  On the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, Lockheed is absorbing
$328 million of $1 billion in overruns on contracts for the
first 63 aircraft.  Lockheed Response  The first GPS III satellite remains on schedule to be
available for launch in 2014, Lockheed Martin spokesman Michael
Friedman said in an e-mailed statement.  “While we have encountered challenges associated with
higher standards for parts testing and first-time technical
issues, the program is on firm footing and our cost estimate
remains within the original Air Force budget,” said Friedman.
He said the company doesn’t discuss specifics of fees.  Lockheed’s subcontractors include  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ,
ITT Exelis and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)   Lockheed Martin beat  Boeing Co. (BA)  in May 2008 for the
opportunity to build the first of as many as 12 GPS III
satellites. The Air Force may eventually buy as many as 32
satellites.  The company rose 32 cents to $89.62 at 10:32 a.m. in New
York trading after a 14 percent increase in the year ended April
13.  Full-Sized Prototype  Lockheed Martin is using a full-sized prototype to identify
and solve many assembly issues “that would have cost more and
presented more risk if they had been discovered later in
production,” Friedman said.  “We have identified tens of millions of dollars in cost
savings for the production satellites and in some cases we are
seeing 50 to 80 percent reductions in labor costs,” he said.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office said in written
 Senate testimony  on March 21 that the Air Force has cited
multiple reasons for the overrun, including test-equipment
delays and development “inefficiencies.”  Lockheed “is also behind in completing some tasks on
schedule, but the program does not expect these delays to affect
launch of the first satellite,” Cristina Chaplain, GAO director
of acquisition management, said in the testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  