-- Oil Extends Gains on Seaway Reversal, Retail Sales
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-04-17T12:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-in-new-york-on-retail-sales.html
Oil rose to the highest in three
days in  New York  on a bigger-than-projected gain in U.S. retail
sales and expectation that the Seaway crude pipeline reversal
will help reduce a supply glut.  Futures in New York also extended gains after advancing for
a third time in four days yesterday on better-than-expected
German investor confidence data and Spain bond auction. Seaway
pipeline operators said they would reverse its flow earlier than
planned. U.S. retail sales increased more than forecast in March
as Americans snapped up everything from cars and furniture to
clothes and electronics.  “West Texas Intermediate was supported by the news that
the Seaway pipeline will start shipping oil from Cushing to the
U.S. Gulf from May 17, which is earlier than anticipated,” said
James Zhang, London-based commodity strategist at Standard Bank
Plc. “In addition, the tariff Seaway is charging customers is
in the range of $3 to $5 a barrel, which takes away the markets
fear that Seaway might charge a rate comparable to the very wide
WTI/Brent spread.”  Crude for May delivery climbed as much as $1.14, or 1.1
percent, to $104.07 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . It was at $103.84 as of 1:32 p.m.
London time. Yesterday, the contract gained 10 cents to $102.93,
the highest close since April 12. Prices are 5 percent higher
this year.  Brent oil for June settlement fell 43 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $118.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract earlier rose to as high as $119.18
after Spain sold 12-month and 18-month bills.  Narrow Spread  The European benchmark contract’s front-month premium to
West Texas Intermediate was at $14.41. The spread narrowed to
$15.31 yesterday, the lowest close in seven weeks.  The 0.8 percent gain in U.S. retail sales was almost three
times as large as projected and followed a 1 percent advance in
February, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday in
 Washington . The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an increase of 0.3 percent.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  said they
plan to switch the Seaway pipeline flow on about May 17,
according to a filing with the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission . That’s earlier than a previous June 1 start date.
The reversal will carry crude from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to the
U.S. Gulf Coast and is forecast to cut a glut in the Midwest.  Oil in New York has technical support along its 100-day
moving average at about $101.80 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday slid to that indicator
before rebounding to settle higher for the day. Buy orders tend
to be clustered near chart-support levels.  Spain Debt Auction  Spain  sold 3.18 billion euros of bills, compared with a
maximum target of 3 billion euros the Treasury set for the sale.  The average 12-month yield was 2.623 percent, compared with
1.418 percent at the last auction on March 20, the Bank of Spain
said in  Madrid  today. The Treasury also sold 18-month bills at
3.11 percent, compared with 1.711 percent last month.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim,
Germany, said its index of investor and analyst expectations,
which predicts economic developments six months in advance,
increased to 23.4 from 22.3 in March. That’s the highest reading
since June 2010. Economists forecast a decline to 19, according
to the median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Serious Risk’  Current  oil prices  are a “serious risk” to the global
economic recovery,  Fatih Birol , chief economist at the
 International Energy Agency , said today at a conference in
Amsterdam.  Foreign direct investment in  China  fell 6.1 percent in
March from a year earlier, a fifth monthly decline, according to
data from the Ministry of Commerce today.  India  unexpectedly cut
its benchmark  interest rate  by a greater-than-forecast half a
percentage point, seeking to bolster growth with the first
reduction since 2009.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably climbed  1.3 million barrels 
to 366.5 million last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of analysts before an Energy Department report tomorrow. An
advance of that size would leave supplies at the highest level
since the week ended June 3.  Gasoline inventories probably fell 1.03 million barrels,
the survey shows. Distillates, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped 25,000 barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  