-- Oil Rises on Seaway Reversal, U.S. Retail Sales
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-04-16T19:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/oil-rebounds-on-u-s-retail-sales.html
Oil rose as the reversal date for
the Seaway crude pipeline was moved up, causing the spread
between New York-traded futures and Brent in  London  to narrow.
 Retail sales  in the U.S. increased more than forecast in March.  The price gap between U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude
and Brent was the smallest since February after  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  said they would start moving
oil from Cushing, Oklahoma, to the U.S. Gulf Coast via the
pipeline in May. The Commerce Department said retail sales
gained almost three times as much as projected.  “The Seaway pipeline is going to be reversed and there
will be more supply heading to the Gulf Coast,” said  Tom Bentz ,
a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York.
“When you look at the U.S. economic data, there’s been a lot of
positive reports. If the  U.S. economy  continues to improve,
demand is going to stay steady.”  Crude for May delivery gained 10 cents to settle at $102.93
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 4.1
percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement dropped $2.53, or 2.1
percent, to $118.68 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The spread between the front-month Brent contract and the
comparable New York futures for delivery at Cushing shrank to
$15.31 a barrel in trading today, the narrowest differential
since Feb. 28.  Seaway Reversal  Enbridge and Enterprise said they plan to switch the flow
on Seaway about May 17, according to a filing with the  Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission . That’s earlier than a previous
June 1 start date. The reversal is forecast to reduce a glut of
crude at Cushing, the U.S. Midcontinent pipeline hub.  Nymex futures fell as much as 1 percent on the reversal
news, even as the spread contracted, before rebounding in the
last hour of trading.  “The Seaway pipeline is going to start shipping oil to the
 Gulf Coast  two weeks ahead of the schedule, and that headline
seemed to trigger the sharp selloff,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “You
are getting more oil to the market, giving refineries cheaper
oil.”  Inventories at Cushing , the delivery point for Nymex oil
futures, increased 0.7 percent to 40.6 million barrels in the
week ended April 6, the highest level in 11 months, according to
the Energy Department.  “The positive retail sales number helped the oil market
and we were trying to go to the positive territory, only to see
prices falling back down after the announcement of the Seaway
pipeline reschedule,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Retail Sales  New York  futures also rose after the Commerce Department
reported a 0.8 percent gain in U.S. retail sales in March
followed a 1 percent advance in February. The  median  forecast of
81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a rise of
0.3 percent.  “Retail sales came in pretty good,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in
 St. Louis . “We have a lot of positive news out there.”  Total products supplied, a measure of fuel consumption,
increased 4.5 percent in the week ended April 6 to 19 million
barrels a day, the biggest advance since Feb. 10, according to
the Energy Department.  Iran Talks  Prices dropped earlier after the first international talks
in 15 months on  Iran’s nuclear program  yielded an agreement for
the parties to reconvene. The April 14 negotiations in Istanbul
were called “constructive” by both  Catherine Ashton , the
European Union’s foreign policy chief, and Iran’s lead
negotiator, Saeed Jalili.  The United Nations’ five permanent Security Council members
plus Germany will meet Iranian delegates in Baghdad on May 23,
Ashton said yesterday.  “Talks with Iran were somewhat positive,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in Chicago. “It’s a little bit better than some people had
expected and it’s kind of bearish for oil.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  criticized the
outcome as giving Iran more time to continue enriching uranium,
the process capable of producing fuel for a nuclear bomb.  Hedge funds  reduced  bullish oil wagers  by 24,860, or 11
percent, to 191,827 contracts in the seven days ended April 10,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitment of Traders report on April 13.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 623,441
contracts as of 3:21 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 501,173
contracts on April 13, 22 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.59 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  