-- Hong Kong’s Leung Seeks to Ban Births by Mainland Women
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-04-17T09:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/hong-kong-s-leung-seeks-to-bans-births-by-mainland-women-in-city.html
Hong Kong  Chief Executive-Elect
Leung Chun-ying plans to bar mainland Chinese women from giving
birth in the city next year after an influx of mothers-to-be
strained resources and stoked public discontent.  The ban will apply to private hospitals, Leung told
reporters yesterday. Children born to mainland parents won’t be
guaranteed local permanent residency, he also said.  An influx of mainland Chinese has spurred protests against
the current government, led by Chief Executive Donald Tsang, as
residents in the city of 7.1 million face increasing competition
for property and schooling. The number of Hong Kong-born babies
almost doubled in the decade to 2010 because of 232,536 infants
born to mainland mothers, according to the city’s Census and
Statistics Department.  “If you contrast his very determined position with  Donald
Tsang ’s wishy-washy position, people would say -- look, the
incoming chief executive demonstrates leadership, has definite
views and knows how to deal with difficult issues like this,”
said Cheung Chor-Yung, a senior teaching fellow at the  City
University  of Hong Kong.  Leung, who will take office on July 1, is seeking to win
popular support after the city’s 1,193-member election committee
selected him as chief executive last month. He needs to navigate
the growing friction between residents and mainland Chinese,
while promoting closer economic ties with  China .  Competition Concern  Chinese purchases of property have helped made Hong Kong
the world’s most expensive place to buy a home after eight years
of rising prices. Mainland buyers accounted for at least 19
percent of  transactions  last year, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor.  The number of mainland women giving birth in the city
increased after a 2000 Court of Final Appeal decision meant
children born in Hong Kong of mainland Chinese parents are
entitled to residency. Residency rights would also entail them
to public services, including local schools.  Leung yesterday said his government will study the ruling.  An influx of mainland mothers has also pushed neonatal
intensive care units beyond capacity, and forced some mothers to
resort to emergency wards, doctors said.  York Chow, Hong Kong’s food and health secretary, agreed
last June to cap the number of non-residents allowed to give
birth in private hospitals 2012 at 31,000. The city also cut the
quota for foreigners giving birth in public hospitals to 3,400
this year, down from 10,000 in 2011.  Mainlanders delivered 40,648 babies in 2010 in Hong Kong.  Health-care Industry  “We are now holding discussions with private hospitals,
and at the same time continuing communication with the chief
executive-elect,” the Food and Health Bureau said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Deliveries of mainland Chinese babies isn’t the “proper
way” to develop the city’s health-care industry, and it won’t
help resolve the issue of Hong Kong’s aging population, Leung
said.  The proposed ban won’t apply to mainland mothers who have a
resident husband, a spokeswoman for Leung’s office said. The
spokeswoman said the new government has yet to decide on the
quota for foreigners giving birth in public hospitals next year.  More than 1,500 protesters took to the streets on Jan. 15
to oppose the growing number of Chinese births, Agence France-
Presse reported. An advertisement in the local Apple Daily
newspaper in February depicted mainland Chinese mothers who
entered Hong Kong to give birth as locusts devouring the city’s
resources, and demanded the government stop them from
“invading” the city.  Leung “is highly motivated to do this to try and raise his
extremely low level of popularity,” said Ming Sing, associate
professor of social science at the  Hong Kong University  of
Science and Technology.  More than 5,000 people protested in Hong Kong on April 1
against alleged meddling by the Chinese government in the
election March 25 that saw Leung chosen as chief executive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Tan Hwee Ann at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  