-- Mongolia Starts Share Sale Process for State-Owned Coal Company
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-04-16T09:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/mongolia-starts-share-sale-process-for-state-owned-coal-company.html
Mongolia, whose economy grew the
fastest last year, will sell new shares in  Baganuur JSC (BAN)  coal
mining company to raise at least 60 billion tugrik ($46 million)
to help fund infrastructure projects.  The government wants to cut its holding to 51 percent from
75 percent by selling new shares, Gunsmaa Namgilsuren, a senior
specialist at the privatization department of the State Property
Committee, said today by phone from  Ulan Bator . It’s now seeking
banks to manage the sale, she said.  Mongolia, which became  China ’s biggest supplier of coking
coal in July, is seeking to offer minority stakes in its coal
miners to foreign investors to fund roads and power plants that
could boost production. Mining companies from Mongolia have
raised more than $750 million in share sales abroad in the last
two years.  The share sales could more than quadruple once state-run
coal miner Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi completes a planned $3 billion
listing in Mongolia,  London  and Hong Kong later this year. The
company is targeting output of 3 million metric tons this year,
the same as Baganuur’s 2011 production volume.  Mongolia’s state property committee, which is in charge of
the tender, set an applications deadline of 6 p.m. local time on
April 18, according to a  statement  on its website. An
underwriter is expected to be selected by the end of May,
Gunsmaa said.  Baganuur, founded in 1978, has the sixth-largest  weighting 
in the Mongolia Stock Exchange’s benchmark Top 20 Index with a
3.47 percent share. The company needs cash to expand production
and upgrade equipment, Gunsmaa said.  The company’s market value in February was 178 billion
tugriks, based on a price per share of 9,775 tugriks,  BDSec JSC (BDS) ,
Mongolia’s biggest brokerage, said in a report the same month.
Baganuur declined 2.7 percent to 7,100 tugriks today in Ulan
Bator. Mongolia’s economy grew at 17.3 percent last year, the
fastest rate, according to the  World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  