-- Ono’s Experimental MS Drug Cuts Brain Lesions, Study Shows
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-04-16T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ono-s-experimental-ms-drug-cuts-brain-lesions-study-shows.html
An experimental drug to treat
 multiple sclerosis  developed by  Ono Pharmaceutical Co. (4528)  reduced
the number of lesions in the brain, a study to be presented at
the American Academy of Neurology showed.  Patients who took the ONO-4641 tablet were found to have as
many as 92 percent fewer brain lesions, compared with a group
that took a placebo, according to the study released today. Side
effects from the once-a-day oral administration of the drug over
a 26 week period appeared to be dose-related and included a
slower heartbeat, blood pressure changes and liver enzyme
elevation.  The findings from the preliminary study move the drug a
step closer to expanding the range of treatments for the
debilitating condition that affects more than 2 million people
worldwide. If approved, patients will have another treatment
taken orally, in addition to  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya, the world’s
first pill for MS.  “In light of recent issues in the oral MS drug market,
this is welcome news,” Timothy Vollmer, an author of the study
from the University of  Colorado  in Denver and a fellow with the
American Academy of Neurology, said in a statement.  Ono Pharmaceutical, based in Osaka,  Japan , funded the
research.  The study, the second stage of three clinical trials
generally required for regulatory review, involved 407 patients
age 18 to 55 with relapsing remitting MS, the most common form
of the disease. They were randomly given placebo, 0.05
milligrams, 0.10 milligrams, or 0.15 milligrams of ONO-4641 for
26 weeks and had brain scans every four weeks after 10 weeks.  Merck KGaA has the license to develop the medicine
globally, excluding Japan,  South Korea  and  Taiwan .  MS Pill Development  Biogen Idec Inc.’s experimental oral MS treatment BG-12 is
ahead of ONO-4641 in development and in review by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s
laquinimod pill is in the last stage of clinical testing.  Multiple sclerosis causes the immune system to attack the
myelin sheath, which surrounds and protects nerve cells, leading
to symptoms including numbness, difficulty in coordination and
memory loss, according to  Medline Plus , a website of the U.S.
National Institutes of Health. In its severest form, it can
shorten life and, in  rare cases , lead to death, according to the
U.S.  National Multiple Sclerosis Society ’s website.  MS afflicts more than 2 million people worldwide, according
to the  Multiple Sclerosis International Federation .  The treatment will compete with therapies including Teva’s
Copaxone, which generated $3.9 billion for the company in 2011,
and Biogen’s Avonex, which sold $2.7 billion.  The research is scheduled for presentation at the  American
Academy  of Neurology meeting in  New Orleans , April 21 to April
28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  