-- Looming French Competitor Spurs Telecoms Drop: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-04-17T14:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/looming-french-price-war-spurs-telecoms-drop-israel-overnight.html
Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD)  and
Partner Communications Co. slipped in U.S. trading yesterday on
concern the entrance of a French competitor will erode the
mobile-phone providers’ earnings.  Internet Gold, a Petach Tikva, Israel-based company that
controls  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunications Corp. (BEZQ) , and Partner,
Israel’s second largest mobile-phone company, both dropped the
most in a week yesterday, while the  Bloomberg U.S-Israel Equity
Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies listed in  New York  added
0.2 percent to 87.69. Internet Gold jumped 15 percent, while
Partner rose 3 percent in  Tel Aviv  today.  Israel is forcing telecommunications providers, the worst
performers on Tel Aviv’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  this year, to cut fees and
is encouraging new players into a market where Bezeq, Partner
and  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  control 95 percent of sales. Those
stocks will extend declines on concern Golan Telecom Ltd.,
partly owned by French entrepreneur Xavier Niel, will wage a
“price war” similar to one that saw the company take 2 million
customers from rivals in  France , according to  Bank Leumi  Le-
Israel Ltd.  “The genie is out of the bottle and it’s changing the
whole industry,” Gil Dattner, an analyst at Tel Aviv-based Bank
Leumi, said yesterday by phone after downgrading
telecommunications industry shares. “There’s concern that we’ll
see in Israel the same aggressive price cut that we saw in
France.”  Bank Leumi, Israel’s largest lender by assets,  lowered  its
price estimate on Bezeq’s Tel Aviv shares by 15 percent to 7.3
shekels ($1.94) and cut its recommendations on Partner and
Cellcom to market perform from outperform, according to an e-
mailed report yesterday, meaning they will probably provide
returns in line with the market.  2-Euro Contracts  With mobile subscriptions starting at 2 euros ($2.63) a
month, Niel’s  Iliad SA (ILD)  won customers from France Telecom SA,
Vivendi SA’s SFR unit and Bouygues SA in less than two months,
Jean-Ludovic Silicani, head of French regulator Arcep, said last
month. The reduction in prices caused by the introduction of
Iliad will weigh on profit for the next two years, Paris-based
Vivendi said on March 1.  Niel is a partner in Golan Telecom, which received a
license from Israel’s Communications Ministry in July to build a
new wireless network. The company will probably enter the market
by the end of the year, Bank Leumi’s Dattner said.  “What everyone wants to know and is unclear on, is at how
low of a price the new competition will come in,” he said.  Bezeq Plunge  Tel Aviv-based Bezeq, which operates in the mobile phone
industry through its unit Pelephone, before today had retreated
16.5 percent in Israeli trading this year after  plunging  35
percent in 2011, the worst annual performance on record. The
shares rose 7.5 percent to 6.27 shekels, or the equivalent of
$1.67, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv today.  Revenue will decline this year to the lowest level since
2005, according to the median of four analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Internet Gold, the holding company whose unit B
Communications Ltd. owns 31 percent of Bezeq, fell 2.3 percent
to $5.24 in New York yesterday, the biggest one-day decline
since April 9. The company’s stock rose 15 percent to 22.63
shekels in Tel Aviv today, or the equivalent of $6.02.  Reforms by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government
have helped discount wireless operators Rami Levi Chain Stores
Hashikma Marketing 2006 Ltd. and Alon Holdings Blue Square
 Israel  Ltd. to get licenses to offer mobile-phone services.  Partner, based in Rosh Hayin, Israel, extended its 23
percent decline in New York this year, losing 1.7 percent to
$6.81, the most since April 10. The company’s Tel Aviv shares
rose 3 percent to 26.87 shekels today, or the equivalent of
$7.15. The company will probably report a 16 percent  drop  in
adjusted earnings per share in 2012, according to the median
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cellcom Gains  Netanya, Israel-based Cellcom, the country’s biggest
mobile-phone services provider, climbed 0.7 percent to $11.43 in
New York, paring this year’s drop to 32 percent. Its shares in
Tel Aviv rose 1.1 percent to 43.46 shekels, or the equivalent of
$11.56.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  rose in New York after Clal
Finance Brokerage Ltd. boosted its price target. Mellanox, a
developer of technology used to transfer and store data quickly,
climbed 1.2 percent to $41.63 in the U.S. The shares in Tel Aviv
advanced 1 percent to 159.5 shekels, or the equivalent of
$42.43, today.  Cephalon Victory  Clal Finance Brokerage raised its price estimate on the
shares of Yokneam Elit, Israel-based Mellanox to $47 from $44.
The company will probably  report  a 48 percent rise in revenue
when announcing first quarter earnings tomorrow, according to
the median of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, climbed 1.9 percent to $45.05 in New
York yesterday. The shares in Tel Aviv rose 1.7 percent to
169.50 shekels, or the equivalent of $45.09.  Cephalon Inc., which was bought by Petach Tikva, Israel-
based Teva, said yesterday that it won an appeals court ruling
that may help it block sales of generic versions of the muscle-
relaxant Amrix.  Prolor Biotech Ltd. (PBTH) , the Nes Ziona, Israel-based developer
of hormone treatments, jumped 7.9 percent to $5.47 yesterday
after dropping 15 percent last week, the worst performance in
almost two years.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) , the Netanya, Israel-based
technology company, jumped 4.9 percent to $24.05. MagicJack
raised its initial first-quarter earnings-per-share forecast to
28 cents from 26 cents, according to a statement distributed by
Globe Newswire yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  