-- Opera’s Premiere CMBS Default Tests Creditors: Mortgages
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-04-17T14:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/opera-s-premiere-cmbs-default-tests-creditors-mortgages.html
Investors in the most-senior notes
of Europe’s first commercial mortgage-backed securities to
default on maturity opted to sell for 40 cents on the euro up
front and new bonds for the rest rather than try to restructure
their share of the 601.7 million euro ($789.2 million) debt.  Opera Finance (Uni-Invest) BV’s Class A noteholders
approved the proposal, which will allow them to recover 358.8
million euros, at a meeting in Amsterdam today, according to
Eurohypo AG, the special servicer. The investors rejected a plan
to extend all of the CMBS bonds, including the three other
classes, to 2016, and hire  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s Valad Europe to
sell the real estate backing the CMBS.  The decision may be a model for other CMBS defaults in
Europe as investors decide between restructuring and disposing
of property or selling their securities to the highest bidder,
said Philip Cropper, CBRE Group Inc. managing director for real
estate finance. About 48 billion euros of CMBS will mature
during the next three years, Morgan Stanley estimates. Most are
backed by non-prime properties.  “This is a first and there will be others that head across
to this position,” Cropper said in an interview before today’s
decision. “This will give us some lessons on the process
because this has never been done.”  Dutch real estate company Uni-Invest Holding NV borrowed
the money and defaulted Feb. 15, when the loans matured. Other
CMBS borrowers have avoided default on maturity after creditors
agreed to restructure or change the terms of their loan.  Amsterdam Mall  The notes were issued after loans backed by properties
including the Magna Plaza shopping center in central Amsterdam,
as well as offices and industrial buildings, were packaged and
sold as a 1 billion-euro CMBS in 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Since then, some of the principal was
paid through the sale of more than 100 buildings, reducing the
outstanding amount due to 601.7 million euros. The special
servicer for the notes, Eurohypo AG, called today’s meeting.  If neither plan had been adopted, the danger was the CMBS
“would remain in a zombie-like state in which it is unclear who
would direct the day-to-day operation of the company,” said
Mark Nichol, a structured finance analyst at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  Since the value of the real estate backing the CMBS has
fallen so much, investors owning the three junior classes of
notes approved Valad’s “consensual restructuring” plan that
offered a chance of recovering some of the 242.9 million euros
that they’re owed.  Class A noteholders chose to overrule the three other CMBS
tranches, as permitted under the terms of the CMBS. The junior
CMBS noteholders won’t get repaid under the Patron and TPG
proposal.  Asset Sales  TPG-Patron offered an initial payment of 40 percent, about
144 million euros, plus interest and some expenses for the Class
A notes. The balance would be in new four-year notes to be
repaid with asset-sale proceeds.  The firms said their plan makes disposals less risky by
reducing the amount of debt backed by the properties and because
they would put money into the buildings to facilitate their
sale. TPG and Patron have said they wouldn’t make a profit until
the Class A notes are fully repaid.  The TPG-Patron offer may raise the equivalent value of the
Class A notes to around 90 percent of nominal value, compared
with 79 percent last month, Krishna Prasad, an analyst in the
asset-backed securities department of Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, said in a March 27 note to investors.  “Over the longer term, we would not be surprised if they
recovered close to par in principal,” Prasad said.  Attempted Sale  A June 2011 appraisal by CBRE Group estimated the “fire
sale” value of the remaining 203 offices and industrial
properties was about 400 million euros, according to a filing to
noteholders. An attempt to sell the properties collapsed in
November because bidders weren’t able to finance the transaction
amid a slowdown in credit markets, according to a notice to
noteholders from Eurohypo.  “The assets are widely regarded as being of mediocre
quality and are also probably losing value in the absence of
active management and capital expenditure,” according to RBS’s
Prasad.  Constrained lending in  Europe  and difficulties in Dutch
real estate mean a 360 million-euro value for the properties is
probably also too high, Prasad said.  Unrealistic Values  Average national office vacancies of 15 percent and falling
rents mean landlords should take 7 billion euros of writedowns,
Ronald Gerritse, chairman of the Dutch financial markets
regulator AFM, said in a Dec. 23 interview with NRC Handelsblad.
Jan Sijbrand, a director of the Dutch central bank in charge of
regulation, said values were unrealistic in a Feb. 5 interview
with Het Financieele Dagblad newspaper.  To attract or retain tenants on a standard five-year lease,
landlords are offering one to two years rent free, depressing
real rents by 20 percent to 40 percent depending on the location
of the property, Machiel Wolters, an analyst at CBRE in
Amsterdam, said. The outlook in the market and constrained
lending depressed Netherlands commercial real estate sales last
year to the lowest since at least 1998, he said.  “The Netherlands is a graveyard,” Pierre Vaquier, chief
executive officer of Axa Real Estate Investment Managers, said
in an interview last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 