-- OptionsXpress Accused by SEC of Naked Short-Sale Violations
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-04-16T21:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/optionsxpress-accused-by-sec-of-naked-short-sale-violations-1-.html
OptionsXpress Inc. (OXPS) , the Chicago
brokerage acquired by  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  last year, was
accused by U.S. regulators of using sham “reset” transactions
as part of an abusive naked short-selling scheme.  The company and four executives violated Securities and
Exchange Commission rules in conducting trades from at least
October 2008 to March 2010 designed to give the illusion of
compliance with rules governing short sales, the SEC said in a
statement today. An OptionsXpress customer was also accused by
the SEC of participating in the alleged violations.  In a short sale, an investor borrows shares and sells them
with the goal of profiting from a price decline by repurchasing
at a lower price and repaying the loan. The SEC’s Regulation SHO
requires brokers to close out clients’ short sales within three
days and bars them from executing further bets against
individual companies until previous sales have been settled.  OptionsXpress, its former chief financial officer Thomas Stern and the customer, Jonathan Feldman, are fighting the
agency’s claims, which were filed in administrative court in
 Washington  today.  “We believe the evidence at trial will demonstrate that
OptionsXpress timely covered consistent with Reg SHO,” said
Stephen Senderowitz, an attorney for OptionsXpress. The firm was
in touch with regulators regarding the transactions, no one was
defrauded, and the transactions “were not shams and were
neither novel nor exotic,” Senderowitz said.  ‘Open-Market Trades’  Greg Lawrence, a lawyer for Feldman, said his client
“entered into legitimate open-market trades, and he believed,
and still believes, that his brokers complied with all rules.”
The SEC “is unfairly trying to change the rules through
litigation,” Lawrence said.  A phone call to Vincent Schmeltz, Stern’s attorney, wasn’t
immediately returned.  OptionsXpress helped its customers buy shares while
simultaneously selling  call options  that were essentially the
economic equivalent of selling shares short, the SEC said. The
purchase of shares created the illusion that the firm had
satisfied the close-out obligation even though they were never
actually delivered to the purchasers, according to the order.  Stock-Kiting Scheme  The transactions allowed OptionsXpress and its customers to
engage in a “stock-kiting scheme” that deprived true stock
purchasers of the benefits of ownership, the SEC said in its
order. OptionsXpress had repeated failures to deliver stock in
firms including  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ,  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , according to the
order.  In January 2010, customers involved in the OptionsExpress
trades accounted for an average of 48 percent of daily trading
volume in Sears, the SEC said. In 2009, six OptionsXpress
accounts purchased about $5.7 billion worth of securities and
sold short about $4 billion of options, according to the order.  The SEC settled related claims against three OptionsXpress
employees: Peter Bottini, Phillip Hoeh and Kevin Strine,
according to a separate administrative order filed today.
Attorneys for Strine and Hoeh declined to comment. A phone call
to Steven Biskupic, a lawyer for Bottini, wasn’t immediately
returned.  In resolving the action, Bottini, Hoeh and Strine agreed to
cooperate with the SEC’s investigation without admitting or
denying wrongdoing or paying any financial penalties.  Charles Schwab , the San Francisco-based brokerage, agreed
to buy OptionsXpress for about $1 billion in stock last year,
adding the retail options brokerage founded in 2000 to its
equity and mutual fund offerings. The acquisition was completed
in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  