-- Lottery Securities Beating AAA Provide Winning Bet: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-04-16T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/lottery-securities-beating-aaa-provide-winning-bet-muni-credit.html
Want to win the  Oregon (STOOR1)  or  Florida 
lottery? Don’t purchase tickets. Buy their bonds instead.  Oregon’s AAA rated bonds, whose historic default risk is
near zero, are backed by lottery revenue and compare with odds
of one in 176 million to win the multistate Mega Millions
jackpot. Since November, yields on the debt have dropped almost
seven times as much as those on top-rated municipal securities
as  interest rates  in the $3.7 trillion market have fallen to
lows not seen since the 1960s.  Florida (STFLA1)  and Oregon are among four U.S. states that have
sold $5.5 billion in bonds backed by cash from games of chance,
mostly to fund school construction, said  Natalie Cohen , a senior
analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . who wrote a report on lottery
revenue this month. Mega Millions, played in 42 states and the
 District of Columbia , awarded a record $640 million jackpot
after a March 30 drawing.  “In economic good times and bad times, people want to play
the lottery,” said Terry O’Grady, senior vice president of muni
trading at FMS Bonds Inc. in North Miami Beach, Florida.
“Lottery revenues, while they are discretionary, are not going
to be that volatile.”  Of the 43 states with lotteries, 26 saw revenue grow in the
past fiscal year, with total sales up 3 percent to $56 billion,
according to Rockville, Maryland-based research firm  La Fleur’s .
Florida, Texas and  California  each pulled in more than $1
billion in 2010 from lotteries and other forms of gambling,
while New York generated $2.2 billion, according to Cohen.  Oregon Bonds  Lottery bonds maturing in 2025 issued by the  Oregon
Department of Administrative Services  traded last week at a
yield of 2.21 percent, down 120 basis points from 3.41 percent
five months earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That beat the 18-basis-point drop in  yields  on top-rated 13-year
debt over the same period, Bloomberg Valuation index data show.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Oregon agency sold about $75 million in lottery-backed
debt April 11, about two weeks after the Mega Millions drawing.
A $54 million portion included 10-year securities priced to
yield 2.27 percent, Bloomberg data show. That’s 38 basis points
below similarly rated  revenue debt . The agency issued lottery
debt three years ago with yields 19 basis points above the
index.  Standard & Poor’s  gives the Oregon lottery debt its top AAA
grade, one level higher than the state’s Aa1 ranking.  ‘Astronomical’ Revenue  “It really is an asset-backed security -- it’s not a state
credit,” said Joe Deane, who helps oversee $16 billion as head
of munis in New York for Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which manages the world’s biggest bond fund. “The amount of
money you can raise is just astronomical.”  Still, revenue may drop as more states legalize other forms
of gambling, such as casinos, Deane said. New York and
Massachusetts are among states seeking to open Las Vegas-style
gambling houses.  Oregon’s lottery players are among those doing the least
damage to their personal finances by participating. They get
back 67 percent of what they pay for tickets in winnings,
second-best among states, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Rankings.  More than $50 billion was spent on lottery tickets in the
U.S. in 2010, while prizes totaled $32.8 billion, the data show.
 Alabama , Alaska,  Hawaii ,  Mississippi ,  Nevada , Utah and  Wyoming 
don’t have lotteries.  Florida Bonds  S&P also gives lottery-backed debt from Florida and  West
Virginia  its top grade. Moody’s Investors Service assigned its
Aa2 rating, third-best, to the  Oregon  sale and gives an A1
grade, fifth-best, to the  Florida State Board of Education  and
 West Virginia Economic Development Authority (26924MF) .  A Florida lottery bond maturing in July 2024 traded April
11 at an average yield of 2.06 percent, down from 3.09 percent a
week earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the lowest since it was issued in 2007. The 103-basis-point drop
compares with a seven-point decline in a  12-year AAA index  over
the one-week span, BVAL data show.  Governments reduced borrowing last year for the first time
since 1996 as the longest downturn since the 1930s created more
than $500 billion of budget deficits for states. They have
increased efforts to boost lottery sales after income from the
games fell for the first time in more than a decade in 2009,
according to census data.  In the Mega Millions lottery, which generated $1.5 billion
in revenue for participating states, three winning tickets were
sold in  Illinois ,  Maryland  and  Kansas .  “Most people understand the whole probability of buying a
Mega Millions ticket,” said Wells Fargo’s Cohen. “It doesn’t
stop us. It’s the human condition.”  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  PENNSYLVANIA (STOPA1)  plans to sell $950 million of tax-exempt
general-obligation bonds via competitive bid as soon as April
17. The proceeds will be used for construction and environmental
projects. It’s the state’s biggest sale of long-term, tax-exempt
debt since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the state’s full faith and credit pledge
Aa1, second-highest, Bloomberg data show. (Updated April 16)  METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, the biggest U.S.
transit agency, plans to sell $600 million in tax-exempt revenue
bonds as soon as this week, according to an offering document.
The proceeds will be used to finance transit and commuter
projects. Moody’s Investors Service rates the bonds A2, its
sixth-highest investment grade. Wells Fargo Securities is the
underwriter. (Added April 16)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 