-- House Republicans Revive Bid to Advance Keystone Pipeline
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-16T17:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/house-republicans-revive-bid-to-advance-keystone-in-highway-bill.html
U.S.  House Republicans ,
unsuccessful in overturning President  Barack Obama ’s rejection
of the Keystone XL pipeline permit, will try again this week,
using legislation to extend highway spending for three months.  Passage in the House would give Republican leaders another
chance to advance the pipeline as gasoline prices remain higher
than $3.90 a gallon. Language in the legislation, which would
pay for highway, bridge and transit programs through September,
gives the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  30 days to issue
a permit for the pipeline. A vote may be scheduled on April 18.  Representative  Fred Upton  of Michigan, the House Energy and
Commerce Committee chairman, said in the Republican’s April 14
weekly radio address that Keystone would “have decreased our
dependence on oil from unstable regions of the world.”  The Keystone section in the highway bill is identical to
legislation the House approved on Feb. 16 as part of a larger
transportation package that some Republicans said cost too much.  In the Senate, Democrats on March 9 blocked an amendment to
the transportation bill that effectively would approve Keystone
without further federal action, with 11 Democrats joining
Republicans in support.  “Gas prices have doubled under President Obama, but the
Senate-passed transportation bill does nothing to help,”
 Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Too Early’  Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Senate Democratic leader
 Harry Reid , said Senate leaders haven’t been able to assess
whether support exists among lawmakers for the Keystone XL
project if FERC is given jurisdiction to issue the permit.
Senators return today after a two-week recess.  “It’s too early to say,” Jentleson said today.  The $7 billion  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pipeline would carry crude
from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries along the  Gulf Coast .
Obama rejected in January the company’s application because he
said a deadline set by Congress for action, imposed after the
project was delayed until 2013, didn’t allow sufficient time to
weigh potential environmental risks.  Officials in Nebraska objected to the pipeline’s route
across Nebraska’s Sandhills region, which overlays the Ogallala
aquifer that provides drinking water for 1.5 million people.  The House highway bill would extend funding for three
months. While the Republican-led House and the Democratic-
controlled Senate passed a 90-day extension before the two-week
congressional recess at the end of March, the two sides have
been unable to agree to a longer-term deal.  The Senate passed a two-year extension of the highway bill
without language on Keystone in March. The Republican highway
measure may allow the House and Senate to begin a conference
committee to try to reach a compromise on the impasse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  