-- How Shape-Shifting Banks Foil Dodd-Frank Act
-- B y   T h o m a s   C o o l e y   a n d   K i m   S c h o e n h o l t z
-- 2012-04-16T23:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/how-shape-shifting-banks-foil-dodd-frank-act.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  recently separated
its  U.S. investment bank  from its  bank holding company , removing
it from supervision by the  Federal Reserve .  So far, U.S. regulators have reacted passively to such
moves by foreign banks to avoid the heightened  capital
requirements  mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act.  That’s because Dodd-Frank failed to heed a fundamental law
of architecture: Form must follow function. For financial
regulation to be effective, it should focus on economic
function, rather than legal form. If it doesn’t, institutions
will quickly find new forms that free them of regulatory
constraints. What walks like a duck and quacks like a duck must
be regulated as a duck, even if it is legally a goose.  All too often  financial regulation  misses this obvious
point. The result is regulatory arbitrage, as intermediaries
alter their legal form to minimize their costs.  That would be fine if the costs of the risks carried by a
large, complex investment bank -- a prime example of a
“systemically important financial intermediary,” or SIFI, that
 Dodd-Frank  sought to regulate -- were all its own. But that
isn’t the case. When such institutions take risks, they can
threaten the financial system and require public bailouts.  Emergency Liquidity  In a crisis, a SIFI could be forced into a fire sale that
triggers a broad credit crunch. To avoid this outcome, the Fed
typically would be called upon to provide emergency liquidity --
an insurance subsidy that fosters more risk-taking in good
times.  Indeed, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failed, the two
largest U.S. investment banks,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , converted their legal status to bank holding
companies, gaining access to the Fed’s discount window. The
central bank obliged them and many other institutions to an
astonishing degree because the costs of a further collapse of
the financial system made that the optimal response at the time.  Other spillovers from such regulatory arbitrage are no less
significant. If a SIFI’s insolvency threatened a run on its
counterparties, resolving it under Dodd-Frank rules could force
less risk-prone intermediaries to bear the costs. Over time,
that process would promote a risk-taking race to the bottom.  The form versus function dilemma extends far beyond
investment banks and, in some cases, even beyond SIFIs. It
drives shadow banking as a whole. Why are  money-market mutual
funds  still permitted to offer depositlike instruments --
creating the risks of a run -- without being subject to bank
rules? Why were bank holding companies allowed to minimize
capital by creating off-balance-sheet mechanisms (such as
“special investment vehicles”) that were prone to panic? Why was
the world’s largest insurer,  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
allowed to shop for a weak regulator (the now-shuttered Office
of Thrift Supervision) that was ill-equipped to understand its
business?  Once we allow form, rather than function, to guide
regulation, the classic problem of “time consistency” becomes
acute. Time consistency refers to the overwhelming incentives,
in bad times, for policy makers to renege on the commitments
they made when things were going well.  Imagine that a group of intermediaries has engaged in
regulatory arbitrage to reduce their capital buffer or to take
liquidity risks (say, by excessive reliance on short-term
funding) that jeopardize the stability of the financial system.
Suppose that regulators respond by warning that -- in a future
crisis -- they won’t provide emergency liquidity or other
bailout funds to such intermediaries. Unfortunately, the
regulators’ threat is largely empty, because carrying it out
could lead to economic catastrophe and both parties know this to
be true.  Time Consistency  As a result, the promises of policy makers often lack the
credibility needed to discipline systemic risk-taking. This
time-consistency problem is particularly challenging for
advocates of so-called narrow banking, a regulatory approach
that focuses almost exclusively on form, rather than function.  Under a narrow banking rule, government crisis backstops --
such as Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. guarantees or Fed
discount lending -- would be available only to narrowly defined
depositories that provide the economy’s basic payments
mechanism. These banks would then be tightly regulated like
public utilities. Outside this protected sphere, anything goes.  Narrow banking sounds attractive because it seems to focus
the losses in bad times on those non-narrow banks that took the
risks in good times. If that were the case, the resulting
incentives would help make the financial system safer. But would
it really work that way? Not if people doubt the official
commitment to let intermediaries outside the narrow banking
world fail en masse.  Even if legislation forbade bailouts (as Dodd-Frank does),
would a modern government stand by in a full-blown financial
crisis if doing so threatened another depression? Probably not.
Indeed, one reason to establish thoughtful rules governing an
official lender of last resort -- such as the Fed -- is that
some part of government inevitably will play this role in a
crisis. As a consequence, it’s better to do so through an
institution of established integrity that limits the potential
for corruption and fraud.  If regulation by function rather than form is critical, why
do we often fail to pursue it? Part of the answer is that it’s
quite difficult to do. Another, no less troubling, part is that
regulated financial entities are politically powerful. In some
cases, they can persuade Congress and their regulators to exempt
them from discipline. If the costs of that protection ultimately
are borne by a large, diffuse group of taxpayers only in a
crisis, taxpayer resistance can be overcome in good times.  Market Discipline  The most straightforward solution to this problem is to
regulate financial instruments and markets (say, through
collateral and margin requirements), rather than just regulating
institutions. Another is to promote transparency and
infrastructure that empower greater market discipline. Dodd-
Frank makes some progress along these lines by shifting
derivatives trading to clearinghouses. And the Fed has pushed
for years to reduce the systemic risks emanating from the
critical market for collateralized short-term funds (repurchase
agreements).  But not all systemic risks are easily amenable to this
approach. History shows that increased regulation of instruments
and markets also will create incentives for innovations that
avoid it. Such innovations may be quite profitable, even as they
undermine efforts to limit systemic risks.  Have the great financial crisis, the extraordinary policy
responses, the deepest postwar recession and the dismal recovery
altered these historical tendencies? Not if Deutsche Bank and
other foreign banks’ version of regulatory arbitrage proves
representative.  (Thomas Cooley and Kim Schoenholtz are professors of
economics at New York University’s Stern School of Business and
contributors to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are their
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on increasing the  minimum
wage  and vetoing the UN  Security Council veto ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on  Afghanistan  after the  U.S. withdrawal ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 Romney and the women’s vote ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers 
on why  tax deductions are really subsidies ; Josef Joffe on why
 Europe  needs to  be more German ;  Steven Greenhut  on the  sports-
stadium scam .  To contact the writers of this article:
Tom Cooley at  tcooley@stern.nyu.edu ;
Kim Schoenholtz at  kschoenh@stern.nyu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  