-- Yuan Drops Most in Three Months as China Widens Band
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-16T09:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/pboc-weakens-yuan-fixing-by-0-13-after-widening-trading-band.html
The yuan fell by the most in a week
against the dollar as  China ’s central bank doubled the daily
trading band, reflecting declines in emerging-market currencies.  The People’s Bank of China now allows 1 percent moves from
a daily fixing, after keeping the limit at 0.5 percent since May
2007. The Dollar Index, tracking the greenback against
currencies of trading partners, climbed 0.2 percent, after a 0.8
percent jump on April 13, amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening. One-month implied volatility for the yuan, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, jumped 20 basis
points to 2.5 percent, the highest since March 14.  “The yuan is weaker as investors are again worried about
Europe and a bit on China’s growth,” said Tommy Ong, the Hong
Kong-based senior vice president of treasury and markets at DBS
Bank ( Hong Kong ). “It’s an opportune time for China to widen
the band when appreciation expectations aren’t so strong. That
won’t induce any massive speculative bets on its currency.”  The yuan fell 0.19 percent to close at 6.3150 per dollar in
 Shanghai , the biggest decline since April 5, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The People’s Bank of China
set its  fixing  0.13 percent lower at 6.2960 per dollar. The yuan
weakened as much as 0.46 percent from that rate, not making use
of the new limit.  Offshore Trading  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan declined 0.18
percent to 6.3110 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards dropped 0.34 percent to 6.3540, a 0.6 percent discount
to the onshore spot rate.  “The move is not likely to have an immediate or large
impact on the yuan,” said  Nizam Idris , head of foreign-exchange
strategy for Asian markets at Macquarie Group Ltd. “The
decision underlines China’s confidence that the economy is on a
sound footing. We maintain the view that the yuan will continue
to see pressure for appreciation.”  Idris forecast the yuan will end 2012 at 6.10, giving the
currency a more moderate 3.2 percent appreciation for 2012,
compared with annual gains averaging 4.4 percent in the last
five years. The yuan has fallen 0.1 percent this year, the
third-worst performance in  Asia , after the Japanese yen and
 Indonesia ’s rupiah.  New Rules  A more flexible yuan may help central bank Governor Zhou
Xiaochuan control inflation and support an economy that the
 World Bank  sees growing 8.2 percent this year. The timing of the
move may be intended to mute criticism of Chinese currency
policies at  International Monetary Fund  and Group of 20 meetings
and indicates that the scandal engulfing former Chongqing chief
Bo, 62, will fail to stall the nation’s economic opening up.  The new rules for yuan trading follow increases in quotas
for foreigners buying stocks and bonds in China and in the
amount of yuan held offshore that can be invested locally. A
five-year plan running through 2015 calls for officials to keep
loosening controls on capital flows as the nation moves towards
a convertible currency.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration says Beijing still
keeps the  exchange rate  artificially weak, hurting American
manufacturers and contributing to a  U.S. trade deficit  with
China that rose 8 percent to $295 billion last year.  “They are confident that market reaction would be for more
two-way moves, rather than a lopsided bet on yuan
appreciation,”  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today. “This follows from
their assessment that the yuan is largely at equilibrium
level.”  An unexpected surge in  new loans  in March, reported last
week, showed that the ruling Communist Party is trying to avoid
a deeper growth slide as the nation prepares for a once-a-decade
power transfer to younger leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  