-- Pennsylvania Plans Biggest Bond Sale Since 2006
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-04-16T13:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/pennsylvania-plans-biggest-bond-sale-since-2006.html
Pennsylvania (STOPA1)  plans to sell $950
million in general-obligation debt tomorrow, its largest tax-
exempt bond offering in more than five years, with relative
borrowing costs for issuers in the state near a six-month high.  The issue will cover expenses tied to three state prisons,
a judicial center in Philadelphia, environmental remediation,
and fixing bridges, Eric Shirk, a spokesman for Governor Tom Corbett, said last week by e-mail. “Continued lower  interest
rates ” provided an impetus for tomorrow’s sale, Shirk said.  While rates in the $3.7 trillion municipal market remain
near the  lowest  in four decades, the  extra yield  on an index of
Pennsylvania issuers relative to top-rated general-obligation
bonds has widened. The spread rose to 0.49 percentage point last
week, matching the most since Oct. 7, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “It’s a fairly well-run state and their finances are in
decent condition,” said Laura LaRosa, who helps manage about $4
billion of municipal debt at Glenmede Investment & Wealth
Management in Philadelphia. “We still like Pennsylvania a lot.
We’ll be looking at it.”  The sixth-most-populous state sold almost $826 million in
tax-exempt general-obligation bonds in October. At the time, the
spread on the Pennsylvania index relative to top-rated debt was
0.36 percentage point, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It was
Pennsylvania’s first such offering in 2011. The City Council in
the capital of Harrisburg made a rejected attempt to put the
city in bankruptcy that month.  ‘Expensive’ Deals  “The last few times Pennsylvania has come to market it has
been expensive,” LaRosa said last week by telephone. Bond
yields rise when prices fall.  The difference in yield for the Pennsylvania index compared
with top-rated debt on April 13 was 45 basis points, or 8 basis
points less than the average of the past two years, the data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Moody’s Investors Service rated the bonds Aa1, its second-
highest grade, noting the state’s limited debt and its economy’s
“demonstrated resilience post-recession.” Pennsylvania’s
fiscal 2012 budget is more balanced than in 2011, Moody’s said.  Moody’s and Fitch Ratings have negative outlooks for the
credit, based on rising liabilities for pensions and other
retiree benefits. They also cite the risk of revenue shortfalls.  The state Industrial Development Authority also is
marketing about $175 million in debt in coming days while the
Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission sold $218.5 million last week,
said John Donaldson, director of fixed income at Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co.  “It would seem to be as much as the market can absorb in a
10-day period,” Donaldson said by telephone. “For
Pennsylvania, that’s a lot of big deals in a short time.”  The state sold about $950.7 million of general-obligation
bonds in December 2006, according to the  website  for the
governor’s budget office.  Pennsylvania probably will offer about $800 million of
bonds in December to fund projects, Shirk said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  