-- Perry Asks Texas Lawmakers to Swear Off New Taxes
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-04-16T19:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/perry-asks-texas-lawmakers-to-swear-off-new-taxes.html
Governor  Rick Perry  laid out his
terms for next year’s  Texas (STOTX1)  budget debate by calling on
lawmakers to sign a “compact” forswearing new taxes to keep
the state’s job-creation machinery from slowing.  Perry, who is 62 and quit the Republican presidential race
in January, said lawmakers in the state, one of nine that don’t
tax wages, also should promise to maintain budget reserves, cut
waste and support tighter spending limits.  “We will ensure continued growth and prosperity” by
following the rules laid out in the agreement, Perry said today
in a speech prepared for a Houston audience. “We need to do
everything we can to help Texas become a stronger, more
prosperous state, better prepared to deal with the unexpected.”  Lawmakers last year eliminated an estimated deficit of at
least $15 billion partly by shortchanging schools by more than
$5 billion as Perry and fellow Republicans balked at Democrats’
appeals to raise taxes to balance the two-year budget. Perry
said more than 331,000 nongovernment jobs were created in  Texas 
in the 12 months ended in February, more than any other state.  “The decisions we made in 2011 helped stabilize our
economy and kept industries hiring in the Lone Star State far
better than anywhere else in the country,” Perry said in his
prepared speech. Lawmakers will return to Austin in January to
begin the next budget debate.  Democrats Respond  The proposal amounts to a “plan to continue to take Texas
down the wrong path,” Democrats shot back.  “Real Texans don’t hurt seniors and children,” Boyd
Richie, the state  Democratic Party  chairman, said in a prepared
 statement . “Perry is calling on his fellow Republicans to
commit to permanently underfunding public education and human
services.”  Lawmakers last year also projected a $4 billion shortfall
in the two-year budget for Medicaid, the joint state-federal
health-insurance program for the poor.  “The cost of Medicaid is a ticking time bomb, and is
primed to do massive damage to our budget,” Perry said in his
prepared speech. He didn’t offer any solution to the funding
gap, however.  “This plan ensures higher public costs through an
uneducated workforce and treatment of chronic illnesses that
could’ve been stemmed through preventative health care,” said
state Representative Jessica Farrar of Houston, the Democratic
leader in the House.  “His proposal promotes more fiscal irresponsibility in
asking lawmakers to blindly sign a blood oath that will result
in a doubling down of the devastating cuts already made to
public schools, colleges, and universities,” Farrar said in a
prepared statement about Perry’s proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 