-- Peru’s Public Works Boom Drives Faster Economic Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-04-16T17:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/peru-s-public-works-boom-drives-faster-economic-growth-2-.html
Peru ’s  economic  growth quickened
more than analysts expected in February after the government
stepped up investment in public works and business sentiment
rebounded.  Annual growth accelerated to 7.2 percent from 5.4 percent
the month before, the government’s statistics agency said today
in an e-mailed report. The median estimate of 11 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg was for growth of 6.1 percent. Expansion
last exceeded 7 percent in August.  The central bank kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 4.25
percent April 12 citing indicators showing that economic growth
has stabilized after slowing in the fourth quarter. Business
sentiment climbed to a one-year high in February, according to
the central bank, after the outlook for global growth improved
and President Ollanta Humala took measures to quell protests
that have delayed investment in the  mining industry , said Cesar Perez-Novoa, a managing director at Celfin Capital.  “The rise in business confidence tells you companies are
going to step up investment,” Perez-Novoa said by phone from
Santiago. “We’re seeing a very strong momentum in the
economy.”  The government’s infrastructure-heavy economic stimulus
measures spurred construction growth of 14 percent in February
from the same month last year, up from 4.4 percent in January.
The retail industry expanded 8.9 percent, while manufacturing,
the largest segment of the $176 billion economy, gained 1.3
percent.  The sol was little changed at 2.6570 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:34 a.m. in Lima, from 2.6580 on April 13, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  Stimulus Measures  Humala’s government is implementing stimulus measures worth
almost 2 percent of gross domestic product to offset slower
global growth.  The stimulus helped increase investor confidence, which
coupled with “very dynamic” consumer demand, will fuel growth
of 5.7 percent this year, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said
at a news conference in  London  today.  The government has also moved to allay industry concern
after protests forced  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  to suspend
construction of its $4.8 billion Minas Conga project in
November.  Humala revamped his cabinet Dec. 11 and commissioned a
review designed to suggest environmental improvements to Minas
Conga, which would be Peru’s largest-ever investment.  Peru’s annual inflation rate will slow to between 2.4
percent and 2.6 percent this year from 4.7 percent in 2011,
central bank President Julio Velarde said at the conference in
London today.  The central bank had said Feb. 9 inflation would slow to 2
percent this year.  In a separate report today, the statistics agency said the
 unemployment rate  rose to 8.7 percent last month from 8.3
percent in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 