-- Pfizer, Callaway, Boulud, Megaupload: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-16T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/pfizer-boulud-megaupload-ocean-tomo-intellectual-property.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, and its business partners OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc.
and  Genentech  Inc. sued Roxane Laboratories Inc. over its plans
to market generic copies of the lung-cancer drug Tarceva.  Pfizer, based in New York; OSI, a unit of Tokyo-based
 Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) ; and Genentech, a unit of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
of Basel,  Switzerland , contend Ingelheim, Germany-based
 Boehringer AG (0205298D) ’s Roxane has applied to the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  for permission to sell its version of Tarceva
before the patents expire.  The patent owners, Pfizer and OSI, and licensee Genentech
“will be substantially and irreparably harmed” if a judge
doesn’t stop the infringement, their lawyers said in a complaint
filed in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Roxane, based in Columbus,  Ohio , is facing another patent
suit filed April 10 in the same court. In that case, drugmaker
Abbott Laboratories contends Roxane is infringing patents for
the HIV drug  Norvir .  Angela Chirico, a spokeswoman for Roxane, didn’t have an
immediate comment on the lawsuit, saying she needed to confer
with Roxane officials.  The case is OSI v. Roxane, 1:12-cv-00465, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Callaway, Acushnet Settle All Golf-Related Patent Disputes  Callaway Golf Co., maker of the “Big Bertha” golf clubs,
and Fila Korea Ltd.’s Acushnet unit have settled settled all
patent disputes between the two sporting goods companies,
according to a joint statement issued April 13.  No money changed hands in the settlement, the two companies
said. Under the agreement each company will have rights to make
golf ball and golf club products under patents owned by the
other.  Other details of the settlement weren’t disclosed. The two
companies have been involved in patent disputes over golf balls
since 2006, according to Bloomberg data.  Fila acquired Acushnet, the maker of Titleist golf
equipment in May 2011 from Fortune Brands Inc., now Beam Inc.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Daniel Boulud’s Restaurant Group Sues Buffalo Bar  A restaurant company affiliated with celebrity  chef Daniel
Boulud  sued a Buffalo,  New York  bar for trademark infringement.  Boulud’s Manhattan-based Dinex Group LLC accused the
operators of  Duke’s Bohemian Grove Bar  of infringing the
“DBGB” trademark it used with restaurant and bar services.
According to the complaint filed April 10 in  Manhattan , Dinex
has used the mark continuously since June 2009.  One of the Dinex properties in New York is  the DBGB Kitchen
& Bar . Among the others are  Daniel  and  Café Boulud . Boulud was
awarded  three Michelin stars  and the James Beard Award for an
outstanding restaurant for Daniel.  Dinex said it contacted the Buffalo bar’s owners in August
2010 and asked them to quit using the “DBGB” designation.
According to the complaint, counsel for Buffalo group said in
September 2010 that it would quit using “DBGB’ on its signs and
advertising.  The suit was filed because Dinex ‘‘became aware’’ that the
Buffalo group was still using the DBGB designation.  The owners of the Buffalo property didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed seeking comment on the complaint.  Dinex asked the court to order the defendants to halt their
alleged infringement and for an order for the seizure and
destruction of all offending promotional materials.
Additionally, the company seeks awards of the Buffalo group’s
profits flowing from the alleged infringement, money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The restaurant company asked that the damages be tripled
and that additional damages be levied to punish the defendants
for their actions.  The case is Dinex Group LLC v. Pat Duquin, 1:12-cv-02767-
LTS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York.  ‘I Believe You Zimmerman’ Registration Sought by San Franciscan  A San Francisco resident has applied to register ‘‘I
believe you Zimmerman” as a trademark, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The application, filed March 30, specifies that Lawrence
Sekara plans to use the mark on aloha shirts, camouflage shirts,
athletic uniforms, apparel for dancers, beer mugs, caps and
hats, bumper stickers and stickers for helmets.  Sekara  told the Smoking Gun gossip website  that while he
has no affiliation with George Zimmerman, that he’d share some
of the revenue from the sale of the trademark items with
Zimmerman.  George Zimmerman is the  Florida  resident who was charged
with second-degree murder April 11 in connection with the
shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. He shot Martin on Feb.
26 in Sanford, a central-Florida town of 54,000 people north of
 Orlando .  Florida’s “Stand Your Ground” law enables individuals who
feel threatened in a public place to “meet force with force,”
rather than back away, a statute that strengthens any
traditional self-defense assertion, criminal attorneys said.  The law prevented police from arresting Zimmerman in
February, officials said at the time, and may play a role in
derailing the prosecution, according to Florida defense lawyers,
who said the defendant may be able to raise the issue both
before, and during, any trial.  According to the Smoking Gun website, Sekara said he
thought that the public “jumped to too many conclusions” about
the shooting. He has also registered a domain name,
Ibelieveyouzimmerman.com that hasn’t gone live.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Megaupload Data Ruling Deferred by Judge for Further Talks  A U.S. judge deferred a decision on whether millions of
gigabytes of data belonging to users of Megaupload.com should be
preserved or the data-storage company that owns the servers
where it’s housed can delete it.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady, at a hearing April 13 in
Alexandria,  Virginia , told federal prosecutors they have two
weeks to work out an agreement with parties claiming an interest
in the massive cache of data that became inaccessible when law
enforcement agents shut down Megaupload in January.  The parties include attorneys for the  Motion Picture
Association of America , who said the files contain the largest
collection of copyright-infringed material in the world, as well
as attorneys for Megaupload, who argue they need the data to
defend the company’s directors against charges including
criminal copyright infringement.  Prosecutors this month said in court papers they already
had a large sampling of the data cache and will provide it to
defense attorneys. They contend the data need not be preserved
for purposes related to the criminal prosecution.  Julie Samuels, an attorney for the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, an Internet civil liberties group, argued that the
government should establish a system through which those users
could file affidavits and claim their data.  Such a system would be difficult. The more than 1,000
servers on which the data had been stored have been unplugged
and shipped to a warehouse in Virginia, according to Marc Zwillinger, an attorney for  Carpathia Hosting Inc. , the Dulles,
Virginia-based hosting company that Megaupload paid to store its
users’ data.  Carpathia was paid $35 million over several years by
Megaupload, prosecutors said. Zwillinger said Carpathia simply
provided a platform to its client, and should no longer be
required to pay for the data’s upkeep.  Carpathia agreed to sell the servers to Megaupload for $1.2
million, a cost the company was willing to incur as part of the
defense of Dotcom and other company directors, Zwillinger said.  Jay Prabhu, the chief of the cybercrime unit in the U.S.
attorney’s office in Alexandria, told O’Grady that the MPAA
objects to returning the copyright-infringed material to a
company that helped illegally disseminate it.  Investigators in January executed more than 20 search
warrants in the U.S. and eight other countries and seized about
$50 million in assets associated with Megaupload.com.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 1:12-00003, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ocean Tomo, Former Official Settle Trade Secret Dispute  The trade secrets case that  Ocean Tomo LLC , a self-
described  intellectual property  merchant bank, filed against the
former president of its PatentRatings unit has settled,
according to an April 10 court filing.  The suit, filed in federal court in Los Angeles Jan. 27,
accused Steve Lee of downloading Ocean Tomo data from a company
laptop and saying he would disclose this information to Jonathan
Barney and Barney’s company.  Lee was president of PatentRatings until his resignation in
September. Before he came to Ocean Tomo,  Lee  was a  management
consultant  for the  Boston Consulting Group , and before that, a
design engineer at Hughes Aircraft Co.  Barney, a patent lawyer who was the inventor of the Patent
Ratings system, left Ocean Tomo in February 2011, following a
dispute over the company’s expansion plans, according to a 
posting  on the Intellectual Asset Management magazine blog.  Barney is the holder of patent 6,556,992, which covers the
patent-rating system that he had licensed to Ocean Tomo. He was
sued by Ocean Tomo in Illinois state court Jan. 27, accusing him
of breach of contract, and destruction of the company’s
confidential information.  According to an April 3 court order, Lee is barred from
disclosing Ocean Tomo trade secrets. This includes “attorney-
client communications and attorney work-product of Ocean Tomo”
related to a dispute with Patent Ratings that is presently in
proceedings before the American Arbitration Association.  The court excluded from its order information that Lee had
that he could demonstrate was known to him from sources other
than Ocean Tomo, that he developed independently without
violating his employment agreement, or that he could demonstrate
is generally known to technology or intellectual property
professionals.  The case against Lee is Ocean Tomo LLC v. Steve Lee, 8:12-
cv-00146-JVS-MLG, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  ( Santa Ana ).  IP Moves  Suzanne Barnett Named Chief Judge, Copyright Royalty Board  The Librarian of Congress has named a state court judge
from  Washington  State as chief judge for the copyright royalty
board.  Suzanne Barnett, who presently services as a King County
Superior Court Judge, will take her new post May 20, according
to a statement from the  Library of Congress .  The board sets rates for sound recording performance
royalties for Internet and satellite royalties, and rates paid
to the various collecting societies and the distribution of
funds collected from cable and satellite television for
rebroadcast of copyrighted programming on broadcast television.  Barnett is appointed to a six-year term.  She has an undergraduate degree from the College of William
and Mary and a law degree from Washington and Lee University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 