-- Pharmacyclics Drops Before J&J Earnings: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-04-16T20:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/pharmacyclics-drops-before-j-j-earnings-san-francisco-mover.html
Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC) , the developer
of blood cancer treatments with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , fell the most
since April 10 ahead of Johnson & Johnson earnings scheduled for
release tomorrow.  The  shares , which earlier declined as much as 6 percent,
were down 73 cents, or 2.8 percent, to close at $25.33 in New
York trading. The stock more than  doubled last year .  “Johnson & Johnson’s earnings report is tomorrow, people
will be watching for news in that,”  Michael King , a New York-
based analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC, said in a telephone
interview.  “We continue to view Pharmacyclics as a core holding in
the mid-cap biotech space,” King wrote in an April 9 note to
investors. He has a market outperform rating on Pharamacyclics,
meaning he expects the stock’s return to exceed the market
average, with a target price of $22 a share.  The Sunnyvale, California-based company announced on Dec. 8
that Johnson & Johnson agreed to pay as much as $975 million for
Pharmacyclics’ experimental compound, known as PCI-32765 or
ibrutinib.  The two companies will split profits and share costs of
developing the drug now being evaluated in first- and second-
stage trials. Three stages of clinical trials generally are
required for U.S. marketing approval. Pharmacyclics said last
month the Phase III program is on schedule “for initiation” by
mid-2012.  “The next value driver for Pharmacyclics on the horizon is
the ASCO meeting in June,” King said. Companies usually provide
updates at the American Society of Clinical Oncology Annual
meeting, he said.  There is “no change to the fundamental story,”  Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in San Francisco,
wrote in an e-mail. He has an outperform rating on the stock,
with a target of $34 a share.  ‘Could be Volatile’  “The stock could be volatile around ASCO, which is when we
expect the next clinical update,” Kantor wrote. “Pharmacyclics
is likely to provide more details on clinical plans for the drug
as well as update the available clinical data.”  Pharmacyclics and Johnson & Johnson’s partnership focuses
on an oral treatment for non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic
lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma, all of which are
considered hematological malignancies, Pharmacyclics said in a
regulatory filing. The two companies will also collaborate and
develop other therapies and treatments for cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  