-- Philippine Bonds Drop as Rate Cut Seen Unlikely: Manila Mover
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-16T08:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/philippine-bonds-drop-as-rate-cut-seen-unlikely-peso-falls.html
Philippine bonds fell the most in
more than three weeks after the central bank signaled it won’t
cut borrowing costs this week. The peso declined.  The bank’s policy “remains appropriate, but we need to see
how past policy actions are filtering to the economy,” Governor
 Amando Tetangco  said in an e-mailed reply to questions before
the April 19 meeting. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its
overnight borrowing rate at 4 percent, according to all 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers cut the rate by
25 basis points at each of the past two meetings.  “If forecasts don’t change drastically for growth and
inflation, I don’t think there is a need for rates to be moved
at this time,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based
senior currency analyst at Malayan Banking Bhd. “There could be
some unwinding of Philippine bonds.”  The yield on the Philippines’ 8 percent securities due July
2031 increased seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
6.15 percent as of 4:37 p.m. in  Manila , according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services. That was the biggest decrease
since March 22. Philippine notes have returned 13.7 percent in
the past year, the second-best among 11 Asian local-debt indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Inflation slowed to a 30-month low of 2.6 percent in March,
while exports increased in February by the most in 10 months,
government reports show.  The peso snapped a three-day advance as an increase in
Spanish bond yields fueled concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen. The currency weakened 0.3 percent to 42.778 per dollar,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility,
which measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 5.70 percent.  “There’s  risk aversion  because of the Spanish debt,” said
Tanuwidjaja.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 