-- Polish Rate Move Hinges on This Week’s Data, Zielinska Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-16T15:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/polish-rate-decision-hinges-on-this-week-s-data-zielinska-says.html
Polish economic data due this week
will help monetary policy makers decide whether to raise
interest rates in May or to leave them unchanged for an 11th
month, central banker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said.  While production, wages and jobs data due this week
“should be enough” to make a preliminary judgment on the pace
and structure of economic growth, a decision “won’t be easy”
as supply-driven inflation may be resistant to higher borrowing
costs and last year’s rate increases haven’t yet taken full
effect, she said.  “When it comes to the decision on when to tighten monetary
policy, a lot depends on the next week,” Zielinska-Glebocka
said in an interview on April 14.  The central bank on April 4 warned that it will raise
 interest rates  if slowing economic growth fails to curb
inflation, which has exceeded the 3.5 percent upper end of its
tolerance range since January 2011. Policy makers the same day
left the benchmark seven-day interest rate at 4.5 percent, the
highest since January 2009.  The bank is “approaching the stage to seriously consider”
raising borrowing costs, Narodowy Bank Polski Governor Marek Belka said after the decision. Belka as recently as last month
said he would rather wait with an increase than have to reverse
a decision if the economy slows.  ‘Not Comfortable’  The situation is “not comfortable,” central banker
Andrzej Bratkowski was quoted as saying by Dziennik Gazeta
Prawna today. The inflation rate is “still high, but it’s being
driven by food and fuel. All the other indicators are telling us
to consider the risk of a slowdown. So we wait for more data,”
he said, according to the Warsaw-based newspaper.  The zloty traded at 4.194 at 4 p.m. in Warsaw, up from as
low as 4.206 earlier the day and down from 4.187 late Friday.
The yield on the government’s five-year bond was little changed
at 5.06 percent.  The  inflation  rate dropped to a six-month low of 3.9
percent in March. The decline was due to high prices a year
earlier and won’t influence next month’s rate decision,
Zielinska said. The most important data for the council will be
production and labor-market figures, she said.  Risks are rising that Poland’s inflation rate will stay
above the central bank’s 2.5 percent target, creating a “worst-
case scenario” that policy makers should act to prevent,
Andrzej Rzonca of the Monetary Policy Council was quoted today
as saying by the state-owned PAP news service.  ‘Worst-Case Scenario’  “In times of uncertainty, policy makers should concentrate
on avoiding worst-case scenarios,” he said, according to PAP.
“For me, the worst-case scenario is sustained high inflation.”  Interest rates  are “a bit too low,” taking into account
the level of inflation and “how stubborn it is,” Jan Winiecki,
another central banker, said in an interview on TOK FM radio
today. Winiecki also said he “can’t rule out more than one
interest-rate increase may be needed over the longer term.”  Slowing inflation is proof of consumer prices following
expectations, indicating that the rate should move toward the
upper end of the tolerance range throughout the year, Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a central bank policy maker, said in an April 13
phone interview. Production and labor-market data “will be the
key” to the next rate decision, she said.  Industry, Wages  Industrial-production (POISCYOY)  growth probably slowed for a second
month in March to 4.4 percent from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since last July, according to the median estimate of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The statistics office
will report the data April 19.  The average monthly gross  wage  probably grew 3.8 percent
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 15 months, according to
the median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The release is due April 17.  “This week’s data will show a significant economic
slowdown and stagnation in the labor market, giving strong
arguments against a rate increase,”  Maciej Reluga , chief
economist at  Bank Zachodni WBK (BZW)  said in a note to clients today.  March core inflation and producer prices, also due this
week, will add to evidence that there is a “lack of demand
pressure,” Reluga said.  Polish consumer prices were last at the central bank’s
target in September 2010. The largest eastern European economy’s
expansion rate has exceeded 4 percent for six quarters through
the end of 2011 and the pace of growth in the first quarter of
this year was also about 4 percent, Belka said last week.  ‘Rather Low’  “Personally, I’d expected a much quicker fall in the
inflation rate -- instead, it’s stabilized at an elevated
level,” Zielinska said, adding that she’s still debating on
“how effective using monetary policy tools would be, given that
inflation is being driven by supply” and that “real interest
rates in  Poland  are rather low.”  The council raised the benchmark rate four times by a
combined 1 percentage point between January and June last year.  Poland’s  economy , the only one in the European Union to
dodge a recession in 2009, expanded an estimated 4.3 percent
last year and is expected to slow to 2.3 percent next year, the
slowest pace since 2009, according to the central bank’s
forecast.  “We’ve refrained from rate increases until now due to the
external situation,” Zielinska-Glebocka said, listing also
other arguments such as the “supply-nature” of inflation,
which, as driven mainly by commodities prices, may be resistant
to interest rate increases. She also said last year’s interest-
rate increases “haven’t had time to take full effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  