-- Qatar Fund Buys Costa Smeralda Italy Resorts From Colony Capital
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-04-16T14:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/qatar-fund-buys-costa-smeralda-italy-resorts-from-colony-capital.html
Qatar Holding LLC, the investment
arm of the Persian Gulf country’s sovereign-wealth fund, agreed
to buy luxury hotel owner Smeralda Holding from Colony Capital
LLC as the Qatari state seeks to diversify investments.  The purchase includes four hotels in Costa Smeralda, on the
Italian island of Sardinia, as well as a golf course, marina and
undeveloped land, Qatar Holding said in a statement today.
Smeralda Holding will keep its existing management and
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. will continue to run
the hotels.  “We have invested in Sardinia given the importance of the
area,” Qatar’s Emir, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, said at
a news conference in  Rome  today with Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti . “I can ensure that the Italian side will be happy
about our investment.”  The  luxury resorts  are near the sprawling Porto Cervo villa
where former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  hosted
heads of state and held parties that embroiled the leader in a
series of sex scandals. Qatar, the world’s biggest producer of
liquefied natural gas, has been buying assets across  Europe  as
output rises and oil prices increase.  In February, Qatar Investment Authority bought Credit
Suisse Group AG’s London headquarters, while Qatari Diar Real
Estate Investment Co., another arm of the wealth fund, bought
most of Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s headquarters campus in  London 
with Canary Wharf Group Plc in July 2011.  Evercore Partners Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG were advisers
on Qatar Holding’s transaction announced today. No further
details were announced.  Colony Capital, the private-equity firm led by Tom Barrack,
last month sold its remaining 30 percent stake in Paris Saint-
Germain soccer team to the Qatari Investment Authority, website
Wansquare reported on March 6, without citing where it got the
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  