-- Rajoy Says Spain Needs Austerity for Funding as Yields Climb
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-04-16T16:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/rajoy-says-spain-won-t-be-able-to-fund-self-without-budget-cuts.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
Spain must slash its  budget deficit  in order to maintain access
to financing, as bond yields rose to the highest level since his
government came to power four months ago.  “The fundamental objective at the moment is to reduce the
deficit,” Rajoy told a conference in Madrid today. “If we
don’t achieve this, the rest won’t matter: we won’t be able to
fund our debt, we won’t be able to meet our commitments.”  Rajoy has raised the threat of a bailout to persuade
Spaniards to accept spending cuts and tax increases even with
the economy shrinking. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos was due
to meet investors today in Paris as the 10-year bond yield
surged to more than 6 percent.  De Guindos will also meet European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  tomorrow, a spokeswoman at the ministry said,
without giving details. The Frankfurt-based bank, which started
buying Spanish bonds in August, should resume those purchases,
Jaime Garcia-Legaz, a deputy minister in the economy department,
said on April 13.  “No one can expect such deeply rooted issues to be
resolved in a few weeks,” Rajoy said.  Spain is the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy and the
government forecasts it’ll contract 1.7 percent this year as it
implements the deepest budget cuts in more than 30 years. The
plan seeks to shrink the deficit to 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 8.5 percent last year.  Market Slump  Rajoy’s announcement on March 2 that he would miss a
deficit target of 4.4 percent triggered the slump in Spanish
markets.  In power since December, Rajoy has raised taxes, cut
spending, changed labor rules and forced banks to increase
provisions against troubled real-estate assets as he seeks to
revive growth while reining in the budget gap.  “No one, whether governments or institutions, inside or
outside our country, should doubt  Spain ’s commitment to the euro
and European political integration,” Rajoy said.  Rajoy pledged more measures as he defended the tools the
central government has created to increase its grip on regional
governments. The Cabinet will approve measures this month to
help the regions reduce spending in health and education, which
account for about 60 percent of their budgets.  Education Minister Jose Ignacio Wert today told education
chiefs from the regions that the government may increase by as
much as 20 percent the number of students per class and stop
hiring temporary staff to replace teachers before the 10th day
of absence, Efe newswire reported.  A similar meeting between the Health Ministry and the
regions’ health officials will take place on April 18.  “We have done a lot in four months but we are still at the
beginning of a long reformist path,” Rajoy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net  