-- Rand Declines as Commodities Fall on China GDP Data
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-16T14:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/rand-declines-as-commodities-fall-on-china-gdp-data.html
The rand declined for a second day
as the euro weakened against the dollar and commodity prices
slid amid concern European leaders are failing to contain the
region’s debt crisis, sapping demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 0.9 before
paring its decline, trading 0.1 percent weaker at 7.9602 as of 4
p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent
bonds due 2021 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 7.93 percent.  Spain  is scheduled to sell debt tomorrow and on April 19 as
the nation’s borrowing costs rose to a four-month high,
approaching levels that prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek bailouts. Failure to contain the debt crisis may stall
economic recovery in the euro region, which buys 22 percent of
South Africa’s exports.  “Euro fears are stalking markets once again, sapping risk
appetite,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The
rand has started the week on a much shakier footing, with the
euro and other commodity currencies also taking strain from the
souring mood.”  The rand pared losses as retail sales in the U.S. beat
analysts’ estimates in March. The 0.8 percent gain was almost
three times as large as projected and followed a 1 percent
advance in February, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 1 rise of 0.3 percent.  “There is a bit of support coming though for the rand from
 Wall Street ,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based
ETM Analytics, said by phone. “The U.S. retail data has
definitely eased  risk aversion  a bit.”  Spanish Debt  The euro weakened against 11 of its 16 major counterparts
after Jaime Garcia-Legaz, a deputy minister in Spain’s economy
ministry, said in an April 13 interview that the  European
Central Bank  should “step up purchases of bonds.” The rand
often moves in tandem with the currency of South Africa’s
largest trading partner, with a statistical correlation of 0.6
over the past year. A value of 1 would mean they moved in lock
step.  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to
convince investors he can get the country’s finances under
control after last month refusing to meet deficit targets set by
the European Commission and the previous government. Five-year
credit-default swaps linked to Spanish bonds jumped to a record
at the end of last week, CMA data show.  Commodities Drop  Three-month copper dropped as much as 1.3 percent on the
London Metal Exchange. The contract lost 4.4 percent last week.
The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of raw materials declined as
much as 0.8 percent. Metals and other commodities account for 45
percent of South Africa’s exports, according to government data.
The Australian dollar also weakened.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility versus the dollar
rose for a third day to 15.78 percent, indicating options
traders see wider currency swings in coming months.  The yield on the nation’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 declined for a third day, falling 33 basis points to 4.15
percent, the lowest since March 13, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to hold the South
African debt rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped 11 basis points
to 219 basis points, the least since April 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  