-- Transneft, Rosneft Said to Ask Putin for Sale of Oil Port Stake
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-04-16T14:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/transneft-rosneft-said-to-ask-putin-for-sale-of-oil-port-stake.html
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest crude
producer, asked President-elect  Vladimir Putin  to sell it 25
percent of the country’s largest port operator in a letter co-
signed by OAO Transneft, the state-run oil pipeline operator.  Rosneft’s ownership of a blocking stake in OAO Novorossiysk
Commercial Sea Port would protect Russia’s strategic interests,
according to a copy of the letter signed by Rosneft Chief
Executive Officer Eduard Khudainatov and Transneft CEO Nikolay Tokarev and obtained by Bloomberg News. The letter was confirmed
by three people familiar with the matter, who declined to be
identified because the information wasn’t public.  Transneft and businessman Ziyavudin Magomedov’s Summa Group
have joint control of 50.1 percent of the port operator, which
runs Russia’s biggest oil-export terminals in Novorossiysk on
the  Black Sea  and in Primorsk on the  Baltic Sea .  “This could be the sign of a corporate conflict,” Alexei Astapov, an analyst at OAO Gazprombank, said by phone. “Summa
has operational control, but if Rosneft and Transneft join
forces, Summa could become an average minority shareholder.”  The letter asks the Russian government to sell its 20
percent stake in the port as well as a 5 percent stake
controlled by state-owned OAO Russian Railways.  “This issue is being throughly examined,” Putin’s
spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  said by telephone today.  Summa Control  Summa is interested in acquiring full control of the
Novorossiysk group, according to the letter.  “We are interested in acquiring the state’s stake,” Summa
President Alexander Vinokurov said today by e-mail. “Our
decision will based on the price, and we don’t plan on buying
the stake at any price.”  The move contradicts the government’s position on selling
state assets, Vinokurov said. Summa’s relationship with
Transneft is contructive, he said.  “The state’s interests are more than adequately protected
with its ‘golden share,’ which allows it to participate in all
key decisions at Novorossiysk,” Vinokurov said.  Russia plans to raise 300 billion rubles ($10.1 billion)
this year by selling stakes in state companies, including 15
percent of Rosneft, Alexei Uvarov, head of the  Economy
Ministry ’s property department, said in September.  Sechin Opposition  Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  proposed Rosneft be
allowed to purchase the government’s 25 percent of the port
group, Kommersant reported in February, citing a letter he
addressed to Putin.  Sechin, who oversees the  energy industry , was chairman of
Rosneft before a presidential order last year required senior
government officials to surrender their positions on the boards
of state companies they regulate.  “Novorossiysk has performed well recently, giving a well-
received investment strategy and trying to do the right thing by
the market.” Astapov said. “Changes in operational control
won’t be appreciated by investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  