-- RBI Signals Fastest BRIC Inflation Constrains Rate Cuts
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-04-17T04:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/rbi-signals-fastest-bric-inflation-constrains-room-for-rate-cuts.html
India ’s central bank said price
pressures must be restrained even as policy needs to shift to
help growth, signaling that elevated inflation will limit the
magnitude of interest-rate cuts forecast to begin today.  “Monetary policy has to recognize the need for keeping
inflation expectations anchored in an environment of significant
upside risks to inflation, while shifting the balance of policy
to arrest the deceleration in growth momentum,” the  Reserve
Bank of India  said yesterday in a review of the economy ahead of
its rate decision in Mumbai due at 11 a.m. today.  Costlier credit, policy gridlock and a weaker global
recovery have sapped India’s  expansion , spurring predictions of
reductions in borrowing costs. At the same time, an increase in
 oil prices , rupee weakness and  government spending  may fan price
pressures, with inflation slowing less than estimated in March
to 6.89 percent.  “They are still concerned about inflation,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI Securities Primary
Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “It kind of reinforces that the room
for big cuts is not there,” while not ruling out a rate cut
today, he said.  India’s rupee, which tumbled 16 percent last year as growth
decelerated and the nation’s trade gap widened, fell 0.7 percent
to 51.6775 per dollar yesterday. The BSE India Sensitive Index
of stocks rose 0.3 percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent note
due November 2021 fell 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 8.46 percent.  Tread With Care  “Overall,  monetary policy  has to tread with care in
working towards reviving growth, while not exacerbating
inflation and other risks,” the Reserve Bank  said . Inflation is
set to remain at about current levels in 2012-2013, it said.  Seventeen of 25 respondents in a Bloomberg News  survey 
expect the monetary authority to reduce borrowing costs by 0.25
percentage point to 8.25 percent today, while three foresee a
0.5 percentage-point cut. Inflation has eased from more than 9
percent recorded in most of 2011.  Five economists in the Bloomberg  survey  predict India will
keep rates unchanged for a fourth straight meeting, joining
neighbors from  Pakistan  to Indonesia in leaving them on hold as
it juggles growth risks with price pressures.  India’s anticipated monetary easing today would contrast
with Asian neighbors including Thailand and  Indonesia  that have
halted rate cuts as inflationary pressures gain. Bank of Korea
Governor Kim Choong Soo this week urged major central banks to
plan an orderly withdrawal of excess liquidity and said that
further easing may hurt emerging economies and the global
economic recovery.  China Threat  Still,  China ’s growth slowdown may limit the region’s
economic recovery.  Singapore ’s exports unexpectedly dropped in
March as shipments of electronics eased and petrochemical sales
fell amid a decline in demand from China, a report today showed.
Non-oil domestic exports fell 4.3 percent from a year earlier,
after a revised 30.4 percent increase in February.  Foreign direct investment in China dropped for a fifth
straight month in March as economic growth slowed, with inbound
investment falling 6.1 percent from a year earlier to $11.76
billion, a report by the Ministry of Commerce showed today.  In  Australia , the central bank said a weaker expansion
flowing through to slower inflation would increase prospects for
the first interest-rate cut this year, minutes of its April 3
meeting showed. The minutes reaffirmed that the next rate
reduction hinges on an April 24 report on first-quarter
inflation, as recent data indicates the economy is growing
slower than the central bank predicted.  Mining Boom  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  decided against lowering
borrowing costs at its three meetings this year as the global
recovery stabilizes and a mining boom sustains domestic growth.  U.K. inflation probably held at 3.4 percent in March, while
Euro-area inflation was 2.6 percent, according to Bloomberg News
surveys ahead of reports today.  In the U.S., industrial production may have risen 0.3
percent in March from the previous month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a report
today. Home starts increased to a 705,000 annual rate in March
following a 698,000 pace the prior month, according to a
Bloomberg survey median.  India’s economy  may  expand  7.2 percent in the financial
year through March 31, 2013, according to a survey compiled by
the central bank of forecasts from other organizations,
yesterday’s report showed. The previous survey in January
projected growth of 7.3 percent. Inflation may average 6.9
percent, the survey said, compared with an earlier 6.5 percent
estimate.  Growth Estimate  Asia ’s third-largest economy expanded 6.1 percent in the
fourth quarter, the least in almost three years, hurt by
declining investment and moderating  consumer spending  after the
 Reserve Bank  raised rates by a record 3.75 percentage points
from March 2010 to October last year to fight inflation.  While growth is likely to improve “moderately” in 2012-
2013, “depressed new investment may keep the pace of recovery
slow,” the Reserve Bank said. Demand needs to be managed so
that the current-account deficit doesn’t widen further and
pressure the balance of payments, it said, adding that allowing
higher petroleum-product prices would help that process.  The March climb in the benchmark wholesale-price index
exceeded the median 6.65 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 33 economists, data showed yesterday. Indian inflation
remains the fastest in the so-called BRIC group of largest
emerging economies that also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  Supply-Side Constraints  “We will be addressing supply-side constraints that
substantially impact food inflation,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in  New Delhi  yesterday.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has already reduced
the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as  reserves  twice
in 2012 to alleviate a cash squeeze that threatens expansion.
The Reserve Bank has lowered the  cash reserve ratio  by a
combined 125 basis points to 4.75 percent.  Passenger car sales grew at the slowest pace in three years
in the 12 months through March as higher rates crimped demand
for products by automakers such as Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.,
maker of almost half the cars sold in the country.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, grappling with
fiscal and trade gaps and depressed industrial output, faces one
of the most challenging periods since taking office in 2004.  In the budget on March 16, the administration announced
record borrowing needs to plug a fiscal shortfall estimated at
5.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2012-2013.  “Fiscal consolidation as envisaged in the latest budget is
subject to risks, especially with respect to subsidies,” the
central bank said. “Tax revenues may also be adversely affected
if the economic climate remains subdued.”  The current-account deficit reached $19.6 billion in the
three months through December, the worst quarterly performance
on record.  Policy reversals have further hindered Singh’s economic
agenda, including the suspension in December of plans to open
India’s retail industry to foreign companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  