-- Treasuries Hold Gain on Concern Debt Crisis Is Deepening
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-16T21:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/treasuries-hold-gain-on-concern-debt-crisis-is-deepening.html
Treasury 10-year note yields
dropped below 2 percent for a second day amid mounting
speculation the European sovereign-debt crisis is intensifying,
increasing investor appetite for the safest assets.  Yields on the benchmark note touched the lowest level in
more than five weeks even as a report showed retail sales in the
U.S. rose more than forecast in March. Spanish bond yields
reached a four-month high before debt auctions this week. A
separate report showed manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded in April at the slowest pace in five months.  “It’s all about what’s going on in Europe, as the concerns
just won’t go away, which is supporting Treasuries,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government- and
agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. “Spain is in the
cross hairs as the market is getting closer to the answer of the
ultimate question -- whether there will be contagion or not.
Right now, everyone is cautious.”  Benchmark 10-year notes  yields  were little changed at 1.98
percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices, after dropping seven basis points on April 13.
The 2 percent security due in February 2022 changed hands at 100
6/32.  The 10-year yield touched 1.94 percent today, the least
since March 7.  Japan’s 10-year rate fell one basis point to 0.94 percent,
the lowest since November 2010, and German bund futures rose to
a record-high 140.51 as investors sought the safest assets.  Rescue Packages  Spain  is scheduled to sell 12-month and 18-month bills
tomorrow, followed by auctions of debt due in October 2014 and
January 2022 two days later. Yields on the nation’s 10-year
notes jumped as much as 18 basis points to 6.16 percent, the
highest level since Dec. 1, climbing toward the 7 percent level
that pushed  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek rescue
packages.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said Spain must reduce its
 budget deficit  in order to maintain access to financing.  “The fundamental objective at the moment is to reduce the
deficit,” Rajoy told a conference in  Madrid  today. “If we
don’t achieve this, the rest won’t matter: we won’t be able to
fund our debt, we won’t be able to meet our commitments.”  The difference in yield between Spanish 10-year bonds and
similar-maturity German securities,  Europe ’s benchmark, was at
435 basis points, up from 356 basis points on March 30. German
10-year bund yields dropped two basis points to 1.7 percent
today, the lowest since April 10, while  Germany ’s 10-year bund
future today rose to a record-high as investors sought the
safest assets.  ‘Spanish Saga’  “The Spanish saga is taking center stage,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in Fixed income
assets. “There’s an ebb and flow of nervousness.”  John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-fund manager, told
investors he is shorting European sovereign bonds, according to
a person familiar with the matter. A short is a bet a security
will drop in value.  Paulson, 56, said during a call with investors that he is
also buying credit-default swaps on European debt, or protection
against the chance of default, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private.  Valuation measures show  U.S. government debt  is at the most
expensive level in almost six weeks. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, reached negative 0.66 percent,
the most expensive since March 7. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Retail Sales  Treasuries returned 1.1 percent this month as of April 13,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  U.S. retail sales rose 0.8 percent last month, after a
revised 1 percent gain in February, according to the Commerce
Department data today.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index unexpectedly decreased to 6.6 this month from 20.2 in
March. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a drop to 18. Readings higher than zero in the
Empire State Index signal expansion among companies.  The economy expanded “at a modest to moderate pace” from
mid-February through late March as manufacturing, hiring and
retail sales showed signs of strengthening, the  Federal Reserve 
said in its Beige Book report on April 11.  Negative Real Yield  Treasury 10-year notes yield negative 0.72 percentage
points after subtracting annual consumer price increases of 2.7
percent. The so-called  real yield  has been negative for almost a
year.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, has widened to 2.26 percentage points from
1.95 percentage points at the end of last year. The average over
the past decade is 2.14 percentage points.  The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, a  measure 
of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
guide monetary policy on April 11 was at 2.71 percent, below its
2.76 percent average during the past decade.  The U.S. plans to sell $16 billion of five-year TIPS on
April 19. Bank of America Corp.’s TIPS index has rallied 2.2
percent this year, reflecting demand for inflation protection.  The Fed has pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero until late 2014 to support growth. The U.S. central
bank is also replacing $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its
holdings with longer maturities to hold down borrowing costs. It
is scheduled to sell as much as $8.75 billion of Treasuries due
from February 2013 to June 2013 today as part of the program,
according to the New York Fed’s  website.   ‘Low for Long’  “We continue to believe that 10-year yields are low for
long,” Dominic Konstam, global head of interest-rates research
in New York at Deutsche Bank AG, a primary dealer, wrote in a
note to clients today. “Yields should be range bound if policy
makers (rightly) err on the side of caution. The risk is that
yields fall further, not rise sustainably.”  International demand for U.S. financial assets slowed in
February as the European debt crisis showed signs of easing.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$10.1 billion in February, compared with net purchases of $102.4
billion in January, the Treasury Department said today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net
buying of $42.5 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  China’s Buying  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., increased
its position in Treasuries for a second month in February,
boosting its holdings $12.7 billion or 1.1 percent to $1.18
trillion.  China increased its holdings of longer-term notes and bonds
by $11.9 billion, or 1 percent, to $1.175 trillion. Its stake in
short-term bills rose by $800 million to $3.8 billion, Treasury
data show.  Japan , the second-largest holder of U.S. Treasuries,
increased its holdings in February by $13.1 billion to $1.1
trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  