-- Record Offshore Oil Drilling Returns Dockwise to Profit
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-04-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/record-offshore-oil-drilling-returns-dockwise-to-profit.html
Energy producers are deploying the
most offshore rigs ever to meet record oil and gas demand,
boosting charters for the ships that move them and returning
 Dockwise Ltd. (DOCK)  and  Fairstar (FAIR)  Heavy Transport NV to profit.  There are about 675 so-called semi-submersible or jack-up
rigs operating, with another 130 scheduled to be built, Oslo-
based RS Platou Markets AS estimates. That compares with 97
heavy-load ships and three more on order, according to IHS
Fairplay data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of Dockwise, which
says it’s the largest owner of the vessels, will rise 18 percent
in the next year, the average of six analyst estimates shows.  Energy producers are moving further offshore to find new
reserves after global oil demand expanded 17 percent in the past
decade, International Energy Agency data show.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ,
the world’s largest offshore-rig operator, can drill in waters
2.3 miles deep, according to its website. Rising earnings for
vessels moving the equipment contrast with capacity gluts and
unprofitable rates across most other types of shipping, from oil
tankers and iron-ore ships to container vessels.  “Land-based oil production has already peaked and near-
shore oil is about to peak, meaning there will be big pressure
on the development of offshore oil,” said Andre Mulder, an
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Amsterdam whose share
recommendations returned 18 percent in the past two years.
“Offshore platforms are becoming larger and larger, and a lot
of these elements will have to be shipped to oil fields hundreds
of miles from the coast.”  Amsterdam Trading  Dockwise (DOCKW) , based in Breda,  Netherlands , will report net
income of $34.6 million this year, compared with a loss of $33.5
million in 2011, according to the mean of seven analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the company rose 12
percent to 13.80 euros ($18) in Amsterdam trading this year and
will reach 16.25 euros within 12 months, the predictions show.  Global daily oil demand will advance about 0.9 percent to
89.9 million barrels this year, according to the IEA. Natural-
gas consumption will reach an all-time high of 3.565 trillion
cubic meters (125.9 trillion cubic feet) in 2015, 16 percent
more than in 2009, it estimates.  The 180-meter-long (590-foot) heavy-load ships range from
converted  oil tankers  to purpose-built vessels, some with
sections of their hulls removed. They submerge partially to move
underneath their cargoes and then refloat once in position. A
journey to  Angola  in West Africa from the  Gulf of Mexico  takes
about 25 days at 10 knots, according to e-ships.net, a website
that calculates voyage durations.  Chemical Carriers  Fairstar will make a record $14.3 million this year and
$40.4 million in 2013, compared with a loss of $14.4 million in
2011, the mean of three estimates shows. The Rotterdam-based
company declined 10 percent to 7.65 kroner ($1.32) in Oslo
trading this year and will advance to 13 kroner in the next 12
months, according to the forecasts.  The two companies’ performances compare with a 17 percent
gain in the Lloyd’s List-Bloomberg Top 50 Shipping Index Value
of the 50 largest companies operating everything from oil
tankers to container and chemical carriers. The  MSCI All-Country
World Index (MXWD)  of equities rose 7.6 percent and Treasuries lost 0.6
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Macondo Well  An explosion at BP Plc’s Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico
in April 2010 caused the biggest offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history. The London-based company agreed last month to pay at
least $7.8 billion to settle private plaintiffs’ claims related
to economic loss, property damage and personal injuries.  Drilling may slow should oil prices slump because energy
companies are spending more to maintain or expand output. Total
expenditure by producers more than tripled in the past decade
while oil and gas supply gained 24 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Spending on exploration and production fell 15
percent in 2009 as New York-traded oil plunged 38 percent in
terms of the full-year average price.  The IEA cut its estimate for growth in global crude demand
this year by 20,000 barrels a day in a report on April 12. The
market is better supplied for the first time since 2009 and
stockpiles may have increased by more than 1 million barrels
last quarter, the Paris-based group said.  Global economic growth will slow to 3.3 percent this year,
compared with 3.8 percent in 2011, the International Monetary
Fund estimates.  China , the world’s biggest energy consumer,
reported an 8.1 percent expansion in first-quarter gross
domestic product on April 13, the smallest gain since mid-2009.  Global benchmark  That may be eclipsed by accelerating growth in the U.S.,
the largest oil importer. The country shipped in 94 percent more
crude than China in 2010, according to BP. The  U.S. economy  will
speed up this quarter and next, according to the median of 87
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  West Texas Intermediate, a global benchmark grade of crude,
will average $103 a barrel this year and $111 in 2013, according
to the median of 37 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with an average of $65.44 over the past decade.
Oil climbed 3.5 percent to $102.30 this year in  New York .  Rising earnings for heavy transport vessels contrast with
other types of shipping, where owners are dealing with capacity
gluts. The Baltic Dry Index, a gauge of costs to haul coal and
iron ore, fell 44 percent this year. Rates for very large crude
carriers, each able to hold 2 million barrels of oil, dropped
for two consecutive years, according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s biggest shipbroker.  Pontoon Structures  About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, the Round
Table of International Shipping Associations says.  As well as oil rigs and their components, heavy-load
carriers transport cranes for unloading containers, mining
equipment and yachts. Jack-up rigs have support legs that can be
lowered to the ocean floor independently of each other, while
semi-submersibles are supported on pontoon-like structures under
the sea, according to data on the website of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,
the largest oilfield-services provider.  Dockwise says its fleet of 19 vessels makes it the biggest
operator. Carrying equipment for the oil and gas industry
generates about 70 percent of revenue, said Fons van Lith, the
company’s investor relations manager. He declined to comment
further before the release of first-quarter earnings next month.  Fairstar has two converted barges, with two more vessels
being built. Company officials were unavailable for comment.
Other owners include state-controlled  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) ,
Seoul-based STX Pan Ocean Co. and NYK-Hinode Line Ltd., a unit
of Tokyo-based Nippon Yusen K.K.  “Producers of oil are going farther and farther into the
water,” said Alan Vandenberghe, an analyst at Petercam SA in
Brussels who recommends buying shares of Dockwise. “They need
larger and more complex platforms, and this trend also
necessitates larger and more complex transportation services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  