-- U.S. Retail Sales Climb More Than Forecast on Jobs: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-16T20:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/retail-sales-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-march.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. rose more
than forecast in March as Americans snapped up everything from
cars and furniture to clothes and electronics.  The 0.8 percent gain was almost three times as large as
projected and followed a 1 percent advance in February, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The  median 
forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
an increase of 0.3 percent.  An improving job market is giving households confidence to
sustain spending in the face of higher gasoline costs, boosting
sales at chains such as  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  Strengthening
consumer demand raises the odds that the world’s largest economy
will weather a recession in  Europe  and slower growth in  China .  Households “have the income to propel their purchases now
that we’re seeing job growth,” said  Russell Price , senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit  and the third-
best forecaster of retail sales for the 24 months ended in
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “They have
adjusted to the higher price of fuel. The economy now needs to
build on its own momentum.”  Most stocks rose after the biggest weekly drop in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index this year. The S&P 500 fell 0.1
percent to 1,369.57 at the close in  New York . The gauge was
restrained by a 4.2 percent slump in shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which
accounts for about 4.4 percent of the S&P 500. About six stocks
climbed for every five that fell.  Homebuilder Confidence  Optimism on the economic outlook was tempered by other data
today showing that confidence among U.S. homebuilders declined
and manufacturing in the New York region expanded in April at
the slowest pace in five months.  Elsewhere, asking prices for homes in the U.K. rose to a
record in April as a shortage of property boosted values in
 London , and the Bank of  Korea  lowered its growth forecast for
this year as rising bond yields in  Spain  highlight the threat to
Asian exports from Europe’s debt crisis.  U.S. retail sales were projected to rise 0.3 percent after
a 1.1 percent gain previously reported for February, according
to the Bloomberg survey. Economists’ estimates ranged from no
change to a gain of 0.9 percent.  Eleven of 13 categories showed increases, including
electronics, clothing and furniture stores.  Electronics may have gotten a lift from the Apple’s new
iPad and some discounts on the older model, economists said.
Apple said it sold more than 3 million iPads during the debut
weekend for the latest model of the market-leading tablet
computer. The tally is a record for opening weekend iPad sales,
Cupertino, California-based Apple said in a March 19 statement.  Gap, Target  Store chain data released earlier were in sync with today’s
report. Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked
by Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 3.9
percent last month, beating the average estimate for a 3.3
percent gain, as many chains offered discounts and shoppers
stocked up early on spring gear.  Sales at Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, climbed 8
percent. Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain, and
Macy’s Inc., the owner of Bloomingdale’s and namesake stores,
each posted 7.3 percent increases. All three companies beat the
average analyst projection.  An improving job market is boosting incomes. Even with a
less-than-predicted gain in U.S. payrolls last month -- 120,000
compared with a median forecast of 205,000 in a Bloomberg survey
-- the economy has added 635,000 jobs since December as
unemployment fell to 8.2 percent from 8.5 percent, Labor
Department data show.  Stock-market gains are also helping sustain confidence. The
 S&P 500  jumped 12 percent from January through March, the best
first quarter since 1998.  Better Weather  Sales in March may have been helped by better weather as
demand at building material stores climbed 3 percent, the most
this year. The average temperature was 51.1 degrees Fahrenheit
(10.6 degrees Celsius) in March, the warmest on record for the
month in the past 117 years, according to the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration .  Sales at automobile dealers defied projections of a
decrease as purchases rose 0.9 percent last month, today’s
report showed. The results are in contrast with industry
figures.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.3 million  annual rate  in
March, following a 15 million pace the prior month, according to
Ward’s Automotive Group. Nonetheless, the March figures capped
the strongest quarter in four years.  ‘Very Resilient’  “The industry and consumers have been very resilient in
the face of higher pump prices,”  Don Johnson , vice president of
U.S. sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said on a call with analysts
this month. “The steadily improving economy is playing a role
and so is pent-up demand and an improved credit market.”  Purchases excluding autos increased 0.8 percent, today’s
report showed. They were projected to rise 0.6 percent, the
survey median showed.  The retail sales data, which aren’t adjusted for prices,
may have also reflected higher  gasoline  receipts at service
stations. Filling-station sales increased 1.1 percent. Regular
fuel in March averaged $3.84 a gallon, or 28 cents more than in
February, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest auto group.  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales
climbed 0.4 percent after a 0.5 percent increase in the previous
month.  New York Manufacturing  Among other reports in the U.S. today, the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s  general economic index  decreased to 6.6 this
month, less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
survey, from 20.2 in March. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of builder  confidence  decreased to 25 this month from 28 in
March, the Washington-based group said today. Economists
projected no change in the index, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  