-- U.S. Retail Sales Probably Rose
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-16T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/retail-sales-probably-rose-as-u-s-shoppers-weathered-fuel-jump.html
Retail sales in the U.S. probably
rose in March, showing consumers are weathering the jump in
gasoline prices, economists said before a report today.  The 0.3 percent rise in  purchases  would follow a 1.1
percent advance in February that was the biggest in five months,
according to the median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. A separate report may show manufacturing in the
 New York  region grew.  An improving job market is boosting incomes and giving
households enough confidence to sustain spending in the face of
higher fuel costs, a sign sales at chains like  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT)  will keep rising. Combined with gains in factory
production, better consumer demand raises the odds that the
expansion in the world’s largest economy will endure.  “Retail sales are going to end the quarter on a positive
note,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “Underlying job growth is
decent.”  The Commerce Department will release the sales report at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from no
change to a gain of 0.9 percent.  At 8:30 a.m., the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  may
report its general economic index cooled to 18 this month after
a 20.2 reading in March that was the highest since June 2010,
according to the survey median. Readings greater than zero
signal growth.  Vehicle Sales  The slower pace of retail sales in March from the previous
month is probably due mostly to a slowdown in auto purchases,
economists said. Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.3 million
 annual rate  in March, following a 15 million pace the prior
month, according to Ward’s Automotive Group. Nonetheless, the
March figures capped the strongest quarter in four years.  “The industry and consumers have been very resilient in
the face of higher pump prices,”  Don Johnson , vice president of
U.S. sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said on a call with analysts
this month. “The steadily improving economy is playing a role
and so is pent-up demand and an improved credit market.”  The Commerce Department’s report may show purchases
excluding auto dealers climbed 0.6 percent after a 0.9 percent
gain in February.  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 3.9 percent
last month, beating the average estimate for a 3.3 percent gain,
as many chains offered discounts and shoppers stocked up early
on spring gear.  Warmer Weather  Sales may have been helped by better weather. The average
temperature was 51.1 degrees Fahrenheit (10.6 degrees Celsius)
in March, the warmest on record for the month in the past 117
years, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Sales at Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, climbed 8
percent. Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain, and
Macy’s Inc., the owner of Bloomingdale’s and namesake stores,
each posted 7.3 percent increased. All three companies beat the
average analyst projection.  Investors have driven up retailer shares as spending
increases. The  Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Retailing  Index (S15RETL) ,
which includes Macy’s and Gap, has gained 17 percent this year
through April 13, compared with a 9 percent advance for the
broader  S&P 500 .  The Commerce Department’s retail sales data, which aren’t
adjusted for prices, may also reflect higher  gasoline  at the
pump. Regular fuel in March averaged $3.84 a gallon, or 28 cents
more than in February, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
auto group.  Beige Book  The economy expanded “at a modest to moderate pace” from
mid-February through late March as manufacturing, hiring and
retail sales showed signs of strengthening even as fuel prices
climbed, the Fed said in its  Beige Book  report on April 11. The
central bank has pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero until late 2014 to stimulate the expansion.  Among other reports today, Commerce Department figures due
at 10 a.m. may show  business inventories  climbed 0.6 percent in
February as sales improved, economists forecast in the survey.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of  builder confidence  held at 28 in April, the same as in the
prior two months which was the highest level since June 2007,
economists projected. The data will also be released at 10 a.m.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  