-- Plotters Came ‘Within Days’ of Subway Attack, Jury Told
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-16T21:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/trial-begins-over-foiled-plot-to-bomb-new-york-city-subway-1-.html
A New York man helped plan a foiled
suicide attack on the city’s  subway system  around the eighth
anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, a
prosecutor told jurors at the start of his trial.  Adis Medunjanin, 27, and two other New York men were
recruited by Adnan Shukrijumah, one of al-Qaeda’s top
operatives, for a planned bombing of subway lines in Manhattan
in 2009, according to the U.S. government. The two other men,
Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay, pleaded guilty in 2010.  “In September 2009, three men were prepared to strap bombs
to their bodies and walk into crowded subway cars,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney James P. Loonam told jurors in federal court in
Brooklyn today. “These men came so close, within days, of
carrying out this act before they were stopped.”  Medunjanin, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Bosnia, was
taken into custody after a January 2010 incident in which he
swerved his silver Nissan Altima into another vehicle at more
than 90 miles an hour, followed by government agents, on an
expressway in Queens,  New York , prosecutors said. He faces as
long as life in prison if convicted.  “Mr. Medunjanin never planned to bomb the New York City
subways,” defense attorney Robert C. Gottlieb told the jury.
“He never joined any plan to go to Afghanistan to kill members
of the United States military.”  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson is presiding over the
trial, which may last about three weeks.  Rush Hour  Ahmedzay testified today that the plan was to conduct
suicide attacks in the subway during the morning or afternoon
rush hour because that would create the most casualties and
property damage. The plotters hadn’t picked a particular subway
line but wanted to hit a busy station such as Grand Central
Station.  Ahmedzay, 27, and Zazi, 26, are immigrants from  Afghanistan 
and the three men went to Flushing High School in Queens
together. Medunjanin played football and basketball as a
teenager and graduated from Queens College with a bachelor’s
degree in economics, Gottlieb said.  In August 2008, the three men went to join the Taliban in
 Pakistan  where they were recruited by  al-Qaeda , which gave them
military training and encouraged them to conduct suicide attacks
in the U.S., Ahmedzay testified today. Medunjanin didn’t take
part in that training, Gottlieb said.  ‘Tremendous Victory’  “If they could return to the United States to do
something, anything, it could be a tremendous victory for al-Qaeda,” Loonam told jurors. “Al-Qaeda wanted to show that it
could still hit the  United States  on American soil.”  Medunjanin offered the basement of the Manhattan apartment
building where he worked as a doorman for a place to make a
bomb, Ahmedzay testified.  The plan was for an attack during the Muslim holy month of
Ramadan, and other possible targets included Grand Central
Terminal, Times Square and the New York Stock Exchange, Ahmedzay
testified. The terrorist group left it up to the three men to
decide, he said.  Medunjanin and his co-defendants decided to attack the
subway system after Zazi said that he couldn’t make a car bomb
because he had lost a page of his notes from his training and
that he could make “a suicide vest,” Ahmedzay said.  The final meeting about the attack took place at Bear
Mountain, about 50 miles north of  Manhattan , and was between
Ahmedzay and Zazi, Gottlieb said. Medunjanin wasn’t there, he
said. Ahmedzay testified that he and Zazi told Medunjanin that
they had decided at that meeting to bomb the subways and that
the defendant had agreed with that plan.  ‘Days Away’  On Sept. 9, 2009, Zazi left the Denver area, where he’d
been living, to travel to New York with bomb-making materials in
his rental car, Loonam told jurors. At that point, the attack
was only “days away,” the prosecutor said.  Ahmedzay testified that the plotters called off the plan
because Zazi had been stopped twice by police on his way to New
York, and they felt the authorities were watching them. They
destroyed the bomb-making materials Zazi had brought with him
and he returned to  Colorado , Ahmedzay said.  Ahmedzay and Zazi are both cooperating with the government
and haven’t been sentenced yet. All three men have been in
custody since their arrests.  Gottlieb said the men only wanted to defend Muslims in
Afghanistan.  Not a Terrorist  “That was the beginning, the middle and the end of their
plan,” he said. “Adis Medunjanin made his decision and he
decided not to be a terrorist.”  Medunjanin is charged with 10 counts, including conspiracy
to use weapons of mass destruction and providing material
support to a foreign terrorist organization, al-Qaeda.  In the Jan. 7, 2010, incident, shortly before he crashed
his car, Medunjanin dialed 911 and screamed in Arabic, “We love
death more than you love your life,” according to the
government. The crash occurred about an hour after law
enforcement officers left his home in Flushing following the
execution of a search warrant for his passports.  With the car crash, and thinking he was about to be
arrested, Medunjanin decided to conduct “his last desperate act
of jihad,” accompanied by “his own martyrdom recording” to
911, Loonam told jurors.  Prosecutors said in a court document that Medunjanin
admitted after the collision that he was trying to kill himself
and others. He tried unsuccessfully to keep the jury from
hearing those statements.  Gottlieb told jurors prosecutors were making too much of
the car crash and it happened because Medunjanin, thinking he
was about to be arrested, panicked.  “It really wasn’t much of a crash at all,” the lawyer
told the jurors. “He rear-ended the car in front of him.”  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 