-- RIM Is Said to Discuss Hiring Bank to Weigh Options
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-17T14:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/rim-said-to-discuss-hiring-bank-to-help-weigh-strategy-options.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the
troubled maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, is in talks to hire
a financial adviser to help it weigh strategic options,
according to four people with knowledge of the matter.  A decision to work with at least one bank could come in the
next few days, said one of the people, who asked to remain
anonymous because the deliberations are private. RIM would
prefer an agreement to license its mobile-phone software, and
its next choice is a strategic investment, one person said. RIM
doesn’t plan to sell itself, the person said.  RIM said last month that it’s weighing strategic changes
after market-share losses to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets
that use Android software led to five straight quarters of sales
shortfalls. RIM Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said that
while the Waterloo, Ontario-based company would consider a sale,
that wasn’t “the main direction” he’s pursuing.  A deal to license the BlackBerry operating system to a
partner such as  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. would be the “best
option,” said  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC
in Boston. Given RIM’s cash holdings, a strategic investment
“doesn’t make a ton of sense,” he said. The company had $1.77
billion in cash and short-term investments as of early March.  Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to
comment, citing company policy not to discuss market rumor or
speculation.  Canadian, Global Banks  The company is considering hiring one Canadian bank and one
global bank, two of the people said. RIM’s stock has declined 75
percent in the past 12 months amid rivalry from Apple and
smartphone makers that rely on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.
RIM shares fell 0.5 percent to $13.35 at 10:34 a.m. in New York.  Heins, who replaced co-CEOs  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis  in January, said on March 29 that RIM will redouble
efforts to attract business customers while reviewing options,
such as licensing, partnerships, joint ventures and other ways
to “leverage” assets.  Other options include finding ways to wring more money from
its messaging service and patents portfolio, which are its most
valuable assets, the people said.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Samsung
could be among the interested parties, the people said.  If RIM were to put its patents up for sale, Microsoft would
be interested in taking a look, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. The company is unlikely to seek a
strategic investment in RIM or an outright acquisition, this
person said.  Kevin Kutz, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment, as did Chris Goodhart, a U.S.
spokeswoman for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung.  RIM’s top priority is finding a bank that can advise the
company on potentially licensing the new BlackBerry 10 operating
system, currently under development, a person said.  RIM plans to give software developers prototypes for the
first BB10 phones in early May. It’s preparing a consumer device
with the software to revive U.S. sales, which plunged by more
than half last quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 