-- Romney Talks Tax Law Change, Begins Running Mate Search
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-17T22:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/romney-picks-longtime-aide-to-handle-running-mate-vetting.html
Presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  said he isn’t too rich to relate to average
Americans and President Barack Obama should “start packing”
for a White House departure in 2013.  Romney made the remarks in an ABC News  interview  aired
yesterday as Democrats accused him of running a secretive
campaign and called on him to release more tax records.  Asked by ABC’s Diane Sawyer whether his wealth -- a car
elevator is part of a $12 million renovation at his beach home
in  La Jolla ,  California  -- prevents him from relating to most
people, Romney said it shouldn’t.  “We don’t divide America based upon success and wealth and
other dimensions of that nature,” he said. “We’re one nation
under God. This is a time when people of different backgrounds
and different experiences need to come together.”  Romney, who helped form the private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC in  Boston , has estimated his wealth to be as much as
$250 million on financial disclosure statements. He earned $21.6
million in 2010, mostly from investments, according to tax
returns he released in late January.  Congressional Endorsements  More Republican leaders closed ranks behind the former
Massachusetts governor today, as he gained the backing of House
Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky .  “We’re all behind him,” McConnell told reporters in
Washington. “He’s going to be the nominee.”  McConnell made his comments a few hours after Boehner said
he will be “proud to support” Romney as his party’s nominee
and will “do everything I can to help him win.”  Both congressional leaders had been neutral in the race.
Romney emerged as the presumptive Republican nominee after his
main challenger in the race, former Senator  Rick Santorum  of
 Pennsylvania , announced on April 10 he was ending his candidacy.  Boehner told reporters in  Washington  he waited to make an
endorsement to make sure “all candidates had a fair process and
a fair opportunity.”  Tax Issue  Romney today used the deadline for filing income tax
returns to argue that another Obama term would result in higher
taxes across the board.  “There are some differences in the campaign coming
forward, which is the president, our current president, is
intent on raising tax rates, particularly for small business,”
Romney said in Bethel Park, Pennsylvania, a Pittsburgh suburb.  Sitting at a picnic table with eight voters, Romney said
his tax plans would benefit middle-income Americans as he
rejected Democratic contentions that he’s pushing policies to
benefit the richest.  “I want the top income earners to pay the share they’re
paying now,” he said. “But I do want to help middle income
families find a way to make it easier to make ends meet.”  Romney’s plan calls for a 20 percent across-the-board cut
in individual income tax rates. It would lower the top tax rate
to 28 percent for individuals from 35 percent now, cut corporate
taxes to 25 percent from 35 percent, eliminate the estate tax
and scrap the alternative minimum tax. It also would limit
deductions, exemptions and credits now available to higher-
income Americans.  Seeking Scapegoats  Speaking in Philadelphia last night, Romney accused Obama
of seeking “scapegoats” to distract from a weak economy. “I
will not do as this president is doing, dividing us on every
occasion, attacking one American after another,” he said to
cheers from an audience of anti-tax Tea Party supporters.
“Trying to find someone who can by virtue of attacking them
divert from his failures economically.”  Periodically while campaigning this year, Romney has made
comments drawing attention to his wealth -- and earning scorn
from opponents -- including saying he has friends who are NASCAR
owners and that his wife, Ann, owns a “couple” of Cadillacs.  Ann Romney  joined her husband in the Sawyer interview,
saying her message to Obama is that it’s “Mitt’s time” because
he can turn the  economy  around.  Asked about Obama’s suggestion that he release 12 years of
his tax returns, Romney said he has no plans to do so.  Diverting Attention  “The president is going to try and do everything possible
to divert from the attention being focused upon his record as
president and the failure of his economic policies,” he said.
“So he’s going to try to make this campaign about the fact that
I’ve been successful, that I’ve made a lot of money.”  Romney said he would like to see the U.S.  Supreme Court 
overturn the 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that legalized
abortion nationwide.  “I would love the Supreme Court to say, ‘Let’s send this
back to the states,’” he said. “Rather than having a federal
mandate through Roe v. Wade, let the states again consider this
issue state by state.”  Romney also said he has picked a longtime adviser to
oversee the vetting of his running mate. Beth Myers, the
adviser, was a chief of staff for Romney when he was
Massachusetts governor. She was his presidential campaign
manager four years ago and is a senior adviser to his current
bid.  Running Mate  Romney, 65, who at a weekend fundraiser in  Florida  talked
about the importance of appealing to Hispanic voters, called
Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida “one of the terrific
leaders” of the party, while declining to say if he is on the
list of prospective running mates.  In an interview with CNBC’s Larry Kudlow today, Romney said
he’d pick someone who “without question” could lead the
country if necessary. “All of the political considerations pale
in comparison with the consideration of who has the capacity to
lead America at a critical time,” he said.  Romney also reiterated in the CNBC interview his opposition
to more stimulus of the economy by the  Federal Reserve , saying
such “qualitative easing” of the  money supply  had “very
little positive effect.”  At the Florida fundraiser, Romney said he is considering
the elimination of  mortgage  deductions on second homes as part
of the tax exemptions he would propose ending, NBC News and the
Wall Street Journal reported.  Second Home Mortgages  “I’m going to probably eliminate for high-income people
the second home mortgage deduction,” he  said  at the Palm Beach
event, adding that he would also likely eliminate state income
and property tax deductions. The remarks, made from the backyard
of a private home last night, were overheard by reporters on a
sidewalk below, NBC reported.  At the gathering, Romney also floated the idea of
eliminating the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the
Cabinet-level agency once headed by his father, George.  “I’m going to take a lot of departments in Washington, and
agencies, and combine them,” he said, according to NBC News.
“Things like Housing and Urban Development, which my dad was
head of, that might not be around later. But I’m not going to
actually go through these one by one. What I can tell you is,
we’ve got far too many bureaucrats. I will send a lot of what
happens in Washington back to the states.”  Asked about the Department of Education, Romney said it,
too, would face restructuring.  “The Department of Education I will either consolidate
with another agency, or perhaps make it a heck of a lot
smaller,” he said. “I’m not going to get rid of it entirely.”  The reports from the fundraiser brought a response
yesterday from President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign.  “ Governor Romney  previously said he wasn’t going to
outline specific cuts during this campaign because they could
harm his electoral prospects,” Obama spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said
in a statement. “Last night’s comments make clear he does in
fact have very specific cuts in mind: In order to fund his $5
trillion tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, he would make
deep cuts in programs essential to the middle class like
education and housing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Lancaster, Pennsylvania at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  