-- Romney Should Ignore ’Gender Gap’ Mythology
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-04-16T23:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/romney-should-ignore-gender-gap-mythology.html
Mitt Romney’s presidential campaign
is obsessed with the women’s vote.  On the day after  Rick Santorum  dropped out of the race and
removed all doubt Romney would be the nominee, the campaign
issued five press releases within three hours on the theme that
President Barack Obama’s economic record has failed American
women: one featuring comments by Romney, four highlighting
remarks by female Republican politicians supporting him.  It might be a good strategy, if the women’s vote existed.  Romney and the  Republican National Committee  argue that
Obama’s energy policy is making women pay higher gas prices;
that his economic policy is disproportionately costing them
jobs; that the Obama White House pays female aides less than
male ones. The RNC has been especially eager to repeat former
aide Anita Dunn’s  claim  (which she later said was taken out of
context) that although Obama himself was blameless, his White
House was “a genuinely hostile workplace to women.”  Everyone understands why Republicans are mounting this
attack. They are responding to weeks of Democratic charges that
they are waging a “war on women.” A recent USA Today/Gallup  poll 
that found Romney losing support among women younger than 50 in
swing states has especially alarmed them.  A Mystifying Strategy  But what’s mystifying is just which women Republicans are
trying to reach. The number of voters who are deeply concerned
about the treatment of Democratic women in the White House and
will vote for a Republican as a result has to be, as a rough
approximation, zero. Ditto for the number of voters who are
especially concerned about high  gas prices  not because they
themselves are paying them or because everyone is but because
women, as a group, are. I suspect that not many people think
that way, and those who do lean pretty strongly Democratic.  The evidence that Romney is lagging in the polls because
voters are upset about a “war on women” -- rather than because
of a bruisingly negative primary campaign or the recovering
economy -- is  pretty   thin . But Republicans are responding not
just to the polls but to the persistent mythology of the gender
gap.  Ruth Marcus of the Washington Post recently fell prey to
this conventional wisdom,  writing that  “the GOP has suffered
from a gender gap in every presidential election since 1980.”
Suffered? Of the eight presidential elections from 1980 to 2008,
Republicans won five (four if you exclude 2000). Republicans
carried women, albeit narrowly,  three times ; Democrats carried
men twice. Republicans can lose even while winning men, as in
1996. Democrats can lose while winning women, as in 2004.  The evidence suggests that women are more inclined than men
to vote for Democrats, but this gap doesn’t consistently help
either party. It isn’t the case that the larger the gender gap,
the worse Republicans do. Republicans did seven points better
among men than women in 2004, when they won. They did five
points better in 2008, when they lost.  Obama barely won men in 2008. If this race is at all
competitive, he will lose them this time. And that’s not all we
can predict. Romney will win among large subgroups of women:
those who are married, those who are white, those who go to
church regularly. Gender isn’t the principal determinant of
women’s votes any more than it is of men’s.  And making an issue of the statistics about job loss by
gender will come back to haunt Republicans. Romney claims that
92 percent of those lost since Obama took office belonged to
women. Does he have any plan, as president, to ensure that women
get the right percentage of jobs? Does he realize that cuts in
aid to state governments -- like the Medicaid cuts that are an
important part of his agenda -- would  inflict  disproportionate
job losses on women?  Resisting Stereotypes  Of course, Romney should use female campaign surrogates.
(He should especially continue to highlight his wife, Ann, who
is likely to wow both men and women.) When he is talking about
how his economic policies will create jobs, he should highlight
women -- as well as men -- who own small businesses.  But his overall support among men and women alike is what
needs boosting. It’s a mistake for Romney to think he has a
special problem with women, or that he can solve it by making a
gender-specific appeal.  Republicans deserve credit for resisting the idea -- the
lazy instinct, really -- that what female voters care most about
are stereotypically “women’s issues.” The party should take the
further crucial step of seeing that women don’t have to be
courted on the basis of their sex at all.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on increasing the  minimum
wage  and vetoing the UN  Security Council veto ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on  Afghanistan  after the  U.S. withdrawal ;  Betsey Stevenson  and
 Justin Wolfers  on why  tax deductions are really subsidies ;
Thomas Cooley and Kim Schoenholtz on  evading Dodd-Frank ; Josef
Joffe on why  Europe  needs to  be more German ;  Steven Greenhut  on
the  sports-stadium scam .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  