-- Rules for TV-Airwaves Auction Could Be Proposed by Fall
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-16T22:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/rules-for-tv-airwaves-auction-could-be-proposed-by-fall.html
The U.S. government may propose
rules by the fall for how it will conduct auctions of airwaves
voluntarily surrendered by television stations, Federal
Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said.  “We’re focused on implementing incentive auctions in a way
that maximizes the broad opportunity for investment, innovation
and economic growth,” Genachowski said in a speech today to the
National Association of Broadcasters convention in Las Vegas,
according to a transcript distributed by the agency.  President Barack Obama’s administration has proposed, and
Congress has approved, U.S.-run auctions of unused television
airwaves. The auctions are intended to free frequencies to meet
rising demand from mobile  Internet providers  led by Verizon
Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)  TV station owners may sell all or part of
their airwaves and won’t be required to take part in the
auctions.  “This is a unique opportunity that presents some very
interesting - and potentially compelling - business options that
did not exist before,” Genachowski said. TV stations can stay
on the air and generate cash from participating, he said.  Earlier,  Gordon Smith , president of the Washington-based
broadcasters’ association, said providers of wireless  Internet
service  “are asking the government for more of our spectrum.”  Broadcasters need to use airwaves “to be on tablets,
laptops and game consoles and on mobile devices not yet
developed,” Smith said. Broadcasters should work to push TV
shows to mobile devices, he said.  The broadcasters’ group’s members include  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, a Washington-based trade
group that represents mobile companies, has called for more
airwaves for smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  “I don’t know any consumer who’s clamoring for” mobile TV
and demand is strong for new wireless devices, Jot Carpenter,
CTIA vice president of government affairs, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Mr. Smith may not like it, but that’s the market
speaking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  