-- Trulia Is Said to Pick JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank to Manage Its IPO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-04-16T17:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/trulia-is-said-to-pick-jpmorgan-deutsche-bank-to-manage-its-ipo.html
Trulia Inc., an Internet startup
focused on residential real estate, hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to manage its initial public offering,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The San Francisco-based company is likely to go public in
the second half of this year and will be valued at less than $1
billion, said the people, who declined to be named because the
talks are private. Trulia is also working with Class V Group’s
 Lise Buyer , who advises startups on IPOs, the people said.  Trulia, a rival to  Zillow (Z)  Inc., provides a search engine
used by over 20 million people a month to look for homes in
specific neighborhoods. It also offers reviews on local schools
and crime rates. The company makes money through ads on the site
and subscriptions that let real estate agents target users and
get their listings featured prominently.  Trulia is capitalizing on the best stretch of Internet IPOs
in more than a decade, with  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , Groupon Inc. and
Zynga Inc. all going public in the past year. Trulia is
following the lead of fellow real estate website Zillow, which
went public in July and has since jumped 77 percent to a
valuation of almost $1 billion. While Zillow has more revenue,
Trulia is growing faster, the people said.  Ken Shuman, a  spokesman  for Trulia, declined to comment, as
did JPMorgan representative Jennifer Zuccarelli and Deutsche
Bank’s  Duncan King . Buyer said she doesn’t disclose which
companies she’s working with.  Staffing Up  Trulia has been bolstering its executive ranks. In
December, it hired Sean Aggarwal, former vice president of
finance at EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit, as chief financial officer.
The company also named former Imperva Inc. executive Scott Darling as general counsel. Early last year, it hired former
Yahoo! Inc. executive Paul Levine as its operating chief.  Chief Executive Officer Pete Flint co-founded the company
in 2005 with Sami Inkinen, Trulia’s president. Trulia has raised
$33 million from investors, including  Sequoia Capital , Accel
Partners and  Fayez Sarofim & Co.   Trulia hasn’t disclosed its revenue or profit. Sales at
Seattle-based Zillow, meanwhile, more than doubled last year to
$66.1 million. It reported net income of $1.1 million, following
a loss of $6.77 million the prior year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  