-- Rupiah Weakens After Funds Cut Indonesia Stock, Bond Holdings
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-04-16T08:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/rupiah-weakens-after-funds-cut-indonesia-stock-bond-holdings.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell by the most
in more than three weeks after international investors reduced
holdings of the nation’s assets on concern price pressures in
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy are increasing.  Global funds cut  ownership  of local stocks by $44 million
last week and local-currency debt by 540 billion rupiah ($59
million) in the four days through April 12, according to
exchange and finance ministry data. Inflation may accelerate to
6.6 percent this year from 3.97 percent last month if fuel
prices are raised, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution said
on April 12. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell after
the cost of insuring  Spain ’s bonds against default surged to a
record last week.  “The rupiah will likely weaken with little positive
sentiment from external and internal factors,” said Rully Nova,
a foreign-exchange analyst at PT Bank Himpunan Saudara in
Jakarta. “Domestically, there is much uncertainty as investors
want  Bank Indonesia  to show more action and detailed strategies
to damp inflation.”  The rupiah dropped 0.5 percent, the most since March 22, to
9,189 per dollar as of 3:25 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 6.75 percent for
an eighth day.  The government will revive a plan to limit sales of
subsidized fuel, Jero Wacik, energy and mineral resources
minister, said on April 13.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to a three-
month high of 6.05 percent, according to midday prices from the
Inter-Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 