-- Russia Said to Consider Delaying $5 Billion Sberbank Deal
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-04-16T14:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/russia-said-to-consider-delaying-5-billion-sberbank-offering.html
Russia ’s government may postpone
the sale of a stake in  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the nation’s biggest
lender, until after President-Elect  Vladimir Putin ’s
inauguration on May 7, said people with knowledge of the plans.  A road show of the stock offering, initially scheduled to
start as early as today, is being pushed back as the Russian
bank’s shares drop below a level at which the government is
willing to sell, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified as the information is private. A share sale, which
could raise more than $5 billion, may still happen in the first
half, depending on  market conditions , the people said. No final
decision has been made, they said.  The sale may be delayed until 2013 or 2014,  Igor Shuvalov ,
Putin’s first deputy, told reporters today, adding that he backs
an offering this year.  Sberbank fell as much as 2.6 percent, its biggest intraday
drop in more than a month, and traded 2.1 percent lower at 92.1
rubles in late trading in Moscow. The shares have declined about
10 percent from their peak in March of 103.26 rubles.  “The markets are too unsettled to allow Sberbank to price
the SPO with any degree of confidence,” Julian Rimmer, trader
of Russian shares at CF Global Trading in London, said in e-
mailed comments.  Spokesmen for Sberbank and the central bank declined to
comment.  Last month, President  Dmitry Medvedev  of Russia ordered the
government and central bank to formulate proposals by Sept. 1 on
lowering state stakes in lenders to less than 50 percent. The
Russian government plans to sell a Sberbank stake of about 7.6
percent, currently valued at about $5.1 billion.  Sberbank said March 28 that 2011 profit surged 74 percent
to a record 315.9 billion rubles ($11 billion), missing the
318.7 billion-ruble median estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Higher revenue from lending failed to drive net
interest margins higher, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  London  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  