-- Sacramento Is Fresh Victim of Bad Stadium Deals
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-04-16T23:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/sacramento-is-fresh-victim-of-bad-stadium-deals.html
Officials in  Sacramento ,
California, are furious that the owners of the Kings
basketball franchise, the Maloof family, said they are backing
out of a handshake deal in February to invest $73 million in a
project to build a new arena downtown.  This publicly funded stadium issue has raged in cities
across the U.S., including Indianapolis, where the highly
subsidized  Lucas Oil Stadium  was host to this year’s  Super
Bowl , and  Minneapolis , as Minnesota legislators ponder a deal
to build a  new football stadium  for the Vikings.  But the story in California’s capital, a city of 2
million with a perennial inferiority complex borne of being
overshadowed by the Los Angeles and Bay Area media markets, is
not about the details of the deal or the wiles of mercurial
owners of National Basketball Association teams. It’s about
the foolishness of city officials who pin urban renewal hopes
and taxpayer dollars on sports complexes despite the public’s
declining willingness to pony up the cash.  News articles over the weekend quoted fans who feel
betrayed by the  Maloofs , but these feelings are hard to
quantify. Some residents are no doubt upset, but others openly
question whether this is the best use of public resources,
especially at this time. Although the economy isn’t as bad in
 Sacramento  as in some other  California  locales, it’s still
depressed, and city finances are stressed.  Overblown Estimates  At the news conference last week in  New York  announcing
their decision to abandon the plan, the Maloofs deferred to an
economist,  Christopher Thornberg , who argued that the city-
backed deal was based on a “wildly overblown estimate of the
kind of revenue value this arena will bring to the city.” He
said the project “would really put the city right on the edge
of potential fiscal disaster.” The Maloofs’ lawyer said
revenue projections were based on boom years when the now-
lowly Kings were in the championship hunt.  Economists have long understood that new arenas and
sports stadiums rarely bring new economic activity into a
city, but merely move entertainment money around the region.  “Economic growth takes place when a community’s resources
-- people, capital investments and natural resources like land
-- become more productive,” wrote the economists  Roger Noll 
and  Andrew Zimbalist  in a still-quoted 1997  Brookings
Institution  study. “Building a stadium is good for the local
economy only if a stadium is the most productive way to make
capital investments and use its workers.”  That situation almost never is the case. These deals are
not about economic growth, but civic pride. Last year, after
the Maloofs announced their planned move to Anaheim, in
 Southern California , Sacramento Mayor  Kevin Johnson  talked
about the need to keep the franchise to help Sacramento become
a “world-class city.” But as I wrote in a column in the
Sacramento Bee at the time, “Second-tier cities believe that
professional sports put them on the map, although all they do
is provide some unexceptional entertainment and enrich team
owners, who cleverly manipulate the local inferiority complex
to gain arena subsidies.”  Sacramento officials spent their time and squandered
taxpayer money on such dreams, while neglecting the nitty-
gritty of municipal government -- a negligence that shows
throughout city neighborhoods.  The response to the column was overwhelmingly positive,
from people who understood that Sacramento is a perfectly nice
place to live, but that keeping a sports team in town will
never help it become a destination city.  Maloofs’ Strategy  Residents, apparently, are savvier than their leaders.
“If the Maloofs had wanted to embarrass Sacramento on a
national stage, they brilliantly succeeded with the televised
Manhattan press conference they orchestrated Friday,”  the Bee
editorialized Saturday . “But along with anger, Sacramento
should show a little humility. We’ve seen this switcheroo from
the Maloofs before. As the idiom goes, ‘Fool me once, shame on
you. Fool me twice, shame on me.’”  Yet Sacramento civic boosters will continue to be played
as fools until they realize that the Kings are no more
important to the local psyche than any other business
franchise. Sacramento, a government town where state workers
flee the city center at 4:30 p.m. every day, has myriad
obstacles to the creation of a vibrant downtown nightlife
scene. Blocks from the planned arena, the main shopping plaza
is practically a ghost town.  Despite decades of subsidies, the main drag through
downtown, the K Street corridor, is known mostly for vacant
storefronts and vagrants. An arena won’t fix these problems.
Last week, the  California Redevelopment Association  -- the
group that had championed a subsidy-driven economic
development model throughout the state -- announced it would
be shutting its doors after those agencies were shut down by
the Legislature and governor.  Yet in the same week its former leader,  John Shirey , now
Sacramento city manager, criticized the Maloofs’ economic
analysis. Maybe the redevelopment administration’s shuttering
is a reminder that it’s time for cities to embrace economic-
revitalization models based more on market incentives than on
City Hall subsidies and directives.  Officials in California’s first-tier coastal
metropolises need to learn these lessons, too.  Los Angeles 
civic leaders are pushing a downtown stadium proposal despite
the obvious traffic issues, while a competing group is
offering a plan on the eastern edge of the San Gabriel Valley.  In  San Diego , officials continue to promote an atrocious
taxpayer-funded stadium deal to keep its football team, the
Chargers, from heading to Los Angeles or elsewhere, but they
don’t seem to be getting much traction either.  Perhaps city officials everywhere will always be lured by
the promises of big-league sports franchises. In that case,
public skepticism is the best way to keep taxpayer dollars
safe.  (Steven Greenhut is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is
based in Sacramento, California. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on increasing the  minimum
wage  and vetoing the UN  Security Council veto ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Afghanistan  after the  U.S. withdrawal ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on  Romney and the women’s vote ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on why  tax deductions are really subsidies ;
Thomas Cooley and Kim Schoenholtz on  evading Dodd-Frank ; Josef
Joffe on why  Europe  needs to  be more German .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Steven Greenhut  in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 