-- Saudi Oil-Led Growth Attracts Standard Chartered, Barclays
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-04-17T12:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/saudi-oil-led-growth-lures-stanchart-as-barclays-targets-wealthy.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.
bank that depends on  Asia  for most of its profit, and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  are expanding in Saudi Arabia as oil above $100 a barrel and
record bond sales bolster earnings in the biggest Arab economy.  “We’d be crazy to limit ourselves to a handful of bankers
when we can see  oil prices  are going to sustain the Saudi
economy for the foreseeable future,” Rory Gilbert, the head of
 Middle East  and North  Africa  at London-based Barclays’s wealth
management unit, said in an interview this week in Dubai. “In
four or five years, we’ll have a much broader presence in Saudi
Arabia.”  Barclays is expanding operations to target more
millionaires, according to Gilbert.  Standard Chartered , also
based in  London , started a  capital markets  office in Saudi
Arabia, Viswanathan Shankar, the bank’s chief executive officer
for the Middle East,  Europe , Africa and the Americas, said in an
interview at a Bloomberg conference in Doha, Qatar yesterday.  The government’s $500 billion spending plan to upgrade
infrastructure and create jobs is encouraging companies to
invest in the world’s top oil exporter, pushing sales of Islamic
bonds from the country this year to a record $6.55 billion, or
about 43 percent of total bond offerings in the Persian Gulf,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bank lending to consumers and
private businesses rose at the fastest pace since 2009 in
February, helping boost first-quarter profits of the kingdom’s
banks above analysts’ estimates.  Expanding Economy  The banks join Paris-based  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , which owns a
stake in  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , and London-based  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings
Plc, owner of a stake in Saudi British Bank.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  named Abdulaziz Al Helaissi in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia to head
of its global corporate bank in the region this month.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, HSBC and Standard Chartered
raised their 2012 economic growth forecasts for Saudi Arabia
since March. Gross domestic product may expand more than 6
percent this year, Finance Minister Ibrahim Al-Assaf said in
January. The economy grew 6.8 percent in 2011. Crude oil has
climbed 4.4 percent in  New York  this year and has traded at an
average $103.03.  HSBC cemented its position as the region’s top bond
underwriter, leading the 15 billion-riyal ($4 billion) sukuk
sale of the state-run General Authority of Civil Aviation in
January. The bank was also a manager of Saudi Electricity’s
$1.75 billion dollar-denominated sukuk.  Of the $7.47 billion worth of bonds HSBC has arranged so
far this year, 74 percent, or $5.54 billion, have been from
companies based in Saudi Arabia, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Saudi sales helped HSBC edge out Standard Chartered in
2011 to remain the region’s top bond underwriter for a fourth
year in five, the data show.  ‘Swing Factor’  HSBC’s stake in  Saudi British Bank (SABB)  makes it more difficult
for other international lenders to compete over Saudi debt
offerings, Standard Chartered’s Shankar said in an interview at
a Bloomberg conference in Doha, Qatar, yesterday.  “Unless we have a large local presence in Saudi Arabia,
which HSBC has, it’s going to be difficult to dislodge” the
London-based bank from its position, he said. “Saudi is a swing
factor,” Shankar said. “Frankly, there’s nothing I can do
about it. We are boosting our presence in Saudi, but given the
fact that Saudi British has been there for some time, it’s going
to be difficult.”  Saudi British Bank posted a 14 percent increase in first
quarter profit to 854 million riyals, beating the average
estimate of six analysts for a profit of 753 million riyals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the
kingdom’s largest lender by market value, reported an 18 percent
jump in profit to 2 billion riyals, topping analysts’ estimates.  License Delays  Saudi authorities have put “quite restrictive licensing
and branch opening processes” in place, which can makes it more
difficult for international banks to expand into the kingdom,
said Reinhold Leichtfuss, the leader of financial institutions
at The Boston Consulting Group Middle East in Dubai.  “A number of banks have applied for such licenses but the
process can take years,” he said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Having private bankers fly into the country is a
much easier thing to do.”  Through its capital markets license in the kingdom,
Standard Chartered seeks to “work with Saudi companies in terms
of their long-term funding plans,” Shankar said. “We are
working with a whole slew of Saudi corporate and financial
institutions in terms of their business, particularly outside”
the country, he said.  Market Opening  Banks and financial institutions are also gearing up for
the possibility that Saudi Arabia will allow foreign investors
to directly access its stock market. The process will be gradual
and won’t have a negative effect on trading, the official Saudi
Press Agency reported on April 3, citing Capital Market
Authority Chairman Abdulrahman al-Tuwaijri.  Non-resident foreigners are permitted to trade through
share-swap transactions and exchange-traded funds, with the
market regulator approving the first exchange-traded fund in
March 2010. The government allowed citizens of neighboring Gulf
countries to buy and sell local shares in 2007.  The benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  has risen 17 percent
this year after losing 3.1 percent in 2011. The gauge closed 3.2
percent higher at 7,511.72 today in Riyadh.  “Saudi has been a target for many banks for a number of
years,” Leichtfuss said. “If you want to build a position in
the Middle East, Saudi is the number one in terms of market
size.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  