-- Scene in D.C.: Marie Osmond at Fashion for Paws
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-16T11:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/scene-in-d-c-marie-osmond-at-fashion-for-paws.html
Doggie treats may seem like unusual
party favors.  They were entirely appropriate for the sixth annual  Fashion
for Paws , a show benefiting the  Washington Humane Society .  Audi AG (NSU) , a sponsor of the event, parked a sleek model
outside the National Building Museum. Nearby a four-legged
friend named Treasure frolicked on the red carpet.  The April 14 event drew 1,700 guests including Melanie
Frank, international trade counsel at  Hughes, Hubbard Reed (1218L) , and
Mark Drapeau, Microsoft Corp. director of innovative engagement,
public sector.  “What’s better than fashion and animals?” Marie Osmond,
honorary chairwoman of the benefit, asked the audience. “I love 
animals. I grew up with brothers, come on!”  After her remarks, Osmond returned to her table -- most of
the tables were decorated with a floral centerpiece in the shape
of a canine. Her rescued dog, George, rested in her lap.  Dozens of Washingtonians walked the runway in fashions
provided by the shops at  Tysons Galleria . At their side were
pooches from the  Washington  Humane Society shelter eager to be 
adopted, or their own dogs.  The models played up to the bright glare of the cameras and
the wild energy of the audience. The canines, many bedecked in
dazzling accessories, trotted along.  Aba Kwawu, the producer of Fashion for Paws, said volunteer
models had to raise a certain figure to be included in the show.  Designer Choice  Those who reached “supermodel” status, raising at least
$10,000, earned the privilege of selecting their own designer.  Others were basically at Kwawu’s mercy.  Clothing selections “represented the best of spring,”
Kwawu said. “Colors that pop.”  After the show, model Philippe Cousteau, the president of
 EarthEcho International , visited the VIP section with his
girlfriend,  Ashlan Gorse , the E! News anchor and host of Fashion
for Paws.  Both Cousteau and Gorse, in azure blue ensembles by Elie Tahari, displayed almost parental affection when talking about 
Gorse’s dog, a Siberian Husky named Aurora.  Cousteau showed off pictures of Aurora on his mobile phone,
while Gorse spoke of saving creatures like Aurora from shelters.  The VIP section turned into a party of its own with Moet &
Chandon Champagne, Georgetown cupcakes and a dance floor with
pulsating tunes from musical host Seyhan Duru.  Lisa LaFontaine, the president and chief executive of the
Washington  Humane Society , said the event would raise almost
$700,000.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights: Scott Reyburn reports on a  Ferrari
auction ; Elin McCoy reviews the new  Bordeaux  vintage.  To contact the writer on this story:
StephanieGreen in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 