-- Scrapping UN Veto Would Help U.S. Take on Russia, China
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-16T23:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/scrapping-un-veto-would-help-u-s-take-on-russia-china.html
Odds are high that in the next few
weeks or months the United Nations  Security Council  will
consider action against Syria, Iran or North Korea.  Odds are higher still that Russia or China will use the
threat of a veto to water down any sanctions or condemnation to
the point of irrelevance.  This illustrates why the veto for the five permanent
members of the Security Council has become an increasingly
dangerous anachronism that, as part of larger reforms, should be
given up.  To hear  Harry Truman  tell it, the proposed veto power for
the permanent members of the Security Council was the most
contentious issue at the UN’s 1945 birth in San Francisco. Small
countries said it cut against the planned institution’s
democratic values and left them at the mercy of larger powers.
The U.S. said the founding states would only support the UN if
they believed that it safeguarded their interests, and a veto
was essential for that purpose. Indeed, senators such as Arthur Vandenberg worried that the UN would send U.S. troops to fight
other countries’ wars. (The  Soviet Union  even wanted veto power
extended to decisions about what the UN could discuss -- a
demand that the U.S. succeeded in thwarting.)  Since then, members of the P5 -- as China,  France , Russia,
the U.K. and the U.S. are known -- have used the veto nearly 200
times on complete draft resolutions. During the Cold War, the
veto reinforced a geopolitical stalemate, with the USSR saying
“nyet” 90 times. The U.S. -- with 57 solo vetoes, the next
biggest user -- has used it 42 times since 1970 on Middle
Eastern issues, mostly to beat back resolutions critical of
Israel.  More recently, however, a troubling trend has emerged:
China and  Russia , acting alone or together, using the veto to
protect autocratic regimes such as Myanmar (2007), Zimbabwe
(2008) and Syria (2012). That doesn’t include the many times P5
members have used the threat of a veto to scupper planned
resolutions before they hit the table. In particular, as a  high-
level UN panel  put it in 2004, the council has not “acted
consistently or effectively in the face of genocide or other
atrocities.”  Several reform efforts have called for abolition or
curtailment of the veto. It remains one of the biggest obstacles
to expanding permanent membership to  Japan  and  Germany  (the
former Axis members that are now democracies and the world’s
third and fourth biggest economies),  India  (a nuclear power that
is home to one-sixth of the world’s population) and  Brazil  (the
world’s sixth biggest economy, which Franklin Roosevelt wanted
as a permanent council member back in 1945). And, as Russia and
 China  increasingly look to restrain U.S. influence, deadlocks
will force the rest of the world to pay a growing price in
peace, stability and freedom.  We think the U.S. should lead the way by calling for the
abolition of the veto and the expansion of the council’s
permanent membership to Japan, Germany, India and Brazil. There
are other ways of safeguarding its interests -- requiring
supermajorities, for example, in the council for resolutions
calling for the use of force, or mandating a majority of
permanent members’ votes for a veto. Such new rules would be
more in keeping with professed U.S. values and would play to
what should be its diplomatic strong suit: the force of right,
not might.  We’re not naive enough to think that these changes will
necessarily happen. In fact, because the UN’s charter specifies
that any such reforms can only occur with unanimous P5 consent,
these probably won’t. But U.S. endorsement of them would win
plaudits from aspirants to permanent membership and put the onus
of obstruction where it belongs. That would be a diplomatic coup
in itself.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on increasing the  minimum
wage ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on Afghanistan after the  U.S. withdrawal ;
Ramesh Ponnuru on  Romney and the women’s vote ; Betsey Stevenson
and  Justin Wolfers  on why  tax deductions are really subsidies ;
Thomas Cooley and Kim Schoenholtz on  evading Dodd-Frank ; Josef
Joffe on why  Europe  needs to  be more German ;  Steven Greenhut  on
the  sports-stadium scam .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 