-- Secret Service Sex Scandal Upsets Obama Colombia Trip
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/secret-service-sex-scandal-upsets-obama-colombia-trip.html
President  Barack Obama  came to
Colombia seeking to erase an image of the U.S. in Latin 
America as overassertive Yankees who exploit the region at 
will. He left with the stereotype reinforced.  The sixth Summit of the Americas that concluded yesterday
in the Caribbean city of Cartagena was supposed to focus on
trade in the Western Hemisphere. Instead, 11 U.S. Secret Service
agents became the center of attention after they were sent home
for allegations of misconduct involving a prostitute.  The agents’ behavior was an embarrassment for Obama,
obscuring what should have been an opportunity to trumpet a
free-trade agreement with host Colombia and expanding trade to
fast-growing economies like Brazil, said  Eric Farnsworth , vice
president of the Council of the Americas in  Washington . Leaders
from Latin America also took aim at Obama for the U.S.’s refusal
to invite Cuba to the next such regional gathering.  “This is not what you want to be dominating the news,”
Farnsworth, who helped organize the first regional summit for
President  Bill Clinton  in Miami in 1994, said in a phone
interview. “It overshadows what should have been a highlight of
the president’s engagement with the Western Hemisphere.”  Beyond the prostitution saga, the three-day  summit  was a
portrait of disunity. The 31 heads of state in attendance issued
no joint statement after the U.S. refused to loosen its stance
that Cuba’s communist government embrace democracy before the
region’s sole dictatorship is invited to future summits.  Ecuador’s  Rafael Correa  boycotted the meetings over the ban
on Cuba, while Nicaragua’s Daniel Ortega, a former guerrilla
leader, canceled at the last minute. Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez
traveled instead to  Havana  for cancer treatment and Argentina’s
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  returned home early after leaders
failed to back her call for the U.K. to return control of the
Falkland Islands.  Equal Partners?  Even more American-friendly leaders like  Mexico ’s Felipe Calderon and Brazil’s Dilma Rousseff said this should be the
last summit without Cuba. Host  Juan Manuel Santos  said he hoped
the country would be invited to the next summit that  Panama  had
“offered” to host in 2015.  Obama, after arriving in Cartagena, said that the U.S. has
“never felt more excited about prospects of working as equal
partners with our brothers and sisters in Latin America and the
Caribbean.” To a group of business leaders, he said that U.S.
trade with the region has jumped 46 percent since he took office
in 2009.  The president also highlighted U.S. assistance in
 Colombia ’s turnaround from the region’s most-violent nation,
marked by decades of drug-funded political conflict, to one of
its most-attractive investment destinations. He announced that a
free-trade agreement between the two countries will take effect
May 15, and the State Department unveiled new rules extending
from five years to 10 years the validity of visas for Colombians
traveling to the U.S.  Prostitute  Those accomplishments were partly upstaged by the Secret
Service scandal. The incident came to light when a Cartagena
prostitute refused to leave the hotel room occupied by a Secret
Service agent until she was paid, said U.S. Representative Peter King, who heads the House Homeland Security Committee.  The 11 agents, part of an advance security team that
arrived before Obama, had brought women to their hotel blocks
away from where the president stayed this weekend, said King.
All have since been placed on administrative leave.  At a press conference standing next to Santos yesterday,
Obama said the investigation into the agents’ actions is
ongoing, “and I expect that investigation to be thorough and I
expect it to be rigorous.”  If allegations are confirmed “then of course I’ll be
angry,” he said. “We’re representing the people of the  United
States , and when we travel to another country I expect us to
observe the highest standards.”  Snub by Chavez  Obama, while the most-liked leader among Latin Americans
according to a 2011 poll by Santiago-based pollster
 Latinobarometro , has faced fire before from the region’s
governments. The last Summit of the Americas, held in 2009 in
Trinidad and Tobago, is best remembered for Chavez handing Obama
a Spanish-language book attacking the U.S. and  Europe  for 500
years of “pillage” of  Latin America ’s natural resources.  Chavez, while advised by his doctors to stay clear of the
summit and continue treatment for cancer in Cuba, criticized the
U.S. and Canadian presence, saying they shouldn’t participate
because they oppose Cuba’s inclusion and haven’t backed
Argentina’s efforts to regain the Falkland Islands.  “They oppose these issues because they’re part of the old
empires,” Chavez said in a speech April 13 outside the
presidential palace in Caracas. “One of the issues that we need
to talk about at the summit is Yankee interventionism. How long
will this go on for, Mr. Obama?”  Cuba Controversy  National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said the
U.S. refusal to welcome Cuba until President Raul Castro’s
regime implements democratic reforms is why leaders didn’t issue
a joint statement.  “It is my hope” that Cuba will look at countries like
 Brazil ,  Chile  and Colombia and conclude that “maybe there’s a
new path to take,” Obama said alongside Santos yesterday.
“When that happens they’re going to have a welcome hand
extended” by the U.S.  Earlier, on April 13, he criticized the press for focusing
on controversies that “date back before I was born,” to the
era of “gunboat diplomacy and Yankees and the Cold War.” He
cited steps taken by his administration to engage Cuba such as
allowing Cuban-Americans to visit more frequently and send
remittances to relatives on the Caribbean island.  Clinton Dancing  Still, underscoring the differences that separate the U.S.
from Cuba, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  was photographed
 dancing  salsa and sipping beer at the Café Havana, a bar named
for the Cuban capital that Americans are banned from visiting as
a result of the half-century trade embargo.  Leaders also took aim at U.S.-orchestrated policies that
criminalize drug use and rely on troops to fight regional drug
traffickers. As violence in Central America and Mexico reaches
record levels, Guatemalan President Otto Perez has led calls by
regional governments to consider a change in tactics such as
decriminalizing or legalizing illicit drug use.  Obama said he’s willing to debate the war on drugs and
sympathizes with the frustration of Latin Americans caught in
the crossfire of cartels supplying cocaine and other drugs to
U.S. consumers. Still, he said he personally and his
administration opposes legalization.  “Beyond the exchange of views, it does not appear that
this summit accomplished anything new,” said Robert A. Pastor,
a national security adviser for Latin America during the
administration of  Jimmy Carter .  With leaders failing to make progress on key issues, it’s
no wonder that the most talked about subject was the departed
Secret Service agents.  “For Obama, the trip was an example of how easily good
intentions on the part of a president can be trumped by a sex
scandal,”  Susan MacManus , a professor of political science at
the University of  South Florida  in Tampa, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Cartagena at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Cartagena at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  