-- Senate Blocks Buffett Rule 30% Tax Floor on Top Earners
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-17T15:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/senate-blocks-buffett-rule-30-tax-floor-on-top-earners.html
The  U.S. Senate  blocked the
proposed Buffett rule that would set a minimum 30 percent
federal tax rate for the highest earners, stopping the
legislation while an election-year debate on tax policy and
income inequality continues.  The 51-45 vote yesterday in Washington fell short of the 60
needed to advance the measure, and Republicans derided the
Buffett rule as a political stunt. President  Barack Obama  has
been campaigning for the legislation across the country,
maintaining that it’s unfair that some high-income taxpayers use
deductions and preferential tax treatment of investment income
to pay lower rates than many middle-income wage earners.  “Let’s be clear,” said Senator  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania
Republican. The proposal “is not a serious attempt to deal with
tax reform or the budget.”  The Republican roadblock of the measure may intensify
partisan wrangling as Democrats seek to take advantage of public
support for the idea. A Gallup poll last week showed about six
in 10 voters favor the idea.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  said his fellow
Democrats will return to the issue repeatedly and propose the
minimum tax to pay for such items as a research and development
tax credit or spending for college aid.  ‘Common Sense’ Idea  “Republicans want to give even further tax breaks to
millionaires and billionaires, while we think the very wealthy
should share in more sacrifice so the burden doesn’t fall on the
middle class,” Schumer said.  In a statement released after the vote, Obama criticized
Republicans for blocking what he called a “common sense” idea.  “At a time when we have significant deficits to close and
serious investments to make to strengthen our economy, we simply
cannot afford to keep spending money on tax cuts that the
wealthiest Americans don’t need and didn’t ask for,” he said.  Speaking to Tea Party supporters in Philadelphia last
night, Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said the
Buffett rule would do little to help the struggling economy or
to reduce the federal  budget deficit .  “Someone calculated that the taxes he would raise in his
Buffett rule would pay for 11 hours of government,” Romney said
of Obama at an anti-tax rally. “This is not exactly a grand
idea.”  Along Party Lines  The vote on advancing the measure was along party lines,
with two exceptions. Republican  Susan Collins  of Maine voted to
move the bill forward and Democrat Mark Pryor of Arkansas voted
against it. Four senators -- one Democrat, two Republicans and
independent Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut -- were absent.  “There is no disputing that the wealthy should pay their
fair share in taxes,” Pryor said in a statement. “This
inequity should be fixed as part of broad  tax reform , not as a
political ploy meant to score points.”  The bill, sponsored by Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse , a
Democrat from  Rhode Island , would impose a minimum tax rate of
30 percent for households with adjusted gross incomes of at
least $2 million. Those with at least $1 million in income would
pay the tax on a sliding scale to bring their rates closer to 30
percent.  The calculation includes payroll taxes as well as a 3.8
percent tax on unearned income set to take effect for high
earners next year. Taxpayers would still be able to deduct
charitable contributions.  High-Income Households  The tax would affect a minority of high-income households
that manage to pay relatively low rates because of deductions
and preferential tax rates on investment income. The bill is
named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who says he pays
a lower tax rate than his secretary.  The bill would raise $47 billion over the next decade,
assuming that existing income tax cuts are allowed to expire as
scheduled at the end of 2012. If those tax cuts were extended,
the measure would raise about $162 billion, according to
Whitehouse’s office.  By 2015, the plan would impose higher taxes for 217,000
households, according to the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan
research group in  Washington .  According to administration data, the median effective tax
rate for the middle 20 percent of U.S. taxpayers is 13.3
percent, including income, payroll and corporate taxes. For the
top 1 percent of taxpayers, the rate is 29.6 percent, according
to the 2012 Economic Report of the President. Still, 10 percent
of high-income households have tax rates of 8.7 percent or less.  Equal Outcomes  Democrats are seeking equality of outcomes instead of
equality of opportunity, said Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming
Republican.  “Tax increases won’t help our fragile economy, and they
won’t put the brakes on Washington’s out-of-control spending,”
he said.  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  is also
using today’s tax-filing deadline to highlight  tax policy . The
House is set to vote April 19 on a $46 billion, one-year tax cut
for businesses with fewer than 500 employees.  Under the bill sponsored by Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, companies would be able to deduct as much
as 20 percent of their profits.  “If we can afford small businesses just a little easier
time in terms of managing their affairs, they’ll hire more
people, they’ll invest in capital equipment -- which then sends
more money and opportunity and demand into the economy --
they’ll create jobs in another location,” he said today.  The Buffett rule bill is S. 2230. The House tax bill is
H.R. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  