-- Shooting Stirs Stand Your Ground Critics at NRA Meeting
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-04-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/shooting-stirs-stand-your-ground-critics-at-nra-meeting.html
Stan Spruill keeps a loaded bedside
gun to protect himself, he said while trying on a $70
“concealed-carry denim vest” at the  National Rifle Association 
convention in  St. Louis . Still, he’s not sure a Florida
Neighborhood Watch volunteer was justified in killing Trayvon Martin.  George Zimmerman suspected Martin of being a burglar and on
Feb. 26 shot the unarmed 17-year-old during a confrontation
after trailing him through a Sanford subdivision. Police
initially didn’t charge him, thanks to a so-called Stand Your
Ground law backed by the NRA. The measure allows citizens to use
force when they are threatened -- even when they can retreat.  “I’m going to stand my ground in my own home,” Spruill,
62, a furniture-company fleet manager from Lee’s Summit,
Missouri, and a 25-year NRA member, said in an interview. “I’m
not going to chase the guy down the street.”  While Spruill and others at the NRA’s 141st annual meeting
said they want all the facts about that night, the law backed by
the NRA in  Florida  and 24 other states faces new questions from
lawmakers in at least three states about whether the expansion
of the centuries-old doctrine allowing people to defend
themselves when attacked in their homes goes too far.  In St. Louis, thousands of NRA faithful came to celebrate
their Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. They viewed
pistols, rifles, gun sights and gear in 500,000 square feet of
space at the America’s Center Convention Complex. They listened
to Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  and comedian
Larry the Cable Guy at the Edward Jones Dome.  ‘Shoot First’  Opponents, including three people who were in the Arizona
parking lot where former U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords 
was shot last year, also came and took out a full-page ad in the
St. Louis Post-Dispatch calling for repeal of what they call
“shoot-first laws.”  Critics of Stand Your Ground measures are exploiting
Martin’s death, said Chris W. Cox, executive director of the
NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action. The association will
“not back down an inch,” he said.  “There is nothing wrong with allowing honest people the
ability to defend themselves, and there’s everything wrong with
governments and politicians trying to restrict that right,” Cox
said in an interview April 14. “You can count on the National
Rifle Association to push back in every state and every city
across the country.”  Second Thoughts  In  Georgia ,  Louisiana , and  South Carolina , lawmakers have
proposed limiting self-defense laws or barring the use of deadly
force against an aggressor who is running away, according to the
 National Conference of State Legislatures .  It’s the NRA’s job to explain why such laws are needed,
said Matt Blunt, a board member and former Republican Missouri
governor who signed a version of Stand your Ground in 2007. He
said in an interview if the facts of the Martin shooting are as
reported, he doesn’t think Florida’s law would apply.  “Stand Your Ground doesn’t say that, if you see somebody’s
that’s suspicious, that you can follow them and try to figure
out what’s going on,” Blunt said. “It doesn’t talk about that
obviously at all.”  After Sanford police released Zimmerman, a state prosecutor
charged him April 11 with second-degree murder. His lawyers have
said he will plead not guilty. The Stand Your Ground law may
make him hard to convict, Florida defense attorneys have said.  In 2005, the state expanded the centuries-old “castle
doctrine.” The new measure says someone attacked outside the
home has no duty to retreat and can “stand his or her ground
and meet force with force, including deadly force.”  Searching for Sense  That idea is now law in half the states, with some allowing
deadly force in or outside the home, and others allowing action
only in locations such as a home, vehicle or business, according
to the NCSL.  Critics, including the group Licensedtokill.org, which says 
it has collected more than 200,000 virtual signatures on a 
petition, say the laws encourage “gun-toting vigilantism.”  “We’re not against Second Amendment rights,” said
Patricia Maisch, 63, of Tucson, who was in the grocery-store
parking lot where Giffords was shot January 2011 by an obsessed
constituent. “We just think there could be some more sensible
ways to write laws.”  She said in an interview that she came to St. Louis to
rally against the Florida law with Bill Badger, who was wounded
and tackled Giffords’s shooter, and Mavy Stoddard, who was shot
and her husband killed that day.  Final Moments  “I full well know what it’s like to shoot first and then
think about it,” Stoddard, 77, said in an interview. “My
husband was shot, I felt his body give. I was holding him when
he died.”  While the facts surrounding the Florida shooting remain
murky, guns can save lives, said Steve Bodenweiser, 55, an NRA
life member from Hamburg,  Pennsylvania . He mentioned reports
about a 65-year-old man who shot two teens, killing one, after
they knocked him from his bicycle and tried to rob him in
January, according to the  Reading Eagle . The man was not
charged, the newspaper said.  “A gentleman like that has a right to protect himself,”
Bodenweiser, owner of an auto-repair shop, said in an interview.  The NRA has about 4 million members, and Executive Vice
President Wayne LaPierre told those at an April 14 board meeting
that they will prevail against efforts to weaken gun laws
because they “represent the very best of America's character and
strength.”  Armed Citizenry  “When we fight, we win,” he said. “And when it comes to
defending freedom, no one fights harder, longer and stronger
than we do.”  LaPierre said U.S. gun owners have increased to 100 million
from 65 million 20 years ago. There has been a 30 percent
increase in first-time buyers since the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, said Paul Pluff, director of marketing
services for gun maker  Smith & Wesson Holding Co. (SWHC)  of
Springfield,  Massachusetts , the second-leading seller behind
 Sturm, Ruger & Co. Inc. (RGR) , of Southport,  Connecticut .  Smith & Wesson was among more than 550 exhibitors. At its
exhibit, men and women were inspecting hunting, military and
law-enforcement weapons costing from $300 to $2,600.  ‘Wall of Guns’  Patrons also could buy raffle tickets to win a selection
from a “Wall of Guns,” and there was an NRA store selling
books such as “Self-Defense Laws of all 50 States,” a $70 NRA
Mantis Bulldog knife and clothing items including a $40 gun
holster that attaches to the middle of a bra.  The NRA, which  began  as a grassroots organization dedicated
to teaching marksmanship, brings in more than $200 million a
year from dues, contributions and other sources. It spent $125.9
million last year on program services, including lobbying,
according to its annual report.  The Florida shooting may make it harder to pass gun laws
because it has “added to the fear,” said Ed Schieffer, a
Democratic state representative in  Missouri  who has sponsored a
bill to allow concealed weapons on buses.  “It’s stirred up more people emotionally, and this is
definitely an emotional issue,” Schieffer said.  With assistance from  William Selway  in  Washington  and Michael C.
Bender in Tallahassee. Editors: Stephen Merelman,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in St. Louis at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  