-- South Korea Trims Growth Forecast on Europe Woes: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-16T04:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/south-korea-trims-growth-forecast-on-europe-woes-economy.html
The  Bank of Korea  lowered its
economic growth forecast for this year as rising bond yields in
 Spain  highlight the threat to Asian exports from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and austerity measures.  Gross domestic product will expand 3.5 percent, less than
the 3.7 percent estimate in December, the central bank said
today in a statement.  Korea’s monetary authority sees a 0.3 percent contraction
in the euro region’s economy this year that will slow world
trade growth even as elevated oil prices contribute to inflation
risks.  India  may cut benchmark interest rates for the first time
in three years as  Asia ’s second-largest economy slows, a
Bloomberg News survey indicates before the central bank’s policy
board meets tomorrow.  “In terms of the upside and downside risks to the growth
path, the downside predominates, including the euro area
sovereign-debt crisis and the sharp run-up in oil prices owing
to geopolitical risks,” the central bank said.  Asian stocks fell the most in a week, the euro weakened and
commodities dropped as Spain prepared to auction bonds. The yuan
declined as  China  doubled the currency’s trading band against
the dollar. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.9 percent as
of 12:20 p.m. in  Tokyo .  “If Spain’s yields continue to rise, then they’re going to
get to a point where they may well need some form of assistance,
as Greece did,” said Imre Speizer, a strategist in Auckland at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   India’s Inflation  India may report today that inflation slowed to 6.65
percent in March from 6.95 percent in February, according to the
wholesale price index that serves as a benchmark gauge, a
Bloomberg survey of analysts indicates. Rising wages, weakness
in the rupee and elevated oil costs will put a floor under
inflation in coming months, Moody’s Analytics said today.  Elsewhere, trade balance figures are due today from  Italy 
and the euro region, while the U.S. may report that retail sales
grew at a slower pace.  A 0.3 percent rise in retail purchases in the world’s
biggest economy in March would follow a 1.1 percent increase in
February that was the biggest in five months, according to the
median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
ahead of Commerce Department figures.  South  Korea  kept borrowing costs unchanged for a 10th
straight month last week as  North Korea  launched a rocket. The
central bank said last week that the economy has shown signs of
a moderate recovery, with consumption and construction
investment increasing.  Faster Growth  “The Korean economy will post a growth rate of around 1
percent in the first half of 2012, pulling out of its sluggish
0.3 percent growth during the fourth quarter of last year,” the
central bank said. “From the latter half, economic activity is
expected to show an uptrend, albeit modest, with the growth rate
picking up to the low 1 percent range.”  Consumer prices  are expected to rise 3.2 percent this year,
less than an earlier forecast of a 3.3 percent gain. Core
prices, excluding oil and agricultural products, may rise 2.6
percent this year and 3.2 percent next year, the central bank
said.  Next year,  economic growth  will likely accelerate to 4.2
percent while inflation will slow to 3.1 percent, the BOK said.  “The growth forecast revision was modest, suggesting that
the central bank will stand pat for an extended period of
time,” said Lee Sang Jae, a senior economist at Hyundai
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Given the view that the economy will
be better in the second half, they will not likely cut  interest
rates , while moderating inflation calls for no urgent need of a
rate hike.”  Trade, Jobs  The  current-account surplus  is expected to narrow to $12.5
billion in 2013 from an estimated $14.5 billion this year, the
Bank of Korea said. It also projected 350,000 jobs will be
created in 2012 and 320,000 jobs next year, with an  unemployment
rate  at 3.3 percent each year.  Consumer prices rose 2.6 percent in March from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in 20 months. Subsidies for child care
and an expanded free school lunch program cut price gains by 0.5
percentage point, with a similar effect to last until February,
according to Ahn Hyung Jun, a director at Statistics Korea.  “Higher-than-expected  oil prices  will likely offset the
impact of an expanded social welfare program on consumer
inflation,” Shin Woon, director-general of the research
department at the Bank of Korea, told reporters in Seoul today.
“Inflation pressures remain in place as the childcare and
school lunch fees are to be paid by the government.”  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 3.25 percent last week. The
unanimous rate decision was predicted by all 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The BOK governor’s comments at the April 13 press
conference were moderately more hawkish, in our view,
highlighting its endeavors to lower inflation expectations,”
 Kwon Goohoon , an economist at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in Seoul,
said in a note on April 13. “We do not expect the normalization
stance to be changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  