-- South Africa’s Gordhan Says European Crisis Not Yet Over
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-16T12:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/south-africa-s-gordhan-says-europe-crisis-not-yet-over.html
The European debt crisis isn’t over
and continues to threaten economic growth in  South Africa ,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  The crisis “clearly” hasn’t reach an end, Gordhan told
reporters today in Johannesburg. “I admit we are not going to
easily meet some of the targets we have set.”  Economic growth in  Africa ’s largest economy will slow this
year as a recession in  Europe  reduces demand for manufactured
goods from South Africa, Gordhan and Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  have said. Spanish bond yields rose to the highest in
more than four months, raising concern that that nation’s
borrowing costs may further threaten growth.  South Africa’s gross domestic product will expand 3 percent
this year after growing 3.1 percent last year, Marcus said on
March 29. The economy may expand more than the government’s
estimate of 2.7 percent this year, Gordhan said on April 1,
declining to give an estimate.  GDP is growing less than the 7 percent the government says
is needed to slash the country’s 23.9 percent unemployment rate.  The government is reviewing unsecured lending by the
largest lenders as an increase threatens to fuel inflation, Rene van Wyk, the nation’s registrar of banks, said in an interview
March 15. Unsecured lending rose 53 percent to 101.1 billion
rand ($12.7 billion) in the third quarter from a year earlier.  “There is significant growth in unsecured lending,”
Gordhan said. “If that unsecured lending is feeding into
consumption rather than into investment purposes for households
and businesses, then that is worrying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  