-- South Sudan Says Sudan Bombs Hit 2 Towns, UN Camp
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-04-16T20:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/south-sudan-says-sudan-bombs-hit-2-towns-un-camp.html
South Sudan  said  Sudan  bombed two
towns in Unity state, killing at least four civilians and
wounding 21. A camp of United Nations peacekeepers and oil
fields in the region of Heglig were bombed, South Sudan said.  Sudanese planes yesterday dropped eight bombs on
residential areas in Bentiu, the Unity state capital, and six on
the town of Mayom, South Sudanese government spokesman Barnaba
Marial Benjamin said today by phone. The attack on the UN camp
caused no casualties, he said.  “They are bombing at random,” Benjamin said from Juba,
South Sudan’s capital. Facilities at oil fields in Heglig were
hit, and southern officials are investigating the damage, he
said.  Sudanese army spokesman al-Sawarami Khaled denied bombing
Bentiu. “We’re just defending our land, and we have nothing to
do with what’s happening in Unity state” Khaled said today by
phone from Khartoum.  In  Washington , State Department spokesman Mark Toner said
Sudanese forces were responsible for bombing the UN camp. “ Of
course, we denounce the continued aerial bombardment by the
Sudanese armed forces of South Sudan, which includes civilian
areas,” he said.  “We want to see, bottom line, an immediate and
unconditional cessation of hostilities,” Toner said. “South
Sudan needs to withdraw from Heglig, and, you know, Sudan needs
to stop its aerial bombardment, and both sides need to get
back” to the African Union mechanism for resolving outstanding
issues.  U.S. special envoy Princeton Lyman met today with South
Sudan President  Salva Kiir  in Juba to discuss how to de-escalate
tensions, Toner said.  The Sudanese parliament in Khartoum, the capital, voted to
declare the government of South Sudan an “enemy.” Legislators
on April 11 approved a mobilization of the armed forces and the
suspension of talks with the south.  South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July last year after a
2005 peace deal ended two decades of war. Fighting in the ill-
defined border region separating the two nations broke out after
South Sudanese forces seized control of the oil-rich Heglig
region on April 10.  Sudanese Information Minister Abdalla Ali Massar said his
government’s army hadn’t attacked the  oil fields  in Heglig and
that any damage to them was caused by South Sudan’s forces, the
state-run Sudan News Agency reported yesterday.  South Sudan assumed control of about three quarters of the
formerly unified country’s oil production of 490,000 barrels a
day. Most of the crude is pumped by the  China National Petroleum
Corp. (CNPZ) ,  Malaysia ’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd (PET) . and India’s ONGC
Videsh Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Nairobi, Kenya at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  