-- South Sudan Says Sudan Bombs Hit 2 Towns, Oil Field, UN Camp
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-04-16T13:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/south-sudan-says-sudan-bombs-hit-2-towns-oil-field-un-camp-1-.html
South  Sudan  said Sudan bombed two
towns in Unity state, killing at least four civilians and
wounding 21, a camp of United Nations peacekeepers and  oil
fields  in the disputed region of Heglig.  Sudanese planes yesterday dropped eight bombs on
residential areas in Bentiu, the Unity state capital, and six on
the town of Mayom, South Sudanese government spokesman Barnaba
Marial Benjamin said today by phone. The attack on the UN camp
caused no casualties, he said.  “They are bombing at random,” Benjamin said from Juba,
South Sudan’s capital. Facilities at oil fields in Heglig were
also hit, and southern officials are investigating the damage,
he said.  The Sudanese parliament in Khartoum, the capital, voted to
declare the government of  South Sudan  an “enemy.” Legislators
on April 11 approved a mobilization of the armed forces and the
suspension of talks with the south.  South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July last year after a
2005 peace deal ended two decades of war. New fighting in the
ill-defined border region separating the two nations broke out
after South Sudanese forces seized control of the oil-rich
Heglig region on April 10.  Sudanese Information Minister Abdalla Ali Massar said his
government’s army hadn’t attacked the oil fields in Heglig and
that any damage to them was caused by South Sudan’s forces, the
state-run Sudan News Agency reported yesterday. Al-Sawarami
Khaled, a spokesman for Sudan’s army in Khartoum, didn’t answer
calls seeking comment.  South Sudan assumed control of about three-quarters of the
formerly unified country’s oil production of 490,000 barrels a
day. Most of the crude is pumped by the  China National Petroleum
Corp. (CNPZ) ,  Malaysia ’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. (PET)  and India’s ONGC
Videsh Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Nairobi, Kenya at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  