-- Spain Pledges Action Against Argentina Over YPF Seizure
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-04-17T08:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/spain-pledges-decisive-action-against-argentina-over-ypf-seizure.html
The Spanish government pledged to
take “decisive” action against  Argentina  within days, after
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  seized  YPF SA (YPFD) , the
Argentine  oil company  majority-owned by  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   “The Spanish government is working on measures that will
be announced in the coming days,” Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said at a press conference in  Madrid  last night. “They
will be clear and decisive.”  Fernandez took control of Argentina’s largest crude
producer yesterday, ousting Spain’s Repsol, after a dispute over
slumping oil output and investments. She replaced Chief
Executive Officer Sebastian Eskenazi with Planning Minister
Julio De Vido and plans to send a bill to Argentina’s Congress
to take a 51 percent stake in the company.  Repsol plunged as much as 9 percent, the biggest drop in
more than three years, and traded down 6.2 percent at 16.40
euros as of 10:09 a.m. in Madrid.  Repsol Chief Executive Officer  Antonio Brufau  said
Argentina aimed to take over YPF cheaply and that the company
demands compensation. “The expropriation isn’t anything more
than a way to cover up the social and economic crisis Argentina
is suffering at the moment,” Brufau told journalists in Madrid.  Spanish ‘Consequences’  Soria, Spain’s industry minister, said “the consequences
will be in the areas of diplomacy, trade, industry and energy,”
in an interview on state radio station RNE today. He declined to
be more specific before measures are implemented and said they
will be announced in the coming days.  Repsol’s 57.4 percent stake in YPF was worth 4.1 billion
euros ($5.4 billion) at the end of last year, the Madrid-based
company said in a regulatory statement yesterday. The unit
accounted for 21 percent of profit and 34 percent of investment
in 2011. Repsol also said it is owed 1.54 billion euros by Grupo
Petersen, which was YPF’s second-biggest shareholder.  Repsol said the move is “manifestly illegal” and that it
will take all legal measures to defend the value of its assets
and the interests of its shareholders.  “This is a patent breach of the obligations the Argentine
state took on with the privatization of YPF, violating the most
fundamental principles of a secure legal framework,” Repsol
said in the statement.  Spain ’s allies in the European Union and abroad will
support it, said Maria Dolores Cospedal, general secretary of
the governing  People’s Party .  “The government has contacted the commission and the
European institutions to inform them of this arbitrary decision
and has asked that this measure should be urgently discussed at
the plenary session now being held in Strasbourg,” Foreign
Minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  