-- Spain’s Austerity Threatens Economy, HSBC Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-16T16:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/spain-s-austerity-threatens-economy-hsbc-says-tom-keene.html
Spain ’s efforts to cut its debt
burden and calm the fears of lenders are increasing the
country’s risk of a deeper recession and financial crisis, HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Madhur Jha said.  Spain needs more external financial help to “buy time”
for its government to implement reforms to its housing market,
pension system and labor market, Jha said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene.
Credit-default swaps insuring Spanish government debt rose today
to a record in London, according to CMA, signaling deterioration
in investor perceptions of  credit quality .  “People are beginning to realize the more and more
austerity you impose on an economy, the worse it becomes in
terms of growth and also in terms of debt sustainability,” said
Jha, an HSBC Bank global economist based in  London . “There
needs to be more in terms of actual financial support.”  Yields on Spain’s  10-year bonds  climbed to 6.16 percent
today, the highest level since Dec. 1, before trading at 6.07
percent. Credit-default swaps jumped to 521, CMA prices showed.
They have jumped from 431 at the start of the month and 380 at
the end of 2011.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said today Spain must cut its
 budget deficit  to maintain access to financing.  “These kinds of imbalances have built up over so many
years, you can’t give a country one or two years to get rid of
those imbalances,” Jha said. “Structural reforms have to take
place.”  The country is scheduled to sell as much as 3 billion euros
($3.9 billion) of 12- and 18-month bills tomorrow and auction
2.5 billion euros of notes on April 19 due in October 2014 and
January 2022.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  