-- Spain, Italy Need to Reinforce Economic Growth, Borg Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   L i n z i e   J a n i s
-- 2012-04-16T11:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/spain-italy-need-to-reinforce-economic-growth-borg-says-1-.html
Spain  and Italy should take
measures to reinforce growth amid renewed turmoil over European
government finances, Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  Spain will need to deliver more measures, “particularly
when it comes to the growth-side of the economy,” Borg said in
an interview on Bloomberg TV.  Renewed concerns over Spain’s economy and deficits sent
Spanish bond yields surging last week. European officials travel
to  Washington  this week seeking a bigger global war chest to
combat the debt crisis as Spain’s government battles to quell
renewed market turmoil over its finances.  “They do have a deficit problem but they also have a
regulatory burden and lack of competitiveness in their private
sector that should be dealt with,” Borg said. “They have been
ambitious when it comes to the labor market but I would see an
alternative both for them and for  Italy  to start to think about
what they can do to reinforce the growth forces.”  The Swedish government today cut its growth forecast for
the largest Nordic economy to 0.4 percent, less than half its
previous prediction, and estimated an expansion of 3.3 percent
next year. The government also said it expects a  budget deficit 
this year, before finances improve in 2013.  “We should see some better growth in the years to come but
obviously, I mean, if the uncertainty in Spain and the risks
considering the political process in Italy go on we’re also
prepared for that,” he said.  Sweden’s economy shrank at the end of last year as slumping
demand from  Europe  reduced exports. Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  ’s minority-government, which won a second four-year
term in 2010, has scrapped plans for more income tax cuts after
lowering taxes five times since taking power in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linzie Janis in London at 
 ljanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  