-- Spanish King Criticized for Elephant Hunting as Crisis Deepens
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-16T11:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/spanish-king-criticized-for-elephant-hunting-as-crisis-deepens.html
Spain ’s King Juan Carlos faced
unprecedented criticism from politicians and newspapers after
reports he went elephant hunting in  Botswana  as his country
fights to avoid becoming the next victim of the debt crisis.  “In the current climate, there are things that citizens
don’t understand and this is one of them,” Patxi Lopez,
president of the Basque Country and a leading member of the
opposition Socialist party, said in an interview with  Cadena Ser 
today. To apologize “wouldn’t be a bad idea,” he said.  The king, 74, broke his hip while on a private trip to
Botswana, the palace said in a statement on its website on April
14. Spanish newspapers including El Mundo and El Pais reported
that he was hunting elephants, and printed pictures of him
posing with a gun in front of an elephant slumped against a tree
taken during a similar outing in 2006. The palace declined to
comment today on what the monarch was doing in Botswana.  The king came to the throne after the death of dictator
 Francisco Franco  in 1975, and Spaniards’ support for his role
overseeing the transition to democracy and facing down an
attempted coup has traditionally shielded him from criticism by
politicians or the media.  That may be changing as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
government strives to prevent the nation from needing an
international bailout, forcing Spaniards to confront a 24
percent  unemployment  rate and the deepest budget cuts in at
least three decades.  ‘Inopportune Moment’  El Mundo, a newspaper that tends to back Rajoy’s ruling
 People’s Party , said in a full-page editorial yesterday that the
king’s trip was “irresponsible,” and taken “at the most
inopportune moment.” The trip may end up pushing him to
abdicate, the newspaper  20 Minutos  said today. Tomas Gomez, the
leader of the Socialists in Madrid, said yesterday the king
should choose between serving Spaniards and abdicating.  Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the Socialists’ leader, declined
to criticize the king publicly. While the Socialist party was
traditionally republican, it backed the monarchy as part of the
transition to democracy.  “If I have something to say to the king I will say it, and
believe me, I’m going to say it to him,” Rubalcaba, 60, said in
an interview with state broadcaster TVE. “I know he will
listen.”  The reports about the hunting trip come as the king’s son-
in-law, Inaki Urdangarin, is on trial in a corruption case.
Separately, the king’s grandson was hospitalized last week for
shooting himself in the foot in a hunting accident, Efe newswire
reported.  Rajoy, whose popularity is suffering amid austerity
measures, hasn’t commented on the trip and plans to meet the
monarch on April 20, his office said on its website. Support for
the ruling PP fell to 38 percent from 46 percent last month as
Rajoy’s approval rating was 32 percent, according to a poll
published by El Pais yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  