-- Spirit Aero Sees Short-Term Delays Amid Tornado Repair
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-16T20:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/spirit-aero-sees-short-term-delays-amid-tornado-repair-1-.html
Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc. (SPR) , a
fuselage supplier to  Boeing Co. (BA) , projected short-term delivery
delays after a tornado that damaged its Wichita, Kansas, plant
left production equipment mostly unaffected.  The 45-building complex remains closed at least through
tomorrow for damage evaluation, and Spirit said it will work
with customers to minimize late shipping of orders. No cost
estimate for damage had been made as of yesterday, Ken Evans, a
spokesman, said by telephone.  “There is damage to multiple buildings, primarily roofs
and walls, but no damage to product that we’ve seen,” Evans
said. “We’ve done a pretty significant inventory and do believe
that a majority of our production capability is intact.” The
plant will probably reopen in zones, he said.  Spirit, which has 10,800 employees in Wichita, builds the
entire fuselage for Boeing’s single-aisle 737 and sections of
every other Boeing airliner. At the Chicago-based planemaker’s
request, it’s boosting production of 737 airframes by about a
third through 2014 to accommodate demand for the world’s most
widely flown jet.  Spirit fell 1.5 percent to $24.05 at the close of regular
trading in  New York . Boeing dropped 0.3 percent to $72.68.  Boeing Damage  The 737 fuselage accounts for 50 percent of Spirit’s
revenue and the company is producing 35 per month, Evans said. A
tornado in 1991 was the last time the company’s factories were
damaged by a twister, he said.  “If delays of a few weeks are in the ballpark, we would
expect Spirit to implement temporary solutions to get production
back up and to ‘catch up’ through extra shifts/workdays over
weeks or a few months,” Carter Copeland and Joseph F. Campbell,
aerospace analysts with Barclays Plc in New York, said in a note
today.  Spirit was sold by Boeing to buyout firm Onex Corp. in
2005, and shares were sold to the public in 2006. While the
supplier also makes parts for other manufacturers, including
 Airbus SAS (EAB) , Boeing remains its biggest customer.  Boeing’s own plant in Wichita suffered building damage and
doesn’t have power, said Cindy Wall, a company spokeswoman.
Employees who aren’t part of the damage assessment team have
been instructed to stay home, she said.  The planemaker said earlier this year it would close
operations in Wichita, where it has built airplanes since 1929,
by the end of 2013 as military projects dry up amid U.S.
spending constraints.  Job reductions at the plant, which employs more than 2,160
workers, will begin in the third quarter, Boeing said in
January.  Hawker Beechcraft  Hawker Beechcraft Corp. is operating normally today after
sustaining isolated damage to the roof of its Plant IV, Sarah
Estes, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. No workers were injured, and no aircraft were
damaged, Estes said.  Throughout the region, the storm caused more than $280
million of destruction, according to the  Wichita Eagle . No one
was killed, it said. Sedgwick County in  Kansas , where Wichita is
located, was declared a disaster area.  More than 100 tornadoes ripped through the U.S. Midwest on
the night of April 14, killing at least five people in  Oklahoma ,
leveling buildings and cutting power to thousands, the
 Associated Press  reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  