-- Spread Widest to New Zealand in 18 Months on China
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-04-16T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/spread-widest-to-n-z-in-18-months-on-china-australia-credit.html
Slowing economic growth in  China  is
turning into good news for investors in Australia’s government
bonds, as benchmark yields drop to the lowest level compared
with New Zealand debt in 18 months.  Australia’s 10-year yield fell to 3.80 percent yesterday,
compared with 4.14 percent for similar-dated New Zealand notes,
and the gap reached the widest since September 2010 last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Australian debt
returned 0.7 percent to investors this year, as New Zealand’s
lost 0.3 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  While China is the biggest buyer from both countries,
Australia depends on the world’s second-largest economy for 23
percent of its exports, compared with 12 percent for New
Zealand. Policy makers in New Zealand are using record-low
 interest rates  at 2.5 percent to foster a recovery from the
nation’s deadliest earthquake in eight decades. The  Reserve Bank 
of Australia signaled April 3 it may cut borrowing costs next
month from 4.25 percent on concern growth is weakening.  “Rate cut expectations are obviously more aggressive in
Australia than New Zealand, as the global economy, in particular
China, has slowed down,” said Gavin Stacey, chief interest-rate
strategist at  Barclays Capital  in Sydney. “The Australian
market has a lot more capacity to see borrowing costs moving
lower, driven by the RBA, if the global economy is weak, given
New Zealand already has very low interest rates.”  Yield Declines  The  spread  between benchmark yields for Australia and New
Zealand widened to 37 basis points on April 13, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia ’s  10-year yield  dropped 54
basis points from this year’s high of 4.35 percent reached March
20. That’s the biggest four-week decline since November 2011.
The 15-year rate fell to as low as 4.07 percent yesterday, as
all the country’s sovereign yields hold below the RBA’s cash-
rate target.  New Zealand’s 10-year yield has climbed 40 basis points
from a record-low 3.74 percent on Dec. 16.  Australian federal notes advanced 0.9 percent this month,
the fifth-best performers among the 26 markets tracked by
Bloomberg and the the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. That compares with a 0.4 percent gain for New
Zealand’s securities.  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in Australia’s credit markets, the Markit iTraxx
Australia index of credit-default swaps that gauges perceptions
of corporate bond risk rose six basis points this month to 153.2
on April 13, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate securities instead of government debt has dropped 28
basis points this year to 264, according to Merrill Lynch data.  The gap between rates on sovereign bonds and inflation-
linked notes show traders expect a 2.60 percent annual advance
in consumer prices over the next decade.  Australia’s dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency,
bought $1.0329 as of 5 p.m. yesterday in Sydney. The currency
climbed 41 percent over the past three years and reached a post-
float high of $1.1081 on July 27. The so-called Aussie was at
NZ$1.2607 after falling to as low as NZ$1.2520 on April 13, the
weakest level since Oct. 4.  The Aussie dropped 2 percent over the past month against
its major peers, the worst performance among the 10 currencies
covered by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted indexes.  Biggest Cuts  Traders predict Australia’s key interest rate will decrease
by 97 basis points within a year, the biggest reduction among
the 10 developed central banks tracked by a Credit Suisse Group
AG index. New Zealand’s will be up by 11 basis points, the data
show.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled a willingness to lower
borrowing costs after officials “judged the pace of output
growth to be somewhat lower than earlier estimated.” The
central bank is waiting for an April 24 report on consumer
prices before deciding whether to lower rates, he said in a
statement on April after the decision to leave borrowing costs
unchanged.  “It looks like we’re going into some further modest easing
of policy here,” said  Tony Morriss , head of interest-rate
research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
Sydney. “Some of the data in Australia has been a little bit
disappointing recently. It is also perceived to be far more
exposed to growth in China, and there are concerns that the
economy there is slowing.”  ANZ expects that the Chinese economy will remain robust
this year, he said.  Trade Deficit  Growth in China, Australia’s biggest trading partner,
slowed more than forecast to 8.1 percent in the three months
through March 31 from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said last week. That’s the least in almost three
years and compares with an 8.9 percent gain in the previous
period.  Australia posted its second-straight  trade deficit  in
February as exports declined. The number of loans granted to
build or buy houses and apartments fell 2.5 percent in February
from a month earlier, the biggest drop since March 2011, the
statistics bureau said April 11.  Spending Cuts  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , whose government is slumping
in opinion polls and faces an election next year, has pledged to
end four years of deficits in the fiscal year that begins July
1, prompting concern that fiscal austerity will act as a drag on
the economy.  In contrast,  New Zealand ’s NZ$20 billion ($16.4 billion)
reconstruction of earthquake-devastated Christchurch is poised
to bolster the labor market and construction.  The rebuilding of the nation’s second-biggest city after a
February 2011 temblor killed 185 people may reach full pace as
early as this year, increasing demand for workers, Finance
Minister  Bill English  said April 12. House sales in the smaller
South Pacific nation rose 25.3 percent in March from a year
earlier, according to data yesterday from the  Real Estate
Institute of New Zealand . That’s the best monthly result since
November 2007.  New Zealand’s economy will expand 3.4 percent in 2013,
while Australia will probably grow 3.3 percent, according to the
median forecasts in separate Bloomberg News surveys.  The RBA lowered its  forecasts  for growth and inflation in
February. It sees average growth of 3.5 percent in 2012, down
from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent. Consumer prices will rise
3 percent in the year through to the fourth quarter, less than a
previous prediction of 3.25 percent, the central bank said,
while underlying inflation is predicted to be unchanged at 2.75
percent.  “The premise for the RBA leaving the cash rate at 4.25
percent was based on trend growth,” said  Annette Beacher , the
Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities
Inc. “If you have sub-trend growth and sub-trend inflation in
Australia, therefore you should have accommodative monetary
policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  