-- Stanford Forward Ogwumike Selected First by Sparks in WNBA Draft
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-16T20:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/stanford-forward-ogwumike-selected-first-by-sparks-in-wnba-draft.html
Nneka Ogwumike was selected by the
Los Angeles Sparks with the No. 1 pick in the Women’s  National
Basketball Association  draft today, after leading  Stanford
University  to at least the semifinals of college basketball’s
year-end tournament the last four seasons.  Shekinna Stricklen of the  University of Tennessee  went
second to the Seattle Storm, the first of three Lady Volunteers
taken in the first round. The  University of Notre Dame ’s
Devereaux Peters went to the Minnesota Lynx with the third pick.  The New York Liberty selected Kelley Cain with the seventh
pick. Cain, a 6-foot-6 center who set a school record with 113
blocks during the 2009-10 season, skipped her senior year at
Tennessee because of knee injuries, according to the  Newark
Star-Ledger .  The draft was conducted without college basketball’s player
of the year, Baylor’s Brittney Griner, who announced this month
that she would return to the Bears for her senior season. The 6-
foot-8 center averaged 23.2 points, 9.5 rebounds and 5.2 blocks
per game this season as Baylor went 40-0 and captured its second
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament title.  Ogwumike led the Cardinal to the Final Four of the NCAA
women’s tournament each season she played. The 21-year-old
forward averaged 22.5 points and 10.2 rebounds this year, as
Stanford lost in the semifinals to Baylor.  Stricklen, who played all five positions at  Tennessee , was
named the Southeastern Conference Player of the Year for the
2010-11 season. Peters averaged 11.8 points and a team-high 9.3
rebounds per game this season for the Fighting Irish, who lost
in the NCAA tournament finals to Baylor.  The Sparks (15-19) won the draft lottery in November after
posting the league’s fourth-worst record last season. The Tulsa
Shock (3-31) finished at the bottom of the 12-team league, and
selected Tennessee’s Glory Johnson with the No. 4 pick.  The 2012 WNBA season will start May 18 with a game between
Ogwumike’s Sparks and Stricklen’s Storm, a potential match-up of
the draft’s first two selections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  