-- Swiss Lawmakers to Debate Tougher Rules for Hedge-Fund Managers
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m ,   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-16T10:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/swiss-lawmakers-to-debate-tougher-rules-for-hedge-fund-managers.html
Swiss lawmakers are considering
proposals to tighten regulations on  hedge funds  and other asset
managers that will align the Alpine nation with draft European
union rules.  The amendment to an act on collective investments will be
debated by both chambers of the parliament in the “summer and
autumn sessions” and take effect in 2013, said Nadia Batzig, a
spokeswoman for the Swiss Finance Ministry in Bern.  While the rules would allow Swiss-based investment managers
to distribute their products in the EU, they will have to meet
more stringent risk, compliance and auditing standards, making
it “more cumbersome and expensive,” said Frederique Bensahel,
a partner at the law firm FBT who advises hedge funds that have
moved to Geneva. About 500 more Swiss asset managers would be
regulated by the  Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority 
compared with the current total of 91, she said.  “It’s a huge change because all hedge-fund managers will
have to be regulated and getting authorization is quite
difficult,” said Bensahel. “Some might leave  Switzerland  or
there may be a consolidation among hedge-fund managers.”  Swiss laws on investor protection are “relatively
underdeveloped” compared with international standards and need
adapting for investment managers to gain access to the EU from
next year, the regulator known as Finma said in its  annual
report  last month.  Beyond Requirements  New rules may deplete the range of funds on offer in
Switzerland and cause managers to cut jobs or leave the country,
the Basel-based  Swiss Funds Association  said on March 26. The
Swiss proposals go beyond what is required for EU compatibility,
the association said.  The global hedge fund industry this month criticized draft
EU rules, saying they would be “extremely problematic” for
asset managers. The legislation, known as the Alternative
Investment Fund Managers directive, requires fund managers to
register with regulators and disclose information on their
trading strategies in return for being allowed to operate
throughout the 27-nation region.  The measures also set curbs on investment managers’ bonuses
and on funds’ use of debt, while toughening liability rules for
banks that hold fund assets.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, said he
won’t be “intimidated” by what he described as “rearguard
lobbying” against the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  