-- Most U.S. Stocks Rise on Better-Than-Forecast Sales Data
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-16T20:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-before-retail-sales-data.html
Most U.S. stocks advanced,
following the biggest weekly loss for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in 2012, as a stronger-than-forecast increase in retail
sales bolstered optimism about the world’s largest economy.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  climbed 1.8 percent after fixed-income
trading revenue more than doubled.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  gained
1.5 percent as the world’s largest consumer-products company
lifted its quarterly dividend.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  slumped 4.2 percent,
the most since October, on concern mobile-phone carriers may cut
subsidies for the iPhone.  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the largest toymaker,
dropped 9.1 percent as sales trailed analysts’ estimates.  About six stocks rose for every five that fell on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m. New York time, as  6.4 billion  shares changed
hands, or 6 percent below the three-month average. The S&P 500
decreased 0.1 percent to 1,369.57. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 71.82 points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,921.41. The
 Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP) , which has advanced 15 percent in 2012,
retreated 0.8 percent to 2,988.40 today.  “The U.S. economic recovery looks intact,” Eric Teal,
Raleigh, North Carolina-based chief investment officer at First
Citizens Bancshares Inc., which oversees $4.5 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “Earnings will continue to grind higher.
That explains the market resilience.”  The S&P 500 swung between gains and losses as banks
rallied, while technology shares slumped.  Retail sales  rose 0.8
percent in March, almost three times as large as projected.
Investors also watched earnings reports. Profit per share at S&P
500 companies rose 1.7 percent in the first quarter, according
to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Gains  Citigroup gained 1.8 percent to $34. Fixed-income trading
revenue jumped to $4.74 billion from $1.72 billion in the last
three months of 2011 and $3.98 billion a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement.  David Trone , an
analyst in New York with JMP Securities LLC, predicted fixed-
income revenue of $2.78 billion.  The KBW Bank Index added 1 percent as 23 of its 24 stocks
gained.  Bank of America Corp.  advanced 1.3 percent to $8.79.
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  increased 0.9 percent to $33.15.  Procter & Gamble rallied 1.5 percent, the second-biggest
gain in the Dow, to $66.78. The Cincinnati-based company lifted
its quarterly dividend to 56.2 cents a share from 52.5 cents.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  added 1.4 percent to $60.58. The
world’s largest retailer nominated  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Marissa Mayer
for election to its board as the company works to improve its
online operations.  Caterpillar’s Rating  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  rose 0.8 percent to $106.74. The world’s
largest construction and mining-equipment maker was raised to
buy from neutral at Bank of America, which cited attractive
valuation and solid fundamentals.  The S&P 500 fell as much as 0.4 percent as technology
shares, which comprise 20 percent of the index, retreated. The
industry has surged 17 percent this year, the most among 10
groups and almost double the  S&P 500 ’s rally during the period.  Apple, which soared 43 percent in 2012, dropped 4.2 percent
to $580.13 today. Verizon Wireless, a U.S. partner of Apple,
 said  last week that it will begin charging customers $30 to
upgrade to a new phone. The move suggests mobile-phone service
providers may take other steps, including trimming subsidies, to
keep sales of the iPhone from eating into their margins, said
 Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  “Apple is ubiquitous, it’s well-owned, it’s had a huge run
up and people are taking some profits,”  Matt McCormick , who
helps oversee $6.2 billion at Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati,
said in a telephone interview. “If you’re concerned about the
market being choppy, you look at positions that had the biggest
gains and Apple would clearly be one of those candidates.”  Waning Demand  Analysts at Wedge Partners said in an April 13 research
note that demand for the newest version of Apple’s iPad is
beginning to wane, citing the prospect that Apple’s earnings
report, due next week, will show sales of the tablet missed
analysts’ predictions last quarter.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  said late on April 13 that  Texas
Instruments (TXN)  Inc. will replace  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  in the  Nasdaq-100 (NDX) 
Index, the basis for this year’s fifth-most-traded U.S.
exchange-traded fund. Because Texas Instruments has a larger
market capitalization than First Solar, other stocks in the
index are likely to see their proportion shrink, said Dave Lutz,
head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Apple influences the price of the Nasdaq-100 more than any
other stock, accounting for almost 19 percent of its value.
That’s double Microsoft Corp.’s weighting, the data show. Lutz,
based in Baltimore, said in an e-mail that Apple shares may be
down in part because of Nasdaq OMX’s decision.  Mattel, Gannett  Mattel slumped 9.1 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$31.01. North American retailers kept inventories of toys and
dolls tight, causing first-quarter  sales  to trail analysts’
estimates.  Gannett Co. tumbled 7.7 percent to $13.89. The owner of 82
daily newspapers including USA Today reported a 25 percent drop
in first-quarter profit as advertising revenue declined.  Google slid 3 percent to $606.07. The world’s most popular
search engine “impeded” and “delayed” a U.S. inquiry into
its data collection, according to the latest in a series of
regulatory probes of the company’s privacy practices. Google
said it wasn’t “found to have violated any laws” in the
investigation by the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission .  Treasury yields below zero on an inflation-adjusted basis
for only the second time since Dwight D. Eisenhower’s presidency
have split Wall Street’s biggest firms, underscoring the
relative-value dilemma equity investors face following the
biggest first-quarter rally in 14 years.  Buying Opportunity  For Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Peter Oppenheimer, U.S.
stocks offer a once-in-a-generation buying opportunity after
yields on 10-year Treasuries fell to about minus 0.3 percent
when the rate of inflation is deducted. Morgan Stanley’s Adam Parker advises caution, saying Federal Reserve stimulus that has
led the fixed-income rally can’t last forever.  Last month’s jobs growth, which was lower than estimated by
any economist in a Bloomberg survey, underscored the economy’s
reliance on the Fed’s help since the financial crisis began in
2007. At the same time, record-low yields on Treasuries are
driving investors to riskier assets such as stocks, said Howard Ward at Gamco Investors Inc. in Rye,  New York .  “Capital will chase returns,” Ward, who helps oversee $35
billion, said in an April 11 phone interview. “There’s a
tremendous shortage of investment income and there are fewer
places to go to generate that,” he said. “Stocks are to a
large extent the only game in town for earning a respectable
return.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  