-- U.S. Homebuilder Confidence Fell in April to Three-Month Low
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-16T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-fell-in-april-to-three-month-low.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
fell in April to a three-month low, a sign the industry is still
trying to gain its footing.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo index
of  builder confidence  decreased to 25 this month from 28 in
March, the Washington-based group said today. Economists
projected no change in the index, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  Borrowing  costs  close to all-time lows,  population growth 
that may spur more demand for homes and cheaper properties are
helping stabilize residential real estate. At the same time, the
recovery may take time as the prospect of more foreclosed homes
returning to the market competes with new construction.  “Although builders in many markets are noting increased
interest among potential buyers, consumers are still very
hesitant to go forward with a purchase,” Barry Rutenberg,
chairman of the National Association of Home Builders and a
builder from Gainesville,  Florida , said in a statement. “Our
members are realigning their expectations somewhat until they
see more actual signed sales contracts.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 48 economists ranged
from 27 to 30. The gauge, which was first published in January
1985, averaged 54 in the five years leading up to the 18-month
recession in December 2007. It reached a record low of 8 in
January 2009.  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales declined to 26 this month from March’s reading of 29.  Sales Expectations  A measure of sales expectations for the next six months
dropped to 32 from 35 in March, while the gauge of buyer traffic
decreased to 18, the lowest this year, from 22.  Builders in the Midwest led the April decline, with that
region’s index falling 8 points to 23 this month. Sentiment also
fell in the South. In the Northeast, builder confidence climbed
by 4 points to 29 in April, the highest since May 2010.  “What we’re seeing is essentially a pause in what had been
a fairly rapid build-up in builder confidence that started last
September,”  David Crowe , chief economist for the builders
group, said in a statement. “This is partly because interest
expressed by buyers in the past few months has yet to translate
into expected sales activity, but is also reflective of the
ongoing challenges that are slowing the housing recovery.”  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor,” and to gauge
prospective buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge
the outlook for the next six months.  Room for Optimism  More than four years after housing helped trigger the
recession, builders say they see room for optimism.  Buyers “are starting to feel pressure not to miss this
moment,” Lennar Corp. Chief Executive Officer Stuart Miller
said during a March 27 conference call with analysts. “The
fully loaded cost of ownership is lower in the most-desirable
markets than comparable rental rates.”  New-home orders increased 33 percent in the three months
ended Feb. 29, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue
said. Shares of the Miami-based company rose to the highest
level since 2007 after it reported orders growth and net income
that beat estimates.  A report from the Commerce Department tomorrow will show
that housing starts in the U.S. rose in March, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 