-- U.S. Auto Rebound Fuels 14% Great Lakes Cargo Increase: Freight
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-04-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/u-s-auto-rebound-fuels-14-great-lakes-cargo-increase-freight.html
Cranes as tall as 10-story
buildings hoisted steel coil, rods and plate last week from the
 Detroit  port’s first seagoing vessel of the season, cargo that
may fuel a third straight yearly gain in Great Lakes shipping.  An economic recovery in the U.S. Midwest is boosting demand
for millions of pounds of commodities such as limestone and iron
ore as well as steel like the 4,000 tons (3,629 metric tons)
unloaded in Detroit from the  Federal Yukina , a freighter owned
by Montreal-based Fednav Group.  “We’ve seen a steady increase, not a giant increase, in
2010 and 2011,” said Daniel J. Deane, president of  Nicholson
Terminal and Dock Co. , where the Hong Kong-flagged Federal
Yukina was berthed. The growth will probably continue in the
Great Lakes season that began March 24 as auto and manufacturing
companies “start to retool and expand their manufacturing since
the low point in 2009.”  Great Lakes  states, led by Michigan, are posting economic
gains that are among the strongest in the U.S. since the
recession ended in June 2009. Spurred by rising auto sales after
a bailout by President Barack Obama’s administration, the
rebound is now extending to steelmaking and shipping and
boosting the region’s employment and spending.  In January, the end of the 2011 shipping season, Great
Lakes cargo on U.S.-flag freighters rose 14 percent from a year
earlier as companies such as  GATX Corp.’s American Steamship Co. (GMT) 
and  Rand Logistic Inc.’s (RLOG)  Grand River Navigation Co. carry more
freight.  Michigan Economy  Economic activity in Michigan rose to its highest level
since 2006 that month, according to Comerica Inc.’s monthly
index. The state showed the best improvement among the five
states Comerica monitors, and every component of the index
improved, including measures of continuing claims for
unemployment insurance and sales tax revenues.  “The heart of the recovery in  Michigan  is the  auto
industry ,” said Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Bank in
 Dallas . “We are seeing that that momentum’s starting to broaden
and to be that rising tide that lifts all boats for the Michigan
economy.”  The U.S. automakers all returned to profit in 2011 after
more than $80 billion in federal aid to Chrysler Group LLC and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and their lending units and suppliers in
2009.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  restructured without government funds.  U.S. sales of cars and light trucks rose 13 percent in
March, sending the industry to the best quarterly pace since
2008, as buyers who put off purchases returned to dealerships to
find more fuel-efficient models.  The auto market’s revival means more shipments of  iron ore 
for U.S.-manufactured steel.  U.S.-flagged deliveries  of the raw
material on the Great Lakes increased 21 percent in January from
a year earlier.  ‘Right Direction’  “The mood in the industry is that we are moving in the
right direction,” said Glen Nekvasil, vice president of the
Lake Carriers’ Association, a trade group representing 17
shippers. The association doesn’t provide shipping forecasts.  “We have seen iron ore and limestone rebound and in the
case of iron ore, it has rebounded very nicely,” he said.  GATX, whose business includes rail-car leasing as well as
lake shipping, climbed 70 percent in New York trading from
2009’s third quarter through the end of 2011.  Rand  rose 94
percent.  GATX’s American Steamship, which generated about 17 percent
of the parent’s $1.31 billion in sales last year, expects
volumes to advance in 2012. The forecast is “mostly driven by
demand for iron ore if North American auto demand forecasts are
accurate,” said Jennifer Van Aken, a spokeswoman.  No Layoffs  Improving business last year meant the Nicholson dock
company in Detroit didn’t lay off any workers during the
seaway’s winter close for the first time since 2004, Deane said.  Nicholson Terminal’s operations sit on the shore of the
Detroit River, one of the waterways traversed when sailing
between Lake Erie and Lake Huron. With Lakes Superior, Michigan
and Ontario, they connect to the Atlantic Ocean via the St.
Lawrence Seaway.  Tonnage to U.S. ports along the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence
system rose 19 percent in 2010, the first gain in four years, to
129.5 million short tons, according to the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers.  “Port activity is certainly increased over the recent past
and in general getting back to solid footing,” said Steven
Olinek, deputy director of the Detroit/Wayne County  Port
Authority . “The better economy is helping everybody and it’s
reflected in port activity.”  Shipments through the Soo Locks, which connect Lake Huron
to Lake Superior, rose about 1 percent in 2011 from 2010,
suggesting Great Lakes shipments continued to improve, according
to U.S. Army Corps data. In October, one of the locks broke a
tonnage record set in 1975.  Back to Work  The shipping rebound has also benefited Duluth,  Minnesota ,
at the westernmost tip of Lake Superior, where deliveries have
recovered steadily since a 2009 low, said Adolph Ojard,
executive director of the Duluth Seaway Port Authority. He said
he expects another year-to-year improvement in 2012.  A 35 percent reduction in tonnage in 2009 meant about a
quarter of the 1,800 workers employed by companies at the Duluth
port were laid off, he estimates. Most of those workers, who
aren’t paid by the port authority, are probably back on the job
now, he said.  “There certainly are some good trends in the Great Lakes
and it’s getting better ” Ojard said in an interview. “It was
bleak there in 2009.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net  