-- U.S. April Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-04-16T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/u-s-april-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  April’s Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
manufacturing activity in New York State improved modestly.
Although the general business conditions index fell fourteen
points, it remained positive at 6.6. The new orders and
shipments indexes also remained positive, but showed only a
small increase in orders and shipments. The prices paid index
inched downward but remained high, and the prices received index
climbed six points to 19.3. The index for number of employees
rose to its highest level in nearly a year, indicating a
significant increase in employment levels, while the average
workweek index fell to a level that indicated only a small
increase in hours worked. Future indexes remained quite
positive, suggesting a strong and persistent degree of optimism
about the six-month outlook.  In a series of supplementary survey questions--previously
posed in August 2011 and March 2007--respondents were asked how
much difficulty they had experienced finding workers proficient
in mathematical, computer, interpersonal, and other workplace
skills. As was the case last August, the most widespread
difficulties were cited for advanced computer skills. One skill
category that has reportedly grown harder to find is basic math.
Interestingly, respondents reported at least as much difficulty
finding workers with each of these skills than they did prior to
the recession, in March 2007. Responses to other supplemental
questions indicated that firms expected wages to rise by 2.3
percent, on average, over the next twelve months, and that, for
more than a third of the firms, retaining skilled workers would
become increasingly difficult over the next twelve months.  Pace of Expansion Slows  The Empire State Manufacturing Survey’s headline index fell
significantly in April, though it still indicated a modest
increase in activity. The general business conditions index
dropped fourteen points to 6.6, suggesting that while growth
continued, the pace slowed over the month. The new orders index
was little changed at 6.5, indicating a modest increase in
orders, and the shipments index fell twelve points to 6.4,
indicating a slower pace of growth for shipments. The unfilled
orders index fell six points to -7.2, and the delivery time
index dropped three points to 4.8. The inventories index was
little changed at 1.2, suggesting that inventory levels held
steady.  Prices Continue to Climb  Input price increases remained significant. After rising
sharply last month, the prices paid index fell five points to
45.8. Though somewhat lower than in March, this reading was well
above the index’s level in the preceding several months. Selling
prices also rose noticeably, with the prices received index
climbing six points to 19.3. Employment indexes were positive,
but moved in opposite directions. Pointing to a healthy increase
in employment levels, the index for number of employees rose six
points to 19.3, its highest level in nearly a year. The average
workweek index fell thirteen points to 6.0, indicating a modest
increase in hours worked.  Outlook Remains Favorable  Indexes for the six-month outlook remained favorable, with
readings close to last month’s. The future general business
conditions index fell four points to 43.1; roughly half of
respondents expected conditions to improve in the months ahead.
The future new orders index rose four points to 45.8, and the
future shipments index was little changed at 44.6. The future
prices paid index fell sixteen points to 50.6 - an elevated
level to be sure, but lower than in recent months. The future
prices received index also retreated, falling nine points to
22.9. The index for expected number of employees fell four
points to 27.7, and the future average workweek index declined
ten points to 10.8. The capital expenditures index was little
changed at 31.3, while the technology spending index dropped
seven points to 18.1. 