-- Ube Says It’s Receiving Resin Queries After Evonik Blast
-- B y   M a   J i e
-- 2012-04-16T16:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/ube-says-it-s-receiving-resin-queries-after-evonik-blast.html
Ube Industries Ltd. (4208) ,  Asia ’s largest
producer of the PA-12 resin used in cars, and DuPont Co., maker
of similar polymers, said order inquiries increased after a
factory explosion at  Germany ’s Evonik Industries AG raised
concern that a shortage would develop.  “We’ve received some requests from customers for more
PA-12 production, but there is no room for us to produce more
because we are already running at full capacity,” Koji
Sumiyoshi, a spokesman at Yamaguchi, Japan-based  Ube (4208) , said in an
interview today. “A shortage of supply will happen.”  The Japanese company joins auto-parts supplier TI
Automotive Ltd. in warning that production disruptions from the
March 31 Evonik blast, which killed two people, may spread. The
global automotive industry faces a “severe” shortage within
weeks, TI Automotive Chairman William Kozyra wrote to customers
last week.  DuPont has been working with customers “to get a good
sense of range of the magnitude of the issue and if we have
alternative materials that might help,” Carole Davies, a
spokeswoman, said today in an interview.  “We’re pretty sure that in some cases we do have
alternatives that can help alleviate the potential for
shortages,” she said. “There won’t be one solution for
everything.”  DuPont, which doesn’t make or use PA-12, supplies  Fiat SpA (F) 
with fuel lines made from a biodiesel form of its specialty
polymers, which can replace some versions of PA-12.  ‘Complete Loss’  Ube supplies about 10 percent of the global PA-12 market,
which typically amounts to about 100,000 tons a year, Sumiyoshi
said. Ube’s production of the resin trails behind Evonik,
 France ’s  Arkema SA (AKE)  and  Switzerland ’s  Ems-Chemie Holding AG (EMSN) , he
said.  Last month’s explosion in Marl, Germany, resulted in a
“complete loss” of production of Cyclododecatriene, also
called CDT and a key element of PA-12, Kozyra wrote. Global
capacity of CDT is “very limited,” according to the letter.  Evonik, which is weighing an initial public offering of its
stock by July 1, accounts for about 50 percent of the world’s
CDT production, Ube’s Sumiyoshi said. The PA-11 resin can be
used as a partial substitute for PA-12, Sumiyoshi said.  Engine Parts  CDT is used to make laurolactam, an ingredient in producing
high-performance polymers such as PA-12,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  New
York-based analyst  Rod Lache  wrote in a report yesterday. The
plastics are used in engine parts such as fuel and brake lines,
according to the analyst.  While global carmakers may be able to make preliminary
assessments this week on whether a CDT shortage would disrupt
auto production, their experiences with last year’s earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan  and flooding in  Thailand  may help them deal
with the situation, Lache wrote.  Officials at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  said
today their companies were assessing the situation. Spokesmen at
 General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC said
late last week the companies were investigating the matter.  Hyundai Mobis (012330) , the main auto-parts supplier to  South
Korea ’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , said in an e-mail it hasn’t been
affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  