-- UN Monitors Land in Syria to Check Cease-Fire Compliance
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-04-16T13:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/un-monitors-due-in-syria-to-check-adherence-to-cease-fire.html
United Nations military observers
arrived in  Syria  to monitor a cease-fire agreement amid
continued clashes between forces loyal to President Bashar al- Assad and army defectors.  “The advance team of six UN observers arrived in Damascus
last night, under the command of Moroccan Colonel Ahmed
Himmiche,” said Ahmad Fawzi, spokesman for UN special envoy
 Kofi Annan . They will set up operating headquarters today and
establish contact with the government and opposition forces “so
both sides fully understand” their role, Fawzi said today in an
e-mailed response to questions. A further 25 observers are
expected to follow in the next few days, he said.  The observers are due to monitor a six-point cease-fire
intended to end a conflict that has killed more than 9,000
people since March last year and increasingly divided the
country along sectarian lines. The government and opposition
agreed to implement the plan starting April 12, and both sides
have accused the other of violating it.  Assad’s forces engaged in “fierce clashes” with army
defectors at dawn today in the northern province of Idlib while
government forces fired mortar rounds on the neighborhoods of
al-Khaldiyeh and al-Bayyada in the central city of Homs, the
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mailed
statement. Syrian security forces killed 19 people today, the
Local Coordination Committees, an activist group, said in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘Maximum Restraint’  Syrian authorities must use “maximum restraint,” UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said today. European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  expressed “great concern” over the
situation in Syria and with its main regional ally,  Iran , which
faces sanctions and threats of military strikes to prevent it
from acquiring atomic weapons.  The observers are due to draft a report for Annan before a
UN Security Council resolution, possibly next week, to deploy an
additional 250 monitors, including civilians and human-rights
activists, Fawzi told Al Jazeera television. The monitors will
coordinate their mission with the Syrian government and should
be granted free access to travel across the country, he said.  The government can only be responsible for the safety of
the UN monitors if it is “involved with all steps on the
ground,” Assad’s media adviser, Bouthaina Shaaban, told
reporters in Damascus yesterday. The Syrian government also
reserves the right to approve the nationalities of the UN
monitors, she said.  Annan’s peace plan won backing from Russia and  China , two
countries that had vetoed earlier efforts by the U.S. and its
European and Arab allies to pass a Security Council resolution
calling for Assad to cede power.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem is due to travel
to China for two days “to discuss bilateral issues and the
mission of Annan,” the official Syrian Arab News Agency
reported today.  Assad and many of his senior officials are from the Alawite
sect, affiliated with Shiite Islam, while the majority of
Syria’s population and most of the leading opposition groups are
 Sunni Muslims .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  