-- Vestas Jumps 13% on Possible Bid Report: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-04-16T16:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/vestas-jumps-on-report-of-possible-bid-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  surged 13
percent, the most in 2-1/2 months, after Danish Energy Minister
Martin Lidegaard said the government wouldn’t block a possible
bid for the world’s largest wind-turbine maker.  “What’s going on is in the private market,” Lidegaard
said at a press conference in Copenhagen when asked whether the
government could stop a purchase by a Chinese company. “There’s
no question that the Danish government would interfere. It’s a
private business.”  The Chinese turbine makers  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  and
Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. are considering a bid
for Aarhus, Denmark-based Vestas, the newspaper  Jyllands-Posten
reported  today, citing unidentified people it said were close to
the process.  All three companies are struggling with declining turbine
prices, excess production capacity and efforts by governments
from the U.S. to  Germany  to rein in support for renewable
energy. Goldwind said April 13 that its profit might be wiped
out in the first quarter, and Sinovel’s net income dropped 73
percent last year.  “Vestas has a significant order pipeline, brand and
product technology, which makes it a company with substantial
potential and therefore we believe there would be several
interested financial, strategic or sector buyers,” Rupesh Madlani, an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in  London , said in an
e-mail.  ‘Significant’ Risk  “Despite these advantages, we see an acquisition of any
turbine equipment company as carrying significant operating,
execution and financial risk,” Madlani said, noting that the
purchase of a minority stake in Vestas or a technology
partnership were more likely outcomes.  “We doubt that a bid will materialize,” said Patrik Setterberg, an industry analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , which helped
manage Vestas stock offerings in 2006 and 2009. “Both companies
are dealing with the same problem as Vestas -- low earnings
margins and pressure on  cash flow . We believe that Sinovel and
Goldwind are more interested in consolidating its home market
before making acquisitions beyond  China .”  Guo Sho, an analyst at Barclays Capital Asia Ltd. in  Hong
Kong , said any takeover would be “very messy, slow and may
involve the Chinese government.”  Possible Partnership  “We’ve always seen a strategic partnership as a more
likely scenario with Vestas,” Sho said.  Vestas climbed as much as 22 percent, the largest gain
since August, and closed 13 percent higher at 55.55 kroner, the
most since Feb. 3. It was the biggest gainer on the Copenhagen
20 Index, which rose 1.1 percent. The stock is down 71 percent
in the past year after today’s surge.  Several Danish corporate finance bankers discussed the
matter with the two Chinese companies after Vestas’s share price
collapsed amid disappointed expectations for its business,
management problems and price pressures on the wind turbine
market, according to the newspaper report.  Vestas Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  declined to
comment on the possible bids by Sinovel and Goldwind in an
interview in Copenhagen.  Goldwind said it wouldn’t comment on market rumors, and a
call and e-mail to Sinovel’s media manager Xiao Qiang weren’t
answered.  Vestas twice cut earnings forecasts in the past year, and
Chairman Bent Erik Carlsen and Chief Financial Officer Henrik Norremark quit. It’s cutting 2,335 jobs and reorganizing to
become a “leaner” business.  Last week, Vestas fell to the lowest in almost nine years
after Morgan Stanley and  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK)  cut their price targets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  