-- Vornado Rises Most in a Month as Chairman Promises Changes
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-04-16T20:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/vornado-rises-most-since-december-as-chairman-promises-changes.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , a property
owner whose shares have lost more than 9 percent in the past
year, rose the most in a month after Chairman  Steven Roth  vowed
to put “everything” on the table to raise performance.  The real estate investment trust will consider options
ranging from buying back shares to splitting into smaller firms
that would focus on different types of properties, Roth said his
annual letter to investors, released after the close of regular
trading on April 13.  “We have lost some luster, and we are going to fight to
get it back,” Roth wrote, quoting his Chief Executive Officer,
Michael Fascitelli.  The company, based in  New York , owns more than 100 million
square feet of U.S. properties, with a majority of its earnings
coming from office buildings in  Manhattan (COLA)  and the Washington
area. The company plans sell some of its malls and strip
shopping centers as it divests “non-core” assets, Roth said.
It also plans to start holding conference calls to increase
communication with investors.  Vornado rose 2.8 percent to $82.15 at the close in New
York, the most since March 13, for the biggest gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index. (SPX)  The stock’s 9.5 percent loss in the
past 12 months compares with a 6.6 percent increase in the 120-
member Bloomberg REIT Index.  The chairman’s letter included positive commentary on
commercial real estate and an “expectation for a long,
sustained recovery,” Sheila McGrath, an analyst with Keefe
Bruyette & Woods in New York, wrote today in a note to clients.
Roth’s tone was “conciliatory -- acknowledging the need for
change,” said McGrath, who raised Vornado from market-perform
to outperform, the equivalent of a buy rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  