-- Votes Aimed to Embarrass Opponents Fill Congress Calendar
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-04-16T18:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/votes-aimed-to-embarrass-opponents-fill-congress-calendar.html
In offering up a “Buffett rule”
proposal for a vote today,  Senate Democrats  are following a
pattern of measures designed to raise taxes for millionaires and
end tax breaks for oil companies, just as Senate Republicans
have sought votes to speed a Canadian oil pipeline.  All the votes have one thing in common: They are doomed to
fail while yielding fodder for campaign ads. Party leaders are
seeking an edge by forcing the other party to defeat a popular
measure ahead of the November election, which will determine
control of the White House and Congress.  “Even if you can’t make a law, you can still make a
point,”  John Pitney , a political scientist at  Claremont McKenna
College  in Claremont, California, said in a telephone interview.
Campaign workers “are watching these roll calls very carefully
and preparing for attack ads,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats are
casting their call for higher  taxes  for top U.S. earners as one
of fairness and support for the middle class. With 53 votes in
the 100-member Senate, Democrats lack the 60 votes needed to
advance the minimum-tax plan for the wealthiest taxpayers.
Still, Democrats plan to use the vote in campaign ads targeted
at Republicans in some congressional races.  Senate Republicans, seizing on rising gas prices, forced a
vote last month on a measure to speed up  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL oil pipeline.  Sending a Message  Today’s vote is scheduled for the day before the April 17
tax-filing deadline. House Republican leaders plan to drive
their tax message this week by holding a vote on a bill that
would provide a $46 billion small-business tax break. Under the
measure, sponsored by Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia ,
companies with fewer than 500 workers in 2010 or 2011 would be
eligible to deduct up to 20 percent of their profits in 2012.  In the House, Republicans controlling the chamber can more
effectively push through their agenda, so they use slightly
different tactics to put Democrats on the defensive. In an
effort to brand the Obama administration as imposing too many
regulations, House Republican leaders at times have sought to
roll back regulations that don’t exist.  The House on Dec. 8 passed a bill to block the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency from tightening air-pollution
controls on farm dust, a regulation the agency said it has no
plans to issue.  Lines of Attack  House Democrats , meanwhile, have relied on a procedural
move, typically made by the minority party just before a vote on
legislation, to generate lines of attack against Republicans.  Richard Carmona, an Arizona Democrat running for the U.S.
Senate, has a campaign website chiding Republican candidate Jeff Flake for opposing Democrats when they sought on March 27 to
return a bill to a committee to be amended. The amendment would
have let the Federal Communications Commission bar employers
from requiring job applicants to disclose their passwords to
social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter.  The site calls on Flake, now a U.S. House member, to
disclose his Facebook password. It asks visitors: “Since Jeff
Flake wants your boss to have your passwords for your social
media accounts, shouldn’t he have to share his?” All but one
House Republican voted against the Democrats’ proposal, which
was defeated 184-236.  ‘Obsession with Elections’  “There has become an obsession with elections,”  Jennifer Duffy , an editor at the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, said
in a telephone interview. “That is what people think about
almost more than anything else, and so instead of contemplating
the political implications occasionally, they’re considered
first.”  An Ipsos/Reuters poll released March 14 showed that 64
percent of Americans, including 49 percent of Republicans,
support a minimum 30 percent tax rate for those with incomes
exceeding $1 million. Obama named the plan the Buffett rule
after billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who says preferential
tax treatment for  capital gains  and dividends allows him to pay
a lower tax rate than his secretary.  Senator Charles Schumer of  New York , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, today highlighted a Gallup poll released April
13 that found 60 percent of Americans, including 43 percent of
Republicans and 63 percent of independents, support the Buffett
Rule. The telephone poll of 1,016 adults was conducted April 9-
12 and has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage
points.  ‘Romney Rule’  “The Buffett rule is proof positive that the tax issue has
been turned around on Republicans,” Schumer told reporters on a
conference call, adding that the policy could be called the
“Romney rule” after presumed Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney .  Romney, a co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, earned $21.6
million in 2010 and paid 13.9 percent of that in income taxes,
according to tax returns he released in January. He has asked
for an extension to file his 2011 returns.  The Senate vote is “showing a contrast” with Republicans,
 California  Representative  Xavier Becerra , a member of the
Democratic leadership, said in an April 13 telephone interview.  “It will give the American public a sense of what people
mean when they talk about tax fairness,” Becerra said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday
that the administration would continue to advocate for the
Buffett rule after today’s vote.  “If we don’t push for things that make sense, then we’re
not governing,” he said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  ‘Never-Ending Chess Game’  Although negative campaign ads won’t be aired in earnest
until later this election year, Duffy said, the “never-ending
chess game” of politically motivated votes is affecting how
candidates define themselves in ads and while campaigning.  Missouri Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill, targeted by
Republicans for ouster in November, ran an ad in February saying
she “cuts taxes for the middle class” while her opponents
“want more tax breaks for multimillionaires and  oil
companies .”  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat, told
reporters April 12 that Democrats would highlight Republican
votes that they “believe are out of step with the interests of
the American people and their communities.”  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat challenging
Republican Senator Scott Brown, sent an e-mail April 11 to
supporters claiming that Brown agrees with Romney “that it’s OK
for millionaires and billionaires to pay a lower tax rate than
everyone else.”  Tax Fairness  Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat who is
seeking a second term this year, told reporters today on a
conference call that “the underlying issue here is one of
fairness in the tax system.”  “It is a little bit ridiculous that we have people making
these enormous incomes paying lower tax rates than those that
are just solidly in the middle class and working hard to get
by,” said Whitehouse, chief sponsor of the Senate legislation.  Representative Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, who is running
for the Senate, is the chief sponsor of a House version of the
Buffett rule measure, which has put her in the front ranks of
Democrats calling on Republican leaders in that chamber to
schedule a vote on the bill.  “Both parties are working hard to frame the agenda for the
fall campaign,” former Minnesota Representative  Vin Weber , a
Republican, said in a telephone interview. “Certainly that’s
what the vote on the Buffett rule is all about. You can see from
the president’s speeches that this is exactly what he wants to
be talking about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  