-- Wal-Mart Nominates Google’s Marissa Mayer to Board
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-04-16T19:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/wal-mart-nominates-google-s-marissa-mayer-to-board.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WAMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, nominated  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Marissa Mayer  for
election to its board as the company works to improve its online
operations.  Mayer, 36, will stand for election at the annual
shareholder meeting on June 1 and would become the board’s 16th
member if selected, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said
today in a statement. She has been vice president of Local and
Maps for Google since 2010.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has been working to
improve Wal-Mart’s online-retailing operations, hiring more than
200 workers for its @WalmartLabs digital unit and acquiring five
technology firms since May. The push comes as Wal-Mart’s
traditional, lower-income customers are getting more tech savvy
and less-strapped shoppers who began frequenting Wal-Mart during
the recession discover rivals such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “It goes back to their strategy of acquiring expertise in
areas where they don’t have core competencies,” Natalie Berg,
analyst with research firm Planet Retail in  London , said in a
phone interview. “I’m sure they will try to glean from her
expertise and apply it to their online strategy.”  Wal-Mart  rose  1.6 percent $60.70 at 3:10 p.m. in  New York .
The shares had gained 11 percent in the 12 months before today.  Sales at Wal-Mart rose 6 percent last year, compared with a
41 percent gain for Amazon’s revenue. Wal-Mart doesn’t provide
revenue data for its online operations. Online sales amounted to
less than 2 percent of Wal-Mart’s revenue, according to research
firm Kantar Retail.  Retail Trends  With locations in San Bruno,  California , and Bangalore,
India, @WalmartLabs was set up to help Wal-Mart improve its
website and devise new ways for consumers to shop online and
using smartphones. The unit also works with social media to find
consumer retail trends.  Mayer began her career at  Mountain View , California-based
Google in 1999 as its first female engineer and serves on the
boards of the San Francisco Museum of  Modern Art  and the San
Francisco Ballet, according to the statement.  Pay for most of Wal-Mart’s top executives fell in fiscal
2012 because the retailer didn’t hit key performance metrics,
the company said today in a proxy statement. Wal-Mart measures
sales, operating income and return on investment to determine
bonuses.  CEO Pay  Duke’s total compensation for the company’s last fiscal
year was $18.1 million, down 3.1 percent from the prior year.
His incentive-plan bonus fell to $2.88 million from $3.85
million a year earlier.  Chief Financial Officer  Charles Holley ’s pay fell 38
percent to $5.1 million. Compensation for Bill Simon, who is
president and CEO of Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores, dropped 40 percent
to $8.44 million.  The only named executive whose pay rose from the previous
year was Doug McMillon, president and CEO of Wal-Mart’s
international operations. His total compensation rose 24 percent
to about $11 million, most of which came from $8.57 million in
company stock awards.  Neil Ashe, who was hired in January as president and CEO of
Wal-Mart’s e-commerce operations, was paid a salary of about
$40,000 and given $10.7 million in stock awards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  