-- Walt Disney to Co-Produce Iron Man 3 in China With DMG
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-16T22:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/walt-disney-to-co-produce-iron-man-3-in-china-with-dmg.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s
largest entertainment company, plans to co-produce “Iron Man
3” with Beijing film studio  DMG Entertainment  as collaborations
between Hollywood and Chinese studios increase.  The movie will have an investment of at least 1 billion yuan
($158 million), DMG Chairman Peter Xiao told reporters in
Beijing yesterday. The Chinese company will invest in the
production and help distribute it in  China , Burbank, California-
based Disney said today in a statement.  The partnership is the latest in a wave of U.S.-Chinese
deals as Western operators look for a larger role in one of the
world’s fastest-growing movie markets. The 2010 remake of ``Karate 
Kid,'' starring  Jackie Chan  and  Jaden Smith , was produced by Sony's 
Columbia Tristar and state-owned China Film Group. While China 
limits the number of foreign films allowed into the country, pictures 
co-produced with Chinese partners can skirt the quotas. China also
has adjusted the revenue-sharing formula, giving foreign studios
a bigger share of ticket sales.  The agreement marks a milestone as “the first multibillion
dollar franchise to be produced between Hollywood and China,”
said Dan Mintz, chief executive officer of DMG. Chinese elements
will be added to the film, he said.  The “Iron Man” movies are based on the comic book about
an industrialist who dons an armored, jet-powered suit to fight
villains. Disney bought the comic-book company Marvel
Entertainment in 2009.  The portion of the movie produced in China will involve DMG
as well as Marvel Studios’ production and creative teams, Disney
said.  Audience Potential  The development of the Chinese market is important for
Disney, and the U.S. company plans to add more China-related
elements to its future projects to appeal to the local audience,
Stanley Cheung, managing director of Disney in  Greater China ,
said at a press conference in Beijing.  Chinese ticket sales rose 35 percent to $2 billion last
year, making it the biggest market after the U.S. and  Japan ,
according to the  Motion Picture Association  of America. By
comparison, worldwide box-office revenue rose 3.2 percent.  “Titanic 3D,” a three-dimensional re-release of the 1997
James Cameron epic, grossed  $58 million  in China last week, the
biggest opening the country has ever had, the Los Angeles Times
reported yesterday.  “As the Chinese economy continues to grow rapidly and
evolve, we are very excited to be” involved in China, Rob Steffens, general manager of operations and finance for Marvel
Studios, said at the press conference.  DreamWorks Animation  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , creator of the “Kung Fu
Panda” films, formed a venture in February with three Chinese
partners to develop entertainment projects. Disney said on April
10 that it was joining with China’s Ministry of Culture and
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s largest Internet company, to
develop animation content.  Disney, which operates a theme park in  Hong Kong  and is
building a second Chinese park in  Shanghai ,  fell  0.5 percent to
$41.66 yesterday in  New York . The stock has gained 11 percent
this year.  Shooting of the movie, starring a returning cast of Robert Downey Jr. and  Gwyneth Paltrow , will start in May in the U.S.
and begin in China in late summer, according to Disney’s
statement.  The original “ Iron Man ” made $581 million at the global
box office when released in 2008 and the second installment made
$624 million, according to the statement.  Only $15.3 million and $7.9 million, respectively, came
from China, according to Box Office Mojo.  ‘Something of Theirs’  Working under a co-production agreement, Disney and DMG
will be able start marketing the film earlier, run it for a
longer period of time in theaters and keep a larger share of
box-office revenue, according to Chris Fenton, DMG’s North
American general manager.  “If the Chinese feel it’s something of theirs, it helps in
every way possible,” he said. “It becomes relevant to them.”  China in February increased the number of foreign films it
allows in the country annually to 34 from 20, according Howard Gantman, a spokesman for the Washington-based association.
Studios will keep 25 percent of box-office receipts, up from 13
percent under the prior arrangement.  DMG funded “Looper,” a science-fiction film starring
Bruce Willis, that is scheduled for release this year. The
company has been looking to raise $300 million to invest in co-
productions with U.S. studios. Movies with a qualifying
percentage of Chinese stars, financing and shooting locations
can avoid foreign quotas.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  