-- White House Burns as MIT’s Johnson Broods Over Default
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-04-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/white-house-burns-as-mit-s-johnson-broods-over-default.html
Alexander Hamilton  knew the secret
for making public credit “immortal”: Back up your borrowing
with taxes, to prove you can pay the money back.  So  Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak  say in “White House
Burning,” a selective survey of how the U.S. government,
ignoring Hamilton’s precepts, has piled up  $15.6 trillion  in
debt.  This may be the last book Americans want to read as they
scramble to file their income-tax returns today. Yet Johnson and
Kwak bring dispassionate insights to bear on the bedeviling
question of how to fix our fiscal mess before it gets fixed for
us.  “Our national debt problem will be solved, one way or
another,” they write. “After all, even default is a solution,
though probably the worst possible one.”  Johnson, a former chief economist for the  International
Monetary Fund , teaches at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  and advises the  Congressional Budget Office  and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Kwak is a law professor at the
University of  Connecticut  and a fellow at the Harvard Law School
Program on  Corporate Governance .  Free to Choose  They are, in short, Eastern establishment wonks. Though
they lean toward a paternalistic government, they work hard here
to stand above the political sniping in  Washington .  “We could have a minimal federal government that protects
our borders, runs the federal court system, and largely leaves
people and companies to their own devices,” they write. “We
could have a social-democratic welfare state.” Or we could have
“something in between,” such as the mixed economy that already
exists.  What we can’t have -- unless we want to break our promises
-- is a blanket refusal to make tough fiscal choices as the baby
boomers shuffle toward retirement, with Social Security and
Medicare for all. Something has to give.  Seeking to reframe the fraught debate, the authors reach
through the mists of history to America’s foundational battles
over taxation. The tale leads inexorably from the inauguration
of  George Washington  as the first president of the U.S. -- a
“fiscal basket case” -- to the partisanship that shoved the
U.S. to the brink of default in August 2011.  Patriotic Plea  Evoking the Founding Fathers is a clever move, allowing the
authors to wrap taxation in the stars and stripes. Hamilton,
we’re reminded, believed in borrowing when needed and raising
taxes to service the debt. Even  Thomas Jefferson , who opposed
Hamilton’s plans, wound up borrowing more than $11 million to
help buy the Louisiana Purchase, they say.  When the young government forgot the fiscal lesson, bad
things happened, we read. The blaze in the title alludes to
August 1814, when British troops captured Washington and burned
the Capitol and Executive Mansion, as the White House was known.  Hawks in Congress had been happy to declare war on Britain
yet balked at raising taxes to cover payments on new debt,
leaving the military desperately short on cash for soldiers,
ships and guns.  That refusal, they argue, is reminiscent of Washington’s
recent game of chicken over the debt ceiling. It’s a seductive
analogy, one that sets up the purpose of the book: to remind
voters that someone has to pay for all the goodies that the
federal government provides, from hurricane-warning systems to
pensions.  Schizophrenic Voters  Americans are schizophrenic about  government spending .
Large majorities, the authors rightly note, call it wasteful
even though they oppose cutting into big-ticket programs,
notably Social Security, defense and health care for seniors.  Mixing history with policy recommendations is a tricky
business. Many readers will agree that government should stop
heaping debt upon debt. They may be less enthusiastic when
Johnson and Kwak propose to increase Medicare premiums,
introduce a value-added tax and phase out the mortgage-interest
deduction.  Their doubts may deepen when the authors ask if we, as
individuals, can bear the risks of unemployment, sickness and
the other vicissitudes of life.  “Are you and your family willing to face these risks
alone, not knowing what will happen in the future,” they ask,
“or do you want to live in a society that will protect you from
misfortunes that lie beyond your control?”  ‘Magical Thinking’  We can agree or disagree with them on specifics. We can
debate their version of fiscal history, too.  Did the era of large, permanent deficits reach a watershed
during the Reagan years, as the authors suggest? Or did the
point of no return come in 1971, when  Richard Nixon  slammed the
gold window shut, allowing the Treasury to borrow without limit?  Or should we reach back further, to the days when  Lyndon
Johnson , forced during the  Vietnam War  to choose “between guns
and butter,” as the authors say, “chose both.”  We can argue all of this until the repo man comes home.
What we can’t keep doing is succumbing to what the authors call
“magical thinking.” That includes railing against government
spending even as you cash your Social Security check.  Europeans have a name for a country that’s unable or
unwilling to raise taxes to pay for its debts. It’s  Greece .  “White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National
Debt and Why It Matters to You” is published by Pantheon (352
pages, $26.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include the  Food Bank for New York 
gala; and executive staff salaries at the  Metropolitan Museum  of
Art.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 