-- Wigan Boosts Premier League Survival Chances With Win at Arsenal
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-17T01:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/wigan-beats-arsenal-to-boost-premier-league-survival-prospects.html
Wigan held on after scoring two
early goals to secure its first win at Arsenal and pull five
points clear of the relegation zone in soccer’s Premier League.  Franco di Santo put Wigan ahead in the seventh minute and
Jordi Gomez doubled the lead a minute later at the  Emirates
Stadium  in  London  last night.  Thomas Vermaelen  responded for the
Gunners after 21 minutes.  Wigan’s 2-1 win, its fourth victory in five league games,
lifted it above Queens Park Rangers to 16th in the 20-team
standings with four matches to play. Bolton occupies the last of
the three-team relegation positions with 29 points, though has
played two fewer games than the other bottom-five clubs.  “Now is the moment to regroup, recover and make sure we
approach the next four games with the same intensity,” Wigan
manager  Roberto Martinez  told his team’s website. “We haven’t
got enough points to achieve our aim yet and we want to do that
in order to savor these moments.”  Wigan followed up its 1-0 home win against  Manchester
United  six days ago to become the first team to beat United and
Arsenal in back-to-back league games since Southampton in 2001.
Wigan also secured a first win at Liverpool last month.  Di Santo finished off a counterattack to open the scoring
last night and Gomez scored from close range. Wigan had
previously only managed a goal in the first 20 minutes of a
league match on one occasion this season.  Vermaelen headed in Tomas Rosicky’s cross to make it 2-1
and Wigan held the Gunners at bay for the remaining 69 minutes.
The only other victory for the Latics in 14 league meetings with
Arsenal was a 3-2 home win on April 18, 2010.  ‘Not Enough Petrol’  “In the second half we dropped our level, lost our team
play, our cohesion and tried too much individually,” Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  said in comments on his team’s website.
“There was not enough petrol left in the tank anymore. We had a
tremendous amount of possession, but didn’t create a lot in the
second half.”  Arsenal remains third with 64 points, five clear of
Tottenham and Newcastle, who have played one game fewer. Third
place gains automatic qualification to the group phase of the
 Europe ’s elite  Champions League . The team that finishes fourth
has to play in a qualifying round.  The Gunners next host sixth-place Chelsea, which has 57
points, on April 21.  “It is a massive and vital game for us,” Wenger added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  