-- WilmerHale, Covington, Proskauer, Dechert: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-16T13:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/wilmerhale-covington-proskauer-dechert-business-of-law-1-.html
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr
LLP (1221L)  was retained by  Best Buy Co.’s (BBY)  board to investigate former
Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn’s personal conduct.  Two of WilmerHale’s partners -- former U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission Director of Enforcement William R. McLucas
and former U.S. Attorney for the District of Colorado Thomas Strickland will lead the investigation, firm spokeswoman Molly
Nunes said April 13.  McLucas declined to comment in an e-mail, and Strickland
didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment.  WilmerHale’s roster of  Washington  lawyers includes  Seth Waxman , the Clinton administration’s top Supreme Court lawyer,
and former deputy attorneys general David W. Ogden and Jamie Gorelick.  Best Buy announced Dunn’s resignation last week, saying
that the change was part of a “mutual agreement” that new
leadership was needed. The company later said that a board
committee was probing Dunn’s “personal conduct, unrelated to
the company’s operations or financial control.”  That investigation centers on Dunn’s relationship with a
female employee, people familiar with the matter said last week.  Deals  Covington, Proskauer Advise on Sale of NBA’s Hornets  New Orleans Saints owner Tom Benson turned to Washington’s
Covington & Burling LLP, the primary outside counsel for the
 National Football League , to buy the city’s basketball team from
the  National Basketball Association . The NBA relied on Proskauer
Rose LLP for the deal that was announced April 13.  It was a fast-breaking deal. Covington partner Bruce Wilson
got the call on Monday, April 9; the papers were signed April
12. Benson was introduced at the owners’ meeting on Friday.  Wilson said that despite the speed of the negotiations, the
“discussions were friendlier because you’re purchasing from
future partners. It gives the parties involved real incentive to
treat each other with mutual respect and reach the best deal for
everyone.”  In addition to Wilson, Covington lawyers on the deal were
special counsel Scott Roades, partners Peter Zern, Jeremy
Spector and Rob Heller, Michael Francese and Michael Cutler, and
associates Brent Little, Christopher Hartsfield and Katherine
Mineka.  Harvey Benjamin, the NBA’s executive counsel and a former
Proskauer partner, represented the league in the negotiations
along with Proskauer partner Wayne Katz and associate Frank
Saviano. Katz declined to comment on the deal and Benjamin
didn’t respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  Bloomberg reporters Mason Levinson and  Scott Soshnick  said
Benson will pay $338 million, citing a person with direct
knowledge of the transaction who was granted anonymity because
the price isn’t public. League spokesman Tim Frank declined to
comment. Greg Bensel, a spokesman for the Saints, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment. Wilson declined to
comment as well.  “We have really found the perfect owner,”  David Stern ,
the National Basketball Commissioner said at a news conference
in New York after a league owners meeting.  The NBA took control of the Hornets in 2010. Benson has
owned the National Football League Saints since 1985.  Wilson said that while the team owners still have to vote
on the sale, he expected the deal to close before the start of
the NFL season.  Dechert, Cleary Gottlieb on French Telecom-Orascom Deal  France Telecom SA (FTE)  will seek approval from Egyptian
regulators to buy out the remaining publicly traded shares in
its local wireless venture with billionaire Naguib Sawiris in a
1.5-billion-euro ($2 billion) transaction.  France ’s biggest phone company agreed on the final terms of
the deal with Egyptian partner  Orascom Telecom Media &
Technology Holding SAE (OTMT) , including a 202.5 Egyptian pound-a-share
($33.56) offer to acquire Cairo-listed  Egyptian Company for
Mobile Services , the companies said last week. They reached a
preliminary agreement in February on Mobinil, as the operator is
known.  France Telecom  is relying on lawyers from Dechert LLP for
the deal. The team includes in Paris, partners François Hellot,
Ermine Bolot, Xavier Nyssen and associates Guillaume Briant,
Samantha Nataf, Marie de Jessey, Anne-Charlotte Rivière; in
Brussels, partner René Gonne and associates François Reyntens
and Geoffroy Fink; in  Luxembourg , partner Marc Seimetz and
associate Jean-Louis Frognet; in  London , partners Corinna
Mitchell and Jonathan Pickworth; and in  New York , Matthew Kerfoot.  Zaki Hashem & Partners is acting as local Egyptian counsel
to France-Telecom Orange, a spokeswoman for Dechert, Elizabeth
Huffman said in an e-mail.  Orascom relied on lawyers from  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP . Cleary’s lawyers include partner Gamal Abouali,
counsel Mark Adams and associates Olga Kharitonova, John Olson,
Rafik Mzah, Camille Dussaix and Jacques Graas in Paris, with
assistance from a Brussels-based team comprising partner Laurent
Legein and associates Géraldine Bourguignon and Christophe
Wauters, and partner David Billington in London.  Interviews  Norton Rose Wants U.S., China Law Firm Mergers, CEO Martyr Says  Norton Rose Group (324346L) , the 2,900-lawyer firm combining U.K.,
Australian, Canadian, South African and affiliated partnerships,
is looking for mergers in the U.S. and  China , Chief Executive
Officer Peter Martyr said.  “I see the world as two pillars, China and the States,”
he said in an interview with Bloomberg’s Douglas Wong. “To be a
global business you need to have both of those pillars. What we
already have is the hammock that swings between them now.”  London-based  Norton Rose  has grown from 1,200 lawyers in
2009 by merging with four firms through a so-called verein
structure, maintaining separate finances.  Asia ’s largest legal
group, King & Wood Mallesons, was formed last month with a
similar arrangement between Chinese and Australian firms. Both
groups aim to challenge the world’s largest law firms, U.S.-
based  DLA Piper (1191L)  and  Baker & McKenzie (1111L) .  Norton Rose’s transformation has changed how other law
firms see it, said Martyr, who was appointed Jan. 1 to a second
three-year term. While it isn’t in merger negotiations with any
U.S. firms now, he said he receives visits from six or seven a
year, and “we’re constantly talking to other people.”  Any U.S. partner would have to have a strong New York
presence, Martyr said, as a global  law firm  needs to be in the
world’s capital market centers.  “You have to be in the States,” he said, noting that he’s
said such a merger should occur within two to five years for the
past four years. “If the right thing comes along at the right
time, we’ll do it.”  For more, click here.  Litigation  Securities Class-Action Cases Increased in 2011, PwC Study Says  Federal securities class-action cases increased by about 10
percent from those filed in 2010, according to a study released
April 11 by PwC US.  Almost 200 cases were filed last year, as reported by PwC’s
16th annual study of securities-litigation cases.  In particular, 48 mergers and acquisition cases were filed
last year, 17 percent more than 2010.  The number of cases relating to the financial crisis seems
to be ebbing. Only nine cases were filed last year.  In a statement, PwC partner Patricia Etzold said, “the
dramatic rise in M&A cases signals that this ‘new’ focus of
litigation may be here for some time to come.” She added, “In
light of the uptick in cases, companies may need to factor
litigation risk into the timeline and costs associated with any
transaction.”  To read the entire study,  click here.   Moves  CBOE Hires Chief Compliance Officer Following U.S. Investigation  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  named a former Securities and Exchange
Commission lawyer to oversee regulatory affairs at its
exchanges, a month after announcing a federal inquiry and the
resignation of a senior compliance executive.  Alexandra M. Albright, who was of counsel in the Chicago
office of Kirkland & Ellis LLP, will start April 23 as chief
compliance officer, the Chicago-based company said Friday in a
statement. Albright worked at the SEC from 2001 to 2006, most
recently in the enforcement division’s office of market
surveillance.  The owner of the Chicago Board Options Exchange hired
Albright a month after saying that senior compliance executive
Patrick Fay quit.  The exchange operator disclosed in February that the SEC is
investigating whether CBOE complied with its obligations as a
self-regulatory organization. Such firms are required to write
rules for their markets, monitor trading and ensure that they
and their customers aren’t breaking securities laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  