-- Wisconsin Top Court Declines to Hear Voter-ID Ruling Appeals
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2012-04-16T18:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/wisconsin-top-court-declines-to-hear-voter-id-ruling-appeals-1-.html
Wisconsin ’s Supreme Court declined
to hear the appeal of a lower-court judge’s ruling last month
that the state’s voter-identification requirement is
unconstitutional.  In an accompanying order issued today, the state’s top
court also declined to review another judge’s order that
temporarily blocked enforcement of the requirement that voters
appear at their polling places bearing a government-issued photo
identification.  Dane County Circuit Court Judge Richard G. Niess last month
said the law burdened otherwise qualified voters with a
statutory requirement not found in the state’s constitution.
Days earlier, Dane County Judge David Flanagan issued the
temporary injunction blocking enforcement.  State Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  appealed both
rulings and asked the state’s intermediate-level appellate court
to certify the issues directly to the  Supreme Court  for
resolution.  “The decision in our case will go to the Court of Appeals,
but that doesn’t mean that it will never be heard by the Supreme
Court,” said  Susan Crawford , an attorney for the League of
Women Voters of Wisconsin Education Network Inc., which won
Niess’s finding of unconstitutionality. “It just means they
won’t hear it now.”  ‘Surprised and Disappointed’  “We are surprised and disappointed,” said Dana Brueck, a
spokeswoman for Van Hollen. “We continue to believe that prompt
action is required by an appellate court, and we’ll continue to
pursue this matter in the Court of Appeals.”  Governor  Scott Walker , the first-term Republican who signed
the voter ID measure into law last year, faces a June 5 recall
election. A primary to determine his opponent will be held on
May 8.  “We have argued strenuously that the law be enjoined
pending the appeal,” Crawford said. “That’s the only way to
ensure the protection of the rights of voters.”  Trial of the case before Flanagan, which was filed by the
Milwaukee chapter of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, started today in Madison, the
state capital and  Dane County  seat.  The cases are League of Women Voters of Wisconsin Education
Network v. Walker, 2011cv4669, and Milwaukee Branch of the NAACP
v. Walker, 2011cv5492, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  