-- Two in Three Taxpayers Reach Live Person on IRS Hotline
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-16T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/two-in-three-taxpayers-reach-live-person-on-irs-hotline.html
Sixty-six percent of taxpayers
trying to call the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for help
reached someone this tax-filing season, down from 70 percent who
received help last year, according to a report released today.  Callers waited an average of 16.3 minutes this season, said
the report, released by the  Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration . The data cover the period through March 3.  The telephone answering rate exceeds the IRS’s 61 percent
goal for the year, which was set in response to budget cuts, the
inspector general reported.  “I’m pretty proud that while service is down, it hasn’t
degraded, you know, to a point where it could have gone, given
the cuts,” IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  told a
congressional subcommittee March 27.  Shulman said some people may hang up in the first few
minutes when told that the agency’s website can provide answers
to some questions. Others receive a busy signal.  The report was released the day before the April 17
deadline for individuals to file their tax returns. A report for
the full filing period will come out later this year.  The National Taxpayer Advocate, an independent agency
within the IRS, said  inadequate funding  and the resulting
service decline are the most serious issues facing taxpayers.
The report, released in January, called the telephone response
numbers “deeply disturbing.”  Prisoners’ Returns  The report released today also said the IRS more than
doubled the number of tax returns from prisoners that it
selected for further scrutiny, to 134,509 from 63,501, as of the
first week in March.  The IRS increased the number of tax returns it identified
for potential refund fraud by 29 percent.  “The IRS is doing a better job identifying and preventing
 tax fraud ,” said Russell George, the inspector general, who
oversees the IRS.  As of April 6, the IRS received 98.9 million tax returns,
up 2 percent over the similar period last year,  according to the
IRS . The agency had issued $224.7 billion in refunds by that
date, down 4 percent from last year.  Visits to the IRS website are up 24 percent over last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  