-- Yahoo Hires PayPal’s Shrauger to Co-Lead Consumer-Commerce Unit
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-17T13:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/yahoo-hires-paypal-s-shrauger-for-consumer-commerce-unit-1-.html
Yahoo (YHOO) ! Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Thompson , trying to lead a turnaround at the largest U.S.
Web portal, hired former PayPal executive Sam Shrauger to help
run a new consumer-commerce division.  Shrauger will co-lead the business with Mollie Spilman, a
current Yahoo executive, the company said yesterday in a
statement. The new unit, made up of existing Yahoo properties,
will help connect consumers to marketers and merchants in
categories such as autos, travel, jobs and retail goods.  “Shrauger and Spilman are two extremely talented and
experienced leaders who bring unique and complementary skills to
our tremendous commerce opportunity,” said Thompson, former
president of PayPal, the fastest-growing division of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
“Under their leadership, both consumers and advertisers will
benefit from Yahoo’s ability to close the loop between consumer
interests and advertising spend.”  Thompson, after announcing 2,000 job cuts, unveiled a
restructuring of the company earlier this month aimed at fueling
growth and the pace of product innovation. The reorganization
realigns Yahoo into three areas: geographic regions, technology
and consumers, Thompson said in a memo to employees. The
company, slated to announce first-quarter results later today,
is trying to reverse the loss of users and advertisers to rivals
such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   New Features  The consumer-commerce business will add new services to its
existing offerings over time, the company said. In running the
unit, Shrauger and Spilman will each hold the title of senior
vice president and report to the CEO.  As Thompson’s former No. 2 executive at PayPal, Shrauger
brings experience from the world of e-commerce, said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco.  “Historically, nobody ever paid attention to that part of
Yahoo,” Sinha said. He recommends buying Yahoo’s stock, which
he doesn’t own himself. “It will be interesting to see what he
does with this division.”  Shrauger spent 14 years developing commerce products and
services, most recently as vice president of PayPal’s global
product and customer-experience unit, the company said. He
helped build PayPal’s merchant services business and developed
products for the company’s entry into offline retail payments.
Spilman, meanwhile, most recently led marketing for Yahoo’s
Americas region. She used to work at  AOL Inc. (AOL)  and Discovery
Networks.  Yahoo’s stock  rose 1.2 percent to $14.96 at 9:56 a.m. in
New York. Shares of the Sunnyvale, California-based company have
declined 8.3 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 