-- Zielinska Says Polish Rate Increases Haven’t Taken Full Effect
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-16T05:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/zielinska-says-polish-rate-increases-haven-t-taken-full-effect.html
Polish central banker Anna
Zielinska-Glebocka comments on the outlook for inflation and
interest rates. She spoke in an interview in Warsaw on April 14.  On inflation:  “The March inflation figure wasn’t a surprise to me. It
was in line with our forecast and mainly resulted from the
statistical base effect of high inflation a year ago. From the
policy standpoint, the data are neutral and won’t have any
impact on rate decisions.”  On the economy:  “The most important information for us will be industrial
output and construction, along with wages and jobs data. Taken
together, they will allow us to make a rough estimate of first-
quarter GDP growth and its main components.  ‘‘ Core inflation  and the inflation expectations survey will
also be significant. So one can say that when it comes to the
decision on when to tighten monetary policy, a lot depends on
the next week.  ‘‘Since the Monetary Policy Council doesn’t base its
decisions on any single indicator, there’s no reason to assume
it will wait until the end of May for the official release of
first-quarter GDP. The data we’ll be getting over the next few
days should be enough for us to make a preliminary judgment on
the pace and structure of economic growth.’’  On monetary policy:  ‘‘Nobody on the Council wants to be unreasonable. We
realize that the price growth we’ve been dealing with for past
year is sticky, but that it is also supply-driven, which means
we have to look at it in a different way. In addition, last
year’s interest-rate increases haven’t had time to take full
effect. We’ve refrained from rate increases until now due to the
external situation. Our decision not to react was well-
considered.  ‘‘Personally, I’d expected a much quicker fall in the
inflation rate. Instead, it’s stabilized at an elevated level.
You can’t cut  interest rates  under such conditions.  ‘‘It’s clear we’re facing a very tough dilemma: is it time
to use our policy tools to subdue this stubborn price growth?
And how effective would that be, given that inflation is being
driven by supply? On the other hand, we have to keep in mind
that real interest rates in Poland are rather low.  ‘‘Today I wouldn’t venture to say which arguments will
prevail at the next rate meeting. Of course, one has to consider
the central bank’s reputation. Credibility is based on well-
considered decisions. When the domestic and international
situation is in flux, as it is now, there’s a need for caution
but also for boldness, for a policy that takes account of Polish
specifics and  Poland ’s monetary policy strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  