-- Zimbabwe Orders Miners to Resubmit Exploration Bids
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-04-16T15:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/zimbabwe-orders-miners-to-resubmit-exploration-applications-1-.html
Zimbabwe ’s mines ministry ordered
469 local and foreign miners to resubmit applications for
exploration rights that detail their shareholding, proposed
work, proof of funding and technical capacity.  The companies must also provide full details of directors
and shareholders in their so-called exclusive prospective
orders, the ministry said in a statement published today in the
Harare-based Herald newspaper. Mines affected include operations
owned by Metallon Corp. and Essar Group of India, which plans to
mine iron and produce steel in Zimbabwe and may spend $3.5
billion on an iron-ore processing plant.  Zimbabwe, which with  South Africa  holds more than three-
quarters of the world’s platinum, officially published a law two
years ago that compels foreign-owned companies to cede or sell
51 percent of their shares to black nationals or state-approved
agencies.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-largest
producer of the metal, in March agreed in principle to sell 31
percent of its Zimplats unit to a state agency and 20 percent to
employees and communities. Impala owns 87 percent of Zimplats.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , which owned the Mimosa platinum
mine with Impala, in March submitted a proposal to hand control
of the operation to Zimbabwe, which accepted the plan.  No Notice  “Mimosa has not received any notice relating to the
resubmission of prospecting applications and to the best of its
knowledge, Mimosa is not affected by today’s announcement by the
government of Zimbabwe in this regard,” Aquarius spokesman
Gavin Mackay said in an e-mailed response to a query. Impala
hasn’t heard anything from the government, spokesman  Bob Gilmour 
said by e-mail.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , which operates the Unki mine
in the country, couldn’t immediately comment.  Aquarius declined as much as 8.3 percent to 124.60 pence in
London, the weakest intraday level since Dec. 8, 2008. The stock
traded at 125.70 pence as of 4:38 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  