-- Zimmerman Seeks to Disqualify Judge in Trayvon Martin Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-16T23:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-16/zimmerman-seeks-to-disqualify-judge-in-trayvon-martin-case-1-.html
George Zimmerman, the  Florida  man
charged with second-degree murder in the shooting death of
Trayvon Martin, has filed papers seeking to disqualify the judge
assigned to his case.  Judge Jessica Recksiedler last week said she has a
potential conflict of interest because her attorney-husband
works with a TV legal analyst whom Zimmerman had sought out for
legal representation in the case.  Recksiedler invited Zimmerman lawyer Mark O’Mara to
formally ask that she step aside. O’Mara’s filing of that
request was announced today by Seminole County Chief Circuit
Judge  Alan A. Dickey  in an e-mailed statement.  “A motion entitled ‘Defendant’s Verified Motion to
Disqualify Trial Judge’ has been filed with the Clerk of the
Court in State v. Zimmerman, and will be ruled on in the
appropriate manner,” Dickey said in a message issued by a court
spokeswoman, Michelle Kennedy. Copies of the document weren’t
immediately made available.  O’Mara’s office didn’t immediately reply to an after-
hours voicemail message seeking a copy of the disqualification
papers. After-hours calls to prosecutor Angela B. Corey Corey’s
offices in Jacksonville, Yulee and Green Cove Springs, Florida,
went unanswered.  Zimmerman, 28, claimed self-defense in the fatal February
shooting of Martin, 17. Charged with second-degree murder on
April 11, he is scheduled to be arraigned May 29. O’Mara has
said his client will plead not guilty.  ‘Yes Sir’  In a brief initial court appearance on April 12, a
handcuffed Zimmerman said only “yes sir” to acknowledge his
representation by O’Mara to Judge Mark Herr.  Herr found sufficient evidence to support the murder
charge, clearing the way to send the case to a trial court
judge.  The judge disclosed at an April 13 hearing that her
husband, Jason Jarrett Recksiedler, works with Mark NeJame, a
CNN television analyst who was initially contacted by
Zimmerman’s family in their search for a defense lawyer. NeJame
referred Zimmerman to O’Mara.  Jason Recksiedler is a civil, not criminal lawyer, the
judge said.  O’Mara, who appeared along with state lawyers by
teleconference, told the judge he was concerned about NeJame’s
role as an analyst, and that NeJame had gotten Zimmerman’s
family to sign an agreement allowing the analyst to disclose
that he had talked to them. O’Mara said he hadn’t seen the
agreement.  ‘Better Choice’  “When Mr. NeJame decided to act as an analyst and not take
on the case ... he suggested that I might be a better choice,”
O’Mara said. “He has a connection with the family that I
haven’t understood yet.”  O’Mara later said that NeJame’s “role is going to be quite
significant as an analyst and it is going to be more and more
difficult I think, to maintain the proper separation.”  Zimmerman’s lawyer last week said he would seek his
client’s release from custody at an April 20 bond hearing.  Zimmerman shot Martin on Feb. 26 in Sanford, a central-
Florida town of 54,000 people north of  Orlando .  The case is  State of Florida  v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Circuit Court of the 18th Judicial Circuit (Seminole County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 