-- A123 Systems Gets $50 Million Loan From Wanxiang
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-11-05T23:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/a123-systems-gets-50-million-loan-from-wanxiang.html
A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) , the bankrupt maker
of electric-car batteries that received a $249.1 million federal
grant, won court approval to borrow $50 million from  China ’s
Wanxiang Group Corp.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey gave interim approval for
the loan today in Wilmington, Delaware. Wanxiang replaced
 Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  as the lender for A123’s Chapter 11 case.
Johnson Controls said it withdrew as the lender to avoid a fight
over the financing.  A123, based in Waltham,  Massachusetts , filed for bankruptcy
protection last month with plans to sell its automotive-business
assets to Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls for about $125
million. Wanxiang said last week it wants to be the lead bidder
at an auction for A123’s assets.  Carey heard brief testimony today from Robert M. Caruso, a
managing director with Alvarez & Marsal North America, who said
delaying the auction for a month, as requested by some
objectors, would cost the company too much money.  The company spends about $25 million a month in cash,
Caruso said. Carey will hear further testimony at a hearing on
Nov. 8.  Objectors to parts of the proposed sale procedures were
Fisker Automotive Inc., the official committee of unsecured
creditors, the U.S. Trustee’s office, Wanxiang, and patent
holders, among others.  Fisker Extension  Fisker and Wanxiang are seeking an extension of at least 30
days in the bid deadline, auction date and related dates, and
deadlines in the bidding procedures request, court papers show.  A123 asked the court to deny Wanxiang America Corp.’s
requested delay, saying the company “may not be able to secure
the governmental regulatory approvals it is seeking even under
this extended timeline,” including from the Committee on
Foreign Investment in the U.S., according to court papers filed
Nov. 3.  “Because of this potentially lengthy process, there is no
guarantee that Wanxiang would obtain CFIUS approval even if the
sale process were adjusted and extended,” A123 said.  U.S. senators John Thune, a South Dakota Republican, and
Iowa Republican Chuck Grassley expressed concerns about A123’s
financing deal with Wanxiang in a letter to U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy Geithner. They pressed Geithner, who chairs
the committee, “to protect U.S. military and taxpayer interests
while reviewing the potential transaction,” according to a Nov.
1  statement .  Foreign Owners  CFIUS, a multiagency group led by the Treasury Department,
reviews mergers and acquisitions for national-security concerns
when a takeover may give a foreign owner control of a U.S.
company. While filings are voluntary, the committee can begin
its own review.  “A123 has received millions of taxpayer dollars to develop
technology and intellectual property that should not simply be
shipped to China,” Thune said in the statement.  In its Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition, A123 listed assets
of $459.8 million and debt of $376 million as of Aug. 31.  The case is In re A123 Systems Inc., 12-12859, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  