-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Near One-Week Low Ahead of Exports Data
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-11-05T08:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/taiwan-dollar-forwards-near-one-week-low-ahead-of-exports-data.html
Taiwan dollar  forwards traded near a
one-week low ahead of data this week that may show exports
slowed in October.  Overseas shipments grew 2 percent last month from a year
earlier, after rising 10.4 percent in September, the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey showed before
a government report on Nov. 8. In the  spot market , the  Taiwan 
dollar rose as much as 0.3 percent on speculation exporters were
repatriating overseas earnings, before erasing the day’s gains
toward close of trading.  “The consensus on the exports data is not fantastic; it’s
not supportive of a very strong currency,” said Suan Teck Kin,
an economist in  Singapore  at  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) 
“Possibly you have exporters selling their dollars in the
morning and then the central bank will step in during late
afternoon to guide the currency back to where they think is a
reasonable level.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.1 percent to
NT$29.228 as of 4:07 p.m. in Taipei, compared with NT$29.19 at
the end of last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The contracts reached NT$29.245 earlier, the lowest level since
Oct. 30, and are at a 0.3 percent premium to the  exchange rate .  In the spot market, the Taiwan dollar ended at NT$29.305
against its U.S. counterpart, compared with NT$29.30 on Nov. 2,
data from Taipei Forex Inc. showed. The currency was up 0.2
percent two minutes before trading ended. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
3.42 percent.  Intervention Risk  Taiwan’s central bank has intervened to stem advances in
the currency in the final minutes of trading on most days in the
past five months, according to traders who asked not to be
identified. Central banks intervene in  currency markets  by
arranging purchases or sales of foreign exchange.  Inflation slowed for a second month in October, the
statistics bureau said in Taipei today. Consumer prices rose
2.36 percent from a year earlier, after climbing 2.96 percent in
September.  The yield on the government’s 2 percent bonds due July 2017
was little changed at 0.879 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The  overnight interbank lending  rate was
steady at 0.384 percent, a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  