-- Alcatel-Lucent Faces More Job Cuts to Match Competitors
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-11-06T08:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/alcatel-lucent-faces-deeper-job-cuts-to-match-rivals-efficiency.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  Chief Executive
Officer Ben Verwaayen will need to eliminate an additional
10,000 positions to catch up with more efficient rivals as the
unprofitable phone-equipment maker’s cash pile dwindles.  Even taking into account the 5,500 job cuts announced in
October, Alcatel-Lucent’s revenue per employee was 49,700 euros
($63,600) last quarter, at least 14 percent less than those of
 Nokia Siemens  Networks and Ericsson AB, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Selling and administrative expenses as a
percentage of sales, at 16 percent and compared with 11 percent
for Ericsson and Nokia Siemens’s 10.5 percent, must be lowered
for the French company to survive, said  Alexander Peterc , an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  London .  “They are trying to reduce the cost base substantially
with their latest restructuring effort, but this may be too
little, too late,” said Peterc, whose 50-cent price estimate
for the stock is 37 percent less than yesterday’s close in
Paris. “Gross margins are just too low to support this.”  Into his fifth year as CEO, Verwaayen is considering asset
sales to  raise cash  after losses and shrinking revenue have
strained Alcatel-Lucent’s finances. The Paris-based company has
consumed 700 million euros of cash on average annually since its
merger with Lucent Technologies in 2006, prompting concerns
about its ability to repay debt, some of which will be due
starting  next year .  Quarterly Loss  The shares added less than 1 percent to 79 cents at 9:24
a.m. Paris time. They have plummeted about 80 percent since
Verwaayen took over in September 2008. The 60-year-old hasn’t
reached his goal of making Alcatel-Lucent sustainably
profitable, and last week reported a third-quarter loss of 146
million euros. Former chiefs  Patricia Russo  and Serge Tchuruk
were driven out by a series of profit warnings that wiped out
half of the company’s market value in the year after the 2006
merger.  Intensifying competition from China’s Huawei Technologies
Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , as well as declining sales of phone equipment
in  Europe  have prompted some competitors to be more aggressive
in scaling back their workforces.  Nokia Siemens, the venture between Finland’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
 Siemens AG (SIE)  of  Germany , announced plans a year ago to slash
17,000 positions, or 23 percent of its headcount. The cuts
helped the equipment supplier report a third-quarter  operating
profit  of 182 million euros and an adjusted operating margin of
9.2 percent. Profitability may climb to as much as 12 percent in
the current period, Nokia said on Oct. 18.  Productivity Gap  Nokia Siemens, with 60,600 employees at the end of the
third quarter, generated 57,770 euros in  sales per worker  in the
period. The figure for Ericsson, the largest wireless-equipment
maker with a workforce of 109,000, was 58,280 euros, according
to its  quarterly report .  To reach similar levels of productivity, Alcatel-Lucent,
which will have 72,500 workers after completing the 5,500 job
cuts announced last month, will have to lower its headcount to
no more than 62,500.  “We are confident that we have laid the right plans to
achieve the aims set in our performance program,” said Simon Poulter, a Paris-based spokesman for Alcatel-Lucent. “We are
driving that program aggressively.”  Verwaayen so far has held back from more drastic job cuts.
The former  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  CEO said in January that it was “out of
question” to reduce the company’s workforce by 25 percent -- a
proportion similar to Nokia Siemens’s.  Five Minutes  “Rather than trying to do something to please for five
minutes, we want to do what’s right for the company,” Verwaayen
told analysts last week. “We have to look at the reality of the
market from a cost point of view, not assuming that Europe will
come back next year.”  Verwaayen is balancing political backlash from President
 Francois Hollande , who pledged to block a parade of firings,
with declining network investments from operators, especially in
Europe. Chairman Philippe Camus was called in by government
officials for a meeting in mid-2012 to discuss the
manufacturer’s plans to eliminate positions.  Top union representatives of the French telecommunications
companies have called for an industry-wide rally on Nov. 13 to
oppose to job cuts. Labor officials at Alcatel-Lucent have also
said they’ve called on ministry officials to step in.  “Alcatel-Lucent, unlike Ericsson or even NSN, is much less
concentrated in a single area and because of the widespread
nature of their operations, they will struggle to get anywhere
near the kind of  efficiency ratios  you get with other players in
the sector,” Exane’s Peterc said. “Targeting that type of
ratio would mean Alcatel-Lucent downsizing quite
substantially.”  Research Push  At a company with 26,000 employees in research and
development alone, Verwaayen is maintaining an R&D budget that
amounted to 2.5 billion euros last year. He has revamped
Alcatel’s research units to get new products to market faster,
and has allowed carriers to participate in the development
process.  Alcatel-Lucent’s miniature antenna, a 5-centimeter (2-inch)
tall cube dubbed LightRadio released last year, is Verwaayen’s
bet to grab contracts in the wireless market, where Ericsson
said it had a 38 percent market share at the end of last year.
Alcatel-Lucent has been working to improve the antenna with
customers including  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  France Telecom
SA (FTE) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   ‘Pure Player’  “Alcatel’s not a motionless company -- they scored points
on innovation in fiber, LTE, routers,” said Roland Montagne, a
Montpellier, France-based analyst at researcher Idate Digiworld
Institute, referring to the long-term evolution wireless
technology that powers high-speed networks. “The problem is
their business still  depends  too much on Europe and their
product portfolio is too large, while NSN for example has become
a pure player.”  Ericsson today projected the market for  network equipment 
will expand 3 percent to 5 percent annually through 2015, with
growth in services and support solutions exceeding that.  While Alcatel-Lucent has said it will keep both its fixed
and mobile businesses, the company is weighing whether to sell
some assets to generate cash. Its enterprise, strategic
industries and submarine businesses have been cited by analysts
as targets.  Standard and Poor’s said Aug. 18 it may reduce the
company’s  debt ratings  further into junk, citing potentially
worsening liquidity amid waning cash. Alcatel-Lucent’s debt is
also rated junk by Moody’s Investors Service.  Alcatel-Lucent targets a positive net cash position at
year-end, after slumping to a net debt of 84 million euros at
the end of September, meaning it had more debt than cash.  Debt Profile  The company will have to  repay  837 million euros in 2013,
462 million euros the following year, and 1 billion euros in
2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its net loss will
reach 306 million euros this year, followed by a deficit of 304
million euros in 2013, the average of analyst estimates showed.  “The company is now entering the worst case trajectory,
combining loss of market traction, structural gross margin
decline and a lack of meaningful restructuring initiative,”
 Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London,
wrote in a note yesterday. He expects Alcatel’s business to
deteriorate and the company to consume about 1 billion euros in
cash annually over the next few years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  