-- All Bonds Rally First Time Since 2008 With Portugal Up
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-05T16:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/all-bonds-rally-first-time-since-2008-with-portugal-up.html
From the U.S. to Germany and even
Japan, where the  bond market  is twice the size of the economy,
investors can’t get enough  government securities  even though
rising debt loads are blamed for curbing global growth.  For the first time since the financial crisis in 2008, all
26 markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies are poised to generate positive
returns on an annual basis. Gains this year range from
Portugal’s 47 percent to Japan’s 1.78 percent.  After years of spending to bolster their economies,
governments are getting a handle on their borrowing at the same
time central banks are taking new steps to cap bond yields and
inflation slows. The par amount of debt tracked by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index
has risen 7.3 percent this year to $23.6 trillion, the smallest
increase since 2005, when it fell 3.7 percent.  “The longer-term  bull market  in  government bonds  is still
intact all over the world,”  Howard Simons , a Bianco Research
LLC strategist in Chicago, said in a Nov. 2 telephone interview.  Government bonds have returned 31 percent since mid-2007,
with reinvested interest based on the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index, while the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks
has lost 4.2 percent with dividends. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Total Return Index of 24 raw materials has dropped 21 percent.  ‘Deflationary Force’  Even though stocks have gained 13 percent this year, debt
investors have been willing to accept lower  interest rates  to
hold government debt because of slower inflation in the face of
unprecedented central bank stimulus. The average bond yield has
dropped to 1.44 percent from 1.76 percent on Dec. 31, the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “We still have a massive deflationary force,” said
Michael Quach, the global investment analyst for Smith &
Williamson Investment Management Ltd. in London, which oversees
the equivalent of $19.4 billion. “You also have very low
interest-rate policies in most developed nations.”  Morgan Stanley economists led by Joachim Fels in London
wrote in an Oct. 31 report they see global consumer prices
rising 3.4 percent this year, down from 4.4 percent in 2011.
They predict an even smaller increase of 3.2 percent next year.  In the world’s biggest economy, inflation as measured by
the U.S.  personal consumption expenditures index , a gauge
preferred by  Federal Reserve , rose 1.3 percent in the third-
quarter from a year earlier, below the 1.9 percent average of
the past 20 years, data from the Commerce Department shows.  Rally Missed  Wage growth is slowing, with a report from the Labor
Department on Nov. 2 showing average hourly earnings for
America’s workers climbed 1.6 percent in October from a year
earlier, the smallest gain since records began in 2007.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, last week to 1.72 percent, and are down from
1.88 percent at the end of 2011, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The yield fell four basis points to 1.68 percent
at 11:53 a.m. in New York.  Few investors or strategists foresaw the rally. Ten-year
yields were expected to be higher this year for at least two-
thirds of the Group of Seven nations plus Brazil, Russia, India
and China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rather than a referendum, on government actions, gains in
government securities are more of a reflection of central banks
supporting government debt, according to Jamie Stuttard, the
London-based head of international bonds at  Fidelity
Investments , which oversees $1.58 trillion.  Benchmark Rates  Benchmark interest rates are close to zero in the U.S. and
Japan and are a record low 0.75 percent in Europe.  After buying $2.3 trillion of Treasuries and mortgage-
related bonds, the Fed said Oct. 24 it would continue its
unprecedented stimulus measures by purchasing $40 billion of
home-loan securities a month until the labor market improves
“substantially.”  While payrolls expanded by 171,000 in October following a
148,000 gain in September, a U.S. Labor Department showed Nov. 2
that the  unemployment rate  rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent.  The  Bank of Japan  increased its asset-purchase fund on Oct.
30 by 11 trillion yen ($137 billion) to 66 trillion yen.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Oct. 4 the
bank is ready to start buying government bonds to help the debt-
ridden nations in the region, including Spain.  Spain, Italy  “The only reason these bonds rallied is because of
external factors such as liquidity from central banks and a
proactive response that Draghi has taken,” Fidelity’s Stuttard
said by telephone Oct. 30. “Without that, there would have been
a Spanish government bond crisis in the third quarter.”  Spanish 10-year bond yielded 5.75 percent today, down from
a euro-era record 7.75 percent on July 27. Ten-year Italian
yields dropped to 5 percent from 6.71 percent on July 25.  The decline in yields has helped Spain’s government debt
return  3.4 percent , while Italy has gained  17.1 percent . The 17-
nation euro-area has risen  9.2 percent  on average, according to
the Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  “The monetary authorities are going to do whatever it
takes to stop any sharp rise in bond yields while they remain
concerned about the growth outlook,” said  Steven Miller , a
Sydney-based investor at BlackRock Inc., which oversees $3.7
trillion as the world’s biggest money manager. “Central banks
are buying a lot of government debt and if they keep on buying
it, that is going to curtail any tendency for yields to rise.”  Lowered Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its global growth
forecast last month to the slowest pace since the 2009
recession. The economy will grow 3.3 percent this year and 3.6
percent next year, the IMF said on Oct. 9. That compares with
July predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013.  Investors are better off sticking with U.S. Treasuries,
according to Gary Shilling, president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.,
an economic forecasting company in Springfield, New Jersey.  “There’s no raging economic growth to justify what we’re
seeing” in equities markets, Shilling said Oct. 18 on  Bloomberg
Radio ’s “Taking Stock” with Pimm Fox and Courtney Donohoe.
“This is really an opiate, all this stimulus.”  Developed economies with high public debt potentially face
“massive” losses of output lasting more than a decade, even if
their interest rates remain low,  Carmen Reinhart ,  Vincent Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  wrote in a paper published in April
on the  National Bureau of Economic Research ’s  website .  Debt Loads  They found that countries with debts exceeding 90 percent
of the economy historically have experienced subpar growth for
more than 20 years. Even with those dangers, the economists said
they weren’t advocating rapid reductions in government debt at
times of “extremely weak growth and high unemployment.”  Japan’s debt of $11.5 trillion is the largest in the world
and more than double the nation’s annual gross domestic product,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S.’s $11 trillion
is equivalent to 68 percent of GDP. Greece, Iceland, Italy,
Singapore, Portugal and Ireland all have debt that exceeds the
size of their economies, the data show.  After Portugal, the next best-performing government bond
market is Ireland, with its debt returning  28 percent , followed
by Hungary at  18 percent .  Japan, the worst-performing market, is followed by Sweden
at  1.85 percent  and Switzerland at 1.91 percent. U.S. bonds are
up  1.92 percent .  Auction Demand  Efforts by governments to curb spending mean that this
year’s 7.3 percent growth in debt outstanding, as measured by
Bank of America’s Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index,
compares with 10 percent last year, 18 percent in 2010 and 25
percent in 2009.  Some governments are finding it easier to sell bonds.
Investors bid a record $3.17 for each dollar of the $1.79
trillion in notes and bonds sold by the  U.S. Treasury  this year,
compared with $3.04 in 2011 and $2.99 in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Portugal, shut out of bond markets for more than a year as
it relies on aid to stay solvent, is considering a private
placement after visiting investors, Joao Moreira Rato, chairman
of the nation’s Lisbon-based debt agency told  Bloomberg News 
last month.  Demand will persist for sovereign debt, Jeffrey Caughron,
an associate partner at Baker Group LP in Oklahoma City, which
advises community banks on investments exceeding $42 billion,
said in a Nov. 1 telephone interview.  “There’s still room for the healthy countries and those
enacting responsible policies to continue to issue any debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  