-- Amgen’s Drug Lowers Cholesterol Among Statin Intolerant
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-11-05T23:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/amgen-s-drug-lowers-cholesterol-among-statin-intolerant.html
  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, said its experimental heart drug lowered
cholesterol levels in patients unable to take standard medicines
such as Pfizer Inc.’s Lipitor because of side effects.  The drug, AMG-145, which targets cholesterol-regulating
gene PCSK9 in the liver, reduced LDL, or bad cholesterol, 51
percent in patients intolerant to medicines like Lipitor, called
statins, after 12 weeks, and 63 percent among those taking it in
combination with  Merck & Co.’s (MRK)  cholesterol treatment Zetia,
according to a study presented today at the  American Heart
Association  meeting in  Los Angeles .  Amgen is focusing on the drug’s potential to help offset
declining sales of its anemia drugs Aranesp and Epogen, which
together will generate $4 billion in estimated sales this year
and face increased competition by 2015. The  Thousand Oaks ,
California-based company is competing with some of the world’s
biggest drugmakers, such as Pfizer,  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Sanofi (SAN) ,
to be first to market with the new cholesterol medicine.  “Close to a million people in the U.S. alone who are
treated with statins cannot tolerate them or the doses needed
for effective cholesterol control,” said Evan Stein, director
of the Metabolic and Atherosclerosis Research Center in
Cincinnati and one of the study’s researchers.  The market for these PCSK9 inhibitors may be at least $10
billion, Adnan Butt, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in San
Francisco, said in an e-mail last week. In the U.S. about 1
million can’t take statins because of side effects such as
muscle soreness, he said.  Highest Dose  Pfizer (PFE)  today also released data on its PCSK9 inhibitor, RN
316, showing the drug at its highest dose lowered bad
cholesterol in patients on statins by 80 percent after their
first treatment. Cholesterol fell so low for some in the 135-
person study, they weren’t eligible to get a second dose, said
Barry Gumbiner, lead researcher on the medicine for  New York- 
based Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker.  At the end of the 12-week study, those getting the highest
dose had a decline in LDL of 56 percent. Pfizer didn’t see any
unusual safety signals, Gumbiner said.  In a separate clinical trial, Amgen said its drug reduced
LDL as much as 56 percent in patients with a genetic disorder
called heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, some of whom
were also taking statins and Zetia. HeFH, which affects at least
1 in 500 people worldwide, elevates LDL as well as total
cholesterol and leads to early cardiovascular disease and death,
the company said in a statement.  Amgen is scheduled tomorrow to release data at the heart
meeting on how patients who are unable to reach appropriate
levels of cholesterol on statins responded to AMG-145.  Under Skin  Shares of Amgen  declined  less than 1 percent to $86.35 at
the close of trading in  New York . The stock has increased 34
percent this year. Pfizer gained less than 1 percent to $24.58.  Pfizer has started another study involving 350 patients
getting an injection under the skin rather than an infusion. The
company expects results in June. Pfizer’s drug was developed by
Scientists at Rinat Neuroscience, which Pfizer acquired in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  