-- Laos to Start Building Mekong Dam This Week Amid Opposition
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-11-05T09:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/laos-to-start-building-mekong-dam-this-week-amid-opposition-1-.html
Laos will start construction this
week on a $3.6 billion hydropower dam on the Mekong River that
has been delayed for 18 months amid opposition from downstream
countries and activist groups.  The groundbreaking ceremony will take place on Nov. 7 at
the site of the dam, according to Viraphonh Viravong, deputy
minister of energy and mining. Bangkok-based  Ch. Karnchang Pcl (CK) ,
 PTT Pcl (PTT)  and  Electricity Generating Pcl (EGCO)  are among major
shareholders of Xayaburi Power Co., the dam’s operator.  “It has been assessed, it has been discussed the last two
years,” Viraphonh said today by phone. “We have addressed most
of the concerns.”  The hydropower plant is the first among eight that Laos
plans to build on the Mekong to expand Southeast Asia’s  smallest
economy  by selling electricity to neighboring countries.  Vietnam 
last year recommended a 10-year delay for all dam projects on
the river, which also runs through Myanmar, Thailand and
Cambodia from its source in  China ’s Tibetan plateau.  Ch. Karnchang  shares  rose 5.7 percent to 9.30 baht in
Bangkok, the highest close since Jan. 20.  Thai opponents of the dam held a protest today on the
Mekong across from Vientiane, the  Laos  capital where Asian and
European leaders from about 50 countries are meeting for a
summit. In August, they filed a lawsuit in Thailand’s
Administrative Court to cancel an agreement for the Electricity
Generating Authority, known as Egat, to buy almost all the power
from the 1,285-megawatt project.  Environmental Concerns  “Laos never collected basic information about the ways
that people depend on the river, so how can it say that there
will be no impact?” Pianporn Deetes, a campaign coordinator
with  International Rivers , a Berkeley, California-based
nonprofit group that aims to protect rivers and human rights,
said in an e-mail. “The environmental and social concerns were
never taken seriously.”  Viraphonh said measures have been taken to ensure a limited
impact on the environment. Cambodian officials who had opposed
the dam are now “very happy” with its design, he said.  “The lesson of Xayaburi is that we have raised the
standard of dam projects,” Viraphonh said. “We are taking care
more of the environment and other concerns. Other projects can
follow some similar standards to Xayaburi.”  Laos, a landlocked nation of 6 million people, plans to
expand its generating capacity and sell electricity to its
neighbors. Hydropower’s contribution to government revenue will
more than double to 1 percent of gross domestic product compared
with two years ago, according to the World Bank.  Fisheries, Rice  Planned hydropower and mining projects combined with
increased electricity demand in neighboring countries will
probably keep economic growth at 8 percent a year through 2015,
the International Monetary Fund said in a report last year. Laos
opened a stock exchange last year that has two companies.  About 60 million people depend on the Mekong and its
tributaries for food, water and transportation, according to the
Mekong River Commission, an inter-governmental body. Neighboring
countries are concerned the dam will disrupt fisheries and rice
production.  Ch. Karnchang,  Thailand ’s third-biggest construction
company by market value, owns a 50 percent stake in Xayaburi,
according to its website. PTT, Thailand’s biggest company, has a
25 percent stake and Egat owns 12.5 percent.  “Hydropower is a big natural advantage for Laos,”
Viraphonh said. “If you cannot develop the Xayaburi project,
what other choice do we have?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  