-- Harbinger Group Agrees to Buy Exco Gas Stake
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-11-05T15:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/harbinger-group-said-to-agree-to-buy-exco-gas-stake.html
Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Group Inc.
agreed to buy a stake in U.S. natural gas fields from  Exco
Resources Inc. (XCO)  for $373 million, betting on a rebound for the
fuel.  Harbinger Group, the New York Stock Exchange-listed vehicle
controlled by Falcone’s hedge fund, will get about 75 percent of
a partnership it’s setting up with Exco, according to a
statement today. Because the partnership will also take on debt,
Exco will get $597.5 million of cash.  The acquisition would add a third leg to Harbinger Group’s
operations, which already include a life insurance company and a
majority stake in the  maker of Rayovac batteries . Since
Falcone’s hedge fund firm, Harbinger Capital Partners LLC,
bought the company in 2009, it has sought to make long-term
investments through the acquisition of undervalued or out-of-
favor businesses.  “This deal will create long-term value by anchoring our
new energy operating business with a long-duration gas asset at
a time when natural gas is trading near historically low
levels,”  Harbinger Group (HRG)  President Omar Asali said in the
statement.  The Exco assets may fit the “out-of-favor” bill. Gas
futures in New York have traded at less than $4 per million
British thermal units this year and touched a 10-year low in
April.  Most new onshore U.S. oil and gas drilling in the past
decade has focused on so-called unconventional wells, many of
which require techniques such as horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing to unlock hydrocarbons.  Unconventional Fields  In contrast, the Exco assets to be contributed to the
partnership include conventional wells in areas of West Texas,
East Texas, and Northern Louisiana. The fields involved comprise
520 billion cubic feet equivalent of estimated proved reserves
and are about 84 percent gas, according to today’s statement.  Harbinger Group expects to earn a return even if gas prices
don’t recover, said a person with knowledge of the planned
investment. If they decline further, Harbinger Group may seek
more acquisitions as gas producers face financial distress, this
person said.  Harbinger Group’s top energy investing executive is Carl Giesler, who joined from the hedge fund last year. He previously
oversaw private oil and gas investments at  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and was an energy banker at Morgan
Stanley.  Harbinger Group Dividends  With the acquisition, dividends from all of Harbinger
Group’s subsidiaries will exceed $100 million and will be
greater than the company’s interest and dividend payments,
according to the firm’s statement.  Exco, run by Chief Executive Officer Douglas Miller,
focuses on drilling in unconventional U.S. fields, including the
Haynesville, Bossier, and Marcellus shale formations. The
Dallas-based company has had four straight quarterly losses
driven by the decline in gas prices.  Miller said on an Oct. 30 conference call that a potential
joint venture of some of the conventional fields would be used
to reduce the company’s borrowing. He’s also pursuing a sale of
the company’s interest in a pipeline joint venture with  BG Group
Plc. (BG/)   Falcone, 50, rose to prominence with a well-timed bet
against subprime securities in 2007. He has since faced client
withdrawals and losses, including on his funds’ investments in
the LightSquared Inc. wireless network, which filed for
bankruptcy in May.  Citigroup Inc. is advising Harbinger Group and Andrews
Kurth LLP and Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP are
providing legal counsel. Harbinger Group rose 2.1 percent to
$8.66 at 10:36 a.m. in New York. Exco advanced 4 percent to
$8.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 Jmccracken3@bloomberg.net . 