-- Arizona Law Criminalizing Abortions Questioned by Judges
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-05T21:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/arizona-law-criminalizing-abortions-raises-roe-v-wade-argument.html
An  Arizona  law making it a crime for
doctors to perform abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy was
questioned by two federal appeals court judges who said it
appears to flout the U.S.  Supreme Court ’s 1973 Roe v. Wade
decision.  The lower-court judge who upheld the law should be
overruled because Roe v. Wade allows women to abort pregnancies
before fetuses can survive outside the uterus, Janet Crepps, an
attorney for the Center for Reproductive Rights, today told a
three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco.  U.S. Circuit Judge Andrew J. Kleinfeld, appointed to the
court by President  George H.W. Bush , said he understood that the
Arizona legislation considered the possibility of a fetus
feeling pain and the increased health risks to the mother in
fashioning the law. Still, Roe v. Wade allows a woman to have an
abortion even if she knows those risks, Kleinfeld said.  The Supreme Court “sacrificed those interests in favor of
letting the woman have an abortion previability,” he said at
today’s hearing.  The state’s law makes it a misdemeanor, punishable by as
long as six months in jail, to perform an abortion after 20
weeks of pregnancy except in medical emergencies to prevent the
mother’s death or “irreversible impairment of a major bodily
function.”  Arizona is one of nine states in the past two years to ban
abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy, around the time
women commonly get ultrasounds to screen for fetal anomalies.
The state’s law, which the  American Civil Liberties Union  said
is the most extreme abortion ban in the nation, was signed by
Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican, in April.  Roe v. Wade  Lawyers for abortion rights supporters claim that the
fundamental right to abortion under Roe v. Wade trumps Arizona’s
concern that an unborn child may feel pain during an abortion,
according to court filings. A healthy fetus is able to survive
outside the uterus at 23 weeks to 24 weeks at the earliest, they
said in court filings.  What Arizona is attempting to is “directly prohibit
abortions prior to viability,” Crepps argued. Under Roe v.
Wade, she said, the state retains the right to regulate
abortion, “but it can’t strike at the heart of the right, and
it cannot impose an undue burden on women seeking abortions.”  Credible Evidence  A federal judge in Arizona who upheld the law in July cited
what he said was credible evidence of fetal pain and ruled that
the state’s interest in protecting unborn children was
paramount.  U.S. District Judge James Teilborg in Phoenix ruled that a
woman’s right to abortion isn’t unlimited and that states’
interest in the lives of unborn children may have “sufficient
force so that the right of the woman to terminate the pregnancy
can be restricted.”  Arizona Solicitor General  David Cole  told the appeals court
today the law was intended to protect the interests of pregnant
women and unborn fetuses.  “The state legislature has the authority under our law to
make findings and in this case they have made detailed findings
that should not be cast aside as if they were some kind of
after-thought,” Cole said. “I understand that it’s a difficult
area, but the legislature balanced those things and did what it
did and we are asking the court to uphold it.”  Roe v. Wade  U.S. Circuit Judge Marsha Berzon, appointed by President
 Bill Clinton , said at the hearing that under Roe v. Wade, a
woman’s right to end her pregnancy isn’t affected by other
issues.  “The woman’s liberty interest prevails up until the point
that the fetus can survive independently,” she said.  The law, set to take effect Aug. 2 of this year, was put on
hold by the federal appeals court pending the outcome of the
appeal. The panel, whose third judge was Mary Schroeder,
appointed to the court by President  Jimmy Carter , didn’t
indicate today when it will rule.  Abortion laws in other states are facing legal challenges,
including an Idaho law criminalizing abortions unless the
procedure is performed in the first trimester by a doctor, a
Mississippi law requiring doctors at abortion facilities to have
admitting privileges at a local hospital and a South Dakota law
requiring doctors to advise prospective abortion patients that
they will face an increased risk of suicide.  The case is Isaacson v. Horne, 12-16670, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The lower-court
case is Isaacson v. Horne, 12-01501, U.S. District Court,
District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  