-- Harper ‘Intervening’ in Indian Nuclear Talks, Cameco Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-11-05T20:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/harper-intervening-in-indian-nuclear-talks-cameco-says.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is “personally intervening” in inter-government talks
to help the country sell nuclear fuel and equipment to  India ,
uranium producer  Cameco Corp. (CCO) ’s chief executive officer said.  “For  Canada  to fully participate with India, we need that
bilateral agreement,” Tim Gitzel said today in a telephone
interview from Cameco’s headquarters in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
“We are very appreciative that the PM is personally intervening
to help move that forward.”  Rudy Husny, a spokesman for Canadian Trade Minister Ed
Fast, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
outside of normal business hours in India, where he’s traveling
with the government delegation. Harper is on a six-day trip and
will meet Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  tomorrow.  Canada and India signed a cooperation  pact  in June 2010,
the first step toward enabling the Canadian nuclear industry to
sell materials and equipment for civilian use to the world’s
ninth-largest economy. As of last month, India had 20 operable
nuclear reactors, compared with  China ’s 15 and Canada’s 18,
according to  data  from the  World Nuclear Association . India also
has seven reactors under construction and plans to build a
further 18, the data show.  Harper’s direct involvement in the talks increases the
chances of an agreement while the prime minister is in India
this week, Gitzel said.  “We aren’t privy to discussions between the governments,”
he said. “We believe there’s a strong willingness to get an
agreement.”  Tracing Exports  Before allowing exports to begin, Canada is asking India to
ensure they can be traced, in line with standards met by
countries such as the U.S. India says such safeguards aren’t
necessary since it already complies with standards set by the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , according to Stewart Beck,
Canada’s high commissioner to India.  “The Indians are saying that they report through the IAEA,
and because of that, that should be adequate,” he told
reporters in Agra, India, yesterday. “We are concerned about
where Canadian nuclear material goes.”  Ed Fast said today he’s optimistic the deal can be
completed in the “near future.”  Minimal Impact  Even if a deal between the two countries isn’t signed right
away, the impact of a delay on Cameco would be minimal, David Sadowski, a Vancouver-based analyst at Raymond James Ltd. who
rates Cameco a buy, said today by telephone.  “India’s not extremely important in the near term,”
Sadowski said, because the country’s nuclear liability
legislation that holds power plant builders legally responsible
if there is an accident is slowing expansion of the country’s
nuclear power capacity.  “The international standard is to indemnify foreign
reactor vendors,” he said. “So they’re being scared off by
this law right now and we aren’t seeing the speed of reactor
building that we expected.”  Cameco fell 1.4 percent to C$18.24 at 3:20 p.m. in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  