-- Latest Danish Bank Failure Shows Risks Hidden in Profits
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-05T14:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/latest-danish-bank-failure-shows-risks-hidden-in-profits.html
Denmark ’s latest regional bank
failure shows that even lenders that had reported growing
profits can conceal risks big enough to shut them down.  Toender Bank A/S (TNDR) , based in southwest Denmark close to the
German border, was forced to declare bankruptcy after markets
closed on Nov. 2, following an inspection by the Financial
Supervisory Authority that revealed bad loans big enough to wipe
out the lender’s equity.  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , Denmark’s third-largest
listed lender, will take over Toender Bank’s 18,000 customers
and a balance sheet of 2.3 billion kroner ($396 million). The
acquisition won’t include hybrid or supplementary capital.  Denmark’s burst housing bubble has claimed more than a
dozen regional lenders since 2008 as continued declines in
property values and a struggling farming industry trigger deeper
impairments. About 3.2 percent of the nation’s roughly 105 banks
are under “intensified supervision due to potential solvency
problems,” FSA Director Ulrik Noedgaard said last month. Until
last week, Toender Bank had appeared profitable.  “Based on what the FSA had published, Toender Bank had
until now looked fine and therefore it had not been subject to a
lot of scrutiny,” Jesper Berg, senior vice president and head
of regulatory affairs at Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S, Europe’s
biggest issuer of covered bonds backed by mortgages, said in an
e-mailed reply to questions. “Reality turned out to be less
benign.”  Free Dinner  The FSA told Toender Bank to find 278 million kroner to
cover its solvency requirement, after uncovering 319 million
kroner in bad loans, the Copenhagen-based regulator said in a
statement late on Nov. 2. In its six-month report, published
Aug. 21, Toender Bank reported writedowns of 32.5 million kroner
and a net income of 9.2 million kroner, more than three times
the profit posted a year earlier. The bank, which has an ad on
its website inviting prospective customers to a  free dinner  to
entice them to open an account, claimed its solvency ratio was
17.3 percent at the end of June.  “The considerable increase in writedowns follows an overly
optimistic view of customers,” the FSA wrote. “Credit
management has revealed deep short comings.”  The bank’s sudden failure should prompt an investigation
into the FSA’s oversight practices, Benny Engelbrecht, a
business affairs spokesman in Prime Minister Helle Thorning- Schmidt’s Social Democrat party, told newspaper Borsen.  ‘Severe Negligence’  Given the information now available, it appears Toender
Bank’s management demonstrated “severe negligence” in its
handling of the bank’s affairs, the Danish Bankers Association
said in a statement late yesterday. There had been no
indications that the bank might be facing insolvency, the
association said.  The bankers group also criticized Toender Bank’s decision
to sell 30 million kroner in hybrid capital to 460 customers in
September.  “Everything points toward a failure of management that is
indefensible but that is hard to protect against,” Joergen A. Horwitz, the director of the bankers association, said in a
statement.  Denmark’s government, which last year became the first in
Europe to enforce bail-in legislation that led to senior bank
creditor losses, has pushed through five bank rescue packages,
including measures to encourage consolidation. Anders Dam, the
chief executive officer of  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s second-
biggest listed lender, estimates about half the country’s banks
will disappear through 2020, as they’re either bought up or
wound down.  Stress Tests  Three regional banks failed the central bank’s latest
stress test, published Oct. 25. A fourth bank would be close to
breaching capital rules, while the nation’s four biggest
lenders, including  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , all passed.  Nicholas Rohde  of Niro Invest Aps., who correctly predicted
the failure of Fjordbank Mors A/S, Amagerbanken A/S and Max Bank
A/S in 2011, ranks Basisbank A/S, Andelskassen JAK and
Sparekassen Lolland A/S as Denmark’s worst-capitalized banks, he
said last month. Dam has said Jyske can mobilize about 18
billion kroner for acquisitions as the bank uses the crisis to
win market share.  Shares in Sydbank slipped 0.5 percent to 106.70 kroner as
of 10:05 a.m. in Copenhagen today. Jyske Bank fell 1.1 percent
to 175.60 kroner while Danske Bank declined 0.3 percent to 94.25
kroner. A number of regional Danish lenders saw their share
prices slump today. Totalbanken A/S sank 12 percent, Ostjydsk
Bank A/S fell 8 percent, Nordfyns Bank A/S lost 7.1 percent and
Nordjyske Bank A/S dropped 4.9 percent.  ‘An Outlier?’  “I think Toender Bank is an outlier, but I wouldn’t rule
out that a few other banks could face closure,” said Berg, who
is also a former departmental head at the Danish central bank.  It’s important to remember that European Banking Authority
stress tests show that overall bank health in Denmark remains
better than in much of the rest of  Europe , Berg said. Also, the
country has learnt its lessons after bail-ins last year at
Amagerbanken and Fjordbank Mors, and has since managed to
orchestrate mergers to soften the blow of subsequent failures,
he said.  A number of Denmark’s regional banks are still struggling.
About a quarter of Danish banks don’t generate enough core
earnings to cover average industry writedowns as the cost of
holding deposits grows, the FSA estimates. The International
Monetary Fund said today Denmark risks falling into another
recession as house price declines undermine any recovery.  Eighteen Danish banks had core Tier 1 capital ratios below
9.5 in the second quarter, while five were below 7 percent and
one didn’t meet a 4.5 percent threshold, according to the
regulator. As lenders continue to struggle, the FSA is setting
more rigorous rules. It estimates that half of Denmark’s banks
now face higher solvency requirements under a new model.  “The Danish FSA has recently tightened its provision rules
and also applies some of the toughest capital standards in
Europe, in particular through its very aggressive Pillar II
practice,” Berg said. “The upside of this policy is that it
should be possible to find buyers, who are also willing to take
over all non-subordinated liabilities. The downside is that it
can be tough on shareholders and subordinated creditors. That is
likely to be a general trend in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  