-- ATG, NYSE Euronext Plan Trading Venue for Brazilian Equities
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-05T23:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/atg-nyse-euronext-plan-trading-platform-for-brazilian-equities.html
Americas Trading Group, a provider of
financial technology, will create a platform with  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
for buying and selling Brazilian stocks starting next year.  Americas Trading System Brasil, or ATS Brasil, plans to
begin in 2013 and will compete with  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , owner of the
country’s dominant exchange, Rio de Janeiro-based ATG said in a
statement today. ATG will have a controlling interest and
operational management while NYSE Technologies, a unit of NYSE
Euronext, will be a minority shareholder. NYSE Technologies will
be the “core technology provider” for the system, which will
seek to attract investors including high-frequency traders
within the country and from outside, the statement said.  “New entrants will capture market share but BM&FBovespa
will keep the lion’s share of trading and 100 percent of post-
trading services,” Paulo Ribeiro, an analyst at HSBC, said in a
telephone interview today. “BM&FBovespa will still grow, but if
you have less market share of trading, you capture less of the
market growth.”  BM&FBovespa is facing a loss in equities market share
estimated at as much as 30 percent by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Banco Itau BBA SA as the nation considers boosting competition
for equities trading. A June  report  commissioned by the
country’s securities regulator to examine competition for
trading services bolstered bids by Direct Edge Holdings LLC,
Bats Global Markets Inc., Cetip SA-Mercados Organizados and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  to compete against BM&FBovespa.  Market Competition  BM&FBovespa, based in  Sao Paulo , rose 35 percent to 13.20
reais this year. The shares  fell  30 cents, or 2.2 percent today.
Ribeiro said the prospect of competition in equities trading is
already reflected in the bourse’s stock price.  Ribeiro expects competition to start in 2014, with rivals
capturing 30 percent of equities trading by 2016. Itau analysts
including Regina Longo Sanchez said BM&FBovespa may lose 20 to
30 percent of its share, according to a June 18 research note.  “The entry of  ATS Brasil  starts a new cycle in the
Brazilian exchange market,” Fernando Cohen, president of ATG,
said in the statement. “Our innovative, high-performance order
execution platform will generate more liquidity for the  capital
markets . This initiative should stimulate cost reduction by
offering efficiency gains for investors.”  ‘Infrastructure Provider’  Ending BM&FBovespa’s monopoly would help spur economic
growth in  Brazil , Oxera Consulting Ltd. said in its June  report 
to the Brazilian regulator. Bovespa is the only “infrastructure
provider” for equities trading and post-transaction services in
Brazil, Oxera said in the report.  “We see customers who want to access the vibrancy, growth
in Brazil,” Dominique Cerutti, New York-based NYSE Euronext’s
president and deputy chief executive officer, told reporters in
 Rio de Janeiro  today. “We’ll bring more liquidity,” which will
increase volume for the Bovespa exchange, he said. “We see this
desire for more trading.”  ATS Brasil, which will use NYSE Technologies’ Universal
Trading Platform, will operate initially as a so-called
organized OTC market, the statement said. The platform needs the
approval of the  Central Bank  of Brazil and the Brazilian
securities regulator before it can start trading, ATG said.  The company plans to negotiate with Bovespa about clearing
shares traded on the platform, Cerutti said. “I don’t see why
we would try to fragment the clearing,” he said.  Clearinghouse Integration  The Sao Paulo-based exchange owner is working to integrate
its four clearinghouses across asset classes to lower margin
requirements for users by up to 40 percent, BM&FBovespa Chief
Executive Officer Edemir Pinto said in 2011. Discussion about
opening up the clearinghouse to other trading platforms must
wait until after the integration is completed, Chief Financial
Officer Eduardo Refinetti Guardia said on a conference call on
Aug. 8. Direct competition for the equities exchange isn’t
likely until 2015, he said.  The Brazilian bourse said in a statement on its website
that trading fees in Brazil are in line with those in other
countries. The cost for trading and services required after
transactions are completed are 13 to 27 times higher on Bovespa
than NYSE and less than half that on the Buenos Aires Stock
Exchange, according to Oxera. They’re in line with costs in
Indonesia, Poland and  Spain , the report said.  The report “confirmed what market participants always
suspected: trading at BVMF is expensive and there are
substantial gains to be extracted from introducing
competition,” Banco Santander Brasil SA analysts including
Henrique Navarro wrote in a note to clients on June 19.  Electronic Trading  Cetip, whose main businesses include the custody and
registration of fixed-income securities, is starting a new
electronic bond-trading platform developed with Atlanta-based
ICE, the second-largest U.S. futures operator, Luiz Fernando Fleury, its president, said in Sao Paulo in August. The system
will combine electronic trading, settlement of trades and
custody services, according to Cetip. ICE spent almost $492
million to buy a 12.4 percent stake in the company in 2011.  BM&FBovespa also offers an electronic trading platform for
corporate fixed-income securities that integrates trading,
settlement and custody.  The announcement by ATG and NYSE Euronext today followed
plans by  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Direct Edge, the fourth-
largest U.S. equity exchange, to start an electronic exchange
for  stock trading  in Rio de Janeiro. The target date for that
exchange is now January 2014,  William O’Brien , CEO of Direct
Edge, said in a phone interview in September. It was initially
scheduled to start this quarter.  New Exchange  Bats and Sao Paulo-based Claritas Investimentos also signed
an agreement to work on the creation of a new stock exchange
with clearing and depository services in Brazil, according to a
 statement  from Bats in 2011. Principal Financial Group Inc.,
based in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , bought 60 percent of the asset
manager this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the Brazilian securities regulator said in a
statement on its website that the Oxera findings don’t
necessarily reflect its views, the report will help it decide if
a change is needed to encourage more competition. BM&FBovespa is
the second-largest exchange operator by market value in the
Americas after Chicago-based CME Group Inc., which owns a
 minority stake  in the Brazilian bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  