-- Australia Retail Sales Rise, Trade Gap Narrows; Currency Gains
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-05T02:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/australian-retail-sales-rose-more-than-forecast-in-september.html
Australia ’s retail sales advanced
more than economists forecast in September and the nation’s
trade deficit narrowed by the most in five months, sending the
local currency higher ahead of tomorrow’s central bank meeting.  Sales climbed 0.5 percent to A$21.6 billion ($22.4 billion)
from August, when they rose a revised 0.3 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That exceeded the median
 forecast  for a 0.4 percent gain. The trade shortfall shrank by
A$420 million to A$1.46 billion in September, also more than
forecasts.  Consumer spending  has been fueled by interest-rate
reductions since November 2011 as the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
tries to buttress demand outside of a resource boom that may
crest next year. Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  cut the key
rate by a quarter percentage point last month to 3.25 percent,
and traders are pricing in a 54 percent chance he will lower
borrowing costs again tomorrow.  “The RBA has eased somewhat pre-emptively,” said  Michael Turner , an economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney.
“Whether the board sees fit to move again as soon as tomorrow
has become an increasingly uncertain prospect given the
stabilization in data in China and the U.S.”  The Australian currency, which has risen 52 percent in the
past four years, traded at $1.0363 at 1:34 p.m. in Sydney
compared with $1.0344 before the release.  Food, Clothing  Today’s retail report showed spending on household goods
gained 1.2 percent, while consumers spent 0.6 percent more on
food and 0.8 percent more on a category labeled other retailing.
They spent 0.6 less on clothing, footwear and personal
accessories and cut department-store purchases by 0.5 percent,
it showed.  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s largest retailer, posted the
fastest first-quarter sales growth from supermarkets open at
least a year since 2009 as promotions and food price inflation
drove growth, the company said in an Oct. 18 statement.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, declined 0.1
percent in the three months through September from the previous
quarter. Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent decline.  The trade report showed exports fell 1 percent to A$24.2
billion, led by an 11 percent drop in metal ores and minerals.
Imports declined 2 percent to A$25.6 billion on an 11 percent
drop in machinery and industrial equipment and a 34 percent fall
in a category that includes civil aircraft, the report showed.  Australian employers hired almost three times the number of
workers economists forecast in September, a government report
showed Oct. 11, even as the  unemployment rate  jumped to 5.4
percent, the highest since April 2010, from 5.1 percent.  Labor Demand  A private report today showed help-wanted notices fell for
a seventh straight month in October, signaling the nation’s
unemployment rate may rise further.  Jobs advertised in newspapers and on the Internet dropped
4.6 percent last month after a revised 3.9 percent fall in
September, according to an  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  report released in  Melbourne  today. Economists predicted
the jobless rate will rise to 5.5 percent in October ahead of a
Nov. 8 government release.  A separate private report today showed Australia’s services
industry contracted in October for a ninth straight month as the
sustained strength of the nation’s currency and cautious
consumers discouraged spending.  Australian households are building a financial cushion by
repaying mortgages faster and saving more, the RBA said in its
Sept. 25 financial stability review. “Most households appear
well placed to meet their debt obligations,” the central bank
said in the semi-annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  