-- Aussie Dollar Touches Month-High After RBA Holds Key Rate
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-11-06T05:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/australian-dollar-stays-higher-before-rba-interest-rate-decision.html
Australia’s dollar climbed to the
highest level since September after the  Reserve Bank 
unexpectedly kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a
developed-world high.  The so-called Aussie strengthened against all of its 16
major counterparts after RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board left the overnight cash-rate target at 3.25 percent.
Demand for the Australian and New Zealand currencies was limited
before the U.S. presidential election today and concern grew
Greece will fail to win a bailout.  “The RBA was expected to potentially cut rates today and
they didn’t,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore . “As a result the
Aussie dollar rallied. Bond yields have risen.”  Australia’s dollar reached $1.0435, the strongest since
Sept. 28, before trading at $1.0426 as of 4:04 p.m. in Sydney,
0.6 percent higher than the close yesterday. The currency rose
0.3 percent to 83.44 yen. The  New Zealand  dollar, nicknamed the
kiwi, fetched 82.66 U.S. cents from 82.52.  Australian bonds declined, pushing the yield on the 10-year
note up by one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.17
percent.  Seven of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  predicted
the inaction by the RBA, with the other 20 forecasting a
reduction to 3 percent.  “At today’s meeting, the Board judged that, with inflation
expected to be consistent with the target and growth close to
trend, but with a more subdued international outlook than was
the case a few months ago, the stance of monetary policy
remained appropriate,” Stevens said in a statement today.  House Prices  Data today showed that  Australia ’s  house prices  rose in the
third quarter from the previous three-month period, the first
back-to-back increase since 2010. An index measuring the
weighted average of prices for established houses in eight major
cities increased 0.3 percent from the previous quarter, when it
gained a revised 0.6 percent, the  Australian Bureau of
Statistics  said in Sydney today.  As Greece seeks a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion) financing
tranche this month, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is facing
down a revolt in his three-party coalition. The leader of the
Democratic Left reiterated Nov. 4 his party’s opposition to
changes in the labor law demanded by international creditors.
While no date has been set for a vote on that bill, it may come
as soon as tomorrow. The budget vote is slated for Nov. 11.  “We have been seeing a little bit of pull back in risk
appetite given the uncertainty around the U.S. election and
Greek budget negotiations,” said  Mike Jones , a currency
strategist at  Bank of New Zealand  in Wellington. “Investors are
sticking to the sidelines for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  