-- Watson Injury Hands Quiney Australia Debut, S. Africa Favoritism
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-05T04:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/australia-s-watson-ruled-out-of-first-test-quiney-gets-debut.html
Australia  all-rounder Shane Watson
was ruled out of this week’s first cricket Test against South
Africa because of a calf strain, an injury that pushed the
touring team into favoritism to win the series opener.  Rob Quiney, a 30-year-old left-hander, will take Watson’s
No. 3 batting spot and make his Test debut at the Gabba in
Brisbane, Australia coach Mickey Arthur said today.  Quiney scored 85 and 11 not out for Australia’s second-
string team against South Africa in the tour match that finished
in a draw yesterday in Sydney. Even so, Watson’s absence has
made Australia the outsider at a Brisbane ground where it’s
unbeaten in  23 matches  going back to 1988, according to Tabcorp
Holdings Ltd.  “The loss of Shane Watson has seen the market swing around
with South Africa now favorites in  Brisbane ,” Tabcorp spokesman
Matt Jenkins said. “Early money indicates the Aussies will be
up against it in the opening Test and the series.”  Watson, who averages 37.54 with the bat and has taken 59
wickets at 28.91 apiece in 35 Tests, injured his calf while
playing in a state game at the weekend. Since January 2009, he’s
scored 2,071 runs at an average of 42.26, including two
centuries and 17 half-centuries.  Quiney averages 37.70 with the bat in first-class cricket
was last season named as Australia’s State Player of the Year.
He scored a century at the Gabba last month while playing for
the Victoria state team against Queensland.  “Rob deserves his opportunity,” Arthur said at a
televised news conference. “I certainly think that players
performing need to get picked, guys who have been doing the hard
yards. Rob’s certainly done that.”  Arthur added that he’s “very confident” top-order batsman
Ricky Ponting will play after he was pulled from a state match
on Nov. 2 as a precaution because of hamstring soreness.  The first of three Tests between the teams starts Nov. 9 in
Brisbane before the series moves to Adelaide then Perth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  