-- Australia’s Trade Deficit Narrows in September as Imports Drop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-05T00:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/australia-s-trade-deficit-narrows-in-september-as-imports-drop.html
Australia ’s trade deficit narrowed
more than economists forecast in September as imports of
machinery and civil aircraft fell faster than a drop in metal-
ore exports.  Imports outpaced exports by A$1.46 billion ($1.51 billion),
from a revised A$1.88 billion deficit in August, the Bureau of
Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists was for a deficit of
A$1.55 billion.  Nine monthly trade shortfalls this year add to the case for
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  to extend
interest-rate reductions tomorrow after he resumed lowering
borrowing costs last month, cutting to 3.25 percent, as
commodity prices ease on weaker Chinese growth. Policy makers
are trying to revive demand outside of a resource boom that may
crest at a lower level than previously expected.  Today’s result reflects “a fall in resources exports on
weak  iron ore  exports values,” Andrew McManus, an economist at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , wrote in a research
report before today’s release. “Other non-rural exports are
also expected to remain weak, with the persistently high
Australian dollar weighing on these exports.”  Exports fell 1 percent to A$24.2 billion, led by an 11
percent drop in metal ores and minerals, today’s report showed.
Imports declined 2 percent to A$25.6 billion on an 11 percent
decline in machinery and industrial equipment and a 34 percent
drop in a category that includes civil aircraft, the report
showed.  Currency Reaction  The Australian dollar bought to $1.0354 at 11:54 a.m. in
Sydney compared with $1.0344 before the data were released.  “The slowing of growth in  China  had resulted in weaker
demand for steel, which was evident in the falls in steel and
iron ore prices in August and had resulted in lower steel
production,” the RBA said in minutes of its last meeting
released Oct. 16.  Australia’s economy has been driven by a resource bonanza
for iron ore, coal and natural gas that is bringing record
investment in projects. The nation’s unemployment rate, at 5.4
percent in September, is lower than 7.9 percent in the U.S. and
11.6 percent in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  