-- Australia’s Swan Backs Major Economies’ Growth Revival Policies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-05T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/australia-s-swan-backs-major-economies-growth-revival-policies.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan
endorsed measures in  Japan ,  Europe  and the U.S. to revive
domestic growth, undercutting claims that those efforts punish
smaller countries by elevating their currencies.  The European Central Bank, the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  “have brought stability and will help support
growth,” Swan said in a statement at a Group of 20 finance
ministers’ meeting in Mexico. “I know some question the
spillover impacts from these central bank actions, but there is
nothing more important to the global economy than to lift growth
in the world’s major advanced economies.”  With benchmark interest rates near record lows, the Fed,
ECB and Bank of Japan have expanded their balance sheets since
2008 to try to resuscitate growth. The fallout from the measures
has included surging currencies in export-driven economies from
 Scandinavia  to South Korea.  The Swiss central bank imposed a ceiling on the franc for
the first time in more than three decades in September 2011, a
year after Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the
world faced a “currency war.”  The Australian currency has soared 72 percent against the
U.S. dollar from a 2008 low during the global financial crisis.
Declines in the so-called Aussie in 2008, 2001 and 1998 helped
Australia maintain its recession-free record since the early
1990s.  Strong Aussie  The Australian dollar bought $1.0367 late yesterday in
Sydney, up 1.6 percent for the year. The sustained strength of
the so-called Aussie has been supported by its increasing use in
foreign-exchange reserves amid global financial strains.  “I understand the consequences of an appreciating currency
against the U.S. dollar, but nothing will help support the U.S.
dollar more than a return to solid growth there,” Swan said.  The local currency remains stronger this year even as
 Australia ’s No. 1 customer,  China , sees a slowdown, and weaker
prices for iron ore and coking coal erode the nation’s terms of
trade -- a measure of windfall gains from exports that reached a
140-year high last year.  A high local dollar and easing export prices have
complicated Swan’s bid for a A$44 billion ($46 billion) swing in
the budget back to the black in time for an election next year.  The government has encouraged the Reserve Bank of Australia
to cut  interest rates  to stimulate the economy, and the central
bank has delivered 1.5 percentage points of reductions in the
past year. Traders are pricing in a 56 percent chance of a rate
cut at today’s policy meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “We have put in place longer-term measures that improve
the budget over time, without impacting on growth in the near
term,” Swan said, urging the U.S. and Japan to produce credible
long-term fiscal plans. “This is improving our budget position
over time, while also making room for important investments in
our economy and community.”  After his meetings in  Mexico , Swan is scheduled to meet in
the U.S. with Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner, International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde and Douglas Elmendorf, director of
the Congressional Budget Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  