-- Hawker Sees Strong Growth in Turkish Business-Jet Demand
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-11-05T17:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/hawker-sees-strong-growth-in-turkish-business-jet-demand.html
Hawker Beechcraft Corp., the private-
jet manufacturer partly owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
predicts “strong” long-term growth in the Turkish business
aviation industry after gains in both flights and jet
deliveries.  Business-aircraft shipments to  Turkey  gained six-fold to 67
in the four years from 2007 through 2011, compared with 11 in
the four years through 2006, the Wichita, Kansas-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. That compared with a three-
fold jump to 25 deliveries in  Poland , a three-fold rise to 100
in  China  and a doubling to 82 jets in  Russia , Hawker said.  “Turkey benefits from its unique geographical situation,
straddling both Europe and Asia, and is fast becoming a hub for
business travel,” said Sean McGeough, the company’s president
for the European, Middle Eastern, African and Asian Pacific
regions.  Turkey’s business flights increased 4 percent to an average
of 105 a day in the first half of this year compared to a year
earlier, Hawker Beechcraft said. Business flights don’t include
commercial flights by national flag carriers or other airlines.  The company said it’s the leader in the Turkish business-
jet market with a 31 percent share.  “Turkish businesses are able to deal with the more
established Western markets and are also profiting from the high
growth rates being experienced in the  Middle East  and Asian
economies,” McGeough said.  Hawker, owned by Goldman and  Onex Corp. (OCX) , filed for Chapter
11 protection in May, citing lower demand for private jets after
the recession and curbs on U.S. defense spending. The
manufacturer plans to emerge from bankruptcy as a stand-alone
company after its $1.79 billion sale to Superior Aviation
Beijing Co. collapsed last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  