-- Bahrain Says Bomb Explosions Kill Two in Downtown Manama
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-11-05T19:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/bahrain-says-five-explosions-kill-two-in-heart-of-manama-1-.html
At least five blasts caused by home-
made devices left two men dead in Manama, as violence moved to
the heart of Bahrain’s capital city.  The dead and another man wounded in the explosions were all
foreigners working near the business and diplomatic districts of
the city, the Information Affairs Authority said in an e-mailed
statement.  Initial investigations showed that one man died when he
kicked a device in Gudaibiya, while the second was injured in an
explosion near the Awal Cinema and was later pronounced dead in
a hospital. A third blast in Adliya seriously injured a street
cleaner.  While today’s explosions mark the most high-profile attack
in downtown Manama, the government has accused members of the
Shiite Muslim majority of resorting to violence and says they
receive encouragement from co-religionists in the Iranian
government. The country cracked down last year on protests led
by the Shiite community, leaving dozens dead and the economy
growing at the slowest pace in 17 years.  “Radicalization is increasing,” Jane Kinninmont, a senior
research fellow for the  Middle East  and North Africa at the U.K.
research institute,  Chatham House , said in a phone interview.
“This is a major development in the course of events in the
country.” It’s unlikely any foreign power was involved in the
blasts, she said.  Suspects Identified  Bahraini police have identified “a number” of suspects
involved in the explosions and are searching for others, Major-
General Tariq Al Hassan, chief of public security, was quoted by
the Bahrain News Agency as saying. Manama hosts next month’s
Gulf Cooperation Council summit.  Bahrain said it “condemned these terrorist acts that aim
to terrorize citizens and residents, and to destabilize the
country,” according to an e-mailed statement today from
Minister of Information Samira Rajab. She accused unnamed
religious figures of issuing fatwas designed to “incite
violence against civilians and policemen.” The victims were
described as “Asian residents.”  The main opposition Shiite group,  al-Wefaq , condemned the
attacks “if they had actually occurred, regardless of who
stands behind them,” according to an e-mailed statement.  “Due to the absence of independent human rights and media
parties, it is difficult to clearly detect the truth behind
incidents that are said to have occurred,” the group said.  Raids, Arrests  Bahraini security forces have announced a series of raids
and arrests this year against alleged terrorist groups. Police
said in August that three people were detained on suspicion of
assembling home-made bombs after five tons of explosive
materials were uncovered during raids two months earlier.  The three detainees appeared to have been trained by
Hezbollah in Lebanon, the al-Watan newspaper reported on July 1,
citing a police investigation. Hezbollah is allied to  Iran ,
which accuses Bahrain of oppressing its Shiite majority. The
newspaper said British detectives were assisting the inquiry.  In September, prosecutors accused 39 people of links to two
roadside bombs that injured four policemen in the al-Daraz area
five months earlier, the state-run Bahrain News Agency said,
citing Ibrahim al-Kawari, the deputy general prosecutor.  Today’s explosions occurred less than a week after the
government banned all demonstrations. That followed an attack on
a police patrol that left one officer dead and another seriously
injured in what the government described as an act of “domestic
terror.”  Bahrain, which began pumping oil in the 1930s, is the
smallest producer in the  Persian Gulf . It depends on  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, to supply it with
crude pumped from a shared oil field and delivered by pipeline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  