-- Bank of Spain Sees More Defaults as Rajoy Seeks Fewer Evictions
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-11-05T17:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/bank-of-spain-sees-more-defaults-as-rajoy-seeks-fewer-evictions.html
Spain’s  bad-loan  ratio will continue
to increase, the Bank of Spain said, as the government considers
changes to mortgage rules that the regulator credits with
keeping down home-loan defaults.  Given forecasts for a continued economic contraction in
2013, “it is to be expected that the increase in bad loans
continues,” the Bank of Spain said in its financial stability
report today. The default rate for individual home mortgages was
3.1 percent in June, compared with 7.5 percent for non-home
loans and 16.8 percent on company borrowing.  The Bank of Spain said the nation’s legislation, which
leaves homeowners on the hook for their debts even after a
foreclosed property is sold, has held down the default rate.
Still, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s government is considering
changes to mortgage rules as the number of people losing their
homes surges and the government faces mounting street protests
for bailing out banks while imposing cuts on taxpayers.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz said last week the
government has set up a working group to try to prevent people
losing their homes for defaulting on their mortgages. The
government wants to take measures “as soon as possible,” she
told reporters after the weekly Cabinet meeting.  Carlos Floriano, the third-most senior official in the
ruling People’s Party, said the “dramatic situation” should be
resolved, declining to give details even as he said that the 10
month-old government has done things in other areas “that no
other government has dared do.” Maria Dolores de Cospedal, the
party’s deputy leader, told state broadcaster RTVE that there
were many options to be considered to address the issue.  Around 400,000 homes have been foreclosed on in Spain since
the nation’s decade-long real estate boom ended in 2008,
according to AFES, an adviser to homeowners facing repossession.
Homeowners are coming under increasing pressure as the
unemployment rate, already  Europe ’s highest at 26 percent,
continues to grow, while tax increases and rising prices erode
households’ income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  