-- Bank Credit Risk Rises on HSBC Earnings as Barclays Plans Bond
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-11-05T13:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/bank-credit-risk-rises-on-hsbc-earnings-as-glencore-taps-bonds.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European bank debt rose after  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  posted profit
that missed analysts’ forecasts.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is planning an
issue of contingent notes to boost capital while  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  tapped an existing pound-denominated bond.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index on the senior debt of 25
banks and insurers rose three basis points to 175 as of 1:17
p.m. in  London , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Swaps
on HSBC Bank Plc rose as much as seven basis points to 110
before falling back to little changed.  HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank, said it’s setting aside $800
million to cover the cost of a probe into allegations it broke
U.S. anti-money laundering rules. Confidence in financial credit
was also hurt by a Welt am Sonntag report that the  European
Central Bank  may have broken its own collateral rules when
making bank loans.  “People are worried that the visible problems with banks
are only the tip of an iceberg,” said  Bill Blain , a London-
based credit strategist at Mint Partners Ltd., a division of BGC
Brokers LP. “The picture for U.K. banks is pretty bleak, but
it’s their size and success that has made them easy targets for
regulators to fine.”  Credit-default swaps linked to London-based Lloyds Banking
Group Plc climbed six basis points, or 3.2 percent, to 176,
according to Bloomberg prices. Contracts on Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Edinburgh rose four basis points to 191.  Pretax Profit  HSBC’s underlying pretax profit rose to $5.04 billion in
the third quarter from $2.24 billion a year earlier. That missed
the $5.6 billion median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Banks received up to 16.6 billion euros ($21 billion) in
ECB loans that they shouldn’t have, if the central bank applied
its collateral rules strictly, Welt am Sonntag said. Spanish
 government bonds , which were pledged as collateral, only
partially met requirements, the newspaper reported.  Barclays, which in June was fined for rigging  interest
rates  in the latest of a series of regulatory missteps, will
hold investor presentations from tomorrow on a contingent note
sale, which would be the first by a U.K. bank since regulators
told lenders to bolster capital buffers in September.  Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG
and Morgan Stanley will manage the deal, said a person familiar
with the financing, who asked not to be identified because
they’re not authorized to discuss it.  Contingent bonds convert to  equity  or are written off when
 capital ratios  fall to a preset level. Jon Laycock, a spokesman
for Barclays in London, declined to comment.  Glencore Tap  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly-traded commodities
supplier, is adding 200 million pounds ($320 million) to its 5.5
percent bonds due April 2022, a person with knowledge of that
transaction said. HSBC and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  are the arrangers.  Rottapharm SpA, a family-owned Italian drugmaker, plans to
refinance debt and pay its owner a dividend with a high-yield
 bond issue  and new loan facilities.  The company is seeking to sell 400 million euros of seven-
year notes and put in place a 100 million-euro revolving credit
facility, according to the prospectus for the financing seen by
 Bloomberg News . The proceeds will be used to repay 416 million
euros of existing loans and pay 20 million euros to its owner.  Monza, Italy-based Rottapharm will meet with investors
prior to the bond fundraising through its Irish business, a
banker with knowledge of its plans said.  Virgin Bonds  Virgin Money Holdings U.K. Ltd.,  Richard Branson ’s
financial-services company, will sell mortgage bonds, a person
with knowledge of the deal said. The company, which a year ago
bought failed northern English mortgage lender Northern Rock
Plc, will meet investors from tomorrow prior to the issue, which
will be secured by home loans, the person said.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps linked to the
debt of 50 mostly junk-rated European companies rose six basis
points to 520, while the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
investment-grade companies rose two basis points to 130.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  