-- Barclays Plans Contingent Bonds as U.K. Pushes Banks on Capital
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   L e o   L a i k o l a
-- 2012-11-05T14:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/barclays-plans-contingent-bonds-as-u-k-pushes-banks-on-capital.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  plans to sell contingent
bonds in the first deal by a U.K. bank since regulators told
lenders to bolster capital buffers in September.  Barclays, which in June was fined for rigging  interest
rates  in the latest of a series of regulatory missteps, is
planning investor presentations on a potential deal, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named
because they’re not authorized to speak. Contingent bonds can
convert to  equity  when  capital ratios  fall to a preset level, or
alternatively may be written off.  While U.K. banks have cut business in the nations hardest
hit by the euro region’s financial crisis, their exposure still
amounts to an average of about 70 percent of core Tier 1
capital, according to the  Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee . At its September meeting, the FPC said banks should
seek to retain earnings and raise outside capital “with the
options including debt conversion and the issuance of suitable
contingent capital instruments.”  “It sounds like they’ve reached agreement over how it
would be viewed as regulatory capital and the FPC sounds quite
keen on U.K. banks issuing it,” said  Simon Adamson , an analyst
at CreditSights Inc. in  London . “It would be an alternative to
issuing share capital. I wouldn’t be surprised if they combined
it with a tender offer for some of their existing capital
securities.”  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for Barclays in London, declined
to comment.  The bank is holding presentations from tomorrow in the
U.S., Europe and Asia, according to the person. The transaction
is being managed by Barclays, helped by Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley, the person
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Leo Laikola at 
 llaikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  