-- Bartfai-Mager, Kocziszky, Gerhardt Back ‘Gradual’ Hungary Easing
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-11-05T15:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/bartfai-mager-kocziszky-gerhardt-back-gradual-hungary-easing.html
Hungarian Monetary Council members
Andrea Bartfai-Mager, Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky
comment on the outlook for  interest rates , the country’s request
for aid from the  International Monetary Fund , on foreign-
currency bond issuance and on divisions within the council.  They spoke in an interview in Budapest today.  On Hungarian interest rates:  Ferenc Gerhardt:  “The developments in the past week on the factors
mentioned in the statement allow for a more relaxed thinking. I
would stress the exchange-rate trend, because inflationary
impacts can come in straight away via the currency, mostly in
the area of energy prices.  ‘‘At the current level of Hungarian interest rates, the
limit of caution is 25 basis points; very powerful reasons would
be needed for a cut or increase of 50 basis points. Cuts of 25
basis points are in line with the very cautious behavior toward
risk which the Monetary Council has showed since it has been in
office in the current composition.  ‘‘It is very brave to predict anything but taking Hungarian
specifics into account I believe that the equilibrium  exchange
rate  is 4.5 percent to 5 percent. By equilibrium interest rate I
mean the rate which supports the growth of the economy to the
same extent as it prevents inflation from getting out of
control.’’  Andrea Bartfai-Mager:  ‘‘This is a very cautious and gradual cycle carried out in
small steps, in line with market thinking and not forced on it.  ‘‘Favorable developments in risk premiums and the exchange
rate are persistent based on currently available information.  ‘‘The credit-default swap and forint trends are much more
favorable than what is in the base scenario of the inflation
report. A factor like that may help provide a chance for further
easing.  ‘‘The economy is being hit with repeated cost shocks and we
constantly have to re-examine its impacts. These gradual small
steps provide an opportunity to decide whether to proceed when
we can and to pause when that moment comes -- not to finish the
cycle, but to pause and see how trends are developing.’’  On inflation:  Bartfai-Mager:  ‘‘I am mostly seeing first-round effects, which are due to
drought, increases in the oil price and the budget measures.  ‘‘The impact of government measures on inflation and the
real economy can only be judged at the earliest in December,
when the next inflation report is published.  ‘‘On the medium-term inflation outlook we said that we’ll
reach the target on our horizon, 2014. We also said there aren’t
second-round effects and we don’t have to fear inflation
pressures on demand-sensitive products. If this positive
environment remains but we see that our statements on inflation
have changed, then we’ll think it over, but I do not see this
now.’’  Gyorgy Kocziszky:  ‘‘Retail trade volume has fallen 3 percent based on
statistics data, so there is a dis-inflationary effect, the
slump in consumption is substantial in each segment.’’  On the IMF-EU negotiations:  Gerhardt:  ‘‘The Monetary Council would very much welcome the
resumption and completion of IMF talks. It seems the progress in
the IMF/EU talks has split off from CDS prices.  ‘‘On the question of the IMF talks, our role resembles that
of fans at a soccer game, we can only encourage the two teams.
Two players, each with a strong will, are trying to decide based
on which negotiating positions they should sit down to talk.  ‘‘If the market assessment is that  Hungary ’s risk situation
can be regarded as stable even without an IMF deal then the
Hungarian government can go out to global markets with foreign-
currency denominated securities and can do so at interest rates
which are ideal for the country.  ‘‘We don’t see a risk that the Hungarian market will come
under serious and permanent pressure if there was no IMF deal.
Based on our current assessment an IMF deal is a precondition
for foreign-currency issuance. We don’t calculate with there
being no IMF agreement.’’  Kocziszky:  ‘‘Both the base and the risk scenario calculate with an IMF
deal, no one has put that into doubt, the staff are saying that
too.’’  Bartfai-Mager:  ‘‘For the past 12 months, we have recommended and supported
the striking of an IMF agreement and we haven’t changed that
despite the favorable  risk assessment  in the world.  ‘‘In my personal, decisions I presume that there will be a
deal between Hungary and the IMF/EU.’’  On disputes within the Monetary Council:  Kocziszky:  ‘‘Where we have professional disputes that is concerning
the inflation scenarios, on questions of investment and
capacity, how much growth the  auto industry  can produce, the
investment in that industry, how we assess questions of wages
and employment.’’  Bartfai-Mager:  ‘‘It’s too big a leap to divide the Monetary Council into
inflation and growth-oriented parts. I see it as an
oversimplification and needless to presume there is a political
divide, because the disputes are professional.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  