-- BASF Splits Plastics Unit Into Specialty and Commodity in Revamp
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-05T14:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/basf-splits-plastics-unit-into-specialty-and-commodity-in-revamp.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical
maker, is dissolving its plastics division and splitting the
operations into consumer and commodity lines to help market
tailored products to automotive or apparel customers.  The revamp will reduce the number of segments that report
earnings to five from six, and the number of business units will
fall to 14 from 15, Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF said in an
statement today. The new organization will be reflected in
first-quarter earnings published on April 26.  The reorganization illustrates which operations Chief
Executive Officer Kurt Bock considers to be higher-margin
specialties and which are commodities driven by costs.
Engineering plastics, lightweight alternatives to metal car
parts, and some polyurethane products will join catalysts and
coatings, combining into one segment products sold to the auto,
construction and electronics industries.  “In the new organization, the bundling of product groups
with the same business model will help management to better
focus on the success factors necessary to be a market leader,”
Bock said in the statement.  The production of MDI, used to make polymers in
refrigerators and shoes, and TDI, used in foams and adhesives,
will be moved to the chemicals segment, whereas the mixing of
those products will go to the specialty division. The chemicals
segment relies on low-cost processes as well as lower raw-
material and logistic expenses to remain competitive, the
company said.  New Hire  The new unit combining the more specialty plastics will be
called performance materials and will be headed by Raimar Jahn,
BASF said. It will come under the umbrella of a renamed segment
for functional materials and solutions. The commodity plastics
activities will join inorganic chemicals in a newly created
monomers unit, managed by Stefano Pigozzi.  BASF is not changing its oil and gas unit or its
agricultural chemicals operations which include pesticides and
fungicides, the German company said.  BASF named Wolfgang Hapke, 56, head of human resources as
of March 1, BASF said in a separate statement today. He will
replace Hans-Carsten Hansen, who will concentrate on his mandate
to the German Employers’ Federation of the Chemical
Industry, BAVC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  