-- Billionaire Kravis-Led Fund Has $35 Million for New York
-- B y   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-05T14:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/billionaire-kravis-led-fund-has-35-million-for-new-york.html
Henry Kravis , the billionaire co-
founder of  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the buyout firm that manages $66 billion
in assets, knows a thing or two about disaster recovery.
Following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, he helped secure
interest-free loans for 89 damaged businesses so they could re-
open.  Now, days after  Hurricane Sandy  wreaked economic havoc in
New York and the surrounding states, the 68-year-old is already
thinking about how to support future infrastructure that can
withstand similar disasters. Through the Partnership for New
York City Fund, which he created in 1996, Kravis wants to help
fund businesses that strengthen and diversify the city’s
economy.  “Can we be the seed money to get major projects going?”
Kravis said in an interview in KKR’s offices overlooking
Manhattan’s Central Park. “That was exactly what I had in mind
when I came up with the idea for this fund.”  The fund, a limited liability corporation and public
charity, has helped 125 companies in health care, education and
other industries receive $119 million in funding they probably
wouldn’t have received elsewhere. PNYCF is “a private fund with
a civic mission,” according to its  website . Over the past 16
years, it says it has helped create 6,678 jobs.  Create, Revitalize  The fund tries to recoup each investment within five years.
Any profit is used for other projects, Kravis said. The group
has more than $35 million it plans to invest in businesses the
fund’s board believes will create jobs or revitalize poor
neighborhoods.  PNYCF invests in five industries: clean technology, health
care,  information technology , retail and tourism, and media. The
fund’s involvements range from $500,000 to $5 million, and
investments can include debt or equity.  “I came up with the idea to do it the way KKR does it,”
Kravis said. “We’re divided up by industry specialization. We
said, ’Let’s see what we can do about getting people engaged
from each of the corporations,’” he said, referring to the
fund’s investors and board members.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , is one
of more than 45 investors in the fund.  Biggest Buyouts  Kravis is worth $4.3 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Almost all of his fortune derives from
profits generated by KKR, the company he co-founded with his
cousin  George Roberts  and former partner Jerome Kohlberg in
1976. At three different points, the company held the title of
pulling off the biggest leveraged buyout in history, the $30
billion purchase of  RJR Nabisco  in 1989; the $33 billion
acquisition with Bain Capital LLC of  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  in 2006;
and the $45 billion buyout with TPG Capital of TXU Corp. the
following year.  KKR reported profit of $487.3 million in the third quarter,
after a loss a year earlier, as the value of its holdings rose.
The company is in the midst of raising its first buyout fund in
six years. So far, it has raised $6.2 billion, short of the $8
billion it is seeking.  The company’s last main fund, raised in 2006, had a net
annualized internal rate of return of 6.9 percent as of Sept.
30, according to regulatory filings. The median return for North
American buyout funds raised that year was 7.6 percent,
according to London-based research company Preqin Ltd.  Seeding Businesses  The fund is an offshoot of the Partnership for New York
City, a network of prominent local private executives
established by  David Rockefeller , the grandson of Standard Oil
founder  John D. Rockefeller , in 1979.  Kravis said that when he first joined the partnership, it
didn’t have much meaning because “in those days, everyone --
large and small company CEOs -- was a member.” He saw a better
use for the partnership’s network: as a means to seed businesses and
create jobs. With the approval of the partnership’s new CEO,
 Jerry Speyer , chairman of Tishman Speyer Properties LP, Kravis
raised $67 million.  “I wanted to go out to individuals and corporations and
raise $1 million each, no more, no less,” Kravis said. “The
reason was I didn’t want any one corporation to dominate. I
really wanted it to be a network.”  PNYCF receives as many as 200 applications a year for
funding,  Kristi Huller , a KKR spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. To
qualify for a PNYCF investment, businesses must be located in
New York City, have potential to create new, permanent jobs, and
offer some kind of service or product that would bolster the
city’s position in a growth industry.  Run DMC  “We always said we’re not dumb money, we’re not charity,”
 Kathryn Wylde , the partnership’s chief executive officer, said
in an interview. “We tried to be on the cutting edge of what
would rebuild communities and support entrepreneurs, and to do
it in a smart way.”  The broad mandate has yielded a diverse portfolio. The fund
owns stakes in biopharmaceutical company Intra-Cellular
Therapies Inc., which is developing drugs that target
schizophrenia and depression, and Scratch Music Group, a disc
jockey-services provider that also operates a school for
aspiring DJs. The school was co-developed by Jam Master Jay of
the Queens-based hip hop group Run DMC.  Huller said the fund doesn’t report its returns. She said
it has met the commitment to its investors to preserve capital
and pay for its operating expenses.  “We do the same analysis you would do for a for-profit
business -- the same questions you would ask about the business,
the competitive landscape, the management,” Maria Gotsch, the
fund’s CEO, said in an interview. “What we do is we take the
return off the table. We’re in effect doing venture risk and
we’re getting single-digit returns.”  Venture Money  The fund last year started the FinTech Innovation Lab, a
12-week entrepreneurship mentoring program designed to bring
together financial-technology innovators and the bankers who can
fund their ventures, including those from Bank of America Corp.,
UBS AG and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Run jointly with  Accenture Plc (ACN) , the
program is seeking to take advantage of rising venture capital
investment in  New York City .  The city received $2.7 billion in venture money in 2011,
behind  San Francisco  with $11.8 billion and Boston with $2.8
billion, according to data from the  National Venture Capital
Association . Each startup in the FinTech Lab receives $25,000
and  office space  during the program, before they pitch their
ideas to investors for more permanent backing.  Dick Parsons  PNYCF’s investments are decided by the partnership’s board,
led by Kravis and co-chairmen Richard Cashin, managing partner
of One Equity Partners LLC, and Charles Kaye, co-president of
private-equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC. Others on the 20-member
board, which meets three times a year, include Adebayo Ogunlesi,
chairman of KKR competitor Global Infrastructure Partners and a
director of  Goldman Sachs Group (GS)  Inc., and Brian Gavin, chief
operating officer of Blackstone’s hedge-fund business, which
also competes with KKR.  “I’ll never forget a comment that Dick Parsons made when
he was the CEO at Time Warner,” which is an investor in the
fund, Kravis said. “He said this fund is one of the best
investment banks I’ve ever seen, because we got the best people
from every one of those companies that partnered with us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devon Pendleton in London at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  