-- BioMarin Jumps as Drug Hits Goals: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-11-05T21:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/biomarin-jumps-as-drug-hits-goals-san-francisco-mover.html
BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (BMRN) , a maker
of drugs for rare diseases, rose to its highest value ever after
its medicine for an enzyme deficiency disease met goals in a
study, prompting plans to seek regulatory approval next year.  BioMarin jumped 31 percent to $49.07 in New York, its
highest price since the shares began trading in July 1999, after
releasing results today from the late-stage trial of its GALNS
medicine. The Novato, California-based company has risen 43
percent this year.  The disease, mucopolysaccharidosis IVA, is also known as
Morquio A syndrome, and it affects an estimated 2,500 to 3,000
patients worldwide, according to BioMarin. It can lead to short
stature and problems in the joints, which may inhibit mobility.
BioMarin’s drug, a replacement enzyme, helped patients walk 22.5
meters (73.8 feet) farther in six minutes than placebo, the
primary goal of the study, the company said in a statement.  “We fully expect GALNS to be approved on the basis of this
study,” Cory Kasimov, an analyst with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
New York, wrote in a note to clients. “We view the result as
clearly positive for BioMarin and see it as a best-case
outcome.”  The drug was generally well-tolerated in the trial, the
third and final phase generally required for regulatory
approval. GALNS also helped with secondary goals of the study,
including improvement in a three-minute stair climb and
reduction in urinary keratan sulfate levels, a measure of the
presence of the enzyme.  “The GALNS clinical program is currently the highest
development priority at BioMarin, and this positive Phase 3
study serves as a potentially transformative milestone for the
company,” BioMarin Chief Executive Jean-Jacques Bienaimé said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  