-- BlackRock Urges U.S. Politicians to Address Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/blackrock-urges-u-s-politicians-to-address-fiscal-cliff.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, is urging the candidates for president and
Congress in tomorrow’s election to act before federal spending
cuts and tax increases automatically take effect.  “Failure to avert this fiscal cliff would likely plunge
America back into recession and destroy 2 million jobs,”
BlackRock, along with several other firms and institutional
investors, said in a letter appearing today in advertisements in
the Wall Street Journal, New York Times and Washington Post.
“Not only would it arrest the current momentum in our economy,
it also would damage our nation’s ability to finance our debt,
attract job-creating investment and generate growth for years to
come.”  Businesses are already delaying investments because of
uncertainty and individual investors are scared about the future
of the economy, anticipating the more than $600 billion in
spending reductions and tax increases slated for Jan. 1,
BlackRock said. Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink has
been urging investors to stop focusing on short-term investing.  Last month, BlackRock started the third phase of its five-
year branding campaign with a series of ads telling savers to
get out of cash and low-yielding bonds and suggesting they put
money in high-quality stocks, exchange-traded funds and products
that generate higher income.  The most important issue facing the next president is how
he’ll deal with the fiscal cliff, Fink said at the Economist’s
Buttonwood Gathering in New York on Oct. 25. He called it
“shameful” that the debates between President  Barack Obama  and
challenger  Mitt Romney  didn’t focus on the topic.  The other firms and organizations signing today’s letter
include  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) ,  TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. (AMTD) , Teacher Retirement System of  Texas  and Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  