-- BOE Tests Faith in Funding for Lending as QE Loses Bite: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-05T10:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/boe-tests-faith-in-funding-for-lending-plan-as-qe-loses-its-bite.html
The  Bank of England  might need to
take a leap of faith on an untested credit plan to do what
quantitative easing is failing to achieve.  With both of its deputy governors questioning the
effectiveness of  asset purchases , and economists forecasting a
halt to that stimulus, that leaves the so-called Funding for
Lending Scheme as officials’ primary policy tool. Policy makers
begin a two-day meeting on Nov. 7 to decide on QE’s future.  “We are in unchartered territory,” said  Steven Bell ,
chief economist at hedge fund GLC Ltd. in  London  and a former
U.K. Treasury official. “The search for alternatives to QE is
gathering pace” and with the FLS, the central bank is “trying
new ways as the economy fails to respond to the medicine.”  The Bank of England’s three-month-old plan encourages banks
to provide cheap credit to companies and households, which
contrasts with the trickle-down effect of gilt purchases through
QE. A rethink by policy makers will reach a climax this week as
they assess new forecasts and the impact of a program that’s
left them with almost a third of the gilt market.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will probably
leave the target for asset purchases at 375 billion pounds ($602
billion) on Nov. 8, according to 35 of 45 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Six forecast a 50 billion-pound increase,
and four anticipate a 25 billion-pound expansion.  Disenchantment  Officials’ disenchantment with QE has become increasingly
apparent, with minutes of their October meeting showing that
some members questioned the impact future gilt purchases could
have. The central bank said last week it had completed the final
tranche of its latest 50 billion-pound round of bond-buying.  In a speech last week, Bank of England Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean said consumers’ and businesses’ concerns about the
outlook may undermine the impact of QE. In September, Deputy
Governor  Paul Tucker  said the asset-purchase program no longer
has “the same bite.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
are among banks that have abandoned forecasts for more QE this
week, citing comments by policy makers. Even with bond purchases
falling out of favor, the economy may still need support. BOE
Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said the 1 percent surge in third-
quarter gross domestic product might not be sustained and there
could be a “sharp fall back.”  ‘Relatively Low’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Nov. 2 note that its
conviction that the MPC will expand QE this week is “relatively
low.” It changed its forecast for more stimulus on Nov. 8 to 25
billion pounds from 50 billion pounds.  “While we continue to see the need for more easing, it
looks increasingly likely that any further action will take the
form of additional ‘credit easing’ rather than QE,” Goldman
economists including  Kevin Daly  in London said.  Governor  Mervyn King  introduced the FLS in June as a
“coordinated action” between the central bank and the Treasury
to fight the “black cloud of uncertainty” related to the euro-
area crisis that has stifled Britain’s economy.  The program, which began on Aug. 1 and could boost credit
by at least 80 billion pounds, allows banks to borrow treasury
bills from the central bank to fund lending into the economy.
Lenders will have 18 months to use the facility and then up to
four years to repay. The central bank said last month that 30
financial institutions had signed up to the FLS, including
Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Barclays Plc.  ‘Too Much’  “The FLS has always been a substitute, not a complement”
to stimulus, said Richard Barwell, an economist at RBS in London
and a former central bank official. “You’re asking QE to do too
much. The Bank of England is more than just about monetary
policy now.”  Former MPC member  Charles Goodhart  said in an interview on
Nov. 2 that the central bank should expand its toolkit to aid
the economy. Business Secretary Vince Cable has described the
FLS as “the best conceived” initiative currently in existence
to stimulate the economy, though he noted it would take a “few
months” before its effects would be visible.  “Although quantitative easing was originally successful,
it’s now largely a spent force,” Goodhart said. “The problem
is that it’s not answering the correct problem, and the correct
problem is nothing to do with a shortage of liquidity.”  Inflation Concerns  Concerns about mounting inflation pressures may also lead
the MPC to stay its hand on QE this week. The central bank said
last month that  consumer-price growth  was likely to remain above
its 2 percent target in the near term. While inflation cooled to
2.2 percent in September, the least in almost three years, cost
increases by some of Britain’s biggest power companies may add
to price pressures in the coming months.  Policy maker  Martin Weale  said last month that he’s
concerned about whether pumping more money into the economy is
the right thing to do with inflation above the target.  “It is certainly not self-evident to me in the light of
the apparent stickiness of inflation that substantial extra
support for the economy would be compatible with the inflation
target,” Weale said in an interview with the  Daily Mail .  “You do sense the internal discussions that they have on
QE are concluding that either enough has been done, or to do
more risks increasing financial imbalances,” said Neil Mackinnon, global macro strategist at VTB Capital and a former
U.K. Treasury official. “The bank is having a rethink of where
they go from here. The FLS is in part a response to some of
those concerns.”  Economic Risks  Risks to Britain’s economic recovery still persist, with an
index of services falling to its weakest level in almost two
years in October. The gauge dropped to 50.6 from 52.2 in
September, Markit Economics said today, below even the lowest
estimate in a survey of 30 economists by Bloomberg.  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
report. It was at $1.5978 as of 10:40 a.m. in London, down 0.3
percent on the day.  In contrast,  China ’s services industries rebounded from the
slowest expansion in at least 19 months, adding to manufacturing
gains that indicate the world’s second-biggest economy is
recovering from a seven-quarter slowdown.  The  purchasing managers’ index  rose to 55.5 in October from
53.7 the previous month, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said. A separate
services index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics in Beijing fell to 53.5 in October from 54.3.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Indonesia ’s economic
growth held above 6 percent for an eighth quarter as domestic
consumption and rising investment countered an export slump.
Meanwhile,  Australia  said retail sales rose 0.5 percent in
September from August, compared with the previous month’s pace
of 0.3 percent.  U.S. Services  In the U.S.,  service industries  probably kept growing in
October, lifted by gains in  consumer spending  that are helping
bolster the expansion, economists said before a report today.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index
was at 54.5 last month, little changed from 55.1 in September,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s figures.  The ISM’s services report will be the last piece of
economic data before the Nov. 6 election, when voters decide
between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years and
changing course with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  