-- Bond Votes Fall Most Since ‘48 as Localities Scrimp: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/bond-votes-fall-most-since-48-as-localities-scrimp-muni-credit.html
U.S. local governments are asking
voters from San Diego to  Alabama  to approve $35 billion of bond
issues, a 47 percent drop from the last presidential election
year. It’s the steepest decline since at least 1948.  The votes tomorrow are dominated by debt for schools in San
Diego, Houston and Miami and a $750 million New Jersey issue for
higher education, according to data from Ipreo, a New York-based
provider of financial-market information.  States and municipalities are reluctant to add obligations
as they recover from the longest recession since the 1930s.
Local-government borrowings dropped in 2011 for the first time
since 1996, according to Federal Reserve data.  “There is still a hesitancy to take on more debt,” said
Howard Cure, director of municipal research in New York at
Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees $3.7 billion.
“Many states are still struggling with balancing their
budgets.”  States closed cumulative budget deficits exceeding $500
billion in the past four years as they struggled to rebound from
the 18-month recession that ended in 2009, according to the
Center on Budget & Policy Priorities. While revenue has grown
for 10 straight quarters, collections are below the 2008 peak,
according to the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government
in  Albany , New York.  California Voting  The vote tally marks a decline from $67 billion four years
ago.  California  removed a water bond from the 2012 ballot as
Democratic Governor Jerry Brown seeks new taxes to avoid budget
cuts.  Municipalities have reduced borrowing for capital projects.
Of the $307 billion in issuance through Oct. 25, about 63
percent has been to retire higher-cost debt, the highest
percentage since 1993, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  Municipal interest rates are close to the lowest since the
1960s, fueling the refunding. In trading last week, yields on
benchmark 10-year munis fell 0.02 percentage point to 1.68
percent, after three weeks of increases, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Government Need  “State and local officials have become more cautious about
proposing new debt because there is an overall question of how
much government people are wanting,” said Chris Mier, chief
muni strategist at Loop Capital Markets in  Chicago .  A year ago, U.S. voters considered $16.5 billion of bond
issues and approved 87 percent, the largest percentage in five
years, according to Ipreo data.  The last time California voters were asked to approve bond
issuance in a statewide election was in 2009, when they rejected
a proposal to borrow $5 billion backed by lottery proceeds. That
ballot came amid consecutive annual budget deficits that
exceeded a combined $100 billion, which curbed enthusiasm for
debt.  California lawmakers in July voted to pull an $11 billion
water-bond from the ballot because of concern that it might
jeopardize Brown’s tax-increase proposal. The bond money would
finance an overhaul of the state’s public-water works. Brown is
asking voters to temporarily raise state sales and income taxes
on the wealthy to eliminate a $15.7 billion budget deficit.  Bygone Days  State Treasurer Bill Lockyer plans to offer about $5.3
billion of bonds this fiscal year, which began July 1, about a
quarter of California’s sales in 2009.  “Those $20 billion years of California bond issuance are
behind us,” said Alan Schankel, managing director of fixed-
income research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“State legislatures and governors have gotten more
conservative, so it would follow that there would be less bond
requests.”  In New Jersey, where voters are dealing with the aftermath
of  Hurricane Sandy , Republican Governor Chris Christie and
lawmakers are pushing for the state’s first general-obligation
bond issue for higher-education in almost 25 years.  In a poll this month, most voters said they supported the
$750 million bond question. Still, after the hurricane slammed
into the state on Oct. 29, some may hesitate to back the plan at
a time when other capital projects may take on more urgency,
Cure said.  Following are the five largest bond issues before voters,
according to Ipreo:  
Following are pending municipal-bond sales:  METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, operator of New York
City’s mass-transit system, plans to sell $484 million in
revenue bonds as soon as Nov. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. (Added Nov. 5)  HAWAII is set to issue $800 million in general-obligation
debt as soon as Nov. 12. (Added Nov. 5)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  