-- Brazil Wants WTO to Devise Action on ‘Distortive’ Currency Moves
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-11-05T18:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/brazil-wants-wto-to-devise-action-on-distortive-currency-moves.html
Brazil  wants World Trade Organization
members to determine what the WTO can do to counteract
distortive trade effects caused by abnormal currency movements.  Brazil submitted a paper today asking the trade body to
“facilitate discussions by focusing on the specific role the
WTO could play in dealing with distortive effects of significant
and durable exchange-rate movements,” the country’s WTO
ambassador, Robert Azevedo, told journalists in Geneva.  The document follows up on a two-day symposium in March
organized by Brazil that found exchange-rate volatility and
misalignments have a particularly severe impact on small and
medium-sized businesses. Brazil, along with the U.S. and  Europe ,
has accused  China  of keeping the  yuan  undervalued to boost
 exports  and lower unemployment.  The Brazilian submission says existing provisions and
mechanisms within the WTO are inadequate in light of the degree
and type of volatility that affects currencies today. A WTO
working group will discuss the paper later this month.  “The WTO is systemically ill-equipped to cope with the
challenges posed by the macro- and micro-economic trade effects
cause by exchange-rate asymmetries,” the government said in a
statement. “The Brazilian paper therefore invites members to
reflect on how WTO disciplines could be improved and to consider
a proper road map for future engagement.”  ‘Nothing Pre-Cooked’  Brazil wants a discussion of the WTO’s role in managing the
impact of abnormal currency movements on commerce and isn’t
making any proposals, Azevedo said.  His government “is not walking into this discussion with a
ready-made recipe” to find remedies for foreign-exchange
misalignments, he said. “Brazil has some vague ideas of what it
should be, but nothing pre-cooked is in the cards.”  Representatives of the public sector said at the March
symposium, which brought together senior officials from the
 International Monetary Fund , the  World Bank , the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development and central banks, as
well as academics and business executives, that trade-policy
measures aren’t the right response to non-trade policy concerns
and urged governments to address the root causes of currency
misalignments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  