-- Brazil’s Raw Sugar Discount Narrows as Producers Pull Out Offers
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-11-05T10:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/brazil-s-raw-sugar-discount-narrows-as-producers-pull-out-offers.html
Sellers of raw sugar from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, are putting their sweetener up for
sale at a smaller discount as producers pull out offers from the
market, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Raw sugar for loading this month at the port of Santos was
at a discount of 0.65 cent to 0.75 cent a pound to the price of
the March contract on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , the broker
said in a report e-mailed yesterday. That compares with 0.75
cent to 0.85 cent a pound a week earlier, data from the Rolle,
Switzerland-based company showed. For December loading, the
sweetener was offered at a discount of 0.55 cent compared with
0.65 cent a pound the previous week, the report showed.  “Most of the last week’s offers for the nearby as well for
the forward have been taken out from the market, symptomatic of
less interest from sellers to trade at deep discount for the
nearby,” said  Naim Beydoun , a broker at the company.  Sugar has fallen 17 percent so far this year as supplies
are set to outpace demand for a third year. The global sugar
surplus will be 5.9 million metric tons for the 2012-13 season
started Oct. 1, according to the London-based  International
Sugar Organization . That follows a surplus of 5.2 million tons
in 2011-12, the sugar group estimates.  “Producers prove not to be in a hurry to chase the market
on the downside, particularly when sugar prices are getting
close to the cost of production, and to the sugar and ethanol
parity,” Beydoun said, referring to the price at which it
becomes more profitable for Brazilian millers to make the
biofuel at the expense of the sweetener.  Covering Costs  The discount of about 0.90 cents a pound to obtain sugar
for loading in November in relation to the sweetener for March
is enough to cover storage costs for producers, traders and
users, helping support physical prices, Beydoun said. Some
traders think there may be logistical constraints to ship sugar
from Brazil in December because of competition with grain
exports, while others are betting on more imports from  India ,
the second-biggest producer, and  China , he said.  “We question the reason behind the long cash traders and
producers’ mind-set.” Beydoun said he was anticipating more
than 3 million tons of “exportable surplus” of sugar in Brazil
in the first quarter. “With demand kept very feeble until now,
that should normally start impacting the market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 