-- Brent Crude May Rise in Next Three Months, Bank of America Says
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-11-05T11:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/brent-crude-may-rise-in-next-three-months-bank-of-america-says.html
Brent oil prices may “push higher”
in the next three months as stimulus measures by governments in
the U.S., Europe and  China  boost global demand while supply
growth is constrained, according to  Bank of America  Corp.  The supply of oil is growing at a slower rate than demand,
 Francisco Blanch , head of commodities research for Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, said today in an interview Singapore.
While crude supplies are increasing about 1 percent a year,
global economic growth is rising at 4 percent, he said,
maintaining his forecast for Brent prices to average $110 a
barrel next year.  “Oil remains heavily constrained from a supply
perspective,” said Blanch. “We’re only starting to see the
impact of various policy measures coming from the U.S. and
Europe. All of that is going to play out to the end of the year
and the first quarter, so we remain constructive on crude
prices.”  Brent for December settlement on the ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange fell 45 cents, or as much as 0.4 percent, to $105.25 a
barrel at 6:01 p.m. Singapore time today. Prices have fallen 2
percent this year.  China’s new leaders could announce additional measures to
stimulate its economy after the change of leadership, boosting
the country’s demand for commodities including oil, gold and
agricultural products, Blanch said. However, any extra stimulus
by the new Chinese government would not be as large as in 2008,
he said.  Commodities as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index is headed for an annual loss of 3.2 percent this year, the
first since 2008, as the global economic growth slowed, paring
demand outlook for everything from crude to metals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  