-- Rothschild Sends Bumi Alternative Proposal to Bakries’ Offer
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-05T08:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/bumi-gets-alternative-proposal-from-rothschild-to-bakrie-offer.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the London-traded
Indonesian coal producer, said financier Nathaniel Rothschild
submitted an alternative proposal to a $1.2 billion offer the
company received for its assets from the Bakrie Group.  The proposal was contained in a letter from Rothschild’s NR
Investments, Bumi said in a statement today. It gave no details
of the proposal and said it would be evaluated by Bumi Plc’s
financial advisers, Rothschild Group.  Rothschild, 41, has appointed Morgan Stanley to advise him
and held talks with potential new investors as well as current
holders of Bumi, a person familiar with the matter said last
week. An offer from Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old banking
dynasty, would intensify a feud with  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family
as both seek to unwind the $3 billion transaction that brought
them together in 2010 after it began to sour last year.  “We don’t think a superior cash offer from Rothschild
seems likely,” analysts from Liberum Capital Ltd. wrote in a
note to clients today.  Bumi Plc owns stakes in two coal producers -- 29 percent of
PT Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s biggest producer of the power-
station fuel, and 85 percent of  PT Berau Coal Energy (BRAU)  Tbk. “Any
proposal surrounding Berau will relate more to a change in the
share register rather than a cash offer,” Liberum said.  London Listing  The group led by Rothschild isn’t planning a rival bid to
the Bakrie family’s $947 million offer for Bumi’s stake in Berau
Coal, the person familiar with the proposal said. The financier
and his associates are seeking to maintain a U.K. listing and
resolve corporate governance issues, the person said.  Bumi dropped 1.1 percent to 280 pence at 8:24 a.m. in
 London . Bumi Resources declined 3 percent to 650 rupiah as of
3:34 p.m. Jakarta time and Berau Coal Energy sank 6.3 percent to
225 rupiah.  Bumi Plc said Sept. 24 it was starting a probe into
potential financial “irregularities” at its Indonesian
investments. The board will make no recommendation on any
possible transaction until the investigation is “appropriately
advanced,” the company said in today’s statement.  The Bakries, who run a palm-oil-to-property empire that
started in Sumatra in 1942, last month offered to buy all of the
assets of London-listed Bumi in a bid to help resolve
“irreconcilable differences” with Rothschild and his fellow
founders. Rothschild has described their offer as not being in
the interests of investors.  Bumi Plc supports a plan to exit its stake in PT  Bumi
Resources (BUMI) , as it seeks to sever ties with the Bakries, two
people familiar with the matter said last month.  It isn’t currently considering the Bakries proposal to buy
within six months its stake in Berau Coal Energy, the people
said. Bumi Plc hasn’t ruled out accepting a more formal bid for
Berau in the future, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  