-- California Gasoline Gains on Repairs at Exxon Torrance Refinery
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-05T21:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/california-gasoline-gains-on-repairs-at-exxon-torrance-refinery.html
Spot gasoline in  California  advanced
to a one-week high against futures after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said
the Torrance oil refinery is performing repairs on a unit.  The planned maintenance may cause the 150,000-barrel-a-day
plant, south of  Los Angeles , to flare gases through Nov. 12, a
notice to the South Coast Air Quality Management District shows.
Gesuina Paras, an Exxon spokeswoman in Torrance, didn’t specify
in an e-mailed statement which unit is undergoing work.  “The refinery continues to operate normally,” she said.
“There is no impact to production.”  Spot California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles
rose 4.5 cents to a premium of 12.5 cents a gallon against
gasoline futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at
1:46 p.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest level for the fuel since Oct. 29.  Carbob in San Francisco climbed 4 cents to 0.5 cent a
gallon above futures, also the fuel’s highest since Oct. 29.  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) ’s hydrogen plant in Carson,
California, is scheduled to flare through tomorrow because of a
breakdown, a notice to the South Coast air district shows. The
plant supplies hydrogen to refineries in the Los Angeles area.  Art George, a spokesman at Air Products’ headquarters in
Allentown,  Pennsylvania , didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
requesting comment on the upset.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles declined
1.5 cents to a premium of 6 cents a gallon versus heating oil
futures traded on the Nymex, a two-week low for the fuel. CARB
diesel in San Francisco slipped 1.25 cents to 5.5 cents a gallon
over futures.  Conventional 84 sub-octane gasoline to be blended with
ethanol in  Portland , Oregon, jumped 5.5 cents to 16 cents a
gallon under gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel in Portland
dropped 6 cents to 15 cents a gallon above heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  