-- Canada September Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-11-05T13:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/canada-september-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
September building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  The total value of building permits fell 13.2% to $6.5 billion
in September, following a 9.5% advance in August. The decline
was mainly the result of the non-residential sector, where the
value of permits in all three components fell.  Construction intentions in the non-residential sector declined
30.8% to $2.2 billion after a 27.7% increase in August. Ontario
and Quebec accounted for most of the decline at the national
level. Non-residential construction intentions rose in four
provinces, led by British Columbia and  Nova Scotia .  In the residential sector, the value of permits edged up 0.4% to
$4.2 billion, following two consecutive monthly decreases.
Increases reported in four provinces offset declines in the
others. Ontario posted the largest advance, followed by  Quebec .
The largest decline occurred in Alberta, with Newfoundland and
Labrador a distant second.  Non-residential sector: Declines in all three components
The value of permits in the institutional component fell 44.5%
to $586 million, after more than doubling in August. The main
factors in the decline were lower construction intentions for
medical facilities and educational institutions in Ontario and
for government buildings in Quebec. Saskatchewan, Nova Scotia
and Alberta posted increases.  Municipalities issued $320 million worth of permits for
industrial buildings, a 52.1% drop from the previous month
following three consecutive monthly increases. The decline was
largely attributable to lower construction intentions for
utilities-related buildings and manufacturing plants in Ontario,
Quebec and Alberta.  In the commercial component, the value of permits fell 11.8% to
$1.3 billion, the second consecutive monthly decline. The
decline originated from a variety of structures, including
retail and wholesale outlets, office buildings, recreational
facilities, warehouses, hotels and restaurants, and
laboratories. Commercial construction intentions were down in
six provinces, with Ontario posting the largest decrease,
followed by Saskatchewan,  Alberta  and Quebec.  Residential sector: Increase in single-family dwellings offsets
decline in multi-family dwellings
The value of permits for single-family dwellings advanced 3.4%
to $2.5 billion, after two consecutive monthly declines. The
increase was the result of higher construction intentions in
four provinces. Ontario posted the largest gain, followed by
British Columbia, Manitoba and Saskatchewan. Alberta registered
the largest decrease.  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings declined 3.8%
to $1.7 billion, the third monthly decrease in a row. It was
largely the result of lower construction intentions in Alberta,
which had recorded a significant increase in August.
Construction intentions also fell in five other provinces,
including British Columbia, Newfoundland and Labrador and  New
Brunswick .  Municipalities across Canada issued permits for the construction
of 17,341 new dwellings in September, down 9.1% from the
previous month.  The decline was the result of a 16.3% drop in multi-family
dwellings to 9,935 units. The number of single-family dwellings
rose 2.7% to 7,406 new units.  Declines in most provinces
The total value of permits fell in seven provinces in September,
with the largest declines in Ontario and Alberta. Decreases also
occurred in Quebec, Newfoundland and Labrador, New Brunswick,
Saskatchewan and Prince  Edward Island .  Following a strong gain in August, Ontario posted the largest
decline in September, a result of lower construction intentions
for non-residential buildings. In Alberta, the decrease was
largely attributable to lower construction intentions for multi-
family dwellings and for commercial and industrial buildings.
The decrease in Quebec originated largely from all three
components of the non-residential sector.  British Columbia posted the largest increase, followed by Nova
Scotia and Manitoba. The advance in British Columbia came from
commercial buildings and single-family dwellings. Nova Scotia’s
gain was the result of higher construction intentions for
institutional structures, multi-family dwellings and commercial
buildings. In Manitoba, residential homes, commercial buildings
and industrial construction were behind the increase.  Most census metropolitan areas post decreases
The total value of permits fell in 23 of  Canada ’s 34 census
metropolitan areas in September.  Hamilton, Toronto and Calgary posted the largest decreases. In
Hamilton, the decline was attributable to industrial buildings,
multi-family dwellings and institutional buildings, all of which
had posted gains the previous month.  The decrease in Toronto originated from non-residential
buildings. In Calgary, the decline was the result of lower
construction intentions for non-residential buildings and multi-
family dwellings.  The largest increases occurred in  Vancouver , Victoria and
Saskatoon. The gain in Vancouver came from higher construction
intentions for commercial buildings and, to a lesser extent, for
single homes and industrial buildings.  Victoria’s increase was the result of higher construction
intentions for commercial and residential buildings.
Institutional buildings and single-family dwellings were behind
the advance in Saskatoon.  Note to readers
Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population are
very small, and their levels of building activity have little
impact on the total for the entire population.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan area of
Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two areas:
Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision
Data for the current reference month are subject to revision
based on late responses. Data have been revised for the previous
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  