-- Canada Stocks Decline on Building Permits as Gold Rises
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-11-05T21:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/canada-stocks-fluctuate-on-retreat-in-building-permits.html
Canadian  stocks  fell for a second day
as building permits slid more than forecast in non-residential
projects and investors awaited the U.S. presidential election.  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ)  jumped 10 percent after
announcing its Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine in Mongolia has
signed a contract with a state-owned firm to supply power to the
site.  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , which pays miners upfront for a
discount on future production, retreated 1.4 percent after
missing earnings estimates and cutting its dividend.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 27.63
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,352.78 in Toronto, erasing earlier
gains of as much as 0.3 percent. The benchmark Canadian equity
gauge is up 3.3 percent this year. Trading of S&P/TSX companies
was almost 2 percent less than the 30-day average.  “It’s the election -- we’ll see relatively light volumes
today and tomorrow,” said David Baskin, president of Baskin
Financial Services in Toronto. His firm manages about C$450
million ($451.4 million). “I don’t know whether people will
take money off the table and see what happens but that’s
probably the story and I don’t expect markets to be much changed
by the end of the day.”  Banks contributed most to losses on the Toronto Stock
Exchange as seven of 10 industries  retreated .  U.S. voters head for the polls tomorrow, with a choice
between incumbent Democratic President  Barack Obama  and the
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  Building Permits  The value of Canadian municipal permits fell 13.2 percent
to C$6.48 billion ($6.50 billion) from a record high the prior
month, Statistics  Canada  said today in Ottawa. Economists
forecast a 3 percent decline according to the median of six
responses to a Bloomberg survey.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney has kept the overnight
interest rate at 1 percent since September 2010 to encourage
borrowing and spending, and has said business investment and
consumption will help lead an economic expansion through next
year.  Turquoise Hill, which is majority-owned by  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ,
soared 10 percent to C$8.95, its biggest percentage gain since
April. The Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia, of which Turquoise Hill
owns 66 percent, has signed a power purchase agreement with the
Inner Mongolia Power Corp. for electrical power.  Gabriel Resources Ltd. (GBU)  advanced 4 percent to C$2.60 and
 Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM)  gained 2.4 percent to C$53.92 as gold
for December delivery rose 0.5 percent to settle at $1,683.20 an
ounce in New York.  Petrominerales Rallies  Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) , the second-worst performing stock in
the S&P/TSX Energy Index this year, rose 13 percent to C$8.59
after reporting third-quarter adjusted earnings of 41 cents a
share, compared with median analyst estimates of 39 cents a
share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) , Canada’s largest engineering and
construction company, increased 2.1 percent to C$43.05.  Trevor Johnson, analyst with National Bank Financial,
raised the stock to an outperform from sector perform rating,
citing an “encouraging” third quarter and a new, energetic
chief executive officer in Robert Card, who has “started off on
the right foot.”  Silver Wheaton fell 1.4 percent to C$38.88 after posting
adjusted earnings of 34 cents a share, short of analysts’
expectations of 40 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock has risen 32 percent this year,  compared 
with a 2.8 percent loss in the S&P/TSX Materials Index. The
company also cut its quarterly dividend to 7 cents a share,
compared with 10 cents previously.  Fortress Paper Ltd. (FTP)  plunged 40 percent to C$7.84, the most
since its 2007 initial public offering, after reporting a
larger-than-forecast loss in the third quarter that prompted
analysts at firms including Raymond James Financial Inc. to
downgrade the stock.  The Second Cup Ltd. (SCU)  tumbled 20 percent to C$5.88, its worst
loss ever. The coffee-shop franchisor cut its dividend to 8.5
Canadian cents a share from 15 cents after reporting same-store
sales declines in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  