-- Cnooc-Nexen Decision Is Probable by Dec. 10, Ambassador Says
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-11-05T20:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/canada-s-dec-10-cnooc-nexen-review-the-last-ambassador-says.html
Canada  will probably decide on  Cnooc (883) 
Ltd.’s bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  by Dec. 10 and is seeking to clarify
rules on foreign investment, the country’s ambassador to  China 
said today.  The government is “fully considering the deal” for which
“there is no precedent,” said Ambassador Guy Saint-Jacques at
a Canada-China energy conference in Beijing.  “I am confident we will have a decision by Dec. 10,”
Saint-Jacques said. “It’s a very important deal and it’s now
being fully considered. Stay tuned.”  Canada extended its review of Beijing-based Cnooc’s $15.1
billion takeover of Nexen for a second time on Nov. 2, re-
setting the deadline to Dec. 10 and citing the need for a
thorough review. The country blocked a C$5.2 billion bid by
Malaysian state-run oil firm Petroliam Nasional Bhd. for
Calgary-based  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  on Oct. 19.  Extending the review is “also fair” to Cnooc, as the
company will be “assured that it receives full consideration,”
the ambassador said. The Canadian government’s decision will
mean that “Chinese companies will know better what kind of
conditions they have to meet” before proposing a takeover in
Canada, he said.  Chinese companies have already invested more than $10
billion in Canada’s oil and gas sector as well as mining, Saint-
Jacques said. In previous transactions, Chinese companies took
minority interests in Canadian firms, making the deals “easier
to address,” the ambassador said.  Canada needs China’s investment to develop its oil and gas
resources, and also needs China’s markets to sell those
products, he said.  Jim Ellis, deputy minister of Alberta’s energy ministry,
said he “is fully supportive” of the Nexen deal, and that he’s
“positive” on Cnooc’s chances of approval.  “We are open for foreign investment, and we need foreign
investment and we are very supportive to foreign investment,”
Ellis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  