-- Canada Dollar Slips From One-Week High as Risk Appetite Shrinks
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-05T22:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/canadian-dollar-slips-as-greece-s-debt-damps-risk-asset-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar declined from almost
the strongest level in a week as investors’ risk appetite ebbed
amid concern  Greece ’s fiscal struggle will worsen  Europe ’s debt
crisis and as tomorrow’s U.S. presidential election loomed.  The Canadian currency weakened against the majority of its
16 most-traded counterparts as building permits in the country
fell at the fastest pace in more than a year and growth slowed
at  service industries  in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade
partner. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras faces a battle to
win support for budget measures needed to obtain further aid.  “Slightly negative news out of Greece weakened the
Canadian dollar,” David Bradley, director of foreign-exchange
trading in Toronto at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of Canada’s
third-largest bank, said in a phone interview. “It seems that
the austerity package may not get pushed through, which is going
to be negative for the  euro zone  and the euro. The loonie will
likely continue to trade in the range we’ve been in lately.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
99.64 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after
depreciating to as weak as 99.77 cents. It strengthened earlier
to 99.41 after touching 99.22 cents on Nov. 2, the strongest
level since Oct. 25. The currency has traded over the past two
months between 96.33 cents and C$1.0019. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0036.  Moving Averages  The currency traded today above and below its 100-day
moving average of 99.63 cents per U.S. dollar. It closed
stronger than its 200-day average of 99.94 cents.  Moving averages are levels that are seen by some traders as
turning points in the direction of a security’s price. The
average, a momentum indicator, is calculated by adding closing
prices for a specific number of assessment days, then dividing
by that number.  Implied volatility for one-month U.S.-Canada dollar options
rose from a seven-week low. It increased to 6.32 percent after
touching 6.07 percent earlier, the least since Sept. 14. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Canada’s dollar has gained 1.1 percent this year against
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has lost 1.7 percent, the yen
has dropped 6.3 percent and the euro has slid 3.1 percent.  Presidential Vote  U.S. stocks fluctuated today before U.S. citizens choose
tomorrow between President  Barack Obama  and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney . The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index ended
the day up 0.2 percent after falling as much as 0.4 percent.  “The coming week shifts the data to the backburner and
delivers political events in three continents that may help
define trading into year-end,”  Jacqui Douglas , senior global
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, wrote
in a note to clients. That includes  China ’s National Party
Congress on Nov. 8, and Greek budget votes this week, London-
based Douglas said.  The U.S. election “will help lay the landscape for fiscal-
cliff risks in the short-term and the policies for the next four
years,” Douglas wrote. The fiscal cliff comprises more than
$600 billion of U.S. tax increases and budget cuts scheduled to
take effect next year unless Congress acts. The  Congressional
Budget Office  has warned that the U.S. will suffer a recession
unless the situation is resolved.  Bonds Rise  Canada’s longer-term government bonds rose for a second
day, pushing yields on the  10-year benchmark  note down one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.76 percent. They touched
1.74 percent, the least since Oct. 4. The price of the 2.75
percent security due in June 2022 added 8 cents to C$108.68.
 Twenty-year bond  yields fell one basis point to 2.31 percent.  In Greece, Samaras faces a revolt in his three-party
coalition over austerity as the nation seeks a 31 billion-euro
($40 billion) financing installment this month. The leader of
the Democratic Left yesterday reiterated his party’s opposition
to changes in the labor law demanded by international creditors.  While no date has been set for a vote on that legislation,
it may come as soon as Nov. 7. The budget vote is scheduled for
Nov. 11.  “The general sentiment is risk-off,”  Camilla Sutton , head
of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto, said in
a telephone interview. “There’s a renewed focus on Europe and
potentially political uncertainty in Greece as they move into
two votes this week that could throw the coalition under
pressure.”  Building Permits  Canadian building permits dropped 13.2 percent to C$6.48
billion ($6.5 billion) in September from a record high the
previous month,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. They
were forecast to decline 3 percent, according to economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S.  non-
manufacturing  index declined to 54.2 last month, from 55.1 in
September, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists
projected 54.5, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Readings above 50 signal expansion in the gauge of
industries that account for almost 90 percent of the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  