-- CGGVeritas Signs Baker Hughes Shale Deal as Profit Gains 20%
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-05T10:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/cggveritas-signs-shale-deal-with-baker-hughes-as-net-jumps-20-.html
CGGVeritas (GA) , the world’s largest
seismic surveyor of oilfields, agreed to work with  Baker Hughes
Inc. (BHI)  to provide shale drilling services after reporting a 20
percent increase in third-quarter profit.  Net income climbed to $48 million from $40 million a year-
earlier, the Paris-based company said today in a statement. That
missed the average estimate of $68 million among seven analysts
Bloomberg surveyed. Sales increased 7 percent to $855 million.
It fell 2.6 percent to 24.655 euros by 11:35 a.m. in Paris.  The results were “disappointing,” missing estimates
partly because of a higher  tax rate , Fiona Maclean, an analyst
at Bank of America Corp., said in a note. Sales are expected to
rise on contracts in  Mexico ,  Brazil  and the U.K., she said.  Baker Hughes helps companies drill and complete oil and gas
wells and access fuel with hydraulic fracturing, which blasts
water, sand and chemicals underground to free it from shale
formations. Oilfield surveyors have forecast a pickup in demand
as explorers spend more to counter depletion at mature fields.  “We expect the fourth quarter to be much stronger than the
third quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Jean-Georges Malcor
said on a call. CGGVeritas affirmed annual targets including a
10 percent to 15 percent jump in sales and said marine prices
are expected to rise an average a further 7.5 percent in 2013.  “Exploration and production is strengthening with a level
of urgency, which is good for the geosciences domain,” Malcor
said.  India  is a promising market where energy companies are
under “considerable pressure” to boost exploration programs.  CGGVeritas and Baker Hughes will develop services using
reservoir models with seismic data to help explorers pinpoint
“sweet spots,” according to the statement. The deal makes the
French company a “preferred seismic” supplier for Baker Hughes
while allowing it to work with other drillers, Malcor said.  CGGVeritas posted a 13 percent group operating margin, up
from 12 percent. The margin for equipment-supply unit Sercel was
33 percent, up from 31 percent, and 10 percent for services. Its
order backlog on Sept. 30 was $1.28 billion, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  