-- Controversial Chemical Cocktail Cuts Heart Risk
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/chemical-cocktail-to-extract-metals-from-blood-cuts-heart-risk.html
Heart-attack survivors were less
likely to have future cardiac complications after getting the
cocktail of chemicals and vitamins known as  chelation  therapy,
according to a U.S. government-funded study that immediately
drew skepticism from top doctors in the field.  The treatment, in use for 50 years, is designed to
extract metals such as iron from the blood. It combines 10
components, including the synthetic amino acid EDTA, vitamins
B and C, electrolytes, a local anesthetic and the anti-clotting
drug heparin. Despite a lack of scientific evidence
proving its effectiveness, 111,000 Americans had the therapy
in 2007, the latest year for which the U.S. has data.  The study, presented yesterday at the American Heart
Association  meeting  in  Los Angeles , found the therapy cut by 18
percent the risk of death, heart attack, stroke, repeat artery-
clearing procedures and hospitalization. It was an
“unexpected” result that will require more study, Gervasio Lamas, the report’s chief lead author, said in an interview.  “The most exciting part of this study is there is a
potential signal of benefit,” said Lamas, chief of  Columbia
University ’s division of cardiology at Mount Sinai Medical
Center in  Miami Beach ,  Florida . “Everyone will need some time
to understand and digest this study.”  Patients in the trial were given  40 infusions  of
chelation therapy. The first 30 doses were given once a week and
took at least three hours to administer, a slow infusion
designed to reduce the risk of side effects.  Diabetics Benefit  Thirty percent of patients enrolled in the study were
diabetic and they derived the most benefit, with a 39 percent
reduction in heart risk. There was no evidence that chelation
reduced death rates. There were two unexpected severe side
effects, including one death, in each of the treatment arms.  Mariell Jessup , medical director of the Penn Medicine Heart
and Vascular Center, said it would take numerous studies with
similar results to get cardiologists to embrace the approach.  Most of the benefit stemmed from a reduction in repeat
procedures to restore blood flow to the heart, Jessup said in an
interview. “This isn’t ready for prime time. It wasn’t
convincing from a clinical standpoint.”  Instead of having the infusions, which cost about $5,000
for a course of therapy, people should go to the gym or have a
dietician bring heart healthy meals to their house instead,
Jessup said. “Why would they spend that money?”  The therapy is already widely used by alternative
medicine providers, who first became aware of its potential
because of a report that it reduced chest pain in 1956. A
different type of chelation therapy is approved to remove metals
like lead and iron from the bloodstream. The treatment used in
the study isn’t formally approved in the U.S.  Federal Agencies  Two federal agencies shared the cost of the $31.6 million
study: The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute and the
 National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine , both
based in Bethesda,  Maryland . The trial, which involved 1,708
heart attack patients, helped clarify the risks and benefits of
the three-hour infusions, said Gary Gibbons, head of the heart
institute in an interview.  “The study shows chelation can be administered in a way
that is safe and where there is a clear but marginal benefit,”
Gibbons said. “It’s an important first step, but it’s just a
first step. More research needs to be done before it can join
the mainstream of cardiovascular care.”  The study was originally designed to have 2,300 patients,
with a three year enrollment. Instead, it took seven years,
including a halt in September of 2008 while the forms used to
disclose the potential risks to patients were reviewed and
updated to include the possibility of death.  ‘Steeped in Controversy’  “To suggest that this study is steeped in history and
controversy would be an understatement,” said  Paul Armstrong , a
cardiologist at the University of Alberta and director of the
Canadian coordinating center for global cardiovascular research.
“These results are hypothesis generating, not practice
changing,” Armstrong said at a press conference.  The study was a good use of the public’s money, Gibbons
said. A lot of Americans are undergoing the treatment without
any guidance or information about its risks, creating a lot of
confusion and controversy, he said.  “We stand behind how it was executed and the data speaks
for itself,” Gibbons said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  