-- Chilean Economy Grows at Fastest Monthly Pace This Year
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-11-05T12:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/chilean-economy-grows-at-fastest-monthly-pace-this-year.html
Chile’s economy grew at the fastest
pace this year in September on gains in the mining and services
industries.  The Imacec index, a proxy for gross domestic product,
increased 1 percent from the previous month on a seasonally
adjusted basis, the quickest expansion since December 2011, the
central bank said in a report posted on its website today. The
economy grew 4.6 percent from last year, compared with the 3.2
percent median estimate of 12 economists polled by Bloomberg.  Today’s report contradicts recent evidence that economic
growth is beginning to slow as global demand weakens.
Manufacturing declined 5.6 percent in September from the year
before, the biggest drop since the month after the 8.8-magnitude
earthquake that struck in 2010, while the  unemployment rate  rose
to 6.5 percent in the three months through September from 6.4
percent through August.  “This was quite a surprise given the manufacturing data we
saw last week,” Felipe Jaque, an economist at  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said by phone from Santiago today. “The
deceleration has been a lot slower than expected, which is one
of the reasons why the central bank remains in a wait-and-see
mode.”  Policy makers left the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
5 percent on Oct. 18 for the ninth consecutive month as the
world’s top copper producer combined  Latin America ’s slowest
inflation with some of the region’s fastest growth.  Inflation Outlook  While inflation accelerated in the past two months to 2.8
percent, it still may fall below the central bank forecast of
2.5 percent by December, policy maker Enrique Marshall said in a
presentation posted on the bank website last week.  Policy makers forecast GDP will expand 4.75 percent to 5.25
percent this year before growth moderates to 4 percent to 5
percent in 2013. GDP climbed 5.4 percent in the first half of
this year and 5.4 percent in the third quarter, according to
calculations made by Bloomberg based on the Imacec index.  Chile’s peso, which has gained 7.7 percent against the
dollar this year, fell 0.3 percent to 482.46 a dollar at 9:03
a.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 