-- China’s ‘$2.7 Billion Problem’ Says Everything
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-11-05T22:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/china-s-2-7-billion-problem-says-everything.html
Savvy investors eyeing the next big
thing in China should consider cigarettes, nicotine gum and
cancer-treatment providers.  That is the upshot of a new Brookings Institution report
that raises burning questions about the family of  Li Keqiang . He
is expected to be named China’s next premier at a Communist
Party congress that begins on Thursday. Li’s brother, Li Keming,
is deputy director at China’s  State Tobacco Monopoly
Administration , which dominates an industry that some health
officials estimate will kill 3.5 million people each year in the
country by 2030.  The conflicts of interest Li may carry to the top of
Chinese power is a microcosm of what is wrong with the most-
populous nation. They are endemic to almost every challenge
facing China’s next leaders as they confront the weakest  economy 
in 30 years.  Is it really plausible to think China’s No. 2 official, the
man charged with public-health affairs, will clamp down on an
industry in which his brother plays such a pivotal role? To
answer “yes” ignores the all-in-the-family dynamic imperiling
China’s future. One place where there is a different response is
the blogosphere, which keeps referring to China’s “$2.7 billion
problem,” or “2.7B” to get around government censors
frantically trying to prevent people from reading an Oct. 25  New
York  Times article about Li Keqiang’s predecessor,  Wen Jiabao .  Darker Scenario  Wen’s carefully honed persona is that of a simple man. The
government’s favored depiction is “Grandpa Wen” -- a caring,
committed and selfless public servant. The Times  piece  described
a darker scenario, one in which Wen’s family came to control
assets of at least $2.7 billion. China’s response was as quick
as it was defensive, dismissing the story as a politically
motivated bid to provoke instability. The Wen article followed a
June 29 Bloomberg News report on the accumulated wealth of the
family of Vice President  Xi Jinping , who is likely to be
installed as party general secretary this week.  China should pay equal attention to the causes of the
cancer eating away at its political system and economy, not just
the symptoms. Longtime Asia hands know that blaming foreign
media often is a smokescreen or, worse, a sign of desperation.  Try as it may,  China  is having trouble controlling the
narrative, especially in cyberspace. Barring Twitter, Facebook
and YouTube only energizes activists and social-media outlets to
beat restrictions on expression and dissent. If only Chinese
industry displayed the same entrepreneurial energy in attacking
the government’s insistence on censorship.  The thing is, this story is out in the open. The scandal
surrounding Chongqing politician Bo Xilai was tantalizing enough
when it only focused on his wife murdering a British
businessman. It became dangerous, though, once public attention
turned to the massive wealth amassed by Bo’s family -- and how
it was emblematic of the vast riches swelling bank accounts of
leaders who are communist in name only.  Bloomberg’s website has been unavailable in China since the
June story about the family riches of Xi. The interests of Xi’s
extended family, the article said, include investments in
companies with total assets of $376 million.  That brings us back to Xi’s likely right-hand man, Li
Keqiang. Brookings senior fellow Cheng Li (no relation to the Li
brothers) argues that Li’s brother should be removed from his
post at China’s tobacco monopoly. The thinking is, if you
believe China took a light touch to regulating cigarettes during
the past 10 years, just wait until the next 10. That hardly
bodes well for the interests, or health, of China’s people.  Tall Task  Steering China between 2013 and 2023 is arguably the
toughest job in the world. Really, if  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  think fixing America’s troubles is a tall task, consider
what awaits Xi and Li.  China’s new leaders must do what Wen and President  Hu Jintao  failed to: rebalance an economy powered by a shaky mix of
exports, cheap labor and overinvestment; learn to grow without
choking amid  climate change ; narrow a dangerous gap between rich
and poor; rein in North Korea’s worst impulses; revisit the one-
child policy to address a fast-aging population; head off an
unsustainable preference for boys that feeds a frightening
gender gap; assuage Asian neighbors fearful of China’s rise and
expanding territorial claims; ease state control of banks;
improve the education system; find a use for $3.3 trillion of
currency reserves; and achieve some semblance of domestic  food
security .  None of these changes is possible unless China does two
things. First, it must sort out how to hand over power to a new
generation of elites without the behind-the-scenes infighting
that distracts attention from enacting vital reforms. Second,
China must tackle the toxic relationship between money and power
and the inevitable corruption it breeds.  Few countries, especially those with closed political
systems under single-party control, have managed to cut this
Gordian knot. The effects are obvious not only in China, but
developing countries around the world that tolerate huge income
inequality and growth that passes by the masses. The difference
is that China aspires to global primacy. It makes you wonder
what kind of example this country will set for the rest of the
world.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  