-- China Holds Working Level Discussions With Japan on Islands Spat
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-11-05T07:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/china-holds-working-level-discussions-with-japan-on-islands-spat.html
Chinese and Japanese officials met
yesterday and today to discuss a territorial dispute that has
damaged relations between Asia’s two biggest economies.  Shinsuke Sugiyama, head of the Japanese Foreign Ministry’s
Asia-Pacific bureau, met with Chinese counterpart Luo Zhaohui in
Wuhan, Hubei province, the ministry said in a statement today.
It was at least the third diplomatic meeting between the two
sides in the past month. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong
Lei confirmed the talks without saying where they occurred.  Japan ’s purchase in September of uninhabited East China Sea
islands called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese incited
violent protests in China, damaging Japanese companies like
 Tokyo Motor Corp. (7203)  and endangering a $340 billion trade
partnership. Control of the area gives the holder sovereignty
over an area rich in oil, fish and natural gas.  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  called for talks in
an Oct. 10 interview, saying “both countries lose out” if
relations deteriorate. While Vice Foreign Minister Chikao Kawai
met last month with Chinese officials in  Shanghai , neither
government has indicated any softening in their position.  China in latest talks reiterated that it “won’t cede even
half a step on its sovereignty” over the chain, Hong said at a
briefing today in Beijing.  The dispute has the potential to spin out of control and
escalate into a military face-off, according to a confidential
report submitted last week to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
by a delegation of former U.S. officials. The Obama
administration has urged both sides to resolve the matter,
saying that while the U.S. takes no position on sovereignty, the
islands fall under its mutual defense treaty with Japan.  The talks in Wuhan coincided with a U.S.-Japan military
exercise that began today and runs until Nov. 16.  “The exercises are not being held with any particular
country or region in mind,” Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary
Osamu Fujimura told reporters today in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  