-- China Yuan Has Longest Losing Streak Since August on PBOC Fixing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-11-05T08:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/china-yuan-has-longest-losing-streak-since-august-on-pboc-fixing.html
China ’s yuan and its forward
contracts dropped after the central bank weakened the reference
rate for a third day to a level that meant depreciation was
necessary to stay within the permitted trading band.  The People’s Bank of China set the  fixing  0.06 percent
weaker at 6.3082 per dollar today, 1.06 percent below last
week’s closing level. The yuan’s value is kept within 1 percent
of the reference rate. The currency extended its losing streak
to the longest since August amid concern that  Greece  will
struggle to secure a bailout and as U.S. voters prepare to
choose a president. The Chinese Communist Party holds a congress
starting Nov. 8 for its once-a-decade power handover.  “There are a lot of uncertainties ahead,” said Patrick Cheng, a Hong Kong-based foreign exchange analyst at Haitong
International Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “Perhaps the PBOC
wishes to hold the  yuan  stable for now given its recent rapid
appreciation.”  The yuan fell 0.06 percent to close at 6.2454 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It touched 6.2451 earlier, the strongest level it could reach
within the trading band. The currency has declined 0.13 percent
in three trading sessions through today, limiting this year’s
advance to 0.78 percent.  Greek Bailout  European leaders’ determination to keep Greece in the euro
area will be tested this week as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
struggles to win political support for measures needed to obtain
aid.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was unchanged at
6.2418 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards declined 0.13 percent, the
most since Oct. 18, to 6.3648 per dollar. The contracts, trading
at 1.9 percent discount to the onshore spot rate, weakened 0.28
percent in three days.  One-month implied volatility for the onshore yuan, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
steady at 1.6 percent today.  Hong Kong Monetary Authority added HK$5.04 billion ($650
million) to the financial system on Nov. 2 to prevent the city’s
currency from rising beyond its permitted trading range,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the largest
single injection since Oct. 19, when HKMA intervened the market
for the first time in three years, the data show. The central
bank has injected a combined $4.2 billion so far.  The Hong Kong dollar was steady at HK$7.7502 against the
greenback, near the top of its permitted trading range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  