-- Class Action Cases Divide U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-11-05T19:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/class-action-cases-divide-u-s-supreme-court.html
Two class-action disputes divided the
U.S. Supreme Court today as companies looked to build on the
victory they won last year when the justices threw out a
nationwide gender-bias suit against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Hearing two arguments in  Washington , the court’s
Republican-appointed majority questioned separate efforts to
press an antitrust suit against  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the nation’s
largest cable television company, and a securities fraud case
targeting  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest biotechnology company.  Both cases test the standards for determining whether
lawsuits can proceed on a group basis. Of the two, the Amgen
case may have the greater impact, potentially erecting a new
barrier for shareholders who accuse companies of making
misleading statements that affect stock prices.  Amgen is fighting claims that the company and its
executives misled investors for more than three years about
safety questions involving its Aranesp and Epogen anemia drugs.
Amgen says it didn’t mislead shareholders and that information
about drug-safety questions was widely known.  The question for the Supreme Court is whether investors
seeking to press a class action case must first prove
“materiality” -- that is, that the allegedly misleading
information affected the company’s stock price. A federal
appeals court in San Francisco said investors could wait to make
that showing at trial.  Democratic Appointees  The court’s four Democratic appointees suggested that
approach made sense. Justice Elena Kagan said that in
determining whether a case can go forward as a class action, a
judge focuses on whether the members of the group bear enough
similarities to one another. In this sort of securities fraud
case, the answer to the materiality question will be the same
for everyone, so it doesn’t help resolve whether the plaintiffs
are similar enough to sue as a group, she said.  “There is class cohesion as to materiality,” she said.
“People win or lose on materiality together.”  Justice Antonin Scalia said class action status puts
“enormous pressure to settle” on the company being sued.
Forcing defendants to provide materiality at the class-
certification would reduce some of that pressure, he said.  “There is a reason for deciding it earlier,” Scalia said.  The Obama administration is backing the investors in the
Amgen case, arguing that a 1995 law created other safeguards to
reduce settlement pressures.  Comcast Clash  Comcast is seeking to stop an antitrust lawsuit that seeks
$875 million on behalf of as many as 2 million Philadelphia-area
customers.  The suing customers contend that Comcast engaged in a
practice known as “clustering,” swapping territories and
subscribers with its competitors to ensure it could control the
Philadelphia market and charge higher prices. Comcast has denied
the allegations.  Comcast contends a federal judge improperly certified the
case as a class-action lawsuit without first resolving whether
proof of damages could be determined for the plaintiffs as a
group. A Philadelphia-based federal appeals court let the case
go forward.  Justice Anthony Kennedy was among those who questioned that
ruling today. He said a trial judge must make “some factual
inquiries as to the damages alleged and the cause of the
injury,” as well as “whether or not there’s a commonality.”  The court’s Democratic appointees expressed doubt that any
disagreement existed on that point. Kagan said the trial judge
used the legal standard sought by Comcast when he concluded that
the plaintiffs’ expert witness had shown that damages could be
proven.  ‘Still in Search’  “I am still in search of a legal issue that anybody
disagrees about here,” Kagan said.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is supporting both Comcast and
Amgen, arguing that limits on class actions are crucial to
reducing legal expenses.  The Wal-Mart ruling, a 5-4 decision, said the lawyers
pressing the case failed to point to a common corporate policy
that led to gender discrimination at thousands of stores across
the country.  Those lawyers have since filed four separate regional
cases, seeking smaller classes. None of the cases has reached
class certification. Lawsuits in the Florida and Tennessee
regions were filed last month.  Wal-Mart last month won dismissal of a class action filed
on behalf of women who worked in stores in the Texas region. The
retailer lost a bid to dismiss a similar gender class action in
 California  in September.  The Supreme Court cases are Comcast v. Behrend, 11-864, and
Amgen v. Connecticut Retirement Plans, 11-1085.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 