-- Climate Change is October Surprise After Sandy; Interview
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/climate-change-is-october-surprise-after-sandy-interview.html
If there’s a silver lining to
superstorm Sandy and its aftermath, it’s having extreme weather
back on the national agenda.  “Who would’ve thought the October surprise in this
election would be  climate change ?” said author  Mark Hertsgaard ,
speaking by phone from his home in  San Francisco . “And it’s
getting resonance because this storm hit the media capital of
the  United States .”  Hertsgaard, 55, is a fellow with the New America
Foundation, a nonpartisan public policy institute chaired by
Google Inc. Chairman Eric Schmidt, and environment correspondent
for  the Nation , a left-leaning 147-year-old magazine. He was
less surprised than many  New Yorkers  when the storm flooded
lower  Manhattan  and subway stations and tunnels.  Hertsgaard specifically foresaw that Gotham nightmare in
“Hot: Living Through the Next Fifty Years on Earth” (Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt). His 2011 book examines how governments and
communities worldwide are attempting to reduce global warming
and adapt to the rising sea levels and extreme weather that
scientists say it causes.  “I take absolutely no joy in the fact that I, like others,
was reporting well in advance that this was a scenario that
climate change was likely to bring about,” he said.  Action Plan  “Hot” is a hopeful if grim call to action. Hertsgaard
concludes that even if the world stopped burning fossil fuels
today, because of the carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere
the planet will face decades of intensifying summer heat, rising
sea levels, storms and droughts.  “What do we do now given that we’re already locked into 50
years of rising temperatures?” he asked last week. “It’s not
enough to put in bike lanes and solar panels, because we didn’t
do that 25 years ago.”  He said  New York City  is better positioned than most to
adapt because its political leaders recognize the need and
residents are more amenable to government-organized solutions
than in many other parts of the country.  “And New York has lots of money,” he said. “Bangladesh
knows what to do but it doesn’t have the money to do it.”  Building sea walls may not be an ideal solution for New
York, as they’d cost tens of billions of dollars and leave parts
of the city unprotected, he reports in the book. But we’re long
past the point of choosing among ideal solutions, he said.  High Costs  “Yes it will cost a lot of money with New York,” he said,
referring to building sea walls and, among other measures,
planting more trees, which cool urban temperatures. “But I
don’t think there’s any question that you can justify that
expense, because you’re talking about some of the most expensive
and economically productive real estate on earth.”  Hertsgaard blames the coal and particularly the oil
industry for funding a disinformation campaign about global
warming. Coincidentally, last week the president of the  New
America Foundation , Steve Coll, won the $48,000 Financial Times
and Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year Award for his book
“Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American Power” (Penguin
Press).  “For all the people critical of Obama for not doing more,
grow up,” said Hertsgaard, who has a 7 1/2-year-old daughter
and is co-founder of the nonprofit activist organization Climate
Parents. “No American president can take on the richest
industry in human history without strong, sustained popular
pressure behind him.”  Piecemeal progress slowing global warming isn’t enough, he
said. “We have to radically ramp up efforts or it’s not going
to matter very much.”  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine.   To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 