-- CNPV Solar Shareholders Vote on Selling Company to Local City
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-05T08:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/cnpv-solar-shareholders-vote-on-selling-company-to-local-city.html
  CNPV Solar Power SA (ALCNP) , a Chinese maker
of solar-power equipment, scheduled a shareholders meeting today
to vote on selling a majority stake to a local city for $10
million as it suffers from a “severe liquidity problem.”  The plan to sell 50.38 percent of CNPV Dongying, its sole
asset, to an unidentified company controlled by the local
government of Dongying, was endorsed by the board, CNPV Solar
said in a Nov. 1 statement. The company, based in Shandong in
northeastern  China , didn’t disclose terms for the debt.  The manufacturer of photovoltaic products from ingots to
panels has “a substantial need for financing current matured
bank loan of its subsidiary of CNPV Dongying and other
commitments,” CNPV Solar said in the statement. The company
blamed “the extreme difficulty caused by the current PV
industry” situation.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the second-biggest maker of wafers for solar
cells, agreed Oct. 22 to sell 19.9 percent of itself to a
renewable-energy investor partially-owned by the Xinyu
government. LDK is issuing new shares, which Heng Rui Xin Energy
Co. will buy for 86 U.S. cents each. LDK’s American depositary
receipts traded at more than $50 a share in 2008.  This “is another example of local government stepping in
to support PV companies,” Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based
analyst of Bloomberg New Energy Finance said by e-mail.  These
events suggest that, despite a general intention to consolidate,
Chinese local governments will selectively back PV companies
through supportive ownership, she said.  CNPV Solar’s shares were suspended from trading in Paris in
February, when they last traded at 5.49 euros, valuing the
company’s equity at about 43 million euros ($57 million) at the
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is
organized under the laws of Luxembourg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  