-- Colombia Finance Chief Sees No System Risk in Brokerage Takeover
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-11-05T02:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/colombia-finance-chief-sees-no-system-risk-in-brokerage-takeover.html
Colombia ’s financial markets are
reacting calmly to the takeover of the nation’s biggest
brokerage, whose unwise management decisions don’t reflect any
system-wide risk, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  Cardenas, in an interview, said that financial regulators
will appoint Nov. 6 a special agent to manage Interbolsa SA’s
brokerage, which was seized Nov. 2 after the company said it
faced a funding shortage.  “No financial market is exempt from companies that once in
a while make mistakes and bad business decisions,” Cardenas
said in Mexico City, where he was invited to attend a meeting of
finance officials from the Group of 20 richest nations. “But
the supervisor did exactly what it was supposed to do.”  The takeover is a surprise reversal for the brokerage,
which just last month said it was expanding into Peru and  Chile .
Interbolsa is the most-visible face of  Latin America ’s  best-
performing stock market.  The benchmark IGBC index has surged
13.5 percent this year, more than any major gauge in the region,
as the country’s resource wealth opens up to investment after a
decade-long campaign to subdue Marxist guerrillas.  Cardenas said a muted reaction in Colombian stock prices
after Interbolsa’s takeover was announced is a sign that there’s
no risk of contagion to other assets.  “Investors are seeing that we have a strong regulator that
acted in a pre-emptive way,” said Cardenas, a  University of
California , Berkeley-educated economist who took over as finance
minister in September.  The IGBC index fell 1 percent on Nov. 2, in line with the
Standard & Poor’s 500’s loss. The gauge fell 5 percent over five
days, its longest streak since May, led by a 37 percent drop in
Interbolsa’s shares through Nov. 1 before their trading was
suspended for five days.  First Look  Cardenas, before traveling to Mexico City, held meetings
last night in Bogota to analyze Interbolsa’s future. A first
analysis of the brokerage’s books shows that it is solvent and
that excessive risk-taking tied to Interbolsa’s structuring of
 repurchase agreements  on shares of textile company  Fabricato SA (FABRI) 
were to blame for the liquidity crunch, he said.  Cardenas said there’s “no risk” to Interbolsa’s 50,000
account holders, echoing comments over the weekend by President
 Juan Manuel Santos , who said that the savings of the brokerage’s
clients are in safe hands.  Officials stepped in after Interbolsa said it couldn’t make
a payment on a 20 billion peso ($11 million) loan.  Interbolsa also has an  investment fund unit  that had more
than 2 trillion pesos of assets under management as of April,
according to its website. The company also operates a brokerage
in  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman at  jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at  jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  