-- Colts’ Pagano Might Return to Sideline This Season, SI.com Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-05T16:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/colts-pagano-might-return-to-sideline-this-season-si-com-says.html
Indianapolis Colts coach Chuck Pagano, who began treatment in September for a curable form of
leukemia, might be on the sidelines for the National Football
League team’s Dec. 30 regular-season finale, SI.com reported.  “I don’t know if it can happen, but that’s the goal,”
interim coach Bruce Arians said last night in an interview,
 according to the website .  Pagano, 52, began treatment for acute promyelocytic
leukemia on Sept. 26 and Colts owner  Jim Irsay  said on Oct. 1
that it was “unlikely that he will be all-in as a head coach
this season.” Pagano’s next round of treatment will be
“brutal,” Arians said, according to SI.  “Though Coach Pagano still has a long way to go, we are
optimistically hopeful that he will be healthy enough to
participate in some capacity later in the season,” Avis Roper,
a spokesman for the team, said in an e-mail.  Arian’s comments followed Pagano’s first appearance at a
game since beginning treatment, a 23-20 win over the  Miami
Dolphins  that raised the Colts’ record to 5-3. Indianapolis
finished 2-14 last season.  Pagano spoke with his players both before and after the
contest. In an emotion-filled locker-room speech that followed
the victory, he said he would rebound from the cancer to
celebrate family milestones and someday lift the Lombardi
Trophy, which is given to the Super Bowl champion.  “I got circumstances, you guys understand it, I understand
it,”  Pagano told his team . “My vision is that I’m living to
see two more daughters get married, dance at their weddings and
then hoist that Lombardi several times.”  The Colts trail the Houston Texans (7-1) by two games in
the American Football Conference South Division. They host
Houston on Dec. 30 to conclude the regular season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  