-- Comcast Follows Wal-Mart in High Court Lawsuit Attack
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-11-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/comcast-follows-wal-mart-in-high-court-lawsuit-attack.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and Amgen Inc. are to
ask the U.S. Supreme Court today to further limit class actions
following a decision last year in the landmark  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  discrimination case that restricted such group litigation.  In 2011, the court rejected class certification for a
lawsuit brought on behalf of more than 1.5 million female
workers alleging discrimination in pay and promotions at Wal-
Mart,  the world’s largest retailer . The justices, dividing 5-4,
said the women failed to point to a common corporate policy that
led to discrimination, preventing them from suing as a group.  Plaintiffs often seek to sue as a class to pool resources 
against wealthy corporate defendants, gaining leverage to force 
a settlement or win at trial. The ruling in Wal-Mart v. Dukes,
cited in a series of lower-court decisions -- most favoring
companies -- will influence the  Supreme Court ’s view of the
antitrust class action facing Comcast and the securities fraud
class action involving Amgen, said Gerald Maatman Jr., of
Seyfarth Shaw in  Chicago .  “Dukes is the 800-pound gorilla in the courtroom,”
Maatman, a lawyer who represents defendants in class actions,
said in an interview. “Between June 2011 and Dec. 31, 2011,
there were 260 rulings in state and federal court applying Wal-
Mart.” Since then, at least 800 more cases have cited the case,
he said. “There has been no hesitation by courts to apply Wal-
Mart to other types of class actions.”  Steeper Road  While some decisions citing Wal-Mart have allowed class
actions to survive, the road for plaintiffs has become steeper,
said Deborah Hensler, a law professor at  Stanford Law School  in
 California .  The Wal-Mart decision “is making it more and more
difficult to certify class actions,” she said. “You need to
prove a lot about the merits at the certification stage.”  This requirement may lead to a reversal of class
certification in one of the two cases being argued today before
the Supreme Court, she said.  “Comcast is the next step on the road after Wal-Mart,”
she said.  Comcast, the nation’s largest cable company, is trying to 
stop an antitrust lawsuit that seeks $875 million on behalf of 
as many as 2 million Philadelphia-area customers.  The company contends a federal judge improperly certified
the case as a class-action lawsuit without first resolving
whether proof of damages could be determined for the plaintiffs
as a group. A Philadelphia-based federal appeals court let the
case go forward.  Comcast Case  The Comcast case “could be very significant if the court
decides that plaintiffs always need to prove common injury
through admissible evidence” before a class can be certified,
said Michael Waterstone, a law professor at Loyola Law School in
Los Angeles.  “In antitrust, that’s going to make it very expensive” to
pursue such claims, he said.  Courts are already requiring pre-certification evidentiary
hearings, Hensler said.  In the past, courts indicated that judges, in determining
whether a class should be certified, shouldn’t consider the
underlying merits of a case, Hensler said.  In the Dukes decision, “the court said you absolutely have
to consider the merits,” she said.  The second high court case before the Supreme Court today
may result in new limits on securities-fraud class action
lawsuits.  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest biotechnology company
and based in  Thousand Oaks , California, is fighting claims that
the company and its executives misled investors for more than
three years about safety questions involving its Aranesp and
Epogen anemia drugs.  Amgen Case  Amgen said it didn’t mislead shareholders, and that
information about drug-safety questions was widely available and
reflected in the company’s stock price.  The question for the Supreme Court is whether investors
seeking to press a class action case must first prove that
allegedly misleading information affected the company’s stock
price. A federal appeals court in  San Francisco  said investors
could wait to make that showing at trial.  The Chamber of Commerce, a pro-company lobby, is supporting
both Philadelphia-based Comcast and Amgen, arguing that limits 
on class actions are crucial to reducing legal expenses.  “Because of litigation costs and damages exposure, a
defendant will only rarely choose to litigate a class action
past the threshold stage, even if the underlying claims are
meritless,” the Washington-based business trade group argued in
the Comcast case. “Accordingly, billions of dollars are spent
settling class actions every year.”  Necessary Tools  Supporters of the lawsuits said they are necessary tools to
deter corporate wrongdoing.  Investor class action suits are “essential to deter
improper conduct and to recoup losses caused by fraud,” the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System argued in court
papers in the Amgen case.  The Wal-Mart case began affecting other state and federal
class actions almost immediately, said Maatman, author of The
Workplace Class Action Litigation Report.  In July 2011, a  Michigan  state court judge found that the
Supreme Court’s decision in Dukes barred residents of Saginaw,
Michigan, from pursuing environmental claims against  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  as a group. The property owners claimed Dow dumped
toxins in the Tittabawassee River, lowering real estate values.  Saginaw County State Circuit Court Judge Leopold Borrello,
who had initially granted class certification, said the
plaintiffs couldn’t meet the commonality requirement set in
Dukes.  Most Defeated  Most of the class actions are being defeated because the
courts found plaintiffs failed to provide enough proof to
support claims of a common question, according to the decisions.  Wal-Mart established a higher burden of proof on
commonality at an earlier stage of litigation than had been
previously required, Hensler said.  “If you can’t prove the merits, you can’t show that common
issues predominate,” she said.  The result may be that plaintiffs have to prove much of
their case before even reaching trial.  The Louisiana Supreme Court in December 2011 reversed class
certification for a group of 4,600 property owners who claimed
environmental damage from a wood-treating facility. The court
cited the Wal-Mart standard in finding that plaintiffs failed to
provide sufficient evidence to prove a “common thread” holding
all the claims together.  Cited Standards  In January, a federal court in  Washington  cited standards
in the Wal-Mart decision in rejecting class certification in an
antitrust claim brought against  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  over its
merger with Wild Oats Markets. The court found that “an
essential element of plaintiff’s case -- that is, injury to
individual members of the class -- cannot be proven through
classwide evidence.”  In March, U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson in  Los Angeles 
dismissed an antitrust action against Clear Channel Inc. over
claims the company was involved in anticompetitive conduct
related to live concert promotions. The original order granting
class certification “was based on a legal standard that is no
longer effect,” Wilson said, citing Dukes.  ‘Bizarre Cases’  “There have been some really bizarre cases,” said
attorney Cyrus Mehri, who represents workers in employment
lawsuits. Plaintiffs in a lawsuit against National City Bank
claiming racial discrimination in the financing of residential
home purchases “had a settlement, and the district court
wouldn’t even certify a settlement class,” he said.  U.S. District Judge Eduardo Robreno in Philadelphia denied
class certification and approval of a settlement reached between
the plaintiffs and the bank prior to the Wal-Mart decision. The
plaintiffs didn’t meet the “commonality and typicality
requirements” set in that decision, Robreno said in an October
2011 order.  The decision in Wal-Mart “was a disaster for plaintiffs,”
Mehri said. “Cases of merit are not being brought because of
Wal-Mart.”  Not all cases citing Wal-Mart have rejected the rights of
plaintiffs to sue as groups, Waterstone, the Loyola professor,
said. He pointed to a decision in August certifying a class of
consumers who alleged antitrust violations against defendants
including E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.  Granted Motion  U.S. District Judge Richard Bennett in Baltimore granted
the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, finding they had
provided sufficient evidence to allege common injury, meeting a
requirement the Supreme Court had set in Wal-Mart. The
plaintiffs claimed the defendants were involved in a price-
fixing conspiracy over an additive used in paints.  Class actions were also certified in a gender
discrimination lawsuit against Costco Corp. and a racial bias
claim brought against Merrill Lynch & Co. and its now-parent
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   These classes were far narrower than the one pursued in the
nationwide case against Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart,
said Suzanne Bish, who represents the plaintiffs in the Merrill
Lynch case. That lawsuit, brought on behalf of black financial
advisers, alleged that Merrill Lynch and  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America devised a discriminatory
retention bonus plan when the acquisition of Merrill was made
public in 2008.  Before Wal-Mart  The class was denied certification before the Wal-Mart
decision, Bish said. The plaintiffs’ attorneys sought to revisit
the rejection following the Dukes ruling, she said.  “We thought there was favorable language in the decision
that supported class certification,” said Bish.  The Supreme Court justices provided “a road map to the
types of case they would deem appropriate,” said Bish, of
Stowell & Friedman Ltd. in Chicago.  The lawyers narrowed the focus on claims that “policies
had an unlawful disparate impact on African-Americans,” she
said. The class was certified by the trial court, and that
decision was upheld by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Chicago in
September.  The Costco case hasn’t had a smooth path, before and after
the Wal-Mart ruling in June 2011. The federal appeals court in
San Francisco erased a prior class certification order in the
Costco gender discrimination in September 2011, citing Wal-Mart.  A year later, the trial court granted class action status
to the women, who have claimed bias in Costco promotion policies.
The plaintiffs’ lawyers limited the proposed class to employees
at two management level positions, assistant general manager and
general manager, according to the ruling by U.S. District Judge
Edward Chen.  After Wal-Mart  The lawyers who originally sued Wal-Mart in the nationwide
case have since filed four separate regional cases, seeking
smaller classes. None of the cases has reached class
certification. Lawsuits in the Florida and Tennessee regions
were filed last month.  Wal-Mart last month won dismissal of a class action filed
on behalf of women who worked in stores in the Texas region.  The retailer lost a bid to dismiss a similar gender class
action in California in September. U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco said a reduced class limited to
California workers “could be certified.”  The women could pursue their claims as a group if they made
a “showing consistent with the Supreme Court’s decision” that
a nationwide class action isn’t appropriate, Breyer said.  “We have asked for an immediate appeal of that ruling,”
said attorney Theodore Boutrous Jr., who represents Wal-Mart in
employment litigation. “We think they can’t meet the Supreme
Court standards.”  Left Open  The high court’s decision in Dukes “left open the
possibility that employees could proceed in narrower classes,”
Hensler said. In employment and other claims, she said, “smart
plaintiffs’ lawyers will try to frame their cases in ways that a
district court can believe it can be certified.”  The Supreme Court cases are Comcast v. Behrend, 11-00864,
and Amgen v. Connecticut Retirement Plans, 11-01085; The Wal-
Mart Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart v. Dukes, 10-00277; U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  