-- Copersucar Invests in Eco-Energy to Access U.S. Ethanol
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-11-05T18:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/copersucar-invests-in-eco-energy-to-access-u-s-ethanol.html
 Copersucar SA, the world’s second-
largest sugar trader, agreed to buy a majority stake in the U.S
biofuel marketer Eco-Energy Inc. to gain direct access to fuel
distributors including  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   The biofuel companies have combined marketing capacity of
10 billion liters (2.6 billion gallons) of ethanol a year, 12
percent of the global market, Copersucar Chairman Luis Roberto Pogetti said today in a conference call. He didn’t say how much
of closely held Eco-Energy he’s buying or the price.  U.S. refiners are required to blend certain biofuels with
their products under the Environmental Protection Agency’s
Renewable Fuel Standard. Ethanol derived from Brazilian sugar
cane meets the standard, which will ensure demand for
Copersucar’s exports, Pogetti said.  “The U.S. mandate is here to stay,” he said. “Eco-Energy
can offer  oil companies  the complete package and Copersucar is
the provider of sugar-cane ethanol in this package.”  The two companies plan to invest $25 million in
infrastructure including terminals and expect to be able to
supply 18 billion liters of ethanol annually by 2016, he said.  Copersucar expects to market 1.3 billion gallons of ethanol
during the 2012-2013 harvest season produced at about 100 mills,
Sao Paulo-based Copersucar said today in a statement. Eco-
Energy, based in Franklin,  Tennessee , handles about 9 percent of
the U.S. ethanol market with annual sales exceeding $3 billion.  The deal is expected to close within 45 days after
receiving U.S. regulatory approval, Pogetti said. Minneapolis-
based Cargill Inc., America’s largest closely held company, is
the biggest sugar-trading company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  