-- Corporate Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Fall; Abbott Plans Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-05T21:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-greece-debates-austerity.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
reversed an earlier rise as  service industries  showed continued
growth in October and Americans prepared to vote in the
presidential election.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.6
basis point to a mid-price of 96.9 basis points at 4:01 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
fell from an intraday high of 98.6.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing
index  declined to 54.2 last month from 55.1 in September, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. A measure above 50
signals expansion and the October figure exceeded the third-
quarter average, which may allay investor concern that a
weakening economic recovery will impair corporate balance
sheets.  “You’re going to have a couple of thin days this week
waiting for the election results to come in,” Noel Hebert,
chief investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based
Concannon Wealth Management LLC, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a big week with the election here and the ballot
initiative in  Greece .”  Greek lawmakers are likely to hold a ballot on austerity
measures this week, before a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers on Nov. 12.  Abbott Laboratories  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , the drug and medical-device company
that plans to split in two, is planning to sell $14.7 billion of
bonds in the largest dollar-denominated offering in more than
three years. Through its AbbVie Inc. pharmaceutical unit, Abbott
may sell bonds in six parts ranging in size from $500 million to
$4 billion, according to a person familiar with the offering who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt
increased 1 basis point, led by spreads on the subordinated
bonds of financial companies, which widened 2 basis points.  Credit swaps tied to New Albertson’s Inc. fell 3.7
percentage points to 26 percent upfront as of 3:30 p.m. in New
York according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  New Albertson’s  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $2.6 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of debt. Contracts guarding against the company’s
default are trading at the lowest since July, Bloomberg data
show.  Cerberus Capital Management LP is in talks to buy all of
grocery chain  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  in order to merge operations with
its Albertsons stores, three people with knowledge of the matter
said Nov. 2. Cerberus, which specializes in distressed
investing, bought a stake in Albertson’s Inc. in 2006 with a
group that included Supervalu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  