-- Levein Fired as Scotland Soccer Manager After World Cup Slump
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-06T00:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/craig-levein-fired-as-manager-of-scotland-national-soccer-team.html
Craig Levein was fired as  Scotland 
manager after the national soccer team began its qualifying
campaign for the 2014  World Cup  with two draws and a pair of
defeats.  The 48-year-old’s exit means Scotland is looking to appoint
its seventh manager since the team last qualified for a major
tournament, the 1998 World Cup in  France . Levein succeeded Craig Burley in December 2009 and had three wins in the 12 competitive
matches he oversaw.  Billy Stark, the coach of the national under-21 team, will
select the squad and take charge for an exhibition match against
Luxembourg on Nov. 14.  “After the Luxembourg match, the board will meet to begin
the process of identifying and recruiting the next national
coach,” Scottish Football Association Chief Executive Stewart
Regan said in a  statement  on the governing body’s website last
night. “We will give ourselves time, given our fixture schedule,
to find the right person for the job.”  Scotland opened its World Cup qualifying campaign with home
draws against Serbia and Macedonia before losing on the road to
Wales and  Belgium . The Scots are last in Group A and are ranked
56th in the world by ruling body FIFA.  “The challenge for the squad now is to improve our
position in Group A and, subsequently, improve our position in
the FIFA rankings,” Regan said. “We also must begin
preparations for the UEFA European Championships in France in
2016 which, for the first time, will have 24 qualification
places.”  Levein -- whose coaching career has included spells at
Hearts,  Leicester City  and Dundee United -- had said he wouldn’t
continue as Scotland manager beyond the end of the current World
Cup campaign and the SFA said it will honor his contract.  Scotland’s next World Cup qualifier is March 22 when it
hosts Wales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  