-- Daily Vitamin for a Decade Fails to Cut Heart Risk in Men
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-05T17:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/daily-vitamin-for-a-decade-fails-to-cut-heart-risk-in-men.html
Middle-aged men who pop a
multivitamin every day for a decade aren’t likely to reduce
their heart disease risk as a result, researchers found.  A different look at the same men last month found  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s Centrum Silver multivitamin slashed cancer risk 8
percent. Today’s study, which also used Pfizer’s pill, was
presented at the American Medical Association’s annual  meeting 
in Los Angeles and appeared in the  Journal of the American
Medical Association .  The study of 14,641 male doctors ages 50 and older is the
first long-term trial examining the benefits of vitamins that
are used by about one-third of Americans, the researchers said.
The results suggest daily multivitamins have a variety of
effects, and consumers need to know they don’t prevent heart
disease or reduce the need for a healthy diet and plenty of
exercise, said  Howard Sesso , the lead researcher.  “Given the fact that we see a beneficial cancer effect, we
don’t see any reason not to take a multivitamin,” said Sesso,
an associate epidemiologist in preventive medicine at Brigham &
Women’s Hospital in  Boston .  “We don’t find this trial to be remotely disappointing,”
he said, pointing out it provides the only definitive long-term
safety data on the popular supplement.  The study found no differences in the risk of major heart
complications, including heart attack and stroke, or death from
heart disease. Multivitamins didn’t lower the risk of heart
failure, chest pain or the need for artery-clearing procedures.
There were also no safety concerns, said senior author Michael
Gaziano, chief of the division of aging at Brigham & Women’s.  No Effects  The results didn’t change depending on the health of the
physicians before the study began. Those who had existing heart
disease also reaped no cardiovascular benefit.  Multivitamins include all the essential vitamins and
minerals recommended daily, potentially replicating what is
found in a healthy diet, the researchers said. Previous results
have been mixed about their cardiovascular benefits and ability
to lengthen life. They generate $5.2 billion in sales each year
in the U.S., according to the  Nutrition Business Journal .  “There are many reasons people take multivitamins,” said
 William Zoghbi , president of the American College of Cardiology
and director of cardiovascular imaging at Methodist DeBakey
Heart & Vascular Center in Houston. “They often think they will
feel better or their overall health will be better. In the vast
majority of cases, that’s not the case.”  Too many Americans aren’t taking proper care of themselves
and their health is likely to suffer, Zoghbi said in a telephone
interview. The first line of defense is exercise, a heart
healthy diet, no smoking and medicines to treat conditions like
hypertension and high blood pressure, he said.  Deflect Action  The main danger of vitamins is that they distract people
from taking actions that will actually improve their health,
wrote Eva Lonn, of McMaster University and Hamilton General
Hospital in Ontario, in an editorial accompanying the study.  Many people who are at risk of heart disease lead sedentary
lifestyles, eat fast food, smoke and stop taking their
prescription medicines, yet still regularly take a multivitamin
in hopes of preventing heart attacks and strokes, Lonn wrote.  “Vitamins aren’t going to be the answer for reducing these
risks,” Zoghbi said. “We still have a lot of work to do.”  The  National Institutes of Health  and BASF Corp. helped
fund the trial. New York-based Pfizer supplied the vitamins and
matching placebo pills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  