-- Djokovic-Murray Is New Top Rivalry in Men’s Tennis, Becker Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/djokovic-murray-is-new-top-rivalry-in-men-s-tennis-becker-says.html
The rivalry between  Novak Djokovic 
and  Andy Murray , which began when they were 13 years old, may
dominate men’s tennis for years to come, six-time Grand Slam
champion  Boris Becker  said.  Djokovic, who will end the season as the world’s top-ranked
player for the second straight year, is drawn in the same group
as Murray at the  ATP World Tour Finals  and is rated the favorite
to win the season-ending event ahead of the Scot.  Their matchup at the eight-man tournament in  London  is the
latest step in a rivalry that may replace the one shared by
 Roger Federer  and  Rafael Nadal , who have 28 major singles titles
between them, according to Becker.  “Djokovic and Murray have the edge right now,” he said in
a Nov. 2 interview in London. “Federer against Nadal was one of
the best rivalries ever, and they had it for five years.
Djokovic versus Murray could be the next.”  Murray opens the tournament today in Group A against Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic , while Djokovic of  Serbia  faces
 France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the evening session. Defending
champion Federer was placed in Group B, which starts tomorrow.  Federer, 31, won a record sixth ATP Finals title last year
and beat Murray at Wimbledon for his 17th major championship. A
month later, Murray defeated Federer in the gold medal match at
the London Olympics and again in the semifinals of the Shanghai
Masters last month.  Below Best  “He’s lost his edge at the moment, he’s 10 percent below
what he was in the summer,” Becker said of Federer, who exited
the U.S. Open in the quarterfinals in September and was beaten
by Juan Martin Del Potro of  Argentina  in the finals of his
hometown tournament in Basel a week before London.  Bookmakers agree, rating Federer the third choice to win
the title this week.  Djokovic is the 15-8 favorite at  Ladbrokes Plc  in the U.K.
to win a second ATP Finals title. That means a successful $8 bet
would return $15 plus the original stake. Third-ranked Murray of
Britain is second favorite at 5-2, followed by Federer at 11-4.  French Open champion Nadal has been sidelined with a knee
injury since he was knocked out in the second round at Wimbledon
in June. The winner of 11 major titles is aiming to return at an
exhibition event in  Abu Dhabi  at the end of December.  Federer and Nadal, 26, have played each other  28 times  in
the past eight years with the Spanish left-hander leading 18-10.  “We cannot forget Roger and Rafa who are still the most
successful active players on the tour,” Djokovic said last week
in Paris when asked if he and Murray are beginning to dominate.
“Rafa had the misfortune of being injured, but he’s always a
contender to win any tournament that he plays. Roger is still
playing on a very high level.”  ‘High Quality’  Murray said he and Djokovic are a “long way off”
emulating the Federer-Nadal rivalry. Djokovic leads their career
meetings  9-7 , with the pair tied 3-3 this season.  “Some of the matches we’ve had this year, they were high
quality matches, fun to watch,” Murray said. “I’m all for
playing more of those matches.”  Aged 25 and born a week apart, Djokovic and Murray’s paths
first crossed at a junior tournament in the French town of
Tarbes, to the north of Lourdes. Murray won 6-0, 6-1.  Judy Murray, Andy’s mother and Britain’s Fed Cup coach, can
still recall their early matches.  “I remember Andy playing Djokovic when he was under 14 and
he had a really solid backhand and he could really hurt but he
wasn’t consistent enough at that age,” she said in an interview
last year. “But you could see the weapons that they could
develop.”  Murray’s Breakthrough  Although they became friends, Djokovic broke into the top
100 and the top 10 before Murray and won his first Grand Slam
title at the Australian Open in 2008. Murray broke through in
September, ending a 76-year major singles title drought for
British men by winning the  U.S. Open .  The impact of Murray’s victory over Djokovic in  New York  --
after four previous losses in Grand Slam finals -- will be felt
for years to come, Becker said.  “In the next  2 1/2 years, Murray’s going to add more to
the one he already has,” Becker said. “There isn’t anybody
that’s impossible to beat for him anymore. Federer at 25 was
different than Federer now at 31. Nadal at 22, injury-free, is
different from Nadal now. So his toughest opponent really is
Djokovic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  