-- LDK Solar Advances After Replacing CEO, Hiring Board Members
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-05T21:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/ldk-solar-ceo-replaced-after-stake-sale-to-china-state-investor.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the second-biggest
maker of solar wafers, replaced its chief executive officer and
hired five other board members including a provincial People’s
Congress official. The company’s American depository receipts
climbed before erasing their gains.  Chief Operating Officer Tong Xingxue takes over immediately
as CEO from Peng Xiaofeng, who stays as chairman, LDK said today
in a statement. The other new board members include independent
directors Wang Ceng, who has served as a financial consultant
for Xinyu city government, and Wu Shian, a member of the
Standing Committee of the People’s Congress of Jiangxi.  Peng will stay to guide “LDK Solar’s strategic direction
and developing partners and other key relationships,” the
company said.  LDK’s depositary receipts, each worth one ordinary share,
gained 0.5 percent to 87 cents at the close in  New York , after
climbing as much as 9.7 percent.  The Xinyu, Jiangxi-based company said Oct. 22 it would sell
a 19.9 percent stake to a renewable-energy investor partly owned
by the local government. Heng Rui Xin Energy Co. will acquire
new LDK stock at 86 U.S. cents each. LDK’s American depositary
receipts, each worth an ordinary share, had fallen from $51 in
August 2008 to as low as 71 cents before the deal was announced.  U.S. manufacturers led by a unit of  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  said Oct.
3 they were forced to close plants and fire workers because of
unfair Chinese government policies as they sought to persuade
regulators the U.S. should maintain penalties on imports.  Chinese exports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells
and modules have flooded the global market, leading to a price
collapse, Gordon Brinser, president of SolarWorld’s U.S. unit,
said at an International Trade Commission hearing in Washington.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest maker of
solar modules, based in Wuxi,  China , said Aug. 15 it replaced
its CEO with Chief Financial Officer  David King .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  