-- Dollar May Gain on Romney Victory as Austerity Reigns, Citi Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-05T20:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/dollar-may-gain-on-romney-victory-as-austerity-reigns-citi-says.html
The  U.S. dollar  will gain if  Mitt
Romney  pulls off a “big surprise” and wins the presidential
election tomorrow, or if the outcome remains uncertain in an
echo of 2000, according to Citigroup Inc.  A victory by President  Barack Obama  is more expected by the
market so a Romney upset would have a bigger impact, Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in  New York , wrote to clients today. A Romney presidency
would see Treasury yields rise and the yen weaken because the
 yield  premium investors receive for buying dollar-based assets
versus those denominated in the Japanese currency would
increase. The Canadian dollar may also fall because the nation’s
economy is sensitive to fiscal tightening in its largest trading
partner.  “There could be this fear, especially in respect to the
 Federal Reserve  that, come 2014, we’ll see a whole new
complexion” with a Romney victory, Englander said in a
telephone interview. “In the same way investors may have to be
reassured that the pullback to fiscal austerity needs to be
long-term, the pullback from monetary easing has to be gradual
and long-term, as well.”  Currencies that would gain if Obama were to retain the
White House would be the Canadian, Australian and New Zealand
dollars and  Norway ’s krone, according to Englander, because the
Fed will be encouraged to continue its monetary-stimulus
programs. The dollar may also weaken as investors expect
stability surrounding Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s leadership at
the Fed.  Fiscal Cliff  Romney has said he disagrees with the central bank’s
measures to stimulate the economy and would replace Bernanke.  “We would see austerity both on the fiscal and monetary
side -- commendable from an ideological viewpoint, but unlikely
to inspire confidence in markets,” Englander said. “So we
would lean to partial risk-off.”  If Republicans were to maintain or increase their majority
in the  House of Representatives , Englander wrote, it may lead to
tougher negotiations surrounding so-called fiscal cliff, the
collection of $607 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts scheduled to take effect at the beginning of 2013.
That would support the dollar as investors buy Treasuries.  An uncertain outcome to the race, as in the 2000 contest in
which a victor wasn’t declared until December, would be viewed
as raising the odds of a Romney victory, he said.  “The dollar surge would reflect safe-haven flows in
Treasuries, rather than any expectation that U.S. assets would
outperform on a cyclical or structural basis,” Englander wrote.  Obama led Romney, 48 percent to 45 percent, in an Oct. 31-
Nov. 3 national  poll  conducted by the Pew Research Center, a
survey that was deadlocked at 47 percent a week ago.  Nationally, almost 30 million people have cast ballots,
according to the United States Elections Project at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia. More than a third of the total
electorate is expected to vote early.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  