-- Heart Attack, Chest Pain Costly for Employers, Study Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-11-05T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/heart-attack-chest-pain-costly-for-employers-study-says.html
Heart attacks and chest pain suffered
by workers can also be agonizing for employers who are hit with
productivity losses of as much as $52,473 per disability claim.  A study presented today at the American Heart Association
meeting in  Los Angeles  found that for every short-term
disability claim filed due to acute coronary syndrome, the cost
to employers was about $7,943 in lost productivity. Each long-
term disability claim cost employers about $52,473.  Acute coronary syndrome , where blood supplied to the  heart
muscle  is suddenly blocked, costs Americans about $150 billion
each year and about 47 percent of those with the condition are
working adults under age 65, said lead study author Robert Page.
Heart disease is the No. 1 cause of death in the U.S., and
employers should help workers reduce their risk with wellness
programs for  blood pressure , diet, exercise and blood sugar,
Page said.  The condition “can be very disabling,” said  Page , an
associate professor of clinical pharmacy and physical medicine
at the  University of Colorado  in Aurora, in a Nov. 3 telephone
interview. “That in turn impacts your work productivity. That
impacts the employer and it impacts the employee. If you’re not
able to go to work, you don’t have financial stability.”  Having a heart attack can lead to heart failure and
patients may need to go to rehabilitation before they are able
to get back to work. Many patients also suffer from depression
after a heart attack, which can cause them to miss more days or
be less productive on the job, Page said.  37,000 Claims  The researchers looked at about 37,000 short-term and long-
term disability claims filed by employees for each acute
coronary syndrome event. Short-term disability insurance kicks
in right after an event and only lasts up to two years, while
long-term disability insurance takes a longer time to start
after an illness strikes and continues for an extended period of
time and in some cases even until the insured dies.  “Acute coronary syndrome is not particularly viewed as a
chronic severely disabling condition, but it really is and it
should be treated as such,” Page said.  Heart disease  also is expensive for workers who lose money
being out of work.  For each short-term disability claim, employees lost about
60 days of work, and only 35 days on average were compensated.
For each long-term disability claim, workers lost about 397 days
of work and only 271 were paid for, Page said. Lost wages for
employees filing short-term disability claims were about $2,000
and about $20,000 was lost for those filing long-term disability
claims, he said.  Acute coronary syndrome results in employee and employer
costs similar to those of other chronic conditions like asthma,
migraines, high blood pressure and even depression, Page said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  