-- East Coast Gasoline Rises as New Jersey Units Still Shut
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-11-05T21:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/east-coast-gasoline-rises-as-new-jersey-units-still-shut.html
New York gasoline strengthened on
speculation  fuel supplies  on the U.S. East Coast will tighten as
two  New Jersey  refineries remain shut and distribution terminals
work to restart following  Hurricane Sandy .  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Bayway refinery and  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s Port Reading
facility aren’t running a week after Hurricane Sandy left the
units flooded and without power. Crews are making repairs after
restoring power to Bayway, while Port Reading has partial power,
the companies said. The units make up a combined capacity of
308,000 barrels a day.  Reformulated gasoline in the New York Harbor traded at a
premium of 20.25 cents a gallon over December futures on the New
York Mercantile Exchange at 2:05 p.m., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 4.25 cents over the
November contract Oct. 29 before the storm hit. November expired
Oct. 31 at a 13.15-cent premium to December.  “Until we get a real definitive statement about the
refineries coming up after Hurricane Sandy, we’re seeing
strength in the market,”  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut, said by phone
today. “There are worries about how the supply issue is going
to play out.”  Stockpiles of motor fuel on the U.S. East Coast dropped by
202,000 barrels to 47.9 million in the week ended Oct. 26, the
Energy Department reported last week. That’s the first decline
in three weeks and the lowest since the week ended Oct. 12.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP started up limited inbound
and outbound operations at its Carteret and Perth Amboy
terminals in New Jersey, while Phillips 66 resumed sales to
wholesale customers on a limited basis from the Linden terminal
on Nov. 2, the companies reported.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel in  New York  gained 1.87 cents to 16
cents a gallon above heating oil futures, the highest level in
Bloomberg data since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  