-- Ebix Accounting Practices Said to Be Probed by SEC
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-11-07T19:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/ebix-accounting-practices-said-to-be-probed-by-sec.html
(Corrects amount of shares held by CEO as of Sept. 27 in
41st paragraph of story published Nov. 5.)  Ebix Inc. (EBIX) , the insurance software
company that said it was targeted by  short sellers  last year, is
being investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for its accounting practices, four people with direct
knowledge of the probe said.  The SEC investigation, conducted over the past year, is
focused on revenue recognition, internal controls and the
accuracy of the company’s public statements to shareholders,
said three of the people, who asked not to be named because the
probe wasn’t public.  Robin Raina, Ebix’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said his company wasn’t under SEC scrutiny.  “You could not be more off the mark -- that is a complete
lie and at least not known to us in any manner whatsoever,”
Raina wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.  There is no indication that charges of any kind are
imminent, given that the company has not received a “ Wells
Notice ,” or warning from the SEC that it is prepared to file
charges.  “We’ve received no notice from SEC enforcement that
they’re investigating us,” said John Jordak, a lawyer for Ebix
at  Alston & Bird LLP .  Justin Jeffries, the SEC attorney said to be leading the
investigation, didn’t return phone calls seeking comment on the
probe.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  The SEC probe comes as Atlanta-based  Ebix  is fighting at
least four lawsuits accusing it of inflating income levels or
mishandling internal accounting issues.  Class Action  In September, U.S. District Judge Richard Story in Atlanta
ruled that Ebix must face a class action, or group lawsuit.
Story said in his ruling that investors’ claims of
misrepresentations and omissions of facts by Ebix and its
management team were specific enough to allow the case to move
forward.  Jordak, Ebix’s outside counsel, said the company planned to
defend itself in the case.  “Ebix is entirely comfortable with the disclosures it
made,” he said.  Ebix faces a second investor lawsuit that was filed in
federal court in  Manhattan  and transferred to Atlanta.  In March, Ebix lost its bid for dismissal of a lawsuit in
federal court in Columbus,  Ohio , by the former owners of Peak
Performance Solutions Inc., a company it acquired in 2009. In
May 2011, Peak’s owners sued Ebix, claiming sloppy accounting
procedures deprived them of a $1.5 million earnout promised at
the time of sale.  Short Sellers  The lawsuits, which revolve around Ebix’s  statements  of
revenue and  earnings , may provide investors with a detailed view
of the internal accounting practices at the company, which has
been in the cross hairs of short sellers since early 2011.  On March 22, 2011, an anonymous blogger writing under the
name “Copperfield Research” posted a critical analysis of the
company’s earnings on the website Seeking Alpha. The article
described Ebix as a “house of cards.”  Two days after that blog post,  Ebix’s stock  fell 24 percent
to $22.52, on volume of 15 million shares. In the days before
the sell-off, average volume had been less than 1 million
shares. The company’s market capitalization shrank to $878
million from $1.2 billion that day.  Ebix, in a statement dated that March 25, said, “It is
management’s opinion that this post misrepresents and distorts
facts not relevant to the company’s current financial position,
long-term growth prospects and management policies.”  The company said in the statement that, “The Seeking Alpha
post appears to have been issued specifically to cause a decline
in the company’s stock price to support the increase in the
short interest in the company stock, and purchases of  stock
options  related to these short positions.”  Stock Buybacks  In the three months after the March 2011 sell-off, the
company bought more than 1 million  shares  of its own stock, out
of some 42 million outstanding. By October 2011, the company
said it had purchased 3.4 million shares of its stock.  As of Nov. 2, the short interest in Ebix stood at 9.6
million shares, while average volume in October hovered below
200,000 shares a day. Thus, the company’s short interest ratio,
or the amount of time it would take for traders shorting the
stock to cover their position if the price rose, is 50.1 days.
The average short interest ratio for the Nasdaq global market
securities in September was four days.  Since 2008, Ebix has more than doubled its revenue and net
income after acquiring 15 businesses and folding them into its
own operations. The acquisitions cost more than $166 million,
according to company records and court filings.  Goodwill  In 2008, Ebix reported $74.8 million in  revenue  and net
income of $27.3 million. In 2011, the last full year available,
the company reported $169 million in revenue and net income of
$71.4 million. The company is scheduled on Nov. 8 to report
third-quarter earnings.  In 2007, before the acquisition spree began, Ebix carried
$36.4 million in goodwill on its balance sheet. By the end of
2011, that ledger entry increased to $259.2 million.  Three former employees of Ebix, who were interviewed by the
SEC in the matter and asked not to be identified, questioned the
quality of the company’s earnings. In interviews with  Bloomberg
News , they noted Ebix’s strategy of booking U.S. revenue to
units based in  Singapore  and  India , where the company enjoys low
tax rates.  Since the Seeking Alpha article, several  lawsuits  have been
initiated against Ebix. The class action, filed in  Georgia  in
July 2011, argues Raina and his team made false and misleading
statements to investors about the company’s earnings, which set
the stock up for its dramatic plunge the previous March.  Earnout Claims  The lawsuit filed in May 2011 by the former owners of Peak
Performance Solutions brought to light alleged discrepancies in
the way Ebix managed its accounts receivable, one of many topics
highlighted in the Seeking Alpha blog post. Peak’s former owners
accuse Ebix of unfairly reneging on the $1.5 million earnout
promised when it was acquired for $8 million in 2009.  Last April, a businessman who sold another company to Ebix
sued over claims that he was shortchanged on the earnout that
was promised when the deal was struck. Earnouts are bonus
payments to the sellers based on a company’s performance after
an acquisition.  Joseph Ott sold Acclamation Systems Inc. to Ebix in 2008
for $22 million. Ott said in his lawsuit in state court in
Pittsburgh that Ebix owes him $2.9 million in earnout payments.
Ott’s lawyer, Mark Dausch of Babst Calland Cements & Zomnir PC
in Pittsburgh, declined to comment on the case.  Jordak, Ebix’s lawyer, declined to comment on either of the
earnout lawsuits.  ‘Legally Insufficient’  In its most recent annual report, for 2011, the company
described the class action and a derivative complaint as
“legally insufficient.” It told investors that, “In the
opinion of management, the ultimate likely disposition of these
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the company’s
business, consolidated financial position, results of operations
or liquidity.”  Ebix hasn’t amended that statement since the September
court ruling allowing the class action to proceed. The company’s
disclosures “speak for themselves,” Jordak said. He declined
to comment on whether the company planned to update its position
in this week’s quarterly earnings statement.  In the “risk factors” section of its annual reports, Ebix
has warned investors that the company might have to recognize an
impairment of goodwill and that it might have “exposure to
greater than anticipated tax liabilities” related to potential
tax law changes that could affect the rates it pays on revenue
booked in India and Singapore.  Internal Controls  In the 2011 report, after the lawsuits challenging its
accounting practices, Ebix added a new  risk factor  regarding
internal controls.  “If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal
controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our
financial results or prevent fraud,” the company said in its
10-K report. “As a result, our stockholders could lose
confidence in our financial results, which could harm our
business and the market value of our common shares.”  Asked about the addition of this fraud warning, Jordak said
the company’s “public filings and risk factors speak for
themselves.”  Ebix’s annual growth rate has generated positive publicity
for the company and Raina. This year, Forbes magazine ranked it
as the sixth-fastest-growing  technology company  in the U.S. The
previous year, Ebix made Fortune magazine’s list of America’s
fastest-growing companies.  Homes, Film  In his native India, Raina enjoys celebrity status. He has
based the company’s software development workforce in the
industrial city of Noida, near  New Delhi .  His philanthropic efforts, conducted through the Robin
Raina Foundation, support slum-dwelling children, and he has
committed $15 million to build 6,000 concrete homes for the
urban poor in Bawana in North Eastern Delhi.  As part of his effort to highlight the difficulties of the
region, Raina produced a 25-minute documentary film, “Dilli,”
about the plight of the urban poor.  On the website of his foundation, Raina writes, “I want to
make charity fashionable and cool.”  According to Ebix’s most recent proxy statement, Raina owns
3.67 million shares of Ebix, accounting for 9.3 percent of the
company’s shares, as of Sept. 27. That number includes 2,231,560
shares of stock, and options to acquire an additional 1,440,000
shares.  The investor case is In Re Ebix Inc. Securities Litigation,
11-cv-02400, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia
(Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  