-- Einhorn’s Greenlight Shorts Daily Mail, FSA Filing Shows
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-11-05T20:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/einhorn-s-greenlight-shorts-daily-mail-fsa-filing-shows.html
David Einhorn’s $7.7 billion hedge
fund Greenlight Capital Inc. disclosed a short position of 4.4
percent in the shares of  Daily Mail and General Trust Plc , which
publishes the U.K.’s second-biggest selling daily newspaper.  Greenlight’s bearish bet on London-based Daily Mail and
General Trust, disclosed today on the website of the  U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority , was the biggest short position
revealed by any hedge fund against a U.K. company under rules
that took effect last week.  European Union rules requiring investors to publicly
disclose net short positions of more than 0.5 percent of a
company’s issued share capital came into force Nov. 1. The rules
also require hedge funds and other investors to notify
regulators of any bearish bets exceeding 0.2 percent.  Circulation at the Daily Mail fell 6.2 percent to 1.9
million  readers  a day in September from the same month a year
earlier, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations cited by
the Guardian Newspaper. The Daily Mail remains the U.K.’s
second-most read paper behind News Corp.’s the Sun, which had a
circulation of 2.4 million readers in September. Daily Mail’s
shares have climbed 21 percent this year.  In a short sale, traders bet stock prices will fall by
borrowing shares, hoping to repay them at a lower price and
pocket the difference.  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-
fund manager, was also a target of short sellers after its stock
fell 40 percent over the past year. Landsdowne Partners LP, the
biggest European hedge fund that invests in stocks, took a 1.7
percent short stake on London-based Man Group and Cliff Asness’s
AQR Capital Management LLC is betting against 1.1 percent of the
shares, according to the FSA’s website.  Spokespeople for New York-based Greenlight, London-based
Landsdowne and Greenwich, Connecticut-based AQR declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  