-- Eletrobras Slumps to Seven-Year Low in Electricity Rout
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-05T21:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/eletrobras-slumps-to-seven-year-low-in-electricity-rout.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) 
slumped to the lowest price in seven years as a worse-than-
expected compensation proposal by Brazil’s government triggered
a selloff.  Eletrobras, as  South America ’s largest generator is known,
plunged 8.2 percent to 15.42 reais in  Sao Paulo , the lowest
since August 2005, in the first day of trading since the
government released its proposal.  Cia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP6) ,
or Cesp, fell 5.8 percent and  Cia de Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica Paulista , known as Cteep, dropped 4.2 percent.  The government on Nov. 1 proposed paying generation and
transmission companies about 19 billion reais ($9.3 billion) to
cover the costs of their prior investments, in an effort to
reduce future power prices. In exchange, the companies would be
able to operate in the country for 30 years.  Banco Itau SA cut its estimates for share price and
earnings for Cteep and Cesp after the announcement. UBS AG said
in a Nov. 2 note the proposal was “worse than expected and more
so for Cesp and Eletrobras.”  “Despite the sector’s poor performance since September we
do not believe that it is time to go shopping for these stocks
yet, given the unpredictable risk and the lack of marginal
buyers,” Marcos Severine and Mariana Coelho, analysts for Itau,
said in a report today. The proposal trailed expectations of
even “the most bearish investor,” they wrote.  Eletrobras, whose shares have slumped 43 percent this year,
would receive 14 billion reais if the company agrees to renew
its concession. The government’s proposal is part of a package
announced by President  Dilma Rousseff  in September to cut power
prices by as much as 28 percent.  Revenue Reduction  Jose da Costa Carvalho Neto, president of Eletrobras, told
reporters on Oct. 31 that he expected to receive “close to”
the book value of the company’s assets, an estimated 30 billion
reais.  Brazil’s electricity rates for industrial customers are
among the highest in the world, averaging more than double those
of  China  and the U.S., according to a report published by the
Rio de Janeiro State Industry Federation in July.  The government’s offer of 9.5 reais per megawatt-hour for
generation operating costs implies a 70 percent revenue cut,
Lilyanna Yang and Henrique Peretti said in the UBS report. For
transmission companies, the tariffs are a 67 percent cut, they
said.  Other companies facing renewals in  Brazil  are  Cia
Energetica de Minas Gerais , or Cemig. Cemig and Cesp may receive
285.4 million reais and 1 billion reais, respectively, according
to the Nov. 1 notice in the nation’s official gazette. Cemig
fell 2.8 percent to 24.21 reais.  Under terms of the proposal, Cteep and  Cia Paranaense de
Energia , known as Copel, would receive 2.9 billion reais and
893.9 million reais, respectively. Copel shares declined 0.5
percent to 30.34 reais.  No Assurances  “In our opinion, Eletrobras, ISA Cteep, Cesp, Cemig and
Copel continue to be names to be avoided in the short term,
simply because no one can assure that we have reached the
bottom,” Itau’s Severine and Coelho said in their report.  The companies have until Dec. 4 to respond to the
government’s proposal. If they don’t take the offer, they may
have to bid to supply power to customers when contracts start to
expire in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  