-- Emerging Stocks Slump as Brazil’s Eletrobras Leads Drop
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-05T23:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/emerging-stocks-decline-before-china-leadership-change.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in five days, led by Brazilian utilities, as the
government provided less compensation for power rate cuts than
analysts predicted. Hyundai Motor Co. sank after promising to
remunerate U.S. customers for overstating fuel efficiency.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , South America’s largest
power producer, slid to a seven-year low, the second-worst
performer of the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. Hyundai Motor Co.
and  Kia Motors (000270)  Corp. tumbled in  Seoul  after saying they will
compensate U.S. customers for overstating the fuel efficiency of
their latest models. Turkey’s lira and bonds rallied after Fitch
Ratings upgraded the country to investment grade for the first
time since 1994.  The MSCI gauge fell 0.4 percent to 1000.80 at the close of
trading in New York, halting a four-day, 1.5 percent advance.
 Brazil ’s government proposed compensating utilities a total of
about 19 billion reais ($9.3 billion) for the renewal of
electricity concessions due to end by 2017, trailing analyst
estimates. Emerging stocks also declined as Americans prepared
to vote for president.  “Utilities are obviously weak in Brazil as they’ve been
pressured by regulatory headwinds,” Tim Hall, who helps manage
about $750 million at Deltec Asset Management, said by phone
from New York. “You have a big election in the U.S. tomorrow,
and people are not excited to do a lot ahead of that.”  Turkey Upgraded  Fitch raised Turkey’s credit rating one level to BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, citing a “moderate and declining
government debt burden” and easing risks with the economy
heading for a “soft landing,” according to a statement today.  The lira appreciated 0.6 percent versus the dollar to the
strongest level in almost three months and local two-year
government bonds also rose, reducing the  yield  11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, to 6.94 percent. The  Istanbul Stock
Exchange National 100 (XU100)  surged 1.8 percent to a record high.  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV) , which was closed for a holiday on
Nov. 2, slipped 0.3 percent. The MSCI Brazil Utilities Index
fell the most among 10 industry groups, dropping 2.3 percent.  Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas is known, sank 8.2
percent to the lowest level since August 2005.  Cia Energetica de
Sao Paulo , known as Cesp, fell 5.8 percent.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.5
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, jumped 5.2 percent.  Consumer Stocks  Consumer discretionary companies were the  worst performers 
among 10 industry groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ,
falling by 1.9 percent. A gauge of utility companies dropped 0.6
percent. The broader index has climbed 9.2 percent this year,
trailing a 10 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed country stocks.  The developing-markets gauge trades at 11.5 times estimated
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.3, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Data last week showed American employers hired more workers
than forecast in October. The 21 countries with companies in the
MSCI emerging stocks index send 13 percent of their exports to
the U.S. on average and 30 percent to the European Union, data
from the World Trade Organization show.  Rupee Slumps  India ’s rupee weakened 1.5 percent against the dollar to
the lowest level since Sept. 13, leading declines among
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  China ’s  yuan  dropped after the nation’s central bank
weakened the reference rate for a third day to a level that
meant depreciation was necessary to stay within the permitted
trading band.  The Communist Party will start on Nov. 8 its 18th Congress,
when 2,270 delegates meet over several days to decide on
leadership changes.  A services purchasing managers’ index for China released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 53.5 in
October from a September reading of 54.3.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd. dropped 1.3
percent in Hong Kong, the first decline in four days.  The Kuwait Stock Exchange Index (KWSEIDX)  rallied 1.6 percent, the
biggest gain since February. The gauge slipped last week amid
concerns over the Persian Gulf country’s political stability.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index closed at a record,
rising 0.6 percent, as the measure resumed trading after markets
were shut on Nov. 1 and 2.  ‘Adding to Uncertainty’  Equities also fell today on prospects European leaders’
determination to keep  Greece  in the euro area will be tested
this week with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras struggling to win
political support for measures needed to obtain aid. Samaras
said yesterday that Greek society won’t tolerate any more
austerity measures. The first parliamentary vote on the latest
package is scheduled to take place as early as Nov. 7.  “The decision on Greece is adding to uncertainty,” making
emerging-markets investors cautious today,  Gaelle Blanchard , an
emerging-markets strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London ,
said by phone.  Telkom SA (TKG) , a telecommunications provider for South Africa,
fell 3.1 percent in Johannesburg to the lowest in more than a
month as Chief Executive Officer Nombulelo Moholi resigned amid
a struggle to raise the capital necessary to expand into
broadband and mobile services.  Dana Gas  Dana Gas PJSC shares dropped 2.4 percent in Abu Dhabi to
the lowest level since Sept. 13 on bets the fuel producer hasn’t
reached an agreement with bondholders for $1 billion of Islamic
debt that matured last week and that lenders may seize the
company’s assets in  Egypt .  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 290, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Hyundai Motor (005380) , South Korea’s largest carmaker, tumbled 7.2
percent, its steepest loss since August 2011, while affiliate
Kia Motors retreated 6.9 percent for the lowest close since
February of last year.  The automakers said in a statement that they will issue
debit cards to buyers of about 900,000 vehicles sold in the U.S.
in the past two years to reimburse them for higher-than-expected
fuel expenses after they were found to have overstated their
fuel efficiency.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038)  rallied 32 percent in
Hong Kong, a record gain. HSBC Holdings Plc. and Citigroup
raised ratings, saying the company may return to profit by
supplying Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc.  E Ink Holdings slumped 6.9 percent in Taipei trading.
Citigroup advised investors to sell the shares, saying tablet
products are cannibalizing demand for higher-margin e-paper.
Mumbai-based  Godrej Consumer Products Ltd. (GCPL)  sank 5 percent, the
most since September 2010, after third-quarter profit missed
estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  