-- Employment Index in U.S. Rose in October on More Job Openings
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-11-05T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/employment-index-in-u-s-rose-in-october-on-more-job-openings.html
A measure of employment prospects in
the U.S. improved in October for the first time in three months
as fewer Americans said jobs were harder to get.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased
0.5 percent to 108.16 from the prior month’s revised reading of
107.63, the New York-based private research group said today.
The measure climbed 4.6 percent from October 2011.  “The Employment Trends Index bounced back in October but
only to the levels of July and August,”  Gad Levanon , director
of macroeconomic research at the Conference Board, said today in
a statement. “This is still a weak signal. Given the recent
sluggishness of economic activity, employment growth is poised
to remain slow in the coming months as well.”  Today’s report follows Labor Department figures released
last week showing broad-based gains in employment in October. A
healthier job market will help consumers spend more, cushioning
the  U.S. economy  while the rest of the globe slows.  Payrolls expanded by 171,000 workers last month after a
148,000 gain in September that was larger than first estimated,
the Labor Department said Nov. 2. The October increase exceeded
the most optimistic of all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of
economists with a median estimate of 125,000. The jobless rate
rose to 7.9 percent as more people began looking for work.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, it
can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before
the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in
advance, the Conference Board said.  Improvements in six of the index’s eight components
contributed to the gain in the overall gauge, today’s report
showed. These included a drop in the share of people
involuntarily working part-time and a decrease in first-time
claims for  unemployment benefits . The gain also reflected a
pickup in industrial production and temporary employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  