-- Tesla Advances as Revenue Beats Estimates: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-11-05T21:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/tesla-quarterly-loss-meets-expectations-as-model-s-output-rises.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker led by Elon Musk, rose the most in almost six months after
the company’s third-quarter revenue exceeded analysts’ estimates
as Model S production accelerates.  The  shares  increased 8.9 percent to $31.50 at the close
in New York, for their biggest gain since May 10. They have
climbed 10 percent this year.  Revenue declined 13 percent from a year earlier to $50.1
million, the  Palo Alto , California-based company said today in a
statement. The average of 11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
$45.8 million. Excluding some items, Tesla’s loss was 92 cents a
share, matching the average estimate.  “The market is reacting more because results weren’t worse
than the expectations,” Ben Schuman, a Pacific Crest Securities
analyst in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in an interview. “They’re
ahead in terms of Model S production in the third quarter,
though not by too much.” He rates Tesla sector perform.  The carmaker named for inventor  Nikola Tesla  is racing to
expand production of the rechargeable Model S at its Fremont,
California, plant, after saying in September that 2012
deliveries wouldn’t reach an initial 5,000-unit goal. Tesla has
said that next year it will build at least 20,000 of the cars,
which start at $57,400, and add the Model X electric sport-
utility vehicle in 2014.  The company’s net loss widened to $110.8 million, or
$1.05 a share, from $65.1 million, or 55 cents, a year earlier.
Revenue for the quarter includes both the Model S and battery
packs and motors for use in shareholder  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
electric RAV4 SUV.  Output Outlook  “Tesla is really past the point of high risk,” Musk, 41,
said on a conference call. Model S production will be at a
20,000-unit annual rate “within four to five weeks,” he said.  The company said full-year sales will be as much as $440
million, reaffirming an earlier forecast.  “Several months ago I said that the coming several months
would be the test for Tesla -- the classic phrase is to go
through the valley of death,” said Musk, who also leads rocket
launch company Space Exploration Technologies Corp. and is
Tesla’s biggest shareholder. “I feel as though we’re through
that valley at this point.”  Tesla is preparing to supply components for a new Mercedes-
Benz model with  Daimler AG (DAI) , which is also an investor in the
California company.  Tesla built about 350 vehicles in the quarter and delivered
253 Model S sedans and 68 units of the discontinued Roadster
sports car. The production pace grew from 5 cars per week at the
start of the quarter to 200 per week at the end of the period,
equivalent to a 10,000-unit annual rate, Tesla said today.  ‘Critical Threshold’  That rate is “at the critical threshold needed for Tesla
to generate positive operating cash flow,” the company said.  Gross profit margin should reach 25 percent by the end of
2012, Tesla said.  “There a lot of people out there who didn’t think they’d
make their guidance,” said Elaine Kwei, a Jefferies & Co.
analyst in  New York  who rates Tesla a buy. “There’s definitely
a fair amount of short interest out there, so there’s some
position covering today.”  As of Oct. 15, about 30.4 million Tesla shares were sold
short, giving the company a short-interest ratio of  31 percent ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. People who sell short
use borrowed shares and seek to profit by buying back the stock
later at a lower price and returning it to the lender.  The carmaker got 2,900 new reservations for the Model S
during the quarter, a 30 percent increase from a year earlier.
While cancellations also rose, Tesla said net reservations grew
to 13,200 vehicles from 11,500 at the end of the second quarter.  During the third quarter, the company completed drawing
down the $465 million in U.S. Energy Department loans awarded in
2009 to develop and produce its electric vehicles. Tesla said
today that it “pre-funded” a second loan payment in October
“related to principal and interest due in March of next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  