-- European, U.S. Officials Said to Meet Privately on Swaps
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-11-05T20:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/european-u-s-officials-said-to-meet-privately-on-swaps.html
European and U.S. officials are
meeting privately in  Washington  this week to discuss ways to
coordinate rules governing swaps traded by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other firms, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The two-day session, in advance of a Nov. 7 public meeting
on the issue, is hosted by the staff of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange Commission,
according to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the meeting is closed to the public. The private meeting
began today at CFTC headquarters and was slated to include
representatives from the European Commission and European
Securities and Markets Authority, according to one of the
people.  Differences between European, U.S. and Asian swaps rules
have made compliance difficult for the financial industry and
threatened an end-of-the-year deadline for completing overhaul
regulations, the Financial Stability Board  said  in a report on
Oct. 31.  The international board has been monitoring progress to
coordinate regulations in G-20 nations for overhauling swaps-
oversight after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. The CFTC also faces an end-of-year deadline to
implement rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.  Progress to date in cross-border discussions between
regulators “has been slow,” the FSB said in releasing the
report. The disagreements risk “delaying the full and timely
implementation” of the international rules.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, did not immediately respond
to phone and e-mail messages for comment. The commission’s
Global Markets Advisory Committee will meet publicly on Nov. 7
with international regulators and futures industry
representatives on cross-border issues related to new
derivatives rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  