-- Ex-St. John’s Dean Says She Cared About Students, School
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-05T20:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/ex-st-john-s-dean-says-she-cared-about-students-school.html
A former  St. John’s  University dean
accused of lying about her income, cheating her employer and
using students as unpaid servants told a federal jury in New
York that she cared about students and the school.  Prosecutors alleged that Cecilia Chang, 59, a former Asian
studies dean and vice president of international affairs at the
Queens, New York-based school, stole donations intended for the
university, lied on tax forms and made students work in her home
as a condition of receiving full-tuition scholarships.  Chang testified today that about 19 students worked for her
each year as drivers, house-cleaners and office workers, with
some also living in her home. Most were children of friends and
relatives, she told the jury in federal court in  Brooklyn .  “Always one or two students who couldn’t afford rent live
in my house,” she said from the stand. “They’re very close
friends to me.”  Chang had worked since 1979 at St. John’s, the second
largest Catholic college by enrollment in the U.S. after
Chicago’s DePaul University, according to  CollegeStats.org.   Federal prosecutors brought their case against her in
September 2010. She faces a 10-count indictment including
bribery, forced labor and tax charges. The most serious charge,
forced labor, carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.  During about three weeks of testimony, witnesses for the
government included the university’s president, the Reverend
Donald Harrington, and students who worked for Chang, including
one who said one of her tasks was hand-washing the former dean’s
underwear.  Foxwoods Resort  The government alleged that students were also regularly
asked to deliver items to Chang at Foxwoods Resort Casino, in
Ledyard,  Connecticut .  During her testimony today, Chang said
she spent much of her time either traveling overseas or at the
casino entertaining guests.  “When I don’t have important events, I live at Foxwoods,”
she said.  “Are you saying you used this as a home base?” her lawyer
Stephen Mahler asked.  “Almost,” she said.  Defense lawyers have argued that Chang played an important
role in raising money for the university and financed some of
her international outreach work out of her own pocket. Asking
scholarship students to take on work responsibilities wasn’t
illegal and the students were generally happy with the
arrangement, they said.  Full Scholarships  Chang had the authority to grant about 15 full-tuition
scholarships each year, according to court papers. University
officials were under the impression that the work she asked them
to do was related to the Asian studies program, the government
said.  The students, many of whom were from overseas, received
letters telling them they were “expected to perform duties
assigned by the Vice President for International Relations and
the Dean of the Center of Asian Studies for a period of 20 hours
per week,” the government said in the complaint. The letters
also stated the “grant may be terminated at any time by the
dean if the recipient fails to perform his or her work duties,”
according to the filing.  Undergraduate tuition at St. John’s is about $17,375 a
semester for fall 2012 and spring 2013, according to the
university’s website.  Own Funds  In her capacity as a fundraiser, Chang said today she
brought in about $20 million for the university over the past
several years. In 2008, Chang told Harrington that she had spent
about $120,000 of her owns funds on various expenses associated
with making contacts abroad, according to her testimony today.  Some of the costs that she bore included jewelry and
clothing for Harrington and other university officials, which
she bought when they were traveling abroad, Chang said today.
Harrington testified earlier in the trial that he had met with
Chang partly to express concern about her expense submissions.  During the trial, prosecutors showed evidence that Chang
solicited donations for her own organization, the Global
Development Initiative Foundation, under the pretense that it
was affiliated with the university. Harrington and other
university employees testified that the foundation wasn’t
authorized to solicit funds on the university’s behalf and that
money it collected wasn’t recorded in the university’s books.  Chang is also accused of trying to hide her crimes by
creating documents or altering financial records, prosecutors
said. Students were in some cases told to help with the coverup,
they said.  The case is U.S. v. Chang, 1:11-cr-00067, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  