-- Express Scripts Falls After Calling Estimates Aggressive
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-06T21:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/express-scripts-calls-2013-estimates-overly-aggressive-.html
Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) , the
largest U.S. pharmacy benefits manager, plunged the most in a
decade after saying analysts’ estimates for profit growth in
2013 are “overly aggressive.”  Express Scripts tumbled 12 percent to $55.15 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time, the most since May 2002, after the company said in
statement yesterday that a “weak business climate and the
unemployment outlook” may lead to a loss of members, depressed
drug utilization and “increased client demands.” Analysts had
expected the St. Louis-based company to have profit of $4.50 a
share next year, according to the average of 22 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our plans are saying that they expect attrition,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George Paz told analysts on
a conference call today.  Express Scripts  represents 3,600 clients including large
and small plans in all 50 states with 100 million members, Paz
said. The company, which said it will give specific earnings
guidance in February, acts as a middleman between employers,
health plans and drug companies, with profits tied to clients’
drug costs.  “It’s a tough pricing environment, and they’re
anticipating a lot of their customers will go out to bid in the
2014 selling season,” said Bret Jones, an Oppenheimer & Co.
analyst in New York who is maintaining his outperform rating on
the stock. That’s not unusual after a merger, he said.  Catamaran Contract  Brian Tanquilut, an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  Los
Angeles , downgraded the stock to hold from buy. Express Scripts
had  gained  39 percent in the year ended yesterday.  Express Scripts bought Medco Health Solutions Inc. for
about $29 billion in April to become the largest pharmacy-
benefits manager in the U.S. Smaller competitors including
 Catamaran Corp. (CCT)  had reported seeing more requests for proposals
from potential clients since that acquisition, Jones said.  Catamaran said last week it won a contract to cover 180,000
 Target Corp. (TGT)  employees starting in April. Express Scripts has
Target’s business now.  Express Scripts gave the 2013 outlook as it announced
third-quarter net income, which rose 21 percent to $391.4
million, or 47 cents a share. Profit excluding one-time items
was $1.02 cents a share, exceeding the average estimate of $1.
Revenue doubled to $27 billion, falling short of analysts’
expectations for $27.5 billion, the average of 19 estimates.  Whether today’s U.S. presidential election provides more
certainty in the economy, the outlook will be clearer in January
when Express Scripts gets enrollment data, Paz said.  There are no restrictions on the ability of Express Scripts
to conduct share buybacks, Paz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  