-- FHA Said to Set Stage for Treasury Draw as Losses Mount
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-11-05T15:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/fha-said-to-set-stage-for-treasury-draw-as-losses-mount.html
The  Federal Housing Administration ,
faced with continuing losses from the housing bubble, will issue
a financial analysis next week setting the stage for what could
be its first draw from the  U.S. Treasury  in its 78-year history,
according to three people briefed on the report.  The government-backed mortgage insurer, which warned in
last year’s report that its insurance fund was being drained,
has raised premiums and tightened credit standards in an effort
to avoid asking for a taxpayer subsidy.  Still, the improved quality of recent FHA-backed loans --
now comprising 15 percent of U.S. mortgages for home  purchases  -
- may not offset continuing defaults from loans made from 2005
to 2008, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the report isn’t yet final.  The annual report to Congress, based on analysis by an
outside actuary, could hamper a White House effort to expand
FHA’s role as an insurer for borrowers whose homes are worth
less than they owe on them. FHA officials and supporters are
 preparing  to counter the downbeat projections by highlighting
how the agency helps the economy.  “If FHA alone simply stopped doing business, we would have
been propelled down into another double-dip recession,” said
John Griffith, an analyst at the Center for American Progress, a
research organization aligned with Democrats.  FHA Acting Commissioner Carol Galante is scheduled to
appear on a panel at the  Urban Institute  in  Washington  on Nov. 8
to discuss a paper stressing the FHA’s importance to single-
family housing finance.  Great Depression  The FHA was established in the wake of the Great Depression
to help low-income and first-time buyers purchase homes. It
provides liquidity to the housing market by insuring lenders
against losses on loans with down payments as low as 3.5
percent. Lenders are made whole if the mortgages default. Unlike
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the mortgage finance companies
operating under U.S. conservatorship, FHA doesn’t package loans
into securities or guarantee principal and interest payments.  Tiffany Thomas Smith, an FHA spokeswoman, declined to
comment on next week’s report.  The FHA’s troubles stem from rising defaults on mortgages
it insured during the peak years of the housing bubble. The
agency now insures about 7.6 million loans with total
outstanding balances near $1.1 trillion, triple the amount it
backed five years ago.  Foreclosure Settlement  The agency could cover its costs in the past because
revenue from its insurance premiums exceeded claims. This year,
it avoided taking a taxpayer subsidy despite mounting claims
because it received a one-time payment of almost $1 billion from
a legal settlement over claims that mortgage servicers botched
foreclosures.  Financial market players already widely regard the FHA’s
insurance fund as broke, so the report shouldn’t have a big
impact, said  Paul Miller , managing director at FBR Capital
Markets. Banks already are offering FHA loans only to the most
creditworthy borrowers because they’re afraid they’ll be forced
to take the loss if the borrowers default, he said.  “It’s going to be more negative headlines than anything
else,” Miller said. “The implications of the fund struggling
have already been seen in the market.”  Seller Funding  The agency’s financial report last year projected that
loans issued before 2009 would result in $26 billion in losses,
$14 billion of that from a subset of loans in which sellers were
allowed to cover the down payment on behalf of the buyer, often
by inflating the price of the house.  Congress banned seller-funded down payment loans beginning
in 2009. Still, the risk of many of those mortgages has been
transferred to the agency’s more recent books of business
because they have been refinanced under FHA’s streamline
program, which waives many underwriting requirements to enable
borrowers to take advantage of low  interest rates . More than 17
percent of all FHA loans were delinquent in September.  FHA’s finances rebounded, at least temporarily, after it
increased insurance premiums on new single-family loans in April
by 75 basis points to 1.75 percent of loan amount. In August,
the agency predicted it would end fiscal-year 2012 with $3
billion in its reserve account.  The agency’s 2012 report is expected to be more pessimistic
than last year’s partly because it is changing its economic
modeling, according to three other people briefed on the
procedures. This year’s report, based on the work of an
independent actuary, is expected to include less rosy
expectations for  home prices  and a revised assessment of loans
from earlier years that have been refinanced more recently.  ‘Stimulus Program’  If needed, Treasury can provide a financial backstop to FHA
without prior approval from Congress. Still, spending tax
dollars on a previously self-supporting program would give
political ammunition to the agency’s critics.  “FHA has been used by the Realtors, by the homebuilders
and by the administration as a stimulus program rather than as a
responsible lending program,” said Ed Pinto, a frequent critic
of FHA’s accounting methods who is a resident fellow at the
 American Enterprise Institute , which advocates free markets.  Supporters of FHA’s mission say its financial struggle
shows that it was playing its proper role as an insurer during a
time of crisis in the housing industry, not that its lending
policies are flawed.  “Is FHA’s problem a systemic issue or was it a once-in-100
years-flood issue?” said bank consultant Brian Chappelle, a
partner at Potomac Partners in Washington. “The data certainly
looks like FHA was a victim to the 100-year flood.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  