-- Fish Oil Doesn’t Prevent Irregular Heartbeat Following Surgery
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-11-05T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/fish-oil-doesn-t-prevent-irregular-heartbeat-following-surgery.html
Taking fish oil before and after
cardiac surgery didn’t prevent a form of irregular heartbeat in
a study finding that raises more questions about the extent of
the supplement’s health benefits.  Trial participants given fish oil, a form of omega-3 fatty
acid that doctors recommend for some heart patients, were just
as likely to develop  atrial fibrillation  after surgery as those
not given the supplement, the study showed. Atrial fibrillation,
a flutter of the heart that can cause blood clots and strokes,
occurs in 1 in 3 people after a heart operation.  The research, presented today at the  American Heart 
Association’s annual  meeting  in Los Angeles, suggests there are
limitations to fish oil’s heart benefits. Past studies have
shown fish oil can lower unhealthy blood fats, blood pressure
and reduce the risk of a second heart attack. Others in the past
two years have shown contradictory findings.  Fish oil “may offer a number of protective effects to
prevent cardiovascular disease, but if you look at this
particular population of surgical patients and short-term use,
fish oil does not help avoid atrial fibrillation,” said Dariush
Mozaffarian, co-author of the study and an associate professor
at Harvard medical School, said in a statement.  The American Heart Association  advises  patients with
chronic heart disease to consume one gram of omega-3 fatty acids
a day, preferably by eating fish. Some patients may need to take
fish oil supplements to reach that threshold in consultation
with their physicians, according to the AHA.  Other Findings  Still, a review of 20 trials over 24 years published in the
Journal of the American Medical Association in September found
that fish oil supplements didn’t lower the risk for a range of
illnesses, including heart attacks, strokes or death. A  study  in
2010 published in the same journal found fish oil didn’t prevent
recurrences of atrial fibrillation.  Part of the difference between studies could be the type of
patients being followed, said Mozaffarian. It may be more
difficult to see a benefit in patients already taking drugs to
control their cholesterol and blood pressure or in those not at
high risk for heart disease.  The study released today followed 1,516 patient who were
given their a placebo or 8 milligrams of omega-3 fatty acids two
to five days before surgery and 2 grams a day for the 10 days
following surgery. About 30 percent of patients getting either a
placebo or fish oil had post-operative atrial fibrillation.  There was also no difference between the two groups in the
number of deaths 30 days after surgery or the rate of heart
attacks or strokes while patients recovered. Patients taking
fish oil spent the same amount of time in the intensive care
unit and hospital as those given a placebo.  The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health,
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , Sigma Tau Pharmaceuticals Inc., and  Pronova
BioPharma AS. (PRON)  Those companies either sell or are testing
products that use Omega-3 fatty acids to treat various
conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  