-- Flaherty Says G-20 May Give U.S. Flexibility to Cut Deficit
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-05T01:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/flaherty-says-u-s-may-be-given-more-flexibility-to-cut-deficit.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Group of 20 countries may agree to give the U.S.
more flexibility to meet deficit reduction targets, even as they
reaffirm their commitments to more sustainable budgets.  Advanced G-20 economies agreed in 2010 to cut deficits in
half by 2013 and start to stabilize their debt-to-output ratios
by 2016. The G-20’s credibility is at stake if the group doesn’t
reaffirm its deficit reduction commitments, Flaherty told
reporters today ahead of a meeting of finance ministers and
central bankers in Mexico City.  “There may have to be some modification with respect to
deficit targets,” said Flaherty, because the objective may
“not be compatible for the Americans.”  The focus of global finance chiefs meeting today in Mexico
City has shifted toward fiscal challenges in the U.S. after
three years of pressuring  Europe  to restore budget control, amid
concerns that a sharp budgetary pullback in the world’s largest
economy will undermine global growth.  Flaherty said the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases
and spending cuts that will take effect next year unless
Congress acts has surpassed the  European debt crisis  as the
biggest risk for the global economy. It’s important the U.S.
establish a plan to make its budget path more sustainable, he
said.  “There is a reasonable prospect the Americans can reach
their target in the medium term,” Flaherty said. “It’s very
important the Americans show leadership on that.”  Flaherty said he will promote a “strong accountability
mechanism” at the Mexico City meeting to assess progress on
G-20 commitments such as deficit reduction targets and pledges
to bolster  capital requirements  for banks.  “We just have to stay on those two issues,” Flaherty
said. “We need to stay there, persist and demonstrate
perseverance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  