-- Foreclosures Drawing Cash as 401K Returns Sag: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-11-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/foreclosures-drawing-cash-as-401k-returns-sag-mortgages.html
David and Michelle Haisley from  Fort
Wayne ,  Indiana , weren’t happy with the performance of their
retirement funds, so they made another investment -- a
 foreclosed  home for $27,000.  Haisley, a heating and air-conditioning technician, said he
worked on the house before it went into default and decided to
make an offer when he saw it listed at about a third the price
of surrounding homes. They’ve already found tenants for the
house and David said they’ll buy another foreclosure if they can
find the right deal.  “It’s an income stream for us, and when it’s time, we’ll
sell it and make more money than we could from our 401K,” said
Haisley, 49, who rents out the property for $900 a month for an
annual return of more than 20 percent, excluding appreciation.
“There’s nowhere for prices to go but up, so it seemed like a
pretty safe bet.”  As the housing market recovers from the worst  bust  since
the Great Depression, neophyte investors like the Haisleys are
following the lead of private-equity firms like Blackstone Group
LP, investing in properties they can pick up cheaply, rent and
sell when values rise enough.  Home prices  rose 4.6 percent from
a year earlier in August, the biggest gain since the end of the
real estate boom in 2006, according to a CoreLogic Inc. index.  “The typical small-size mom-and-pop investor has two or
three properties, looking at it as an income supplement with the
possibility of being able to sell at some point when prices rise
enough for them,” said  Lawrence Yun , chief economist of the
National Association of Realtors.  Stock Wary  Investors are becoming more comfortable with real estate
after the six-year housing slump, which brought prices down
nationwide by 35 percent, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
 index . Many remain skeptical of stocks, even as the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index has more than doubled since falling to a 12-
year low in March 2009.  “I’d rather buy real estate than gamble on the stock
market or get almost no return from putting my money in a
bank,” said Barton Wallace, 60, a real estate investor and
broker in Hingham,  Massachusetts , who owns four rental
properties. “I don’t have any problem getting tenants.”  Wallace, who turned to real estate four years ago when she
couldn’t get a full-time job, has one client who cashed out his
home’s equity to buy his first foreclosed home. Other clients
are tapping retirement accounts for the same purpose,
transferring their cash into self-directed Individual Retirement
Accounts that allow them to make their own investing decisions,
with returns going back into the accounts, she said.  Indirect Plays  Investors bought about 66,780 homes in August, the highest
since the beginning of the foreclosure crisis, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on National Association of Realtors
data. Investors’ share was 18 percent of  sales . About 90 percent
of those homes went to people with fewer than 20 properties, Yun
estimated.  “Some people are making an indirect real estate play by
investing in funds that buy foreclosures to rent, but most of
the demand is from small-scale investors who live in the
community,” Yun said. “It provides a decent rate of return for
them because rents are rising and prices are still low.”  The average U.S. rent rose to a record $1,086 a month in
the third quarter, a gain of 3.3 percent from a year earlier,
according to MPF Research in Carrollton,  Texas . The  vacancy rate 
fell to a 10-year low of 8.6 percent in the second quarter,
according to the Commerce Department. There are about 40 million
rental units in the U.S., compared with 75 million owner-
occupied homes.  ‘Risky Move’  For individual investors, “the demand is there, but it’s a
risky move if you are putting all your eggs in that one
basket,” said Greg Willett, director of research for MPF.  Even with rent gains,  buyers  of distressed properties to
rent would need to get a discount of about 30 percent to get a
yield of 8 percent, said  Paul Diggle , a real estate economist
for London-based Capital Economics Ltd. If investors are looking
for 12 percent yields, they’d need to get a 50 percent discount,
he said.  The simplest way to calculate yield is to subtract expenses
from annual rent and divide by the cost of the property. A
$125,000 home will yield about 8 percent a year if a tenant pays
$1,200 a month in rent and monthly carrying expenses are $400.  That formula doesn’t account for the time a landlord may
spend responding to disgruntled tenants and repairing burst
water pipes, broken furnaces or leaky roofs, Diggle said. Many
homes in foreclosure are neglected, which could lead to
maintenance problems down the road, he said.  ‘Sweat Equity’  “Small-scale investors may actually run at a loss on
rental housing if their sweat equity is accounted for,” Diggle
said.  Yovaldi Venter, a first-time real estate investor, is
buying a foreclosed property using money from her retirement
funds. She said she plans to buy her first property before the
end of the year after transferring some of her 401K into a self-
directed IRA this month.  Her target: a duplex on the south side of  Jersey City 
priced at $60,000, a fifth of what it went for in 2008 when it
last sold. Its two rental units bring in $2,000 a month,
according to Venter, 45.  “It would be a buy-and-hold with an eye on the long-term
gain -- a stream of income for now, with the possibility of
selling it when prices come back,” Venter said.  Gary Hippensteel, who owns six properties he rents in
Indianapolis at about 10 percent yields, said he didn’t want to
keep his money in a bank because it earns “next to nothing.”
The highest yield for a one-year certificate of deposit in the
U.S. last week was about 1 percent, according to Bankrate.com.  “People want the safety of having a tangible asset,”
Hippensteel said. “While it’s still subject to volatility in
the overall economy, you at least have an asset that people will
need, because if they can’t buy a house they are going to have
to rent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 