-- Former UBS Banker Bagios Said to Plan Guilty Plea
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/former-ubs-banker-bagios-said-to-plan-guilty-plea.html
Christos Bagios, a former banker at
UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  arrested amid a U.S. crackdown
on offshore tax evasion, is set to plead guilty in federal
court, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Bagios is set to appear today in West Palm Beach, Florida,
at a change of plea hearing, where he will admit he conspired
with five Swiss bankers to help Americans evade taxes between
1993 and 2009, said the person, who declined to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Bagios, a Greek citizen who lived in Switzerland, worked at
UBS for 15 years before joining Credit Suisse in 2009. He was
arrested on Jan. 26, 2011, at a Manhattan hotel. In a criminal
complaint, the government said he conspired to help 150 American
clients hide as much as $500 million from U.S. tax authorities
in his time at UBS.  Bagios is one of about two dozen foreign bankers, lawyers
or advisers charged since 2008 in the U.S. government’s
crackdown on offshore tax evasion. Seven current or former
Credit Suisse bankers were indicted last year. Prosecutors also
have charged about 50 U.S. taxpayers. UBS, the largest Swiss
bank, avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it
helped Americans cheat on taxes, and turning over data on secret
accounts.  At least 11 other banks are under criminal investigation.  On Oct. 16, prosecutors filed a charging document, known as
an information, that stated Bagios helped nine clients who
didn’t declare accounts to the Internal Revenue Service. Bagios
and his coconspirators told clients “not to disclose their
undeclared accounts at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and other banks to the U.S.
government, including the IRS,” according to the information.  Plea Hearing  Bagios attorney Matthew Menchel declined to comment on
today’s plea hearing. His client had previously pleaded not
guilty. Alicia Valle, spokeswoman for the Miami U.S. Attorney’s
Office, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  On Nov. 2, Bagios filed a court motion seeking emergency
travel documents so that he can renew his passport and leave the
country as “soon as practicable” after resolution of his case.  Bagios, who is free on $650,000 bail, has “demonstrated
that he is not a flight risk” during the past 20 months,
according to court papers filed by his lawyers.  In that time, his Greek passport expired, and the Greek
consulate said it wouldn’t help him get travel documents without
permission of the court, according to the filing.  The case is U.S. v. Bagios, 12-cr-60260, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, federal court
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale federal court
at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 