-- Four-in-One Cocktail May Help Heart Patients, Study Says
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-11-05T17:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/four-in-one-cocktail-may-help-heart-patients-study-says.html
A single pill combining aspirin and
three other generic drugs will probably be an effective way to
protect people from  heart disease , the world’s biggest killer,
researchers said.  Patients who are at high risk of heart disease were 33
percent more likely to take the four-in-one cocktail everyday,
then those taking the pills individually, researchers said Nov.
4 at the  American Heart Association ’s meeting in Los Angeles.
This is the first time the so-called polypill has been tested on
heart patients, adding to earlier evidence of its efficacy.  Preventive medicines including cholesterol lowering statins
and  blood pressure  drugs, can reduce the risk of future heart
attacks if taken daily. Yet only 5 to 10 percent of high-risk
patients in India and other developing nations take all their
medicines, according to a 2011 study in The Lancet. Such all-in-
one combination tablets, sold cheaply, can ensure patients don’t
miss out on any of their prescribed drugs.  “The ambition is to make this virtually free,”  Simon
Thom , lead author of the study, and professor of cardiovascular
medicine at  Imperial College London , said in Los Angeles. “By
having one capsule, one prescription, one visit, one truck to
ship it on, it lowers the cost dramatically.”  Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death
worldwide, killing more than  17 million  people, and accounting
for about one in three deaths each year, according to the  World
Health Organization .  Polypill Efficacy  The pills used in the study were made by  Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD) , based in Hyderabad, and contained a
cholesterol-lowering statin, together with aspirin and two blood
pressure reducing medications.  The study lasted 15 months and followed 2,004 people with
high risk of heart disease who were already on some form of
medication. Half the group received the cocktail drug free of
cost, while the others had to buy the four medicines separately
as they normally would. The polypill patients had better
reductions in cholesterol levels and blood pressure, compared
with those getting the drugs separately.  The patients were evenly divided between India and western
Europe, to demonstrate that the strategy could have benefits in
both rich and poor settings, Thom said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  