-- Four Seasons New York Said to Get $900 Million Unsolicited Offer
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-11-05T07:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/four-seasons-new-york-said-to-get-900-million-unsolicited-offer.html
Four Seasons Hotel New York  owner H.
Ty Warner received a bid for his 368-room luxury hotel in
midtown  Manhattan  for about $900 million from an unidentified
Asian buyer, according to a person close to the situation.  The unsolicited bidder is probably affiliated with the
government of Brunei, the kingdom located on the island of
 Borneo , said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the negotiations are confidential. If a deal is completed, the
buyer would terminate the  management contract  held by Four
Seasons Hotels Inc., the person said.  Warner, the Beanie Babies creator, would accept the $2.4
million a-room offer should Four Seasons decline to match the
bid for the flagship hotel on East 57th Street, the person said.
Four Seasons has to decide within a month, the person said.  The Brunei Investment Agency owns luxury hotel manager
 Dorchester Collection , which includes properties such as the
Hotel Bel-Air in  Los Angeles  and the  Beverly Hills  Hotel in
Beverly Hills, its only two properties in the U.S., according to
the hotelier’s website.  Sorya Gaulin, spokeswoman for Four Seasons, which only
operates but doesn’t own its namesake hotels, declined to
comment in an e-mail. Donna Snopek, chief financial officer of
Ty Warner Hotels, didn’t immediately return a message outside
normal business hours seeking comment. Officials for the
government of Brunei couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The sale of the hotel, which Warner bought in 1999 for $275
million, would be one of the priciest in Manhattan. The most
recent transaction in the area was  Strategic Hotels & Resorts
Inc.’s (BEE)  September purchase of the luxury Jumeirah Essex House, on
Manhattan’s Central Park South, for $362.3 million. Rates at the
Four Seasons for the week of Nov. 5 start at $995 a night,
according to the hotel’s website.  Warner , through his Ty Warner Hotels and Resorts, also owns
the San Ysidro Ranch and Las Ventanas Al Paraiso, according to
the company’s website.  The Wall Street Journal reported the unsolicited bid
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Larry Edelman  at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  