-- U.S. Vows to Avoid Fiscal Cliff Amid G-20 Warning
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-11-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/g-20-dilutes-budget-cutting-aim-as-u-s-vows-careful-cuts.html
The U.S. gave an election-eve
commitment to “carefully calibrate” its budget retrenchment
amid global warnings that a rush of austerity would harm the
weak world economy.  As Americans prepared to choose a president, Group of 20
finance chiefs said after talks yesterday in Mexico City that
the U.S. pledged to avoid a “sharp fiscal contraction” in
2013. That’s when $607 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts are set to take effect unless lawmakers act.  “Time is of the essence and significant policy uncertainty
in  Washington  must be addressed,” International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  told reporters. “It will be
important for the U.S. to address quickly the so-called fiscal
cliff.”  The push for U.S. action took center stage at the G-20
meeting during which finance ministers also agreed to dilute
their two-year-old budget-cutting goals. Their new vow, to
ensure the “pace of fiscal consolidation is appropriate to
support recovery,” highlights increased concern that government
belt-tightening would threaten an expansion the G-20 labeled
modest.  The  statement  “reflects how the consensus has become less
austere,” said  Torsten Slok , chief international economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . “Previously, austerity was
thought best, but markets don’t seem to believe that now and
politicians are recognizing they have to be realistic over what
can be achieved.”  Fiscal Tightening  The IMF estimates the U.S. fiscal tightening, set to begin
in January, is equivalent to 4 percent of gross domestic
product, the most since the 1940s and about double the U.S.’s
current growth rate. Resolution has been postponed until after
today’s election as Democrats back scheduled tax increases on
the wealthy and Republicans prefer reduced spending.  While U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  skipped
the Mexico City meeting, Mexican Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said the U.S. officials present made a “clear promise”
to pursue a bipartisan deal that would deliver “a path of
public-finance sustainability, but not too much to put growth at
risk.”  The G-20’s discussion of the U.S. marked a broadening in
focus on fiscal challenges beyond  Europe , whose three-year debt
turmoil dominated recent talks among the world’s leading
industrialized and emerging economies. Those stresses have eased
after the  European Central Bank  pledged to buy bonds and
governments pursued closer banking supervision.  Don’t Delay  “Europe is delivering on its commitment to do whatever it
takes to safeguard the stability of the euro area,” European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  The G-20 still called on euro area policy makers not to
delay enactment of crisis-fighting measures such as a banking
union and to finish retooling their rescue fund to allow it to
recapitalize banks.  Japan  was urged to restrain a debt totaling 237 percent of
GDP and its political impasse over funding this year’s budget
was identified as a threat to growth.  In promising not to jeopardize economic health with budget
reductions, the G-20 governments changed their tone from a June
2010 summit in Toronto, when eight of the group’s richest
economies, aside from Japan, endorsed cutting deficits in half
by 2013 and stabilizing or reducing debt as a share of GDP by
2016.  Mixed Progress  Progress has since been mixed with the latest  IMF estimates 
showing only  South Korea ,  Canada  and  Australia  largely on course
to meet both goals. The U.S., for example, faces a budget gap of
7.3 percent of GDP next year versus 11.2 percent in 2010, and a
debt of 114.2 percent of GDP in 2016, compared with 98.6 percent
in 2010.  The hand of those advocating a more measured retrenchment
was strengthened by a mid-year global growth slump and signs
that the prescribed austerity has not proved an elixir for
Europe’s woes. The IMF also modified its stance last month when
it released research suggesting budget cuts have a bigger impact
on economies than previously envisaged.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who oversees a
budget almost in balance, nevertheless called paring excessive
debt “unavoidable for sustained growth” and said others should
“meet their obligations.”  The G-20 said it will still ensure public finances are
heading toward sustainability and told those countries with
fiscal room to support growth. While policy makers said in their
statement such nations had promised to underpin demand if it
deteriorates, Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said
 Russia  and  China  were “skeptical” about the proposal.  New Targets  The group agreed that when officials next meet in Russia
they will identify “credible and ambitious” new debt targets
for beyond 2016, policy makers said in the statement.  The G-20 also said it remained committed to a full and
timely implementation of new worldwide bank rules and to act by
the end of this year to resolve a trans-Atlantic clash about
over-the-counter derivatives. Global regulators set a September
2013 deadline to present tougher rules for money-market mutual
funds, repurchase agreements and other so-called shadow banking
activities.  The group restated past aims to move more rapidly toward
greater market-determined exchange rate systems, refrain from
competitive devaluations and avoid persistent currency
misalignments.  Officials stuck to a January 2013 target for reviewing the
way voting shares at the IMF are calculated, even though
developed and emerging economies have so far disagreed on the
method to use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Mexico City at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  