-- G-20 Urges Flexible Currencies, Warns About Volatility
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-11-05T22:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/g-20-urges-flexible-currencies-warns-about-volatility.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to
move toward more flexible currency regimes while highlighting
policy makers’ commitment to avoid competitive devaluations as
global growth sours.  “We reiterate our commitments to move more rapidly toward
more market-determined exchange rate systems and exchange rate
flexibility to reflect underlying fundamentals,” finance
ministers and central bankers of G-20 nations said in a
 statement  yesterday after a two-day meeting in Mexico City.  Lackluster growth from the U.S. to Japan to Europe has
prompted those nations’ central banks to increase monetary
stimulus, raising concerns that such moves may end up hurting
emerging economies by bolstering those currencies. At the same
time, advanced nations have urged countries including  China  to
allow the markets to set their exchange rates.  While Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has accused
the U.S. and Europe of stoking a global “currency war,” policy
makers of some smaller economies have defended the central
banks’ stimulus. Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan yesterday
endorsed the efforts of the  Federal Reserve , the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
and the  European Central Bank  for their respective economies,
arguing that stronger growth in the developed world will
ultimately benefit the everyone.  The G-20 refrained from singling out China’s currency in
yesterday’s statement after the  yuan  strengthened 0.7 percent
versus the dollar over the past month, the third-best
performance among 25 most-actively traded emerging-market
currencies. The yuan rate is close to its equilibrium level, He
Jianxiong, director-general of the People’s Bank of China’s
international department, said after the meeting in Mexico City,
echoing deputy governor  Yi Gang ’s comment last month at an
International Monetary Fund event in Tokyo.  Market Rates  The statement also acknowledged the harm that may come when
exchange rates are solely market-determined, keeping some room
for governments to intervene at times of emergency. Japanese
Finance Minister Koriki Jojima yesterday said he told his
counterparts of the threat that the strengthening yen poses to
the nation’s fragile recovery.  “Excess volatility of financial flows and disorderly
movements in exchange rates have adverse implications for
economic and financial stability,” the G-20 nations said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Mexico City at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  