-- Gene-Altered Tomato Among Heart Therapies Showing Benefit
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-11-05T19:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/gene-altered-tomatoes-yogurt-bacteria-may-fight-heart-disease.html
Tomatoes genetically engineered to
unclog arteries and a strain of a bacteria in yogurt designed to
lower cholesterol are among a new wave of alternative remedies
showing promise in the fight against  heart disease .  Scientists presented two studies today at the American
Heart Association  meeting  in  Los Angeles  that suggest food may
be altered in such a way that it offers benefits similar to
traditional pharmaceuticals.  In one study, researchers fed mice pieces of tomatoes
altered to produce a peptide that mimics effects of artery-
clearing HDL cholesterol. In a second, people were given a
twice-daily capsule of  Micropharma Ltd. ’s probiotic, made from
yogurt bacteria. In both cases, the results showed significant
heart-health benefits, and researchers said they may add to
cholesterol-reducing drugs like statins in the fight against
heart disease.  “As good as statins are, they haven’t completely reduced
the number of people still dying of heart attack and stroke and
those numbers are still quite significant,” said Alan Fogelman,
the lead author on the tomato study and a cardiology researcher
at the  University of California, Los Angeles   In the tomato study, sponsored by the  National Institutes
of Health , the mice displayed reduced plaque and higher HDL. The
experimental drug is the first of its kind made in a plant that
can be eaten, the researchers said. Separately, the probiotic
trial, done in 127 people, found the yogurt bacteria helped cut
total cholesterol by 9.1 percent.  Heart Disease  More than half a million Americans  die  from heart disease
annually despite advances in drugs and procedures to prevent
heart attacks and strokes. When the body has too much LDL, or
bad cholesterol, it can build up in the arteries, blocking blood
flow. HDL or good cholesterol can help ferry plaque out of the
arteries.  Medicines to lower LDL, such as Lipitor made by  New York- 
based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , can cause side effects in 10 to 20 percent of
patients. Attempts by Pfizer Inc. and  Roche AG (ROG)  to come up with
new drugs to raise HDL have failed.  In the NIH study, mice were served the genetically
engineered tomatoes freeze-dried, ground and added to high-fat,
calorie-filled food. The tomato additive represented 2.2 percent
of their diet. The result was lower blood levels of
inflammation, higher levels of good cholesterol and lower levels
of plaque build-up in their arteries.  Researchers decided to put the peptide in a food because it
would be too complex and difficult to make into a chemical form
that could be made into a pill, Fogelman said. He chose tomatoes
because he likes them, though the peptide could likely be put in
other fruits and vegetables, like lettuce, he said.  High Cholesterol  All participants in the Micropharma probiotic study had
high cholesterol. After nine weeks, those taking the probiotic
had levels of LDL, also known as bad cholesterol, about 12
percent lower than those on placebo. There was no change to HDL
cholesterol.  Micropharma, which focuses on researching probiotics and
has no products on the market, plans to start selling capsules
of the supplement next year in the U.S. and  Canada  in large
retail stores, pharmacies and health food stores. It is also
studying a version that can be added to food. The company is
based in  Montreal .  Its product is a specific strain of a species of bacteria
called lactobacillus reuteri, which is found in the stomach and
in foods, like sourdough bread and yogurt, the company said.  Fogelman said he is hoping a company or research lab will
take his tomato treatment into human testing since his lab isn’t
designed to do clinical studies of drugs.  Infused Proteins  In another study testing an experimental alternative to
cholesterol pills, patients were infused with the proteins found
in HDL particles that transport the bad form of artery-clogging
cholesterol out of the arteries. A 57-patient study funded by
Melbourne-based  CSL Ltd (CSL)  showed that the infusion, derived from
human plasma, caused an increase in cholesterol extraction
cells, a signal the drug is working, researchers reported today
at the heart meeting.  CSL said the treatment, known as CSL112, may be most
beneficial to people who have recently had a heart attack and
need a quick way to clear their cholesterol to prevent another.  “Very clearly, infusions of CSL112 actually remove
cholesterol from the plaque, and we can demonstrate that,” said
Andrew Cuthbertson, CSL’s chief scientific officer, in a
telephone interview. “In addition, they reduce a number of
biomarkers associated with inflammation in the plaque.”  CLS plans another study next year with at least 1,000 heart
patients to determine the treatment’s ability to prevent
subsequent heart attacks, stroke and death, he said. The drug is
in the second of three stages of testing typically needed to get
U.S. marketing clearance.  “The hypothesis is that the drug should take the
cholesterol out rapidly and reduce the inflammation, and that’s
really what we’re seeing,” Cuthbertson said. “The big question
now is, can those observations translate into preventing second
heart attacks and sudden death?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  