-- German Yield Falls Below Zero on Greece Vote; Spanish Bonds Drop
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-11-05T16:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/german-yield-falls-below-zero-as-greece-prepares-austerity-vote.html
German  government bonds  rose, pushing
two-year note yields below zero for the first time in two
months, as Greece prepared for a vote as soon as this week on
austerity measures needed to keep the nation in the euro.  Ten-year bund  yields  fell to the lowest level in more than
five weeks as Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras struggled to
win political support for the measures needed to assure the
country’s financial lifeline. Spanish bonds declined for a
second day after a report showed jobless claims rose the most in
nine months in October. The country is scheduled to sell a
combined 4.5 billion euros ($5.75 billion) of debt with
maturities of up to 20 years this week.  “The market is clearly in a more negative sentiment and we
can see Spanish yields creeping higher again,” said Allan von Mehren, chief analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. Greece
is “approaching a more decisive phase again and investors will
look for safety until we get past those hurdles,” he said.  Germany ’s two-year yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to minus 0.01 percent at 4:53 p.m. London time
after dropping to minus 0.014 percent, turning negative for the
first time since Sept. 6. The zero percent note due in September
2014 rose 0.03, or 30 euro cents per 1,000-euro face amount, to
100.01.  A negative yield means investors who hold a security until
it matures will receive less than they paid to buy it. The
benchmark  10-year bund yield  declined two basis points to 1.43
percent after reaching 1.42 percent, the lowest level since
Sept. 28.  Last Package  Samaras said yesterday that the planned wage and pension
cuts in the latest austerity package would be the last and Greek
society won’t tolerate any more, according to comments made to
lawmakers of his New Democracy party in  Athens .  Politicians in  Greece ’s coalition government are debating
debt-reduction measures demanded by the European Union as the
country seeks a 31 billion-euro financing tranche this month.
The amount is part of a 130 billion-euro package approved this
year after an initial 110 billion-bailout in 2010. The first
parliamentary vote in Athens may come as early as Nov. 7.  The yield on Greece’s 2 percent bond due in February 2023
fell 34 basis points to 17.85 percent after jumping 90 basis
points last week. The price was at 31.04 percent of face value.  Spain ’s  bonds  declined after the Labor Ministry said
jobless claims increased by 128,242 in October, the biggest
increase since January.  The nation’s 10-year yield climbed nine basis points to
5.75 percent after touching 5.77 percent, the highest level
since Oct. 17.  Spain is scheduled to sell bonds due in October 2015,
January 2018 and July 2032 on Nov. 8.  Presidential Election  Bunds were little changed relative to their U.S. Treasury
counterparts before American voters choose between President
 Barack Obama  and challenger  Mitt Romney  in tomorrow’s election.  German 10-year bonds yielded 25 basis points less than
Treasury notes with a similar maturity. The spread has widened
from 20 basis points two weeks ago.  Economic confidence  in the euro area fell for an eighth
month in October, the European Commission in Brussels said Oct.
30. The  European Central Bank  meets to review interest rates on
Nov. 8. Reports tomorrow will show manufacturing and services
industries in the region contracted last month, according to
Bloomberg surveys of economists.  “There doesn’t seem to be any kind of pickup in the
economic momentum and that’s also hitting Germany stronger than
it was previously and if we have to assume that policy will
remain loose, it explains why bund yields” are falling, said
Michael Markovich, head of global  interest-rates  research at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “We continue to have these
questions” about Greece and Spain, he said.  Most Volatile  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Spain and  France , according
to measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread
between two-and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  The Netherlands and France both sold bills today.  German bonds have returned 3.5 percent this year through
Nov. 2, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities gained 3 percent and  Italy ’s earned 17 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  