-- Giants Fans Welcome Break From Helping Storm Victims With NFL
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/giants-fans-welcome-break-from-helping-storm-victims-with-nfl.html
Aly Soliman and Kenny Jost spent much
of the past week using their  New York Giants  themed minibus to
deliver food, water and other supplies to people affected by
 Hurricane Sandy  in areas such as Coney Island and the Rockaways.  Today, they’ll use their 23-passenger black and blue Giants
bus to help relocate displaced elderly residents who have been
staying at St. Ephrem Parish in Bay Ridge,  Brooklyn .  Yesterday, the two friends and their families were
especially thankful for the chance to use the bus for their
weekly trip to MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey,
where they saw the Giants lose 24-20 to the Pittsburgh Steelers
in the closing minutes. They did it even though there is limited
public transportation and a shortage of gasoline in parts of  New
York  and northern  New Jersey .  “This is definitely a relief for us,” Soliman, a 31-year-
old Bay Ridge resident, said as he gave a tour of his bus with a
burger in hand. “We’ve been working hard all week doing the
little things to speed up the recovery. We needed this.”  Soliman and Jost, 26, who have both submitted applications
to join the New York City Fire Department, said the pregame
atmosphere in the parking lot seemed more subdued than usual for
the defending National Football League champions.  “We know of a lot of people who couldn’t make it and were
trying to get rid of tickets because they couldn’t get gas,”
Jost, an operating engineer for Local 15 in New York, said in an
interview about three hours before kickoff.  Their Giants-themed bus runs on  diesel fuel , so they were
able to get it filled at a Brooklyn sanitation station. Others
had more of a challenge.  Preserving Gas  Jim Gilbert, a 75-year-old retiree from Upper Westchester,
New York, said he comes to every home game in a Giants mini-
school-bus with his 24-year-old son, Scott, and a regular group
of 10 others. Yesterday, only four of them made it and they
traveled in a minivan and a compact car in an effort to preserve
fuel. The gas-powered generator they would usually use to power
a television in the parking lot was instead on  Long Island  being
used by some regular members of the group whose home is among
those still without electricity.  “We’re here to support our team for the people who
couldn’t make it,” said Gilbert, who has a Giants brace on his
injured left leg and estimates he’s missed only four of the
team’s home games since 1976.  Jay Teague, a 41-year-old elevator mechanic from  Jamaica ,
New York, said he waited in line for 9 1/2 hours to get enough
gas to make it to yesterday’s game.  “We had to be here -- all in,” Teague said, before adding
with a chuckle, “The only problem is there’s too many Steelers
fans walking around.”  Steelers Fans  As one group of Giants’ fans from upstate New York used a
funnel and large yellow gas cans to refill their camper, a
passerby jokingly asked how much he could buy one of their extra
cans for.  “I still have to figure out how to get home,” he yelled
out as he walked by. “I’m on empty.”  Some Giants fans may have opted to sell their tickets on
the secondary market rather than brave long gas lines. Steelers
fans wearing black and gold were prominent yesterday in the
parking lot festivities and during the game, where the Giants
had a pregame tribute to those involved in the post-hurricane
rescue and recovery efforts.  Inside the stadium, the Steelers fans had more to cheer
about, as Pittsburgh rallied to beat New York. Issac Redman, a
backup running back who gained 147 yards on 26 carries, scored
the go-ahead touchdown with less than five minutes remaining.  No Excuse  Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said the team knew that fans were
looking to the game as a respite from the difficult week.  “We wanted emotionally to win the game so badly for
obvious reasons, for all of our neighbors who are struggling and
need some kind of inspiration,” Coughlin said. “Unfortunately
we didn’t provide that.”  Fans entering the stadium were greeted by volunteers
holding donation buckets for the Community Food Bank of New
Jersey, with money going to storm relief efforts.  While some fans said the pre-game atmosphere in the parking
lot lacked its usual energy, smoke from grills wafted through
the air and generators still hummed -- powering motor homes,
music, televisions, inflatable football players and even a
karaoke machine.  “Even though we’re still without power back home, we’re
here with big smiles on our faces and it’s great to be with
friends,” said 42-year-old Charles Famulare of Freehold, New
Jersey, who was at a tailgate party alongside a ‘Big Blue’
motorhome with his wife and teenage children, Charles and
Samantha. “The steaks are rolling, we’ve got hot dogs, pork
chops. We’re eating here better than we are at home.”  Giants Fans  The team said the paid attendance for the game was about
81,000, almost the stadium’s 82,500 capacity. That didn’t
surprise Giants receiver  Victor Cruz , who is from Paterson, New
Jersey.  “I know Giants fans, and they’re going to make it to this
game and support their team no matter what,” Cruz said after
the game. “It’s a little disappointing definitely for the fans
who live and die with us.”  Jason Collins also appreciated a change of scenery from
his home in Hoboken, New Jersey, an area that was hit by
flooding after the storm. Collins, in a group with friends and
family, had a large barbecue and a covered area that featured a
television running off power from their truck.  “We have more power here than at home,” said Collins, a
New York City code and zoning consultant who in the aftermath of
the storm almost forgot he turns 34 today. “This game is more
of an escape for us than anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  East Rutherford , New Jersey at  matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  