-- FSB Sets 2013 Deadline for New Money-Market Fund Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-05T23:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/global-regulators-set-2013-deadline-for-money-market-fund-rules.html
Global regulators set a September
2013 deadline to present tougher rules for money-market mutual
funds, repurchase agreements and other so-called shadow banking
activities as part of a broader push to reduce risk in the
financial system.  The Financial Stability Board also said that it would issue
draft rules next year targeted at non-bank institutions whose
failure would roil the global economy.  “Vigilant oversight of shadow banking activities will be
required to respond to inevitable market mutations,” the FSB
said in an e-mailed report. “The approach is designed to be
proportionate to financial stability risks.”  While watchdogs have reined in excessive risk-taking by
banks in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, they are concerned that lenders might use shadow
banking to evade the clampdown. The Basel-based FSB has
estimated that global shadow-banking activities were worth about
$60 trillion in 2010, as much as 30 percent of the total
financial system.  Supervisors class shadow banking activities as those that
allow banks to carry out business off balance sheet, as well as
those which allow investors to bypass lenders and the functions
they traditionally fulfill on the markets.  Securitization Structures  Institutions identified by  regulators  as shadow banks also
include some  exchange traded funds , securitization structures,
and monoline insurers, which specialize in products that apply
to financial investments.  The FSB said it would seek views on draft recommendations
“shortly.” Final rules will be submitted to leaders of the
Group of 20 nations at a summit in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia , next
year.  Mark Carney , chairman of the FSB, told reporters in Mexico
City that regulators are holding “intense discussions” on a
series of potential measures such as liquidity requirements or
“quasi-capital” requirements.  “There are a range of tools in the policy toolkit that
could ensure the shadow banking system is taken out of the
shadows,” Carney said.  The FSB brings together regulators, central bankers and
finance ministry officials from the G-20. The FSB set out its
plans following a meeting of G-20 finance ministers and central
bank governors in Mexico City that ended today.  G-20 finance chiefs said they will act by the end of this
year to resolve a transatlantic clash over rules for over-the-
counter derivatives.  Regulation Gaps  The G-20 “agreed to put in place the legislation and
regulation for OTC derivative reforms promptly and act by
end-2012 to identify and address conflicts, inconsistencies and
gaps in our respective national frameworks,” policy makers said
in  their statement .  The FSB also extended a deadline for regulators and too-
big-to-fail banks to agree on “operational resolution plans”
setting out how the institutions could be wound down if they
fail.  Progress on the plans is “uneven,” the FSB said. The
deadline for completing the plans has been extended from the
start of next year to mid-2013, the group said.  Separately, the FSB said regulators would present draft
measures by mid-2014 for reducing references in financial
regulations to assessments by credit-ratings companies.  The proposals will offer alternative benchmarks to credit
ratings that financial institutions could use to assess their
compliance with supervisory rules, the FSB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  