-- Goldman Sachs Partner List Drops 31 Since February, Filing Shows
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-11-05T00:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/goldman-sachs-partner-list-drops-31-since-february-filing-shows.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which is
scheduled to announce its new class of partners next week, has
407 members of that elite group, down 31 in about nine months,
according to a company filing.  That’s because 33 people listed as part of the partnership
in a February document weren’t included in a filing released
Nov. 2. Two names -- Mark Schwartz, hired in June to run the
company’s business in Asia, and Richard Phillips, an Australian
national -- were added to the latest filing.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
selects employees every two years to a so-called partnership
more than 13 years after the firm became a publicly traded
company. The partners, who partake in a special compensation
pool, owned about 11.4 percent of the company’s shares as of
Oct. 22, down from 11.8 percent on Feb. 1, the filings show.
David Wells, a spokesman for the bank, declined to comment.  Some of the names missing from the latest filing had
already been reported, such as former Securities Division Co-
Head David B. Heller and Lucas van Praag, the former head of
corporate communications. Others hadn’t been announced.  Names dropped from the latest list include investment
bankers Jason G. Cahilly, who specializes in advising media and
telecommunications companies; Alastair J. Hunt, who works with
businesses involved in natural resources; Kevin A. Quinn, a
specialist in semiconductor firms and Richard A. Kimball Jr.,
who worked with the health-care industry.  Schwartz’s Sale  Anthony W. Ling, who left his role as head of European
equity research in 2010 to focus on other investment research
initiatives, was also dropped from the latest partner list, as
was Lindsay P. LoBue, who had worked in credit-derivative sales,
and Kaysie P. Uniacke, who held senior roles in the asset-
management division.  Last week’s filing also disclosed stock sales in October by
some of Goldman Sachs’s most senior executives. Timothy J. O’Neill, co-head of Goldman Sachs Investment Management, sold
32,021 shares on Oct. 17 for $124.36 apiece, for a total of
$3.98 million.  Harvey M. Schwartz, the co-head of securities sales and
trading who was named to become chief financial officer in
January, sold 20,286 shares on Oct. 18 at $124.60 apiece, a
total of $2.53 million. Ashok Varadhan, who was named global
head of macro trading in March, sold 27,854 shares on Oct. 18 at
$125 apiece, totaling $3.48 million, according to the filing.  The following is a list of people who were included on
Goldman Sachs’s list of partners as of Feb. 1 that were no
longer on the list as of Oct. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  