-- Goldman Sachs Adds AIA Group CEO Tucker to Board of Directors
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-11-05T21:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/goldman-sachs-adds-aia-group-ceo-tucker-to-board-of-directors.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, expanded its board of directors to
12 members by adding Mark Edward Tucker, the chief executive
officer and president of  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)   Tucker, 54, will become Goldman Sachs’s 10th independent
 board  member and will join all of the board’s committees, the
New York-based firm said today in a statement.  “With his nearly three decades of leadership in the
insurance and banking sectors, Mark has a proven understanding
of effective risk management,” Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, Goldman
Sachs’s chairman and CEO, said in the statement.  Tucker was group chief executive at  Prudential Plc (PRU)  before
becoming CEO and president of Hong Kong-based AIA, the third-
largest Asia-based insurer. From 2009 until this year he was a
non-executive director of the so-called Court of the  Bank of
England , which provides the central bank with non-monetary
advice, and a member of its financial stability committee and
audit and risk committee, according to the statement.  Goldman Sachs last month named Adebayo “Bayo” Ogunlesi,
managing partner and chairman of Global Infrastructure Partners,
as an independent board member. The investment bank said in
September that Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar will
retire at the end of January and join the board as a non-
independent member.  AIA was sold by  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in a
$20.5 billion public offering in October 2010 that was the
world’s third-largest at the time. Goldman Sachs was one of the
banks involved in managing the offering.  British-born Tucker, who was a professional soccer player
in his youth, was a mentor to Tidjane Thiam and handed Thiam the
CEO job at Prudential in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  