-- Apple Fee Case Against Google Fails to Find Middle Ground
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-11-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/google-defends-patent-fees-in-microsoft-apple-trials.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s unwillingness to commit
to a patent royalty set by a federal court prompted a judge
yesterday to throw out its breach-of-contract claims against
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb canceled a trial that was
scheduled to begin yesterday in Madison, Wisconsin, over the
fees Motorola Mobility could reasonably charge Apple for using
patents related to industry-standard technology. Apple said it
wouldn’t license the patents unless the judge set the rate at $1
or less for each iPhone.  The judge’s action shows how entrenched Apple, Google,
Microsoft Corp. and other competitors are in their global legal
battle over patent rights and licensing agreements over
smartphones, tablet computers and gaming devices.  “Companies like Microsoft and Motorola have signed
thousands of agreements,” said Erin-Michael Gill, managing
director of MDB Capital Group LLC, a Santa Monica, California-
based investment bank that specializes in patent issues. “It
seems strange that these companies can no longer figure out what
is fair and reasonable.”  The  Wisconsin  dispute is one of two, in courtrooms 2,000
miles apart, in which judges were to hear complaints from Apple
and Microsoft that Motorola Mobility is demanding excessive
royalties on patents deemed essential to standards for how
electronic devices function and work with one another.
Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are investigating whether
Motorola Mobility is misusing those patents to curb competition
in the $219 billion smartphone market.  Licensing Obligations  The cases were to be the first in which courts were asked
to define licensing obligations of patent owners who help create
technological specifications.  The focus now turns to the trial in Microsoft’s complaint
against Google, scheduled to start next week in  Seattle , said
Jorge Contreras, an associate law professor at American
University in Washington.  U.S. District Judge James Robart in Seattle has said he
will set a range for what is the appropriate rate, so a jury
could later determine if Motorola Mobility’s offer was fair.  The Wisconsin trial was sidetracked on the issue of whether
any decision by the judge would resolve the companies’ dispute
about what amount of royalty would fit the definition of fair
and reasonable -- the standard for payments on standard-
essential patents.  Crabb on Nov. 2 questioned the need for a trial if Apple
wouldn’t pledge to license the Motorola Mobility patents on a
rate she set. Apple, in a filing yesterday, said Motorola
Mobility’s failure to make a fair offer “was, in Apple’s view,
the single greatest impediment to a successful negotiation of a
worldwide license.”  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, said the company had
no comment.  Reaching Agreement  “We’re pleased that the court has dismissed Apple’s
lawsuit,” Jennifer Erickson, a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Motorola has long offered
licensing to our extensive patent portfolio at a reasonable and
non-discriminatory rate in line with industry standards. We
remain interested in reaching an agreement with Apple.”  Related patent-infringement claims between Apple and
Motorola Mobility, originally filed before Crabb, were thrown
out by Circuit Judge Richard Posner in June after he rejected
each company’s damages theories. That decision is on appeal.
Other patent claims are pending in federal court in Miami, with
trial scheduled for 2014.  Apple and Microsoft raised the breach-of-contract claims
based on demands for royalties of 2.25 percent on the retail
price of each product, which Motorola Mobility has said was its
standard opening offer. The company has said neither Microsoft
nor Apple would negotiate.  Dollar Dispute  Microsoft, in court papers, said that would amount to $4
billion a year in royalties on sales of the Xbox and Windows
operating system, a figure no company would agree to pay. Apple,
in its own case, said the technology is worth at most $1 per
unit.  Not all of the patents asserted by Motorola Mobility at the
ITC or in district court involve standard-essential patents, and
none of the patent claims Microsoft and Apple asserted against
Motorola Mobility involve industry standards.  Still, resolving the issue of the standard-essential
patents could alter the dynamics in Google’s effort to use the
Motorola Mobility patents as a bulwark against Apple’s claims
that Google’s Android operating system for wireless devices
copied the iPhone. Apple’s largest smartphone competitor,
Samsung Electronics Co., uses Android.  Gaining Leverage  “These patents are very important and, if they can make
Apple and Microsoft pay them something, it can give them a
lever,” Tom Scott, a patent lawyer with Goodwin Procter in
 Washington , sid of Google.  The legal wrangling, prompted by the world’s embrace of
smartphones, has prompted congressional  hearings  and
investigations by the European Commission and the U.S.  Federal
Trade Commission . One in seven people worldwide has a
smartphone, with the number exceeding 1 billion in the third
quarter, according to an Oct. 17 report by researcher Strategy
Analytics. While it took 16 years to reach that milestone, the
research group estimates another billion people will have
smartphones within the next three years.  Standard-setting boards, rather than courts or regulators,
may have to resolve the dispute, said Robert Stoll, former
commissioner of patents at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
and now with Drinker Biddle in Washington.  “There should be a standard-setting body that oversees
standard-setting bodies,” Stoll said. “They should also be
able to determine what the values of all these things are, and
that doesn’t seem to happen. They just say ‘fair and reasonable’
and leave it at that. The devil is in the details.”  The cases are: Apple Inc. v. Motorola Mobility Inc.,
11cv178, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison); and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., 10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  