-- Michigan Couple Stole GM Secrets for Chinese, U.S. Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 2012-11-05T18:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/michigan-couple-stole-gm-secrets-for-chinese-u-s-says-1-.html
A former  General Motors Co. (GM)  engineer
and her husband stole trade secrets of the automaker’s related
to hybrid-car technology to help develop such vehicles in  China ,
a U.S. prosecutor said at the beginning of their trial.  Shanshan Du, the ex-GM employee, copied the Detroit-based
company’s private information on the motor control of hybrids
and provided documents to her husband, Yu Qin, the government
alleges. Qin used the confidential data to seek business
ventures or employment with GM’s competitors, including the
Chinese automaker Chery Automobile Co., the U.S. said. General
Motors contends the stolen trade secrets are worth more than $40
million, prosecutors said.  “This case is about theft as well as deceit,” prosecutor
 Michael Martin  said today in federal court in Detroit in opening
statements for the trial. The defendants are “partners in life,
partners in business and partners in crime,” he said.  The defendants aren’t guilty, the couple’s lawyers said in
their opening. The items at issue weren’t trade secrets and were
“completely useless” for other companies, Frank Eaman, Qin’s
lawyer said.  Case ‘Fear’  “A lot of fear is going on in this case,” Eaman said.
This includes fear of Chinese people working in U.S. companies
and planning ventures in China, as well as the defendants’ fear
of the police, he said.  “The government has a fear that people will look at the
evidence and see these are not trade secrets, no obstruction of
justice, no  wire fraud ,” Eaman said.  The case is one of more than a dozen brought in the past
three years by the U.S. Justice Department alleging defendants
of Chinese ancestry or citizenship sought to take trade secrets
from U.S.-based companies for use by the Chinese government or
businesses.  Last month in  Chicago , a former software engineer for the
Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest derivative
exchange, pleaded guilty to charges of downloading more than
10,000 files containing source code from his employer to support
trading activities in an exchange in China.  In September in  Newark ,  New Jersey , a native of China who
worked for L-3 Communications’ Space & Navigation division was
convicted of transporting stolen property and possession of
trade secrets related to precision navigation devices.  July Indictments  In the  Detroit  case, Du and Qin were indicted in July 2010
on three counts each of trade theft and wire fraud. Qin was also
charged with obstruction of justice. Both have pleaded not
guilty.  The defendants argued in court papers that the government
withheld evidence about the case, hampering their rights to a
fair trial.  This evidence included details of an FBI interview with a
witness who indicated “several items named in the indictment
were not secret” and that “contrary to the allegations in the
indictment, several items of software possessed by Du were
necessary for her work,” defense lawyers said in an Oct. 15
filing.  The U.S. alleges that Du, an electrical engineer who worked
at GM from 2000 to March 2005, sought assignment to the
company’s hybrid work project to gain access to information on
the motor control of such vehicles. Du worked on various
software engineering projects related to hybrid vehicle
technology and was responsible for some code used in motor
controller cards.  Copied Material  The U.S. claims that Du began providing GM documents to her
husband for use in a company they had started, called Millennium
Technology International. Du copied material and Qin developed a
plan to sell hybrid vehicle technology through a joint venture
in China, the U.S. said.  The process accelerated after GM sought Du’s resignation in
late January 2005, according to the indictment.  “Approximately five days after GM offered defendant
Shanshan Du a severance package, defendant Shanshan Du copied
thousands of GM documents, including documents containing GM
 trade secrets , to an external hard drive used for MTI company
business,” the U.S. said.  Martin said in his opening statement today that 16,262 GM
files were found on Du’s computer. “The central issue, was this
theft or as Du said, ‘a big misunderstanding?’” Martin asked.  ‘Big Misunderstanding’  Du told GM when confronted with the files, that it was a
“big misunderstanding,” Martin said. She also told GM that she
forgot to delete files from her computer when she left the
company, the prosecutor said.  “The government took a lot of different things and tried
to link them together,” Robert Morgan, Du’s lawyer said in his
opening today. “Things that are conveniently connected may or
may not be connected.”  Of the more than 16,000 files, only 18 items are in
question, Morgan said. These documents aren’t trade secrets, he
said.  Du was hampered by language problems in dealing with GM and
faced racism and sexism while working at the company, Morgan
said. While Du was at GM, the company was already going through
financial problems, Morgan said.  The allegations arose at “a time of great economic
concern” at General Motors, he said.  After Du left the company, the couple uploaded GM documents
containing secret information onto a computer at their home, the
U.S. claimed. In July or August 2005, Qin “communicated with
others, by e-mail and in person, about collaboration on a new
business venture which would provide hybrid vehicle technology
to Chery,” the U.S. said.  Electronic Documents  General Motors was informed by Qin’s employer, Controlled
Power Co., in 2005 that CPC workers discovered a bag with an
internal hard drive containing electronic documents that
appeared to be the property of GM, according to a federal
appeals court decision in July on evidence in the case.  The U.S. alleges in the obstruction-of-justice charge
against Qin that he destroyed evidence during the government’s
initial investigation. In May 2006, the U.S. said, the
defendants “drove to a Dumpster behind a grocery store where
defendant Yu Qin discarded plastic bags containing shredded
documents responsive to federal grand jury subpoenas.”  U.S. District Judge Marianne O. Battani, who is overseeing
the case, said the trial should last several weeks.  The case is U.S. v. Qin, 10-cr-20454, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  