-- Microsoft Plumbs Yield Depths With AAA Issue: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-11-05T17:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/microsoft-plumbs-yield-depths-with-aaa-issue-corporate-finance.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, is proving the value of an AAA rating.  The designer of Windows operating systems with a  credit
grade  that Standard & Poor’s deems better than the U.S.
government’s sold $2.25 billion of bonds last week at tighter
relative yields than a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Spreads widened in the same period for corporate
bonds globally of all types, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  The supply of top-rated corporate bonds has tumbled 64
percent as firms from  General Electric Co. (GE)  to billionaire  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. lost their AAAs after the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ignited the worst
financial crisis in eight decades. Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft’s  balance sheet  has since strengthened, with a  record
$67 billion  of cash and short-term investments.  “Microsoft carries a certain level of cachet in this
market as a highly defensive and economic resilient borrower,”
said  Thomas Chow , a money manager at Delaware Investments in
Philadelphia with about $170 billion under management. “It’s as
strong and well recognized of an issuer as one can expect.”  Tighter Spreads  The least-leveraged software maker sold $600 million of
0.875 percent, five-year notes on Nov. 2 that yielded 27 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $750 million of
2.125 percent, 10-year securities at a 47 basis-point spread and
$900 million of 3.5 percent, 30-year bonds at 67 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  The new bonds paid less relative to government securities
than when Microsoft issued an equal amount of similar-maturity
notes on Feb. 3, 2011, even after relative corporate yields
worldwide increased 19 basis points to 227 basis points, or 2.27
percentage points. That similarly sized sale included 2.5
percent, five-year notes yielding 38 basis points more than
Treasuries, 4 percent, 10-year bonds at 48 basis points and 5.3
percent, 30-year securities at 68 basis points.  Six months later, S&P cut America’s credit grade to AA+.
Moody’s Investors Service ranks the U.S. as Aaa.  An average coupon of 2.34 percent on Microsoft’s new bonds
compares with a 3.2 percent rate that it paid on $12 billion of
outstanding securities before last week’s sale, $2.25 billion of
which  mature next year , Bloomberg data show.  ‘Very Attractive’  “It’s not particularly compelling from a spread point of
view, but from the point of view of increasing credit quality,
it’s very attractive,” said Bonnie Baha, head of global
developed credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP,
which oversees more than $45 billion.  All three issues rose in secondary trading today. The five-
year notes gained 0.1 cent on the dollar to 99.6 cents for a
yield of 0.96 percent at 11:26 a.m. in New York, the 10-year
debt rose 0.6 cent to 99.86 cents to yield 2.14 percent, and the
30-year bonds rose 0.6 cent to 99.1 cents to pay 3.55 percent.  Microsoft’s debt has  never exceeded  its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Its current
leverage of 0.41 times is the least among publicly traded
software firms with at least $1 billion of debt, including
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  SS&C Technologies Holdings Inc. (SSNC) , which carry a
median debt load of 1.68 times earnings, Bloomberg data show.  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment on the company’s finances. Proceeds from the new bonds
may be used to buy stock, fund acquisitions or repay existing
debt, the company said last week in a regulatory filing.  Global Growth  Investors are seeking bonds of the most-creditworthy
borrowers as the International Monetary Fund lowers its global
growth forecast to the slowest pace since the 2009 recession.  The IMF on Oct. 9 predicted 3.3 percent growth this year
and 3.6 percent in 2013, compared with July predictions of 3.5
percent for 2012 and 3.9 percent next year. The lender now sees
“alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown, with a one-in-
six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  The face value of outstanding corporate debt worldwide
that’s ranked AAA has plummeted to $158 billion last week from
$445 billion in May 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  “There’s not enough AAA paper to go around right now,”
Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. That
helps Microsoft, which is “the type of name that institutional
investors need in their portfolio,” she said.  The  biggest holders  of Microsoft bonds include Vanguard
Group Inc., the largest U.S. mutual-fund firm, and BlackRock
Inc., which manages more financial assets than any other
company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Free Cash  Of the four non-financial U.S. companies rated AAA by S&P
or Aaa by Moody’s, Microsoft is the most profitable.  Its gross margin of 74 percent leads  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Automatic Data Processing Inc. It’s 33
percent operating margin, also the highest, compares with a 22
percent average, Bloomberg data show.  That’s helped Microsoft  generate more free cash  than 99
percent of S&P 500 stock index  members .  The company earned $29 billion of funds in its last fiscal
year that it can use to reward shareholders through dividends or
stock buybacks, to reinvest in the company or to pay down debt,
more than any non-financial firm except  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which
doesn’t have debt and isn’t rated by Moody’s or S&P.  “Because of how stable their cash flow is, there’s
generally a lot of demand,” Greg Tornga, head of fixed income
at Edge Asset Management in  Seattle , which manages about $22
billion and owns Microsoft debt, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a very stable investment from a bond standpoint.”  Mobile Phone  Microsoft’s bond sale comes with the personal-computer
industry forecast to have its worst year since 2001 as consumers
switch purchases to tablet machines like Apple’s iPad and
smartphones. Microsoft is responding with the release of its
first computer hardware device, the Surface tablet, and a new
version of Windows overhauled to add touch controls.  The company is also making plans for a possible mobile
phone of its own, according to people with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified.  While the company’s free cash flow at more than double its
$12 billion of total debt has helped bolster the balance sheet,
about 87 percent of its cash and equivalents were held overseas
and subject to repatriation taxes as of Sept. 30, according to a
quarterly regulatory filing.  ‘Cheap Financing’  That raises the chances that Microsoft, which had about
$7.2 billion remaining in its share buyback program, will use
borrowed money to repurchase stock, according to Alan Shepard of
Madison, Wisconsin-based Madison Investment Holdings Inc.  Under current law, American companies can defer federal
income taxes on most overseas earnings indefinitely. When they
do return to the U.S., they’re taxed at the corporate rate of 35
percent -- with credits for foreign income taxes paid. Companies
paying little overseas face higher U.S. tax bills upon
repatriation and may save money by borrowing instead.  “My feeling is that they’re using cheap financing to move
funds back to the U.S., which may be used for repurchases,”
Shepard, whose firm oversees about $16 billion and owns
Microsoft debt, wrote in an e-mail. “It’s a shareholder-
friendly move, but it should have no effect on the company’s
overall credit quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  