-- If You Want to Save Greece, Stop Lending It Money
-- B y   K l a u s   A d a m
-- 2012-11-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/if-you-want-to-save-greece-stop-lending-it-money.html
The Greek rescue program is seriously
derailed. By the end of this year, the economy will be a fifth
smaller than it was five years ago, and the government is
forecasting another 4.5 percent decline in 2013. This figure may
once again prove overly optimistic.  The collapse helps to explain the high drama involved this
week, as the Greek government tries to drive through parliament
a double dose of austerity in the teeth of recession, and the
country’s international creditors worry over whether to give the
country its next 31 billion euros ($40 billion) of life support,
rather than let it default on debt repayments later this month
and crash out of the euro.  Given such a desperate situation, it’s all the more
surprising that  Greece  continues to borrow abroad at a stunning
rate. The current account deficit, a measure of external
borrowing for the country as a whole, was 21 billion euros in
2011, or about 10 percent of gross domestic product. While it
slowed somewhat in 2012, Greek borrowing still ran at an
annualized rate of 14 billion euros in the first half of the
year.  The continued borrowing is often overlooked in the debates
over how to rescue Greece, and it indicates that the effort to
avoid default is doomed.  Permanent Slowdown  Heavy foreign borrowing is sensible when a country is faced
with a temporary fall in growth. It can help to cushion the
effects on domestic consumption. But Greece is not suffering
from a temporary slowdown in the economic cycle. In a situation
where the decline in activity is more permanent, large-scale
borrowing to sustain consumption only increases the pain down
the road. It requires cutting back consumption to fall in line
with lower production levels, as well as additional reductions
to service the accumulated external debt.  The paradox of a simultaneous plunge in economic activity
and increased external borrowing raises the question of why
Greece is borrowing at the rate it is. The answer appears to be
that the Greek political system is seriously dysfunctional.
There simply is no credible plan for the long term and,
certainly, none that would envisage repaying external debt.  The past weeks have shown that the ruling parties in Greece
are more focused on fighting each other than on reforms that
could support economic growth and real change in the country.
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his  New Democracy  party are
aware of the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity they now have to
marginalize their long-standing political rivals from the
moderate left and to establish a new bipolar political system,
in which the extreme left Syriza party features as their main
opponent. Aware of this tactic, the moderate-left parties
decided to oppose sensible measures from the so-called troika --
the  International Monetary Fund , the  European Commission  and the
 European Central Bank  -- such as liberalizing the labor market
and reducing public sector employment, thereby turning
themselves into a threat to New Democracy. The result is
political deadlock and a rate of increase in debt levels that
even the biggest rescue packages can’t keep up with.  Policy makers have slowly begun to recognize the
unsustainability of these debt and borrowing dynamics. The IMF
has been pushing the euro area to find ways to reduce Greece’s
debt, but governments and the ECB, which holds about 45 billion
euros of Greek bonds, have resisted any suggestion they should
forgive the debt that’s owed to them.  Eventually international lenders will have to come to terms
with the fact that Greece will simply not be able to repay its
debt. It is quite possible that further measures, such as
misguided plans to buy back Greek debt, can temporarily push
back this moment of truth. They are unlikely to buy much time so
long as Greece is borrowing abroad at a rate of 14 billion to 20
billion euros a year.  End Lending  Greece will only be truly “saved” once it manages to get
along without additional borrowing. Achieving this requires that
official creditors stop lending money to the current Greek
elites, that official and private creditors write off the
country’s debt, and that domestic economic competitiveness
increases to a point where it gives a strong boost to exports.  A Greek debt default and a simultaneous euro area exit
would achieve all of these goals, virtually overnight.
Obviously, the adjustment would be rough and turmoil would
probably prevail for a number of months, but the adjustment
would take place.  The current soft approach, in which international money is
channeled to the ruling elites with the aim of smoothing
transition to a sustainable position within the euro area, has
yielded close to nothing in terms of structural economic
adjustments. Instead of a smooth transition, Greece is in the
midst of a disastrous collapse in output.  This unfortunate outcome must be blamed on the inability of
the Greek political elites to deliver the structural economic
changes that are needed. Salary cuts and tax increases alone
simply cannot re-establish the competitiveness of the economy.
And if true economic reform cannot be delivered, then a euro-
area exit remains the only other available option. This is a sad
and unavoidable conclusion, and it follows from the simple fact
that Greece cannot go on borrowing forever.  (Klaus Adam is a professor of economics at the University
of Mannheim, and a research professor at the Deutsche
Bundesbank. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how  this U.S. election does
(and doesn’t) matter  and on recognizing  the costs of climate
change ;  Noah Feldman  on  the most civil presidential campaign
ever ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on picking a president for  the zombie
apocalypse ; William Pesek on the  rampant corruption of China’s
leaders ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  neither party wants to talk about
drones ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  Romney’s tax
plan .  To contact the writer of this article:
Klaus Adam at  adam@uni-mannheim.de   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 