-- IMF Tells Hollande French Labor Law Needs Significant Overhaul
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-11-05T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/imf-tells-hollande-french-labor-law-needs-significant-overhaul.html
President  Francois Hollande  needs to
embark on a significant overhaul of French  labor laws  to prevent
the country from falling behind its European peers, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  “The lack of competitiveness in the French economy is now
the major challenge to its macro economic stability,” the
Washington-based fund said today in a report. The economic
discussion that Hollande has already started “represents a
unique opportunity to undertake vigorous reform.”  The annual review of the French economy both sets hurdles
for Hollande and gives him political cover as he embarks on an
effort to revive  French growth  amid Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis. Hollande’s government received its own set of
recommendations from industrialist Louis Gallois earlier today
and plans to set out a broad response tomorrow.  The IMF predicts the French economy will expand 0.4 percent
next year, half the government’s official forecast. French gross
domestic product has  failed to rise  for three quarters and will
probably remain stagnant through the end of this year, according
to national statistics office Insee.  “The prospect of a resolution of  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis remains uncertain and budget consolidation across the
region will continue to depress demand,” the IMF said.  Should European economic weakness persist, the region’s
governments should agree to slow their budget-cutting effort to
help support growth, in the view of IMF economists.  Labor Market ‘Rigidities’  Even so, the IMF urged Hollande to push ahead with a revamp
of French labor rules and to increase competition in the
services sector.  “The malfunctioning and the rigidities of the labor market
and the service sector are at the core of the competitiveness
problem that has gotten worse with time,” the IMF said. “They
can only be addressed with a program of very serious structural
reforms.”  An increase in income taxes to finance a cut in payroll
charges would only have short-term benefits, though an increase
in  sales tax  could work better, the report said. Hollande ruled
out an increase in sales tax during his presidential campaign.  To boost  job creation , Hollande should consider improving
the legal framework that governs job cuts and restrain minimum
wage increases, according to the IMF.  “The legal uncertainty” faced by companies “increases
the implicit cost of labor and discourages hiring,” the report
said. “The level of the minimum wage, its uniformity and its
indexation mechanism contribute to the difficulties of poorly
qualified workers and youth entering the labor market.”  ‘Better Position’  The IMF praised  French banks  for improving their solvency
ratios and financing structures, while saying they would still
be vulnerable if the euro-area debt crisis deepened severely.  “French banks have acted quickly to improve their solvency
and their financing structure,” the IMF said. They are in a
“better position to face the impact of weak economic growth on
their assets, as well as market turbulence, even if their strong
exposure to market financing could be a source of
vulnerability,” it said.  The IMF recommended that  France  review the tax treatment of
savings in order to ensure “efficient” financial
intermediation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  