-- India’s Singh, Congress Party Unite Behind Economy Overhaul Plan
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-11-05T02:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/india-s-singh-congress-party-unite-behind-economy-overhaul-plan.html
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
and the Congress party’s top leadership used a mass rally in the
capital to unite behind steps to further open the economy to
foreign investment ahead of a crucial parliamentary session.  “We have to embrace change,” Singh told the open-air
gathering of tens of thousands of supporters in central New
Delhi yesterday that was opened by Rahul Gandhi, scion of
 India ’s leading political dynasty, bolstering political
analysts’ expectations he may soon take control of the party.
“We have to leave the easy route and choose the difficult one
because this is needed for the country’s future,” Singh said.  After two years during which his legislative agenda was
paralyzed by corruption allegations and infighting within the
governing alliance, Singh in mid-September began unveiling what
amounts to the biggest policy push in a decade to overhaul an
economy growing at near its slowest pace in three years.  It included moves to allow foreign investment in multibrand
retail outlets, the pensions and insurance industries, aviation,
broadcasting and power exchanges, and a decision to raise diesel
prices to stem a fiscal deficit.  To bolster the government before parliamentary debates over
the proposals, Singh on Oct. 28 replaced about a third of his
ministers, drafting in younger lawmakers as he aimed to repair
the reputation of his administration.  On Offensive  “Congress has clearly moved to an offensive position from
a largely defensive one,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the
New Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies yesterday. “It was
also clear the party wanted to project Rahul Gandhi as the man
who’s meant for bigger things in the party.”  Opposition parties are threatening a no-confidence vote
when parliament meets for the winter session scheduled to begin
on Nov. 22. Two smaller regional parties have already quit the
coalition in protest over the foreign investment moves, leaving
Singh reliant on the support of unpredictable regional
powerbrokers 18 months before a general election.  Gandhi criticized the main opposition Bharatiya Janata
Party, saying the group had nothing constructive to offer.
Economic reforms were needed to help the poor, Gandhi told the
rally that was also addressed by his mother, Congress President
Sonia Gandhi.  Singh, 80, said his policy initiatives, including plans to
lower the country’s bill for subsidized foods and fuel, would
help stabilize the economy and provide the jobs India needs. He
discounted fears the arrival of overseas retailers like  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  would force small shop-owners out of business and
damage the livelihoods of farmers.  ‘Bugle Sounded’  India, Asia’s third-largest economy, expanded 5.5 percent
in the three months through June from a year earlier, close to
the 5.3 percent pace of the previous quarter that was a three-
year low. The central bank cut lenders’ reserve requirements on
Oct. 30 in a move that supports the government’s policy revamp.  In an electoral test for Singh and his party, voters
yesterday went to the polls in the northwestern state of
Himachal Pradesh, where the BJP is in power.  “The bugle has been sounded, and the Congress party seems
to have signaled its preparation for the next parliamentary
elections,” said Rao by phone. “The show of confidence has to
be maintained now, because the BJP will react.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  