-- Indonesia Sees at Least 6.6% Growth Next Year, Ratnawati Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-11-07T05:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/indonesia-s-growth-exceeds-6-for-eighth-quarter-on-investments.html
Indonesia ’s growth may accelerate to
the fastest pace since before the Asian financial crisis next
year on investment and infrastructure spending, even as the
faltering global economy may cause expansion to miss a
government target, according to the vice finance minister.  Gross domestic product  may expand 6.6 percent in 2013,
compared with the official budget target of 6.8 percent, Vice
Finance Minister Anny Ratnawati said in an interview in her
office in Jakarta yesterday. That would be the biggest gain
since 1996, based on International Monetary Fund data.  “It’s possible we may need to make a downward correction to
the economic growth target but it won’t be far from our current
number,” said Ratnawati, 50. The government will boost
infrastructure spending to more than 200 trillion rupiah ($21
billion) and will require monthly budget disbursement plans from
ministries to speed projects, she said.  Indonesia’s growth has outperformed every major Asian
economy after China this year as the world’s fourth-most
populous nation lures investment. President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has pledged to build more highways, airports and ports
to improve infrastructure and meet a growth target of an average
6.6 percent by the end of his second term in 2014.  “The key driver for growth in the next year and following
years remain the domestic economy,” said  Destry Damayanti , chief
economist at PT Bank Mandiri in Jakarta. “Next year, we are
still expecting the global economy to remain uncertain.”  Indonesia’s economic growth held above 6 percent for an
eighth quarter, with GDP rising 6.17 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier as domestic consumption and
rising investment countered an export slump. The government
expects expansion of 6.4 percent this year, compared with the
budget target of 6.5 percent, Ratnawati said.  ‘Uncertain’ Outlook  “Until next year, the global economy remains uncertain,”
said the vice minister, who holds a doctorate in agricultural
economies. “To anticipate the slowdown in  China , the impact of
the commodity slowdown on our state budget, improvement in the
quality of state spending becomes important, especially when
we’re talking about infrastructure.”  Private consumption increased 5.7 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, and investment surged 10 percent.
Domestic consumption accounted for 63 percent of GDP, investment
contributed 33.2 percent, while net exports deducted 0.61
percent from the economy in the third quarter.  L’Oreal Factory  L’Oreal SA, the world’s largest cosmetics maker, expects to
boost sales in Indonesia by as much as 35 percent over the next
five years as an expanding middle class spurs demand. Annual
revenue for this year and next will probably rise more than 30
percent in the country, Vismay Sharma, the company’s country
chief, said in an Oct. 29 interview. L’Oreal today inaugurates a
new West Java plant that will be its largest factory globally.  Policy makers in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy have
avoided adding to a February interest-rate cut even as neighbors
from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  extended monetary easing to
counter faltering global growth.  Bank Indonesia  will probably
keep its benchmark rate at 5.75 percent tomorrow, according to
all 16 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The rupiah weakened 0.2 percent to 9,639 per dollar as of
12:07 p.m. in Jakarta. It has fallen more than 6 percent this
year, the biggest decline among 11 most-traded Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, boosting import costs and reducing the
scope for monetary easing.  Exports Fall  Indonesia’s  exports  fell 9.4 percent in September from a
year earlier, a report showed last week, a sixth straight month
of declines. Consumer prices climbed 4.61 percent in October
from a year earlier, pushing  inflation  to a 13-month high.  “Toward the end of this year, exports will be better and
imports will slow down, so the current-account deficit will
narrow in the fourth quarter, while capital flows will increase
and contribute to a balance-of-payment surplus in the fourth
quarter,” Ratnawati said. Pressure on the nation’s currency will
stabilize, and “we believe the current level of the rupiah is
still comfortable for exporters and importers, as well as for
Indonesia’s competitiveness. The fluctuation of the rupiah isn’t
too volatile.”  The government expects the rupiah to average 9,300 against
the dollar next year, according to the 2013 budget, she
reiterated.  Deficit Target  The country will probably meet this year’s budget deficit
target of 2.23 percent of GDP even as energy subsidies exceed
budget assumption on higher  oil prices , the vice minister said.
The government has reserve funds to pay for the additional
subsidy costs, and state spending tends to fall short of target,
she said.  Subsidy savings from an increase in electricity rates next
year will be used for infrastructure spending, Ratnawati said.
The government has the authority to raise subsidized fuel prices
if the benchmark Indonesian crude oil exceeds $100 a barrel next
year, she said.  The government “hopes” to win an upgrade to investment
grade rating from  Standard & Poor’s  next year, she said.  “S&P is concerned about our subsidies and the general
election,” Ratnawati said. “We’ve told them there’s no problem
on fiscal sustainability as we have the ability to raise fuel
prices and we’ll increase the power tariff next year,” while the
election of an opposition candidate as Jakarta’s governor this
year showed Indonesia’s economy can withstand political changes,
she said.  Indonesia aims to execute 55 projects valued at $40 billion
this year under its so-called Master Plan for the Acceleration
and Expansion of Indonesia’s  Economic Development , which aims to
boost investment in infrastructure across six economic corridors,
the vice minister said. As of the end of July, 38 percent of the
targeted projects have been implemented, she said. Projects
carried out last year totaled $38 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  