-- Intex Resources Plummets as Funding Deal Expires: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-11-05T12:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/intex-resources-plummets-as-funding-deal-expires-oslo-mover.html
Intex Resources ASA (ITX) , the Norwegian
miner exploring for nickel in the  Philippines , fell the most in
more than two years after a deal to find partners to share the
cost of developing the Mindoro Nickel project expired.  Shares in the Oslo-based company fell as much as 20
percent, the biggest fall since Aug. 27, 2010, and were down 8.9
percent at 3.37 kroner as of 12:45 p.m. in the Norwegian
capital. More than 1.5 million shares have traded so far today
compared with a three-month daily average of 186,097 shares.  A contract with MCC8 Group Co. signed May 3 for the Chinese
company to arrange funding and take operational responsibility
for the project expired yesterday and was not extended, Intex
said in a statement today. It lacked “necessary flexibility to
unite multiple parties and stakeholders in the project.”  Intex is looking for partners to help share the cost of
developing Mindoro, estimated at about $2.5 billion in a 2010
feasibility study by  Aker Solutions ASA. (AKSO)  The result of drilling
and assay tests at the Kapawa and Alag-ag areas of Mindoro
indicated a bigger and higher-quality resource, the company said
Aug 6.  Intex, which also has licenses for a diamond mine in
Greenland and a molybdenum project in  Norway , reiterated on July
19 a target to find funding for Mindoro through the MCC8 deal
within six months after signing. It also received interest from
potential buyers of the project, it said at the time.  Intex has begun talks with listed groups on the Hong Kong
and Singapore exchanges to evaluate necessary requirements and
alternatives for listing Mindoro Nickel, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  