-- Intercontinental Beats Analyst Estimates on Lower Tax Rate
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-11-05T22:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/intercontinental-beats-analyst-estimates-on-lower-tax-rate-1-.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , the
second-largest U.S. futures market, reported third-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates as a lower tax rate helped
the company keep more of its revenue.  Net income declined to $131 million, or $1.79 a share, from
$132.6 million, or $1.80, a year earlier, the Atlanta-based
company said in a statement. That exceeded the average analyst
estimates of $1.73 per share, according to a  survey  conducted by
Bloomberg. Revenue fell 5.2 percent to $323 million in the
quarter from $341 million.  “The beat is almost entirely from a lower-than-expected
tax rate,”  Edward Ditmire , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
in New York who estimated a 29.5 percent tax rate, said in a
note to clients today. Intercontinental said it had a tax rate
of 27 percent.  Trading during the quarter at the company’s ICE Futures
U.S. and ICE Futures Canada markets dropped 23.5 percent and
13.9 percent, respectively, the company said last month. That
led to an overall 3.7 percent drop in trading volume at its
three exchanges in the quarter compared with the year-earlier
period. ICE Futures Europe, the London exchange that offers
crude oil, natural gas and other energy contracts, saw trading
jump 5.3 percent in the quarter.  Shares Rise  Intercontinental shares  rose  2.7 percent to $133.28 in New
York, the biggest gain in three months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has  advanced  6.9 percent in the
past year.  The company also earns money by processing over-the-counter
derivatives trades with its clearinghouse. Transaction and
clearing revenue for these trades dropped 16 percent to $123
million in the quarter compared to the year-ago total,
Intercontinental said.  Part of that OTC revenue comes from clearing credit-default
swaps. Intercontinental said last month that it obtained the
right to link futures contracts to credit-swap indexes owned by
Markit Group Ltd., the largest creator of the derivative
instruments in the $25 trillion market.  The gauges, to reference London-based Markit’s North
American and European corporate credit swap measures, are
expected to be available in the first quarter, Intercontinental
said in an Oct. 16 statement.  The company is also requesting permission from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to back credit swaps based on
the sovereign debt of five European countries, the first time
those contracts would be backed by a clearinghouse.  Sovereign Debt  The sovereign debt of Ireland,  Italy ,  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Spain would be processed by the company’s ICE Clear Europe unit
for the first time, rather than the contracts being held between
banks and their customers, in a move that’s meant to reduce
systemic risk in the financial industry, according to a
regulatory filing released Nov. 2.  Intercontinental already backs credit swaps on the
sovereign debt of  Brazil ,  Mexico ,  Argentina  and  Venezuela  as
well as the Markit CDX  Emerging Markets  Index of 15 sovereign
nations.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority has approved the
plan, Scott Hill, Intercontinental’s chief financial officer,
said on an earnings conference call today. The company still
needs SEC approval to offer the sovereign trades for clearing,
Hill said.  Intercontinental’s competitor  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s
largest futures exchange, last month said third-quarter profit
fell 31 percent as trading in interest-rate contracts, its
largest asset class, declined the same amount. Excluding a $16
million income tax provision related to the company’s joint-
venture with S&P Dow Jones Indices, CME Group profit was 70
cents per share, exceeding the average estimate of 69 cents in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  