-- Iran Nuclear-Weapons Bid Might Trigger Arms Race, Cameron Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-05T14:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/iran-nuclear-weapons-bid-might-trigger-arms-race-cameron-says.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
warned that an Iranian development of nuclear weapons might
“trigger a nuclear arms race” across the  Middle East .  Iran obtaining nuclear arms would not only be a
“desperately bad development for our world,” it could make the
region “a more unstable and more dangerous place,” Cameron
told students at Zayed University in  Abu Dhabi  today at the
start of a three-day visit to the Middle East.  Cameron has been discussing future cooperation with the
 United Arab Emirates  on strategic defense issues as contingency
plans are examined for any escalation of Iran’s nuclear
ambitions -- including the possibility of blocking the Strait of
Hormuz, a vital oil-supply route.  Three weeks ago, Cameron called on Israel to refrain from a
military strike on  Iran’s nuclear program , saying time was
needed for sanctions to work. The U.S. and European nations say
Iran’s program is aimed at developing atomic weapons. Iran says
it’s intended for civilian purposes.  Cameron is seeking to boost defense sales in the region and
to arrange the sale of more than 100 Typhoon jets in the coming
year in a deal that would be worth more than 6 billion pounds
($9.5 billion) to British companies, the premier’s office said
in an e-mailed statement. He moves on from the UAE to Saudi
Arabia tomorrow.  Gulf Interest  The Saudi government has signaled it’s interested in adding
to the 72 Typhoon jets the country has already, according to the
statement, while the U.A.E. has shown interest in ordering as
many as 60 jets. The Typhoon is built by Eurofighter GmbH, made
up of  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)   “Britain has important defense industries that employ over
300,000 and so that sort of business is completely legitimate
and right,” Cameron said as he landed in Dubai, responding to
media questions about the human-rights records of the countries
he is visiting. “We have one of the strictest regimes anywhere
in the world for sales of defense equipment, but we do believe
that countries have a right to self-defense.”  Cameron has put trade at the heart of his administration’s
foreign-policy objectives. President  Francois Hollande  also
visited the region yesterday pressing French defense exports.  The prime minister said he wouldn’t hesitate to raise
human-rights concerns on his trip.  “On human rights, there are no no-go areas in this
relationship,” Cameron told reporters. “We discuss all of
these things, but we also show respect and friendship to a very
old ally and partner.”  The relationship between the U.K. and Saudi Arabia was
strained recently when the House of Commons Foreign Affairs
Committee announced it would be reviewing Britain’s relationship
with the Gulf nation, citing human-rights concerns.  Saudi officials told the BBC Oct. 15 they were  insulted  by
the inquiry. Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field told reporters in
 London  today that it is up to Parliament to decide the subjects
it looks at.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net 
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  