-- IRS Loses Appeal to Stop Solyndra From Carrying Out Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-11-05T23:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/irs-loses-appeal-to-stop-solyndra-from-carrying-out-plan.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
lost its request to delay Solyndra LLC from carrying out its
restructuring plan while the agency appeals a bankruptcy judge’s
approval of the failed solar-panel maker’s plan to exit court
protection.  The IRS was denied its bid for a so-called “stay” to keep
Solyndra, which received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department
loan guarantee before going bankrupt, from implementing its plan
which the government claims will make its appeal moot because it
would be too difficult to undo afterward.  “Here I find that the government has failed to prove a
likelihood of success,” on its appeal of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Mary Walrath’s plan approval, U.S. District Judge Gregory M. Sleet said at hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “The government claims that the evidence clearly showed
the principal purpose was tax avoidance but offers no proof to
support its position,” he added, saying the U.S. relies on
“circumstantial” evidence rather than fact.  Walrath approved the plan last month over the government’s
objection that it couldn’t be approved because the principal
purpose of the plan was to allow Argonaut Ventures I LLC and
Madrone Partners LP, Solyndra’s plan sponsors and indirect
owners, to avoid taxes.  Loss Carryforwards  Under the plan, Solyndra will be liquidated while its
parent, 360 Degree Solar Holdings Inc., will exit court
protection with so-called net operating loss carryforwards of as
much as $975 million, which it may use against future income,
according to court papers. The potential tax breaks may be as
much as $341 million for 360 Degree investors Argonaut and
Madrone.  The government claimed Walrath made “multiple errors”
including her finding that the plan had many purposes rather
than determine if  tax avoidance  was the primary one, according
to court documents. The U.S. said they would be “irreparably
harmed” if not granted the stay, because their appeal could
essentially be rendered futile if the plan is consummated.  Sleet agreed with Walrath saying he couldn’t find any clear
error that the bankruptcy court made in its ruling, and echoed
her finding that the reorganization plan had many purposes
including resolving creditor claims and settling litigation. He
said it is “not whether an injury exists but whether that
injury is irreparable,” and the IRS will get a second chance at
contesting the tax breaks if they are used in the future.  ‘Factual Evidence’  “There has been nothing presented here other than
rhetoric,” that the IRS claims will allow it “to succeed where
they failed in  bankruptcy court ,” Maxim B. Litvak, a lawyer for
Solyndra, said at today’s hearing. “You are being asked to draw
an inference from circumstantial evidence and ignore the factual
evidence” that the plan had genuine purposes other than tax
avoidance and the bankruptcy court was clearly erroneous, he
told Sleet.  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , was forced to shut
down operations and fire most of its 1,100 workers on Aug. 31,
2011. The solar-panel maker reached a $3.5 million settlement,
which was integrated into the plan, with ex-workers who claimed
they didn’t get adequate notice before being fired.  The company’s listed $854.1 million in assets and $867.1
million in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31, 2011.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive
a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus program.  Government Claim  Under Solyndra’s plan, the government will probably get
nothing for its $528 million claim from the loan guarantee
because creditors ranking ahead of the U.S. won’t be fully
repaid.  Argonaut and Madrone, whose $75 million loan in a February
2011 restructuring supplanted the U.S. as the top priority of
repayment, won’t receive a full recovery on their claims,
according to testimony from financial adviser Eric Carlson at an
Oct. 17 hearing.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington). The appeal is In re
USA v. Solyndra LLC, 12-cv-01380, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  