-- Italy Said to Reject Bad Bank That May Boost Tie to Nation
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-11-06T08:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/italy-said-to-rebuff-bad-bank-plan-that-may-boost-sovereign-tie.html
Italian Treasury officials rejected
proposals to create a so-called bad bank to take non-performing
loans off the books of the nation’s lenders amid concern the
plan would strengthen the link between sovereign and bank debt,
said people with knowledge of the matter.  At least three restructuring advisers held talks with
government officials about a bad bank that  Italy  could fund
without seeking external aid, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the discussions were private. The bad bank
could hold 30 billion euros ($39 billion) to 100 billion euros
of assets and lenders would receive government bonds in return
for their bad loans, according to one person.  Italy didn’t solicit the proposals and there is no current
plan to create a bad bank because deteriorating  credit  is in
line with the government’s expectations, the people said. An
official for the Rome-based Treasury declined to comment.  A bad bank is a tool the government could use to spur a
turnaround in the country’s economy by easing funding needs
among smaller banks that would allow them to boost lending, said
the people. Still, it could strengthen the link between
government and bank debt, going against reforms including plans
for a European banking union that seek to weaken that nexus that
has exacerbated the region’s debt crisis.  “The last thing Italy needs right now is a further
strengthening of the links between the sovereign and the
country’s banks,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
London-based Spiro Sovereign Strategy. “While Italian sovereign
debt is a much safer asset class than a year ago, Italy is by no
means out the woods and is seeking to differentiate itself
favourably from Spain as much as possible.”  Bond Declines  The decline in Italian bonds since the outbreak of the debt
crisis three years ago has weighed on the earnings of the
country’s banks, the biggest holders of the nation’s debt. The
yield on Italy’s 10-year bond has risen almost 100 basis points
since the start of the debt crisis and the country now pays 357
basis points more to borrow for a decade then  Germany  does. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ireland and Germany have set up bad banks to get risky
loans off the books of some of their lenders. Spain also is in
the process of creating a bad bank after the collapse of its
real estate market left the country’s lenders with 180 billion
euros of problematic property loans and assets.  Gross non-performing loans at Italian banks account for
10.7 percent of total loans, lagging only Greece and Ireland in
the euro area, according to  data  published by the International
Monetary Fund in October. Italy’s banking association says the
rate is about half the IMF’s projection, estimating the ratio at
5.9 percent at the end of September.  While Italian banks have stricter reporting requirements
for bad loans compared with other lenders in the region, Italian
banks will need to raise more capital from private investors,
Ignazio Visco, Italy’s central bank governor, said on Oct. 13,
without elaborating.  The euro region’s third-biggest economy contracted at a
slower pace in the three months through September and will
emerge from recession next year, Italy’s central bank said in an
Oct. 16 report. The economy won’t start recovering until the
second half of 2013 as foreign demand fails to offset the effect
of a decline in household spending, the national statistics
institute said yesterday. Gross domestic product will shrink 2.3
percent in 2012 and 0.5 percent in 2013, Rome-based Istat said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net 
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  