-- Italian GDP to Shrink as Unemployment Gains, Istat Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-11-05T10:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/italian-gdp-to-shrink-as-unemployment-gains-istat-says.html
The Italian economy won’t start
recovering until the second half of 2013 as foreign demand fails
to offset the effect of a decline in household spending, the
national statistics institute said.  Gross domestic product  will shrink 2.3 percent in 2012 and
0.5 percent in 2013, Rome-based Istat said today in an e-mailed
report. In May, Istat projected a 1.5 percent contraction this
year and a 0.5 percent expansion next. Household consumption
will fall 3.2 percent in 2012 and 0.7 percent in 2013, Istat
said today.  The euro region’s third-biggest economy will experience an
“easing of unfavorable pressures and a modest recovery in the
second half” of next year, according to the report. Still,
household “spending will remain negative due to the persistent
difficulties in the labor market.”  Italy ’s  jobless  rate will rise to 10.6 percent this year,
before climbing to 11.4 percent in 2013, Istat said. Its GDP
projections are subject to downward revisions should “global
trade slow down and tensions on financial markets sharpen,” the
statistics agency said.  Istat’s forecast for this year is more optimistic than
those of Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government. The Rome-based
Treasury said on Sept. 20 that the economy will contract 2.4
percent in 2012 and 0.2 percent in 2013. The  International
Monetary Fund  predicted last month in its World Economic Outlook
the Italian economy will contract 2.4 percent this year and 0.7
percent next.  Monti’s Austerity  “The only positive contribution to economic growth” this
year and next will come from exports, Istat said. It forecast
sales of Italian goods abroad to rise 1.3 percent this year and
2.4 percent next year.  Italy entered its fourth recession since 2001 in the final
quarter of last year as the global slowdown aggravated the
effects of waning productivity.  Monti who took office on Nov. 16 last year, has pushed
through 20 billion euros ($26 billion) of austerity measures and
an overhaul of both the pension system and the labor market.
Still, the government’s mix of tax increases and public spending
cuts to contain the euro region’s second-biggest debt has
weighed on demand.  The Italian economy contracted at a slower pace in the
three months through September and will emerge next year from
the recession, the country’s central bank said Oct. 16. GDP
shrank “again in the third quarter, but less than in the first
half,” the Rome-based  Bank of Italy  said in its quarterly
economic  bulletin .  Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said last week that the
government’s economic policies will allow a return to growth in
2013.  “A different cyclical posture worldwide and the fact that
our own reforms are going to be sinking in” will be drivers of
growth starting from the second quarter of next year, he said in
an Oct. 31 interview with Bloomberg Television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  