-- Itau Loses No. 1 Ranking as Canceled IPOs Limit Fees
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-11-05T15:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/itau-loses-no-1-ranking-as-canceled-ipos-limit-fees.html
Brazilian share sales are on course
to fall to their lowest since 2005 and acquisitions are down by
37 percent, paring fees for investment banks from Itau BBA to
 Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG.  Fees from advising on mergers and leading equity offerings,
bond sales and syndicated loans fell to $662 million through
Oct. 26, down 17 percent from the same period last year, said
Dealogic, a London-based information and consulting service.
Itau BBA, the wholesale arm of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , lost
its spot as the top earner in  Brazil  this year to Grupo BTG
Pactual, according to Dealogic’s rankings.  Slowing growth from  China  to Brazil, coupled with concern
about increased  government regulation  in the Latin American
country, prompted six companies to postpone or cancel share
sales this year. Equity offerings in Brazil tumbled 54 percent
to $5.6 billion through Oct. 31, the lowest for the first 10
months of the year since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors in equities in most  emerging markets  have been
overall more risk averse given the developments in  Europe  and
weaker prospects for China and global growth,” Jean Marc Etlin,
chief executive officer of Itau BBA’s investment-banking unit,
said in an interview in  Sao Paulo .  BTG has earned $130 million in fees this year through Oct.
26, up from $123 million the same period last year, according to
Dealogic. The Sao Paulo-based bank handled 13 equity
transactions, including its own $1.95 billion initial offering
in April, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Equity Rankings  Itau BBA fell to second with $74 million in fees, down from
$127 million last year, Dealogic said. Credit Suisse is ranked
third with $65 million.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , through its
investment-banking arm Bradesco BBI, jumped to fourth place this
year from fifth in 2011 with $56 million of revenue, up from $49
million last year.  Fees for the industry totaled $922 million for all of last
year, compared with $1.15 billion in 2010 and a record $1.6
billion in 2007, Dealogic said.  Itau declined 0.4 percent to 30.87 reais at 1:19 p.m. in
Sao Paulo trading, bringing its year-to-date loss to 9.2
percent. BTG Pactual rose 0.9 percent to 31.34 reais today,
while Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index dropped 0.7 percent.  CPFL Energias Renovaveis SA, Brazil’s biggest renewable-
energy producer, delayed plans to raise as much as 1.5 billion
reais ($738 million) in an IPO amid concern government
regulations forcing utilities to lower electricity costs will
hurt demand, two people with direct knowledge of the decision
said in September.  “Changes in regulations and pressure to reduce prices
imposed losses on investors and didn’t help to stimulate the
equity markets,” said Guilherme Paes, head of the investment-
banking business at Grupo BTG Pactual.  Lower Rates  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  this year has ordered
banks to shrink  interest rates , utilities to cut power bills and
phone operators to drive down wireless costs for consumers to
fuel growth and curtail inflation.  Economic growth in Brazil, the world’s largest emerging
market after China, will slow to 1.54 percent this year,
according to a weekly central bank survey of about 100
economists. That’s down from 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent
in 2010.  Economic Growth  “The decrease of Brazil’s economic growth also helped to
reduce the movement on the equity market,” said Jose Olympio Pereira, CEO of Credit Suisse in Brazil, the second most-active
M&A adviser, according to Bloomberg rankings for this year
through Oct. 31. Itau BBA is in the top position, after advising
on transactions totaling $22.2 billion.  A weaker IPO market doesn’t stimulate M&A activity
“because equity offerings not only raise cash for consolidation
but also boost corporate sentiment,” said Luiz Muniz, global
partner and head of Rothschild in Latin America. The value of
M&A deals has fallen 37 percent this year to $52.6 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  As equity sales decline and interest rates fall, companies
are turning more to local and international debt markets to
raise cash. Sales of local fixed-income assets, which usually
generate smaller  investment-banking  fees than mergers and IPOs,
increased through September to 75.68 billion reais, up 6.4
percent from the same period a year earlier, according to
Anbima, Brazil’s capital-markets association.  “Strong activity in Brazilian fixed-income local and
international markets has helped to partially offset weak equity
markets,” Itau BBA’s Etlin said.  Paes, the investment-banking head of Grupo BTG Pactual,
said the Brazilian fixed-income market will have a record year.
“The local players, the traditional leaders in these markets
with bigger balance sheets and capital to invest in the country,
will be the winners,” he said.  BTG Results  BTG will release its  third-quarter results  tomorrow after
markets close. The bank reported 179 million reais in revenue
for its investment bank in the first half of the year, a 25
percent decline from the same period last year.  Bradesco BBI ranked first in local fixed-income
origination, with 17.5 billion reais in transactions, or 24
percent of the market, Anbima said. Itau rated first for local
fixed-income distribution, with deals totaling 8.98 billion
reais, or almost 29 percent of the market.  As Brazilian banks lead the local fixed-income market, New
York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. is first on Brazil’s
international bond sales, working on deals totaling $4.7 billion
in a market that grew to $44.5 billion, 40 percent more than the
$31.8 billion in 2011. The bank also ranked first on equity
offerings for  Latin America  through Oct. 31.  Mexico, Peru  “ Mexico ,  Peru ,  Chile  and  Colombia  fared better than Brazil
in share sales because they depend less on foreigners to buy the
new issuance,” said Patricia Moraes, co-head of investment
banking at JPMorgan in Brazil, in a interview in Sao Paulo. The
share of Brazilian markets in Latin American equity issuance
fell from 60 percent last year to 34 percent this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  IPOs and equity markets will rebound amid rising liquidity
in international markets after the  Federal Reserve  engaged in a
third round of bond purchases known as quantitative easing 3,
Credit Suisse’s Pereira said in an interview in Sao Paulo.  Anticipating better growth in 2013, Bradesco BBI hired 30
people in the past two years for investment banking and
integrated the division with corporate banking, mid-size
companies and private-equity areas under the responsibility of
executive director Sergio Clemente. In the second quarter of
2012, the Osasco-based bank was Brazil’s top merger and
acquisition adviser for the first time in more than nine years.  “We gained market share customizing more products for our
clients,” Renato Ejnisman, managing director of Bradesco BBI,
said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “Brazil will grow more and
falling interest rates will increase demand for more structured
products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  