-- Ivanplats ‘Litmus Test’ for Canada Mining IPO Revival, PwC Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-05T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/ivanplats-litmus-test-for-canada-mining-ipo-revival-pwc-says.html
Ivanplats Ltd. (IVP) ’s C$300.8 million
($301.8 million) initial public offering last month will be a
“litmus test” for whether  Canada  is ready for a revival in
mining-company IPOs, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  Four mining companies sold shares for the first time on the
 TSX Venture Exchange  in the third quarter, down from 14 a year
earlier, PwC said today in a report. Mining IPOs on the exchange
in the first nine months of 2012 fell to 25 from 34.  “There are some very significant IPOs in the pipeline that
could revive the total IPO market and turn around the year, but
it will require the resolution of some thorny economic issues
beyond our borders” Dean Braunsteiner, a PwC partner in
Toronto, said in the report.  Ivanplats, founded by billionaire Robert Friedland, was the
largest Canadian mining IPO since  Tahoe Resources Inc. (THO)  raised
C$348 million in 2010.  There may also be a rebound in Canadian mining merger and
acquisitions in coming months as so-called junior mining
companies face pressure from “impatient” shareholders seeking
a return on their investment, PwC also said. “Senior” miners
are approaching some of their smaller rivals and offering
“significantly” less than what they were worth a year ago, PwC
said.  “Many junior miners, who are holding their breath, hoping
to be acquired by a senior mining company, will either have to
pursue other growth and financing options or be willing to
accept much lower valuations,” PwC said.  Junior Canadian miners with operations in  Africa  may draw
bids from Chinese suitors interested in “unrestricted access to
supply,” PwC said.  “Chinese buyers typically have much higher risk tolerance
for the financial and political risk that infiltrates many
African regions,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  