-- J-Lo Mixes Sexy Disco With Over-Slick Pop on World Tour: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-11-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/j-lo-mixes-sexy-disco-with-over-slick-pop-on-world-tour-review.html
Jennifer Lopez’s “Dance Again”
concerts promise sparkle. They deliver stodge.  J-Lo, as she is best known, is on her first world tour at
43. She’s been playing in the U.K. where her curves have been
the star of every show she’s done.  There’s also an army of dancers that includes her current
boyfriend, 25-year-old Casper Smart. Of the clunky pop music,
the least said, the better. Her vocals, a little on the shrill
side, are satisfactory, not show-stopping.  Consider yourselves warned if you live in continental
Europe, where J-Lo heads next. After that, she’s off to Asia and
 Australia .  Lopez possesses what’s said to be the most revered bottom
in the world, with many urban myths about how much it’s insured
for. Her prime asset is unashamedly exploited onstage.  A large portion of her hit “I’m Into You” is sung with
her back to the audience, the renowned backside smack in the
spotlight. Background video graphics regularly linger in the
same area.  That alone isn’t enough to explain J-Lo’s success. She’s a
Hollywood actress, a judge on “American Idol,” has her own range
of perfumes and sold more than 70 million records. She maintains
an astute portfolio of liaisons with international brands, in
fashion and beyond. On her website, brand-heavy pages devoted to
“Style + Beauty” and “Body + Mind” have equal footing to
those devoted to her music.  Body Worship  Her dancers’ lithe Latin routines require them to
unashamedly worship her body, clad in a succession of tight
glittering outfits.  The glamorous photos in the tour program, the diamond
painted on the stage curtain and the video sequence of luxury
goods that accompanies “Love Don’t Cost a Thing” suggest
dazzling entertainment. Instead, we get cheap and hackneyed
staging: not much more than a flight of steps that sometimes
light up, like a 1970s light-entertainment television show set.  The choreography, bar a brief salsa blast for “Let’s Get
Loud,” lacks set-piece spectaculars. We get Broadway-on-a-
budget chorus lines and dubious hip hop gymnastics.  All would be forgotten if the music was up to scratch. The
paltry 90 minutes of the show (encores included) suggests that
Lopez could use a few songs with real depth. Her onstage chatter
is inane.  Sloppy Smoochy  When Lopez first came to pop prominence, hip-hop and R&B
dominated the U.S.; a slick groove and a hollered hook were key
components of chart success. She jumped on the bandwagon. With
10 years’ perspective, 2002’s “Jenny From the Block” sounds
generic and uninspired. The 1999 debut single “If You Had My
Love,” played as an acoustic ballad, is sloppy rather than
smoochy, as if one’s innamorata had passed out from boredom and
was dribbling on one’s shoulder.  Other songs explore the euro-dance sound. “Waiting for
Tonight” bumps along like a  2 Unlimited  classic demented with a
determination to take itself seriously.  “On the Floor” is a hellish mash of blunt dance beats,
with “Llorando Se Fue” (infamously known as the “Lambada”)
fused with second-hand lyrical cliches about generic “party
people” who -- no great surprise there -- are “in da club.”  Lopez is clearly a celebrity with considerable business
acumen. This is a truly poor show.  Rating: *.  The Jennifer Lopez tour has moved to continental  Europe 
after gigs in the U.K. She plays Stockholm tonight, followed by
concerts in  Finland ,  Russia , Ukraine,  Turkey ,  Bulgaria  and
 Serbia . Shows later this year are in Dubai,  China ,  Indonesia ,
the  Philippines ,  Malaysia ,  Singapore , Australia and Puerto Rico.
Information:  http://jenniferlopez.com/blog/post/on-tour   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and Catherine
Hickley on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 