-- Japan Local Economies Threatened as Government Cash Dries Up
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-11-06T01:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/japan-local-economies-under-threat-as-government-cash-dries-up.html
Japanese local governments are
borrowing from banks to cover their outlays as a political
standoff over financing legislation adds to risks for the
world’s third-biggest economy.  Hokkaido, the northernmost prefecture, and Wakayama, in the
west, face extra interest costs after taking out loans, their
finance departments say. Public works spending and subsidies for
the poor are in danger as funding dries up, according to Keiji Yamada, governor of Kyoto prefecture and head of the  National
Governors’ Association .  Disruption to spending by local authorities, which account
for about two-thirds of public outlays, could further drag on an
economy that is losing steam as exports and industrial
production slide. With the central government at risk of running
out of money this month, Shinzo Abe, the leader of the
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , has signaled that he’ll
allow a parliamentary debate on the contentious legislation.  “Running short of funds would yield a severe blow to
regional economies which are already weakening as populations
decrease and companies shift production overseas,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co. “They have difficulty standing on their feet and
have no choice but to depend on money from the central
government.”  Contracting Economy  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has  fallen 12 percent  from
this year’s high in March as analysts at Morgan Stanley and
Barclays Plc say the economy likely contracted in the third
quarter and will do so again in the fourth. The benchmark was
down 0.3 percent as of 10:38 a.m. in Tokyo today.  The  finance ministry  last week downgraded its assessment of
eight of 11 regional economies as weakness in overseas demand,
the expiry of government subsidies for car purchases, and
strength in the yen hurt manufacturing. Industrial production
fell in September by the most since last year’s earthquake and
tsunami.  “The central government recently announced its spending of
400 billion yen ($5 billion) for an economic stimulus package,
but we have to remember that 4 trillion yen in tax allocations
to local governments have been suspended,” Yamada said. “Can
you stimulate economic growth with 400 billion yen of spending
when you suspend the allocation of 4 trillion yen? What the
central government is doing is just contradictory.”  Seeking Support  The deficit financing legislation covers 38.3 trillion yen,
or about 40 percent of budget spending for the fiscal year
through March 31. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  failed last
month to persuade opposition leaders to support the measures
without him specifying a date for elections. Noda pledged in
August to call an election “soon.”  The parliament needs to pass a bill by November 26 to
ensure a smooth government bond auction on Dec. 4, said  Chotaro Morita , chief strategist for fixed income at Barclays Plc in
Tokyo. Moody’s Investors Service said last week that the
political impasse is negative for the country’s debt rating, and
that smooth functioning of the  bond market  is crucial.  Ichita Yamamoto, an upper house member of the main
opposition LDP, said last week in an interview that lawmakers
are “heading in the direction” of a compromise.  “The LDP has to move first as they rely on support from
the regions and from old people,” said  Hiroshi Watanabe , a
senior economist at SMBC Nikko Securities. “Local economies are
weakening across the nation and their revenues are falling.”  Extra Costs  Hokkaido’s short-term bank borrowing since late September
will incur an extra 15 million yen in interest and the
prefecture pushed forward the sale of 39 billion yen of
municipal bonds, according to its finance department. Kyoto
prefecture may have to delay a winter bonus payment for its
officials, Yamada said.  “Given that the economy is worsening now and many problems
need to be resolved, Japanese people want legislators to make
decisions,” Yamada said. “If they can’t decide, politicians
will lose public trust.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  may remain under pressure to add to
monetary stimulus after it last week expanded an asset-purchase
fund by 11 trillion yen.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , based in  Osaka , western Japan, last week
forecast the second-highest loss in its history for this fiscal
year even after reducing its workforce by 39,000 jobs, or about
11 percent. Automaker  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , based in Hiroshima in
western Japan, cut its fiscal-year operating income forecast by
17 percent as sales slumped in  China .  Abe has signaled his willingness to allow a parliament
debate of the bond bill. He said on Nov. 1 that the party has
‘‘never once said it would refuse to take part in debate’’ and
the party is ‘‘cooperating so of course we expect the prime
minister to fulfill his promise.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  