-- Japan Regulator Delays Decision on Fault Under Ohi Plant
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-11-05T00:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/japan-regulator-delays-decision-on-fault-under-ohi-plant.html
Japan  delayed a decision on the
future of the Ohi nuclear plant as seismologists under the
Nuclear Regulation Authority conflicted over whether an
earthquake fault line under the station is active or not.  Two reactors at the plant are the only ones running in the
country. The other 48 are offline for safety checks following
last year’s Fukushima nuclear disaster. Street protests this
year in  Tokyo  have attracted tens of thousands of people calling
for all the reactors to be shut.  The team of five studying the fault line met yesterday and
will meet again on Nov. 7 to further discuss with plant operator
Kansai Electric Power Co., said Kunihiko Shimazaki, a
commissioner on the NRA, Japan’s newly formed nuclear regulator.
At least one of the seismologists said the plant should be shut.  “My conclusion is an active fault exists under one of most
important facilities of the Ohi nuclear plant,” said Mitsuhisa
Watanabe, a tectonic geomorphology professor at Toyo University.
The fault was overlooked due to  Kansai Electric ’s “irrelevant
investigations” and the government’s “sloppy review,”
Watanabe said.  Kansai Electric shares fell as much as 4.1 percent to 592
yen, heading for the biggest decline since Oct. 23 on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange today. The stock has lost more than 70 percent of
its value since March 10 last year, the day before the Fukushima
disaster.  Rock Samples  Kansai Electric, which lost 117 billion yen ($1.5 billion)
in the six months ended September due to rising fuel costs to
make up for lost nuclear power generation, may have to shut and
decommission all four reactors at the Ohi plant if the fault is
active.  Three other members of the study group, including Atsumasa
Okada, a Ritsumeikan University professor who specializes in
active earthquake faults, said more investigation is needed to
draw a conclusion. Watanabe responded that the Ohi reactors
should be idled immediately for an exhaustive survey if the NRA
team recommends additional investigation.  Shimazaki and the four seismologists visited the Ohi plant
on Nov. 2 to examine soil and rock samples from boring, trenches
and other geological work done by Kansai Electric. The geology
of the area indicates existence of  fault lines  and when they
were last active.  130,000 Years  Under Japan’s guidelines for nuclear plants, active faults
are defined as those that have moved in the past 120,000 to
130,000 years, the NRA said Oct. 23 in a statement.  The fault line in question runs 900 meters from north to
south between the No. 2 and No. 3 reactors of the Ohi plant. It
may move together with active faults near the Ohi station and
damage a water-intake channel, which is used to receive seawater
to cool down reactors in the event of an emergency, Watanabe
said in June.  “Unless we find definite evidence that shows it’s not an
active fault by our on-site investigation, we cannot deny the
possibility that it’s active,” Watanabe said in a statement
submitted to the NRA before the team visited Ohi.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, the NRA’s
predecessor, ordered Kansai Electric to run additional checks on
the fault line on June 18 after its advisory body said more data
is needed to draw a conclusion.  Kansai Electric put out a report on Oct. 31, saying it has
found no evidence to show the fault is active. The utility plans
to submit its final report to the regulator by the end of
December, it said.  Power Shortage  The NRA will approach the investigation of Ohi in black and
white terms and the two Ohi reactors will be idled if the
investigation team find it “black or even gray,” Chairman
Shunichi Tanaka said Sept. 26.  Prime Minister Noda on Nov. 2 said the government will
respect the decision to be made by the NRA on the Ohi plant,
 Kyodo News  reported, citing an interview with the premier.  If Kansai Electric’s two 1,180-megawatt reactors are shut,
electricity demand from companies and households supplied by the
utility may exceed capacity by 9.1 percent this winter, Japan’s
Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said Nov. 2.  The utility supplies power to  Osaka , Japan’s second-largest
metropolitan region, as well as the cities of Kobe and Kyoto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  