-- Japan Opposition Signals Willingness to Debate Noda’s Bond Bill
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-11-05T02:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/japan-opposition-signals-willingness-to-debate-noda-s-bond-bill.html
Japanese opposition leader Shinzo Abe
signaled his willingness to allow parliamentary debate on a bill
to fund the rest of this year’s budget, while stopping short of
saying he will support it.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has called on the opposition
to back the bill before he fulfills an August pledge to call an
election “soon.” The standoff with Abe’s  Liberal Democratic
Party  over the deficit bond bill and the election threatens to
cut off funds at the end of November as reports show the world’s
third-largest economy may be sliding into recession.  “We are offering a period of sunshine for him to think,”
Abe said yesterday on NHK television. “This is the last chance
for the prime minister to prove that he is not a liar.”  Abe said Noda this week must express his intention to call
an election before the end of the year, which ruling  Democratic
Party  of Japan Secretary-General Azuma Koshiishi yesterday said
would be “difficult.” The government’s support is plummeting
ahead of a vote that must be called by August, increasing the
likelihood of a seventh Japanese premier since 2006.  Noda failed last month to persuade Abe and New Komeito
party leader Natsuo Yamaguchi to support the legislation
authorizing the issuance of deficit-financing bonds without
specifying a date for elections. Finance Minister Koriki Jojima
has said the government will run out of money at the end of
November unless the bill passes.  Support for Noda’s cabinet fell 11.5 percentage points to
17.7 percent, the lowest since he took office in September 2011,
according to a Kyodo News poll published today. Support for the
DPJ was 12.1 percent compared with 27.7 percent for the LDP. The
Kyodo survey was conducted Nov. 3-4 and 1,012 people responded,
the agency said.  Economists at Nomura Securities Co. and Citigroup Inc.
revised down their forecasts for  Japan ’s third-quarter gross
domestic product after a report last week showed industrial
production fell the most in September since last year’s
earthquake. Citigroup is among those forecasting that the
economy will contract in the last two quarters of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  