-- Jim Beam Didn’t Get Putin Memo as Whiskey Eyes Russians
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/jim-beam-didn-t-get-putin-memo-as-whiskey-eyes-russians.html
Beam Inc. (BEAM)  wants more vodka-imbibing
Russians to drink Jim Beam and Maker’s Mark whiskey.  Apparently Vladimir Putin didn’t get the memo. In a
campaign to help his people live longer,  Russia ’s president is
pushing the biggest crackdown on alcohol since the cold war.
That could complicate Beam’s efforts in a nation that’s a
cornerstone of its emerging-market strategy.  Russians looking to show off burgeoning prosperity have
helped make imported whiskey the fastest-growing spirit in
Russia as vodka sales fall. The trend figures into Beam’s goal
to get 25 percent of its annual sales growth from  emerging
markets  and double sales in Russia in three years.  The surge in whiskey consumption comes amid government bans
on late-night alcohol sales, drinking in public places and
alcohol ads on TV, radio and billboards. Russia also has put in
place new taxes in an attempt to restrain alcohol consumption
that’s the world’s fourth-highest per capita.  Such measures may require even more agility on the part of
importers such as Beam, Jack Daniel’s-maker  Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A) 
and Johnnie Walker-maker  Diageo Plc (DGE)  as they seek to quench
Russians’ thirst for dark spirits, said Spiros Malandrakis, a
global alcohol drinks analyst for researcher Euromonitor Plc.  “There has been a massive series of legislative attacks,”
Malandrakis said. “You have to take slow steps so you don’t
gather the wrath of the Kremlin on your head.”  Trading Premium  Beam, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , rose 2.8 percent to
$57.15 Nov. 2 after reporting third-quarter per-share earnings,
excluding some items, of 62 cents, beating the 55-cent average
of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares have
risen 12 percent this year. Beam has traded, on average, at a 76
percent percent premium on a price-to-earnings basis to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Carlsberg A/S (CARLB) , owner of Russia’s leading brewer, Baltika,
knows all too well how volatile Russia can be. After investing
billions in a country that accounts for almost 40 percent of of
its global profit, the company has struggled against a declining
beer market amid the government crackdown. Consumption fell 2.4
percent from 2007 to 2011, according to International Wine &
Spirit Research.  “Part of the ability to compete in markets like Russia is
to understand that reality,” Beam Chief Executive Officer Matt Shattock said. “We have to play by the rules established in
each market and sometimes in environments like this, those rules
move.”  For Russians, American spirits are as much about status as
inebriation. At Globus Gourmet, a high-end food store in the
heart of Moscow -- where conspicuous consumption fuels two Rolls
Royce dealerships -- the liquor boutique looks like a diamond
store. Showcase lighting transforms bottles of bourbon, cognac
and scotch into shimmering displays of amber and caramel hues.  Luxury Mall  A bottle of L’Esprit de Courvoisier, with its own
decorative carrying case, sells for 226,630 rubles, or almost
$7,300. Next to Red Square, in the Gum luxury mall, the
centerpiece of a massive spirits display at the Gastronom No. 1
grocery features almost all brown spirits. Shelf after shelf of
vodka, meanwhile, has been pushed to the sides.  “We’re looking at premium outlets where people with the
money go,” said Bill Mateo, who manages Beam’s Russian
distribution partnership, called Maxxium.  In a Russian spirits market that fell 4.6 percent last
year, including 4.9 percent for vodka, whiskey consumption grew
48 percent, according to the London-based ISWR. Russians’ love
affair with Western spirits showed up in tequila consumption as
well, which jumped 45 percent. Beam is concentrating its Russia
marketing and distribution efforts on Sauza tequila, Courvoisier
cognac  and Teacher’s scotch in addition to Jim Beam.  Real McCoy  “Russians are a spirits-drinking nation and they are
extremely bored of vodka,” Malandrakis said. “As they try to
shed all the associations with a Soviet past and move into a
Western direction, premium whiskeys and tequila make sense.”  If it weren’t in the center of Moscow on the ground floor
of a Stalin-era apartment building, the Real McCoy Speakeasy
Bootlegger’s Bar & Restaurant could be mistaken for an
attraction at Walt Disney World’s Frontierland.  The saloon-like space is adorned with peeling faux cement
walls. One corner holds a jail cell. The bar is perched on fake
wooden booze barrels. As if to drive home the point, the white
outline of a sprawled corpse is painted on the wood plank floor.
The drink of choice here: whiskey.  “We’re seeing some exciting growth of Western spirits,”
Shattock said. “As Russian incomes grow, there is an
opportunity to switch from local to imported brands.”  King Vodka  Still, vodka is king, making up almost four-fifths of
spirits consumption in the country. Whiskey didn’t even register
one percent, making it less of a threat to regulators fighting
overconsumption.  Russia cut alcohol consumption to 15 liters (4 gallons)
from 18 liters per capita in the past two years, Deputy Prime
Minister Viktor Zubkov said in December. The government wants to
reduce it at least to 8 liters by 2020.  To help, Russia banned sales in stores between 11 p.m. and
8 a.m. Late last year, the Russian government adopted a plan to
raise alcohol excise taxes 30 percent by the end of next year,
following a 2010 beer tax increase of 200 percent.  Much of the regulatory attention so far has had a greater
effect on low-cost spirits, rather than premium brands such as
Jim Beam. A 0.7-liter bottle of Jim Beam can cost 1,660 rubles
($53) at the high end. Jack Daniel’s can go for 2470 rubles
($79). By contrast, Green Mark, the best-selling vodka in
Russia, sells for about 181 rubles ($6) for a half-liter bottle.  Emerging Markets  Since spinning off from Fortune Brands last year to become
a standalone spirits maker, Beam has looked to expand its
presence in emerging markets from  Brazil  to  China . In Russia,
Beam is horning in on an import whiskey market dominated by
global behemoths such as Diageo and Pernod Ricard SA, maker of
the Glenlivet single-malt Scotch whisky and Jameson Irish
Whiskey.  After years of work to expand distribution nationally
through hubs in 28 cities, Beam has turned its attention to
 brand (BRND)  building, Mateo said.  In one campaign, crews of attractive young women are sent
into Russian bars like the Real McCoy to look for Jack Daniel’s
drinkers. They are offered a free blind taste test including Jim
Beam and asked to pick a favorite. Beam hosts golf events with
cigar makers and tastings at yacht clubs to attract affluent
drinkers.  “It’s about putting luxuries together,” Mateo said.  Beam boosted its share of the American-made whiskey market
in Russia to 25 percent last year from 14 percent in 2009,
according to Euromonitor. Market leader Jack Daniel’s now
controls 72 percent of the segment, down from 80 percent in
2009. In whiskey overall, Beam is still a bit player in Russia,
with 1 percent of the market compared with Diageo’s 41 percent
share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  