-- JPMorgan Loses Bid to Dismiss FHFA Mortgage Suits
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-05T22:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/jpmorgan-loses-bid-to-dismiss-fhfa-mortgage-suits.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost a bid to
have a U.S. judge dismiss lawsuits filed by the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  against 16 U.S. banks over mortgage-backed
securities.  JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were
among the lenders sued last year for allegedly misleading Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac about the soundness of loans underlying
billions of dollars of residential mortgage-backed securities.
JPMorgan served as the lead underwriter for 30 out of the 103
securitizations at issue in this case.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  today rejected
a bid to throw out the FHFA’s complaint, overruling arguments
that the agency lacked factual support that the loans underlying
the securitizations weren’t underwritten in accordance with the
guidelines set out in the offering documents.  “The agency’s reliance on this information is not, as the
defendants allege, an effort to argue ‘fraud by hindsight’;
rather the amended complaint suggests that these market events
are telltale signs of defects that were present in the
securitizations all along, albeit, unbeknownst to the public,”
the judge wrote.  “FHFA may be wrong of course; a jury will decide,” Cote
said. “But the claim is not an implausible one.”  ‘Total Collapse’  Cote said that the plaintiffs’ amended complaints includes
allegations of a “total collapse in credit ratings” and claims
the banks had made false statements of material facts in
registration statements, which “directly caused  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac to suffer billions of dollars in damages.” The
plaintiffs also claim the loans underlying the securities
experienced defaults and delinquencies at a much higher rate
than they would have if the loan originators had adhered to
underwriting guidelines.  Cote cited evidence provided by the plaintiffs in the
amended complaint that included statements or two “confidential
witnesses” who were personally involved in the origination and
underwriting of JPMorgan’s EMC unit.  She also said the plaintiffs included testimony from
witnesses who described being pressured by supervisors to
approve loans in disregard of their expressed concerns about
potentially fraudulent documentation and cited other evidence
provided by plaintiffs involving Washington Mutual Inc.  ‘Wild West’  “As one appraiser who did business with WaMu during the
relevant period described the bank’s origination practices: ‘It
was the Wild West ... if you were alive, they would give you a
loan, Actually, I think if you were dead, they would still give
you a loan,’” Cote said in her ruling, citing the witness’s
statements.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion.  The defendants argued the plaintiffs had failed to provide
sufficient evidence to support their claims.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  Cote did narrow the case, dismissing some claims alleging
violations of the Virginia Securities Act as well as fraud
claims regarding the owner-occupancy and loan-to-value ratio of
the securities for which New York-based JPMorgan served as lead
underwriter.  Amended Complaint  She cited the amended complaint filed by the plaintiffs,
including statements made by JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  criticizing the quality of loans originated by Chase
Home Finance LLC, a unit of the bank. The judge said the amended
complaint also mentioned the $5.3 billion settlement JPMorgan
reached this year with state and local authorities.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on the ruling.  Also sued by the FHFA were  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  First Horizon National
Corp. (FHN)   The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., 11-CV-6188, U.S. District court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  