-- Kaiser Permanente Promotes Tyson to Take Over as CEO
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-11-05T23:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/kaiser-permanente-promotes-tyson-to-take-over-as-ceo.html
Kaiser Permanente ’s president and
chief operating officer, Bernard Tyson, will replace retiring
chairman and CEO George Halvorson next year as head of the
largest nonprofit health insurer in the U.S., the company said.  Tyson, 53, has worked at Kaiser for 28 years. He previously
directed the nonprofit’s hospital systems and led development of
Kaiser’s “Thrive” advertising campaign. He’ll take over for
Halvorson, 65, who plans to step down in December 2013 after
leading the company since 2002.  Kaiser Permanente, based in Oakland,  California , covered 9
million people last year, mostly in the West, and had $47.9
billion in revenue, according to its website. It runs 37
hospitals in California, Oregon and  Hawaii  and employs 17,000
physicians. The nonprofit’s integrated system, in which one
entity delivers care and pays the bills, was a model for the
U.S. health-care overhaul, which encourages doctors, hospitals
and insurers to better coordinate services.  “We’re out to prove that the highest quality care is
possible and it can be done at an affordable price,” Tyson said
in a telephone interview. “That’ll continue to drive us.”  Tyson will join the company’s board of directors next month
and assume Halvorson’s position at the end of 2013 after a six-
month transition period, the company said.  Health Overhaul  He’ll take over as President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul, the Affordable Care Act, is fully implemented at the
beginning of 2014. New insurance marketplaces called exchanges
are due to open in every state and Medicaid, the joint federal-
state program for the poor, will expand nationwide to cover
people earning close to poverty wages. About 30 million people
are expected to gain coverage.  Kaiser expects to offer exchange plans in every state where
it operates, Tyson said.  “Clearly there’s a lot of unknowns right now as we think
about all the changes happening in the industry,” he said.
“One of the biggest challenges is making sure that we continue
to contribute to the evolving landscape for health care in this
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  