-- Kenya May Cut Policy Rate After Inflation Slowed to Two-Year Low
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-11-05T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/kenya-may-cut-policy-rate-after-inflation-slowed-to-two-year-low.html
Kenya ’s central bank may lower its
 benchmark   interest rate  for a third consecutive meeting as
inflation at a two-year low widens the room for policies to
stimulate growth.  The Central Bank of Kenya, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u,
will probably reduce its benchmark interest rate by 2 percentage
points to 11 percent, according to the median estimate of three
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The central bank is
expected to publish its decision tomorrow via e-mail after 3
p.m. in Nairobi, the capital.  Inflation slowed to 4.1 percent last month, the lowest
since November 2010, as good rains boosted food supplies, ending
a drought. The central bank reduced its key lending rate in July
and September by a total of 5 percentage points, reversing a
tight monetary stance adopted in 2011 when it raised the policy
rate to a record 18 percent to quell inflation.  “The dramatic fall in the  consumer price index  as well as
data suggesting a weaker-than-expected recovery in gross
domestic product” underpins expectations of rate cuts,  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc
in  London , said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Kenya’s benchmark rate compares with 12.5 percent in
neighboring  Uganda , where the central bank has lowered borrowing
costs eight times this year to spur the economy as inflation
slows.  Kenya’s economy grew 3.3 percent between April and June,
the slowest pace in 10 quarters. It’s expected to accelerate in
the second half of 2012, according to Finance Minister Robinson Githae. The government forecasts growth of 5.1 percent this year
and 5.6 percent in 2013.  Election Due  Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of black tea, relies on
agriculture to generate a quarter of its gross domestic product.  The central bank may lower borrowing costs again in early
2013 before elections scheduled for March 4, Khan said. The
Monetary Policy Committee normally meets every two months.  The bank has taken steps to support the currency this year
by mopping up liquidity in the financial markets through almost
daily offerings of  repurchase agreements  and by taking term
auction deposits.  Kenya’s shilling is little changed against the dollar this
year and traded at 85.55 yesterday. The currency’s plunge last
year helped cause a surge in inflation, which peaked at almost
20 percent a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  