-- KPN Said to Near Sale of Phone Towers to American Tower
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-11-06T17:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/kpn-said-to-near-sale-of-phone-towers-to-american-tower.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone company
partly owned by Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , is nearing an
agreement to sell its German mobile-phone towers to  American
Tower Corp. (AMT) , according to people familiar with the matter.  American Tower has won the bidding against Swedish private-
equity firm EQT Partners AB and the group of Antin
Infrastructure Partners and TDF Group, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because talks are private. The U.S.
owner and operator of wireless broadcast sites, based in  Boston ,
may pay between 300 million euros ($383 million) and 400 million
euros, they said.  “KPN can certainly use the cash, as they’re taking part in
the Dutch spectrum auction, and owning these towers is not
necessarily part of their core business,” said Frank Claassen,
an analyst at Rabobank International.  Final negotiations are ongoing and could still fall apart,
with a deal potentially announced by next week, said the people.
KPN spokesman Stefan Simons declined to comment and officials at
American Tower, EQT and Antin Infrastructure did not immediately
return calls for comment.  KPN, which has been selling mobile towers since 2008,
agreed last week to sell part of its Dutch mobile towers to
Indonesia’s Protelindo as it tries to strengthen its balance
sheet. To raise cash, the Hague-based firm tried unsuccessfully
to sell Belgian mobile-phone unit Base and ended discussions on
a potential merger involving its German E-Plus wireless unit and
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s business in Germany.  Changing Behavior  KPN said last month that third-quarter profit fell 32
percent amid increasing German price competition and declining
mobile subscription revenue. KPN is struggling with changing
consumer behavior as smartphone customers communicate more via
messaging technology such as WhatsApp or with calling software
such as Skype.  The company’s shares rose 2.4 percent to 4.89 euros at the
close in Amsterdam, the biggest gain since Oct. 10.  Wireless carriers, including  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and Sprint
Nextel Corp., have sold towers, which carry transmission
equipment, to companies that specialize in their management. The
phone companies then pay the tower operator for using the
infrastructure.  Deutsche Telekom’s  T-Mobile USA  agreed in September to sell
the rights to operate 7,200 cellular towers to  Crown Castle
International Corp. (CCI)  for $2.4 billion, providing cash to invest
in the carrier’s U.S. wireless network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  