-- Nazi-Looted Posters to Go on Sale After Return to Heir
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-11-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/nazi-looted-posters-to-go-on-sale-after-return-to-heir.html
A collection of more than 4,300 pre-
World War II posters looted by the Gestapo is to go on sale in
 New York , months after a court ordered a Berlin museum to return
them to the son of a Jewish dentist who fled  Nazi Germany .  The Bundesgerichtshof in Karlsruhe, the highest court in
Germany for civil affairs, in March ordered the restitution of
the posters to Peter Sachs, a retired airline pilot from
Sarasota,  Florida . The  Deutsches Historisches Museum , where the
posters were kept until their October return, estimated their
value at more than 4.5 million euros ($5.8 million).  The history of Hans Sachs’s collection and the fact that it
includes many unique pieces mean that estimate is probably “on
the low side,” said Arlan Ettinger, the president of Guernsey’s
auction house, which is handling the sale. Ettinger said he’s
hoping to find a single buyer for the entire collection before
the first auction, which is scheduled for Jan. 18, 2013.  “It’s thrilling to handle this formidable, wonderful and
historically important collection,” Ettinger said by telephone.
“Eight large crates weighing thousands of pounds arrived at JFK
airport and had to be picked up at the height of the storm.”  Hans Sachs began collecting posters in his school days in
the late 19th century. He published a poster magazine called
“Das Plakat,” founded a society and gave lectures. His
collection, including works by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Ludwig
Hohlwein, Lucian Bernhard and Jules Cheret, totaled 12,500
posters and was at the time the biggest in the world.  Serious Collector  “It is generally conceded that Sachs was the first serious
poster collector,” said Ettinger. “He was astute, had great
taste and an extremely keen eye for remarkable graphics.”  The works include advertisements for travel destinations,
products such as cigarettes and the first cars, cabaret, opera,
art exhibitions and the earliest movies, Ettinger said. There
are also propaganda and political posters, he said.  The entire collection was seized by the Nazis in 1938, and
when Gestapo officers carted it off, they told Sachs that
Propaganda Minister  Joseph Goebbels  wanted his posters for a new
museum wing dedicated to “business” art.  Sachs was arrested on Nov. 9, 1938, the night of the pogrom
against Jews known as Kristallnacht, and sent to Sachsenhausen
concentration camp. His wife’s efforts got him freed, and
together with Peter, then 14 months old, they fled to the U.S.  He had smuggled out some Toulouse-Lautrec posters, which he
sold to feed his family as they began a new life. He never saw
his collection again. Assuming it hadn’t survived the war, he
accepted compensation of 225,000 deutsche marks (about $50,000
at the time) from the West German government in 1961.  East Berlin  After discovering in 1966 that some of his collection was
still intact in East Berlin, Hans Sachs made contact with the
communist authorities to try to get the posters loaned abroad
for exhibitions. He didn’t succeed before his death in 1974.  His son Peter Sachs fought a five-year legal battle for the
return of the posters from the Deutsches Historisches Museum
after a German government panel rebuffed his claim in 2007. The
Bundesgerichtshof found that Sachs never lost legal ownership of
the posters and his heir therefore has the right to possession.  Sachs said in March that the decision was “vindication for
my father, a final recognition of the life he lost and never got
back.”  Guernsey’s plans to auction the posters in three separate
series of three sales, with the first taking place on
consecutive days in January, and the second and third series
taking place at six-month intervals, Ettinger said.  “We would certainly encourage any institutions or persons
interested in acquiring the collection in its entirety to
approach us,” he said. He said the auction house has been in
talks with museums in  Germany , Israel and the U.S.  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on music and  Elin
McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 