-- NJ Transit Struggles to Find Rail Cars After Sandy
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-05T23:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/new-jersey-transit-s-damaged-rail-cars-won-t-be-easy-to-replace.html
On top of having to fix damaged
tracks and an operations center ruined by floodwaters,  New
Jersey Transit ’s biggest obstacle to restoring full service for
276,000 daily rail commuters may be finding cars and engines.  The Newark-based agency had 23 percent of its rail cars and
35 percent of its engines damaged or ruined by Atlantic
superstorm Sandy, said Nancy Snyder, a spokeswoman. The agency
hasn’t determined how many, if any, can be repaired, she said.  New equipment won’t be a quick solution, as about 330
unionized production workers went on strike Nov. 1 at the
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  factory in La Pocatiere,  Quebec , that builds the
shells for the agency’s cars.  “Our full concentration is strictly on the restoration of
service, and the ongoing recovery after this devastating
hurricane,” Snyder said. “That’s front and center.”  Replacing rail cars isn’t as easy as borrowing whatever can
be found. Rolling stock is often custom-made to accommodate a
particular system’s tracks and signals. Parts of New Jersey
Transit’s system run on electric power;  diesel engines  are
required on others.  It generally takes years to finish orders built to
specifications, like Bombardier’s 2008 contract with New Jersey
Transit for 36 electric locomotives designed to haul multilevel
commuter rail cars made by the Montreal-based manufacturer.  Through last year, Bombardier had provided 329 double-
decker coaches to New Jersey Transit, according to the company.  Beg, Borrow  The U.S. Federal Transit Administration is speaking with
transit agencies in other parts of the country to line up rail
cars, buses and other equipment that may be available, said
Meghan Keck, a spokeswoman for the Transportation Department,
which includes the FTA.  The regulator will coordinate loans of rolling stock and
technical experts to  New York  metropolitan area agencies if
needed, she said.  Amtrak , the U.S. intercity passenger railroad, is
negotiating with Via Rail  Canada  Inc. for extra equipment to
boost service in New Jersey, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Boardman said Nov. 1.  Via Rail has contacted Amtrak “to offer its support,”
Mylene Belanger, a spokeswoman for Canada’s national passenger
train company, said in a telephone interview. It’s too early to
give details on the possible outcome of the discussions, she
said, declining to comment on whether Via Rail is also talking
to New Jersey Transit.  Storm Damage  Amtrak probably would be able to move Via Rail equipment
into place quickly, as the two carriers cooperate on Amtrak’s
service between New York and  Montreal . New Jersey Transit’s
service between Trenton and New York, which resumed last week,
operates on Amtrak’s lines.  New Jersey Transit has offered no timetable for restoring
full rail service. Service resumed yesterday on the North Jersey
Coast, Raritan Valley, Port Jervis and Atlantic City lines, with
some restrictions. Bus service should be fully restored by
today, New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said Nov. 2.  Its rail operations center was flooded, ruining the
computers that control the movement of trains and their power
supply, as well as the backup power and the emergency generator.
Downed trees brought down overhead wires on track powered by
electricity.  Amtrak Resumes  There would have been more damage to rolling stock had New
Jersey Transit not moved trains from flood-prone areas to higher
ground ahead of the storm, Snyder said.  Other rail systems were spared damage to cars and engines.
The New York City subway, the Long Island Rail Road and Metro-
North Railroad moved trains out of harm’s way and they’re all
fully operational, said Salvatore Arena, a Metropolitan
Transportation Authority spokesman.  Amtrak’s trains were also undamaged, said  Steve Kulm , a
spokesman. The Washington-based railroad restored service
between New York’s  Penn Station  and Washington Nov. 1 and
between New York and  Boston  Nov. 2. Acela Express service
between Washington and Boston is operating on a reduced
schedule, the railroad said in a statement yesterday.  Bombardier and negotiators from Quebec’s CSN union will
resume talks Nov. 7 under the supervision of a conciliator, the
labor group said today in a  statement  posted on its website.
Bombardier will present an offer at the meeting, the union said.  Until the strike began, workers at La Pocatiere were busy
assembling rail-car shells for New Jersey Transit and Maryland
Transit, Mario Levesque, president of the union local, said in a
Nov. 2 telephone interview. About a year’s worth of work remains
on the two contracts, he said.  Final assembly of the Maryland Transit and  New Jersey 
Transit cars is done at Bombardier’s Plattsburgh, New York,
facility, near the Canadian border.  Marc Laforge, a spokesman for Bombardier’s rail unit,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment
today. A voice mail message left on the company’s media line
wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  