-- New Storm Deepens Woe for Sandy’s Blacked-out 1.9 Million
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-11-05T17:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/new-storm-deepens-woe-for-sandy-s-blacked-out-1-9-million.html
With 84 percent of electricity
restored after  Hurricane Sandy , power companies zeroed in on
devastated coastal areas in New York and New Jersey as an
approaching winter storm threatens lives.  About 1.4 million homes and businesses remain without power
a week after Sandy’s winds and record tides swamped Lower
Manhattan and destroyed the electrical infrastructure in New
Jersey’s seaside communities. Officials advised residents to
flee their darkened homes for warm shelters as an approaching
storm was expected to bring near-freezing temperatures, winds as
high as 55 miles (88 kilometers) per hour and additional
flooding.  In Wayne, New Jersey, Robert Mesuk, 76, and his wife,
Sandra, 73, were huddling next to the fireplace in their
townhome to stay warm as they entered their second week in the
dark. Their utility, owned by  Public Service Enterprise Group (PEG) 
Inc., told them they wouldn’t have power back until Nov. 10.  “We’ve got no heating, no cable, Internet or TV. Our land
phone is out. The temperature in my living room is 49 degrees,”
he said in a telephone interview yesterday before colder
temperatures arrived.  Freezes are forecast in Wayne the next two days after the
temperature dropped near-freezing overnight,  according  to the
National Weather Service.  92 Percent  New Jersey and New York made up about 92 percent of the
blackout map today. About 20 percent of New Jersey is still
without power. Elected officials yesterday balanced praise for
work accomplished with warnings that two-week estimates for
recovery in some areas isn’t acceptable.  Yesterday’s power-restoration rate of 78 percent lagged
behind that for last year’s Hurricane Irene, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries. At the same point during
recovery from Irene, 94 percent of customers had power back, the
data shows.  “Along the coast, the infrastructure is gone,” New York
City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said yesterday in a press
conference. “Things that took months or years to build are
gone. How quickly we can get it back, I’m not sure.”  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo focused his attention on
those still without power, not the more than 7 million who had
been restored.  Meaningless Numbers  “The numbers are nice but they mean nothing if the power’s
not on at your house,” Cuomo, a Democrat, said yesterday at a
press conference from his offices in Midtown Manhattan. “I will
continue to make it very clear to the utility companies that I’m
going to hold them 100 percent accountable for their
performance.”  With the U.S. presidential election tomorrow, recovery
crews put special emphasis on restoring electricity to polling
places, some in schools that have been shut since the storm
struck Oct. 29 near Atlantic City, New Jersey. Cities made
alternative arrangements, such as moving polling places to the
City Hall in Long Branch, New Jersey. New York City moved about
60 polling places to new locations, Mayor Bloomberg said.  “We’re going to make sure everybody can vote,” the mayor
said in a joint press conference yesterday with Cuomo and other
elected officials. The mayor owns Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News.  Setting Priorities  Schools, polling places and seniors centers were a priority
for crews working to get the lights back on for about 157,800
 Consolidated Edison (ED)  customers still without power as of about
11:39 a.m. local time today, said Mike Clendenin, a spokesman
for the utility, which provides service to New York City and
Westchester County in New York.  Getting power back to all customers in Westchester, where
blocked roads hamper repairs, may take another week, Alfonso
Quiroz, a Con Edison spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Long Island Power Authority heeded demands by New York
Mayor Bloomberg to accelerate power restoration on the
devastated Rockaway Peninsula of Queens, the mayor said
yesterday in a press conference. About 250,000 total LIPA
customers remained without electricity as of 11:30 a.m local
time today, the utility said on its  website . About 100,000 of
those buildings may be too severely damaged to accept power, it
said in a statement.  In New Jersey, which makes up more than half of the
persistent service losses from Sandy, Governor Chris Christie
vowed to keep the pressure on utilities.  ‘Won’t Stop’  “We won’t stop working until every last resident has their
power back on,” Christie, a Republican, said yesterday at a
press conference in Hoboken.  At the current pace, New Jersey power restoration will take
another five days, Bloomberg Industries estimated.  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ’s Jersey Central Power & Light, which
served many of the shoreline communities battered by the storm,
said yesterday that the majority of the utility’s 1.1 million
customers would have power back by Nov. 7. Those in hardest-hit
areas would have to wait as long as 14 days for electricity, and
it may be even longer for some.  “In some areas where roads, infrastructure, homes and
businesses were destroyed, restoration is currently
impossible,” Jersey Central said in a statement yesterday.
Jersey Central reported 368,194 of the more than 1 million
customers who lost power were still without it as of 12 p.m.
local time today.  Slowest Repairs  The utility’s repair rate is the slowest in the region,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Con Edison’s Orange & Rockland utility has restored 61
percent of its Bergen County customers, the worst performance in
the state, Governor Christie said in Hoboken yesterday.  “I’ve got a special call with them this afternoon,” the
governor said. “Sixty-one percent is not acceptable after this
period of time.”  Full power restoration in Bergen may take until 11:30 p.m.
Nov. 11, Orange & Rockland said today on its  website .  Mayor Adam Schneider of the coastal town Long Branch, New
Jersey, had been frustrated by a lack of communication with
Jersey Central.  “They were supposed to do an assessment 48 hours after the
storm and they hadn’t done it,” Schneider said. “I told them,
‘Do we need to shelter people another couple of days, arrange to
bring more food into town? If you can’t give us this
information, we’re figuratively and literally working in the
dark,’” Schneider said.  Lucky Meeting  Only after a chance meeting with the chief of a line crew
yesterday did he arrange talks between the utility and town
leaders so that restoration is “moving in the right direction,
finally.”  Public Service, which also serves New Jersey, had 375,000
customers still without power at about 11:30 a.m. local time
today. The utility said “virtually all” of those who had lost
power would be back online by Nov. 9.  In  Connecticut ,  Northeast Utilities (NU) , owner of Connecticut
Light & Power, estimates most of its customers will have
electricity back by tomorrow, said Frank Poirot, a spokesman for
the company.  The Mesuks of New Jersey are thinking about leaving their
darkened home before the worst of the cold weather hits this
week to drive down to their house in Naples,  Florida . Yesterday
morning Mesuk tried to fill his car with gasoline, but gave up
when he found the long lines at the station “overwhelming.”  “We want to escape,” he said. “I’m hopeful that I will
have enough gas in the tank to get me out of New Jersey.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  