-- Newcastle Ties 1-1 at Liverpool in League; QPR, Reading Draw
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/newcastle-ties-1-1-at-liverpool-in-league-qpr-reading-draw.html
Liverpool and Newcastle tied 1-1 in
English soccer’s Premier League yesterday, while Queens Park
Rangers and Reading are still looking for a first win after also
sharing a 1-1 draw.  Liverpool has only two league wins in 10 matches this
season, although is now on a five-match unbeaten run in the
competition. The Reds are 12th in the 20-team league with 11
points, and Newcastle, in 10th, has 14 points.  “We were outstanding,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers 
told  Sky Sports . “Our possession and intensity was relentless.
We went to sleep for the goal but I thought we deserved the
three points.”  Liverpool had won its past seven home league games against
the Magpies stretching back to December 2004.  Yesterday, Newcastle led at halftime at Anfield with a goal
from Yohan Cabaye, with  Luis Suarez  replying for the hosts after
67 minutes. Newcastle center-back Fabricio Coloccini was red-
carded on 84 minutes.  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  made his 600th career
appearance for the Reds, who pushed forward in the early stages.
Newcastle goalkeeper  Tim Krul  had to punch clear when Gerrard
curled in a free kick after three minutes, then Suarez appealed
for a penalty four minutes later after falling to the ground
under pressure from Coloccini.  Newcastle didn’t have a shot until 15 minutes into the
game, Demba Ba firing high over the bar.  Cabaye Strikes  Both sides struggled to create many more clear chances
until Cabaye got the opening goal two minutes before halftime.
Hatem  Ben Arfa  ran down the right side of the field and crossed
for Cabaye to fire into the net.  Newcastle was disrupted by two injuries. The Magpies had to
replace James Perch with Danny Simpson in the first half, then
early in the second period Ba limped off and Sammy Ameobi came
on.  Liverpool started the second half better than the visitors
and was finally level when Suarez got his 10th goal of the
season. The Uruguayan controlled a long ball from  Jose Enrique ,
went round Krul and scored from close range.  Substitute Jonjo Shelvey fell backwards as he attempted to
beat Krul from eight yards soon after, Suarez providing the
pass.  Raheem Sterling had a shot deflected wide, while at the
other end  Brad Jones  held a low shot from Ben Arfa.  Coloccini was shown a straight red card for a late
challenge on Suarez, but the visitors were able to hold on. Krul
did have to tip the ball onto the bar in injury time from a
Suarez free kick.  ‘Not Much Intent’  Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  said he accepted the decision
to dismiss Coloccini even though there was “not much intent”
to injure Suarez.  Liverpool has now tied half its league games this season
and trails leader  Manchester United  by 13 points.  “We just couldn’t finish off the many chances we had,”
Rodgers said. “I am sure our draws will turn into wins.”  QPR and Reading both missed a chance to end their winless
runs after a draw at Loftus Road. The Hoops are only kept off
the bottom of the standings because of a superior goal
difference to Southampton, with Reading one point ahead.  Kaspars Gorkss, who joined Reading from QPR at the start of
last season, volleyed the visitors into a lead on 16 minutes
after Sean Morrison headed against the bar.  The hosts had several chances to tie the game before
halftime, with Royals goalkeeper Alex McCarthy tipping a free
kick by Esteban Granero onto the bar.  Djibril Cisse  did score for QPR in the 66th minute, with a
shot into the bottom corner.  Taarabt Denied  Both teams pushed for the win, McCarthy again making an
important save to deny Adel Taarabt after 83 minutes.  “The key is the first win and once we get that we can
settle down and play our football,” QPR manager  Mark Hughes 
told reporters.  At the top of the standings, Manchester United holds a one-
point advantage over Chelsea, with defending champion Manchester
City another point back.  United defeated Arsenal 2-1 two days ago, Chelsea drew 1-1
at Swansea, and City tied 0-0 at West Ham.  In other games, Norwich beat Stoke 1-0 and  Aston Villa 
defeated Sunderland 1-0, with Wigan winning by the same score at
Tottenham. The match between Fulham and Everton was a 2-2 draw.
West Bromwich Albion hosts Southampton today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 