-- NFL’s Goodell Awaits Revised Contract for Suspended Coach Payton
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-11-05T21:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/nfl-s-goodell-awaits-revised-contract-for-suspended-coach-payton.html
National Football League Commissioner
 Roger Goodell  said he has yet to receive a revised contract from
the  New Orleans Saints  for  Sean Payton  after rejecting a deal
the team offered the coach in September 2011.  “I have to approve any contracts, and whenever I get a
contract, I’ll deal with it then,” Goodell said in an interview
after speaking at the Rotary Club of Atlanta today.  The NFL rejected a multiyear extension the Saints offered
Payton last year, meaning the suspended coach is only under
contract through this season, based on an extension he signed in
2008.  The extension was rejected by Goodell because of a clause
that would have enabled Payton to walk away from the agreement
if General Manager Mickey Loomis was suspended, fired or left
the organization, ESPN reported, citing people it didn’t
identify. Goodell rejected the contract before suspending Loomis
for his involvement in the team’s so-called bounty case, ESPN
reported.  The Saints have yet to submit a revised contract to the
league for approval, Goodell said today, possibly enabling
Payton to join another team for the 2013 season. He is suspended
without pay this season.  Payton received a one-year suspension for his part in the
bounty case, which the NFL said involves payments to players for
injuring opponents. Loomis was suspended for eight games, while
the Saints were fined $500,000 and stripped of two draft picks.  Four players also were suspended, led by linebacker
Jonathan Vilma’s season-long ban. The initial punishment for the
players was thrown out in arbitration on grounds it involved
compensation but was partly reinstated by Goodell under rules
designed to protect the NFL’s image. That penalty is being
challenged by the players.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  