-- Novartis Drug Works to Treat Rare Cushing’s Disease
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-05T15:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/novartis-drug-works-to-treat-rare-cushing-s-disease.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s treatment for Cushing’s
disease helped some patients, potentially providing a second
marketed therapy for the rare condition, U.S. regulators said.  The drug known as pasireotide decreases levels of the
hormone cortisol, which in excess cause Cushing’s, Food and Drug
Administration staff said today in a  report . The disease leads
to obesity, skin that bruises easily, excess hair growth in
women and decreased sexual desire in men, according to the
 National Institutes of Health .  The drug, which Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis proposes
calling Signifor and is approved in  Europe , would be an
alternative to surgery to remove tumors that are the cause of
the excess hormone. FDA staff cautioned some patients
experienced increased levels of an enzyme in the blood that
indicates liver damage and others had high sugar levels.  “The above-described efficacy results need to be
considered in the context of the overall safety profile observed
in the pasireotide clinical program,” FDA staff wrote.  An FDA advisory committee is scheduled on Nov. 7 to discuss
whether the therapy’s efficacy outweighs the safety concerns.
The FDA approved in February the first treatment for Cushing’s,
a once-daily pill from  Corcept Therapeutics Inc. (CORT)  called Korlym.  Corcept’s Korlym  In the Novartis drug, mean levels of cortisol measured in
urine normalized after six months in 26 percent of 80 patients
who received twice daily injections of the highest dose of
pasireotide in a final-phase  study , according to the report. Of
82 patients on a lower dose, 15 percent experienced normalized
cortisol levels. Body weight,  blood pressure  and cholesterol
levels also were significantly reduced, according to the study.  Corcept’s Korlym doesn’t decrease cortisol levels, the FDA
said when it approved the drug. The pill reduces the effects of
the hormone, such as controlling high blood-sugar levels. One of
the side effects of pasireotide is hyperglycemia, or high blood
sugar, that can cause frequent urination and increased thirst.
If left untreated, hyperglycemia can lead to diabetic coma.  Of the 162 patients who took the Novartis drug, 73 percent
had a hyperglycemia-related adverse event, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  