-- NRC Seen Avoiding Furloughs After Budget Cuts, Chief Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-11-05T21:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/nrc-seen-avoiding-furloughs-after-budget-cuts-chief-says.html
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
staff will be spared furloughs or pay cuts should government
spending reductions take effect at the end of this year,
Chairman  Allison Macfarlane  told employees.  “There’s a potential for significant budget reductions
under sequestration,” as the cuts are known, Macfarlane said
today while meeting with agency employees in Rockville,
 Maryland . Commissioners didn’t speculate as to how individual
agency programs may be affected and Macfarlane declined to
answer questions after the meeting.  The NRC  budget  is $1 billion, with about 90 percent
recovered from fees on reactor owners. The Congress-approved
spending would be cut about $85 million, or 8.2 percent, under
the the law passed to cut the deficit, according to a September
report from the White House Office of Management & Budget.
Lawmakers can still vote to avert the reductions.  While Macfarlane, who joined the agency in July, said she
thinks the NRC’s budget is generally “managed well,”
Commissioner Kristine Svinicki said there is room for
“substantial improvement.” Svinicki didn’t say what changes
should be made.  In addition to dealing with possible budget constraints,
the NRC is considering new regulations in response to a triple
meltdown at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in Japan after a
2011 earthquake and tsunami. Three of the 104 U.S. operating
reactors shut last week during  Hurricane Sandy , and a fourth,
 Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Oyster Creek plant in  New Jersey , declared an
alert and remains off line.  Macfarlane said she is focused on consideration of the
Fukushima-related rules and how natural disasters including
flooding may affect nuclear regulation.  “We need to be proactive in understanding how the earth is
changing,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  