-- NYSE Liffe to Delay 2015 Milling Wheat Future in Quality Dispute
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-05T15:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/nyse-liffe-to-delay-2015-milling-wheat-future-in-quality-dispute.html
NYSE Liffe will delay milling wheat
futures for November 2015 delivery after Senalia, a storage
operator that acts as the contract’s sole point of delivery,
imposed additional quality criteria for grain it receives.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s Paris derivatives exchange is in talks with
Senalia, clearing house LCH.Clearnet and regulator Autorite des
Marches Financiers about the contract, Lionel Porte, NYSE
Liffe’s head of commodity products, said by phone from the
French capital today.  Senalia said on Sept. 21 it would  refuse  all wheat with a
Hagberg index below 220 until the end of the 2012-13 season,
referring to an indicator for baking quality. The NYSE Liffe
contract doesn’t stipulate minimum values for Hagberg, also know
as the Falling Number.  “Our specifications for the wheat contract remain
unchanged,” Porte wrote in an e-mailed statement today. “We
don’t have the plan to modify a contract for which positions are
open and the maturities committed.”  The November 2015 contract was supposed to start trading on
Nov. 13, and the future will now be suspended as NYSE Liffe re-
examines the technical specifications of the contract, the
exchange wrote in an e-mailed statement on Nov. 2.  Marc Blaiset, head of logistics at Senalia, declined to
comment on talks with NYSE Liffe.  “At the start of the harvest we knew there was great
variety in the wheat quality, this was a measure put in place
for export markets,” Blaiset said by phone today. For the
November 2012 delivery, “we have merchandise in store,” he
said, declining to comment on later delivery dates.  Gilles Kindelberger, Senalia’s director for cereals, is
traveling and wasn’t immediately available, according to
Blaiset.  Milling Wheat  The Hagberg number is above 220 for 72 percent of French
soft wheat, crop office FranceAgriMer reported in September.
Importers typically demand a value of at least 220 for milling
wheat, according to the crop office.  NYSE Liffe milling wheat must have a minimum specific
weight, an indicator of how much flour can be milled from a
quantity of grain, of 76 kilograms per hectoliter (2.84 U.S.
bushels). The contract doesn’t specify values for protein
content or Hagberg.  Senalia in August temporarily banned wheat with a Hagberg
below 220 from entering silos at its two grain terminals in
Rouen on the Seine River. The board on Sept. 11 agreed to refuse
such wheat until the end of the season, according to the
company.  The company said in August it sought to avoid blocking port
facilities with wheat that doesn’t meet minimum export
specifications and to avoid quality deterioration by mixing
stored wheat with grain of inferior quality.  Wheat Rises  Milling wheat for January delivery rose 0.5 percent to
269.25 euros ($310.65) a metric ton at 4:13 p.m. in Paris. Wheat
for delivery in November next year, after the 2013 harvest,
advanced 0.3 percent to 243.50 euros.  Rouen is  Europe ’s biggest cereal-shipping hub, and
accounted for 41 percent of  France ’s grain exports by sea in
2010-11, port data show. That compares with a share of 17
percent for La Pallice on the Bay of Biscay and 11 percent for
Dunkirk on the North Sea.  Senalia loaded 4.7 million tons of grains in 2010-11, of
which 80 percent was wheat, according to the company’s website.
Algeria and  Morocco  accounted for more than 65 percent of grain
loaded at the company’s terminals for shipping outside the
European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  