-- Obama and Romney Fought Cleanest Fight in History
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-11-05T23:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/obama-and-romney-fought-cleanest-fight-in-history.html
Now that the candidates have left the
hustings (whatever those are) behind, it can be said: This was
the cleanest presidential campaign in recent memory, perhaps in
American history.  Before you get exercised about  Mitt Romney ’s sketchy tax
math or President  Barack Obama ’s attacks on Bain Capital
Partners LLC, take a deep breath and look at the evidence. If
you can step outside your preference for your own candidate, you
will see a good, clean, hard fight -- one focused overwhelmingly
on the issues and informed by the fundamentally decent
competitive impulses of the candidates. Both wanted very much to
win, but neither was willing to ride dirty to get there.  Start with character. For the first time in decades, no
candidate insinuated or allowed his supporters to insinuate that
the other candidate was fundamentally fraudulent. There was no
swift-boating, and other than  Donald Trump  and a handful of
other attention-seekers and fringe conspiracy-mongers, there
were no “birthers” darkly hinting that one candidate was
Manchurian.  Yes, Obama pointed to Romney’s  flip-flopping  and suggested
he had no core principles, but that was very different from
alleging that Romney had concocted his past out of whole cloth.
Some pro-Romney ads depicted Obama as a  self-loving celebrity ,
but this was a legitimate line of attack against a president who
received the Nobel Peace Prize just for showing up.  Outre Candidates  Then there’s religion. Remember that issue? It’s not only
that neither candidate insisted God was on his side and his side
only, in the way  George W. Bush  managed to suggest in two
different elections. No, this was a race between the two most
religiously outre candidates in U.S. history, offering nearly
infinite opportunity for a faith war. Yet it never came.  Four years ago, commentators (myself included) wondered
seriously whether the public would ever accept a Mormon
president. Yet the Obama campaign did not emit even the most
subtle hints about Mormonism’s polygamist past or its outlying
present beliefs and practices. When was the last time you heard
somebody talking about Mormon garments, an irrelevant topic that
nonetheless came up repeatedly in the 2008 primaries?  Nor was there any attempt to invoke the (non-canonical)
White Horse Prophecy associated with  Joseph Smith , which
predicted that the U.S. Constitution would someday be saved by a
heroic “white horse” associated with the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter Day Saints.  Mitt Romney deserves equal credit for saying exactly
nothing about Obama’s former pastor Jeremiah Wright, an
intellectual inheritor of black liberation theology. Romney also
distanced himself from even subtle implications about Barack
Hussein Obama’s Muslim family background or his childhood in
 Indonesia . He refused to tap into growing anti-Muslim sentiment
in the heartland that can be seen in proposals for preposterous
 anti-sharia laws  in several states.  A cynic could plausibly claim that religion was a
potentially radioactive topic for both candidates, dismissing
their discretion as nothing more than self-preservation. I don’t
buy it: Each side could reasonably have calculated that it had
more to gain from subtle religious aspersions than it had to
lose.  A much more probable explanation is that Romney and Obama,
both buffeted in the past by illegitimate religious sentiments,
were genuinely unwilling to use bigotry as a weapon. Besides,
the combination of self-interest and principle is the base on
which religious tolerance was built in the West. It is to be
admired, not disparaged.  Permissible Distortions  What about the White House’s insistence that Romney was
lying about the president’s record, or Romney’s displeasure that
Obama attributed to him the private sorrows of individuals who
lost their jobs after  Bain Capital  acquired their employers? The
short answer is that such distortions are part of the altogether
permissible political game of dramatic overstatement and policy
imprecision.  Sure, Romney wasn’t exactly telling the truth when he
accused Obama of  “apologizing”  to the world. But it was true
that Obama came to office with the express strategy of
reassuring America’s allies that he wasn’t Bush, and that the
swashbuckling, “time of our choosing” nightmare of foreign
policy disasters was over. Any democratically elected politician
in any country on earth would be inclined to characterize this
stance as “apologetic” to win votes.  A  pro-Obama ad  (not produced by the campaign) that told a
heartbreaking story of a woman’s fatal cancer after her husband
lost his job in a Bain Capital firing was also not, strictly
speaking, true. (It turned out that five years had elapsed, and
that she had her own health insurance from a separate job until
that job disappeared.) But the point of the ad was to suggest
that a man who got rich acquiring firms and resizing them for
resale was not likely to feel sympathy for those who became
unemployed as a result.  Show me a politician who would not take this approach
against a private-equity millionaire, and I’ll show you a person
who couldn’t win an election for dogcatcher. People in finance
and private equity may feel personally offended by the ad, but
that is because they aren’t running for anything.  In the 1800 presidential election,  John Adams ’s supporters
said that  Thomas Jefferson  was an atheist who was having an
affair with his slave, Sally Hemings. Of course, both of these
charges were more or less true. But that isn’t the point:
Mudslinging of the personal, character-assassination type is a
longstanding and persistent feature of our electoral politics.
This time around, however, two basically decent men took the
high road. In this highly polarized, highly partisan moment in
our political history, we should allow ourselves a moment to
appreciate just how impressive this really was. Well done,
candidates. May the best man win.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how  this U.S. election does
(and doesn’t) matter  and on recognizing  the costs of climate
change ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on picking a president for  the zombie
apocalypse ; William Pesek on the  rampant corruption of China’s
leaders ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  neither party wants to talk about
drones ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  Romney’s tax
plan ; Klaus Adam on why  Greece needs to be cut off from
borrowing .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 