-- Occupy Wall Street Camps at Amazon, Wal-Mart Sandy Aid
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-11-05T21:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/occupy-wall-street-camps-at-amazon-wal-mart-sandy-aid.html
Occupy Wall Street  has set up camp
online at  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s websites,
using  wedding registries  to solicit gifts of everything from
blankets to batteries to bleach for victims of  Hurricane Sandy .  The group has been among the volunteers helping with
disaster relief efforts since Sandy made landfall on Oct. 29,
ravaging coastal communities, causing power blackouts, hobbling
mass transit and leaving more than 100 dead in 10 U.S. states.
On Saturday, one volunteer at a church in Brooklyn decided to
use an Amazon registry, promoted by posts on Twitter Inc.’s
microblogging service, to speed aid to those in need.  “My friends and I talked about how we could improve the
donation system while we were walking to the store to buy some
food for meals,” John Heggestuen, 25, an  Occupy Sandy  member
who started one registry, said in an e-mail. “We have worked
feverishly on this all weekend and now it is blowing up.”  In addition the list created by Heggestuen, there is also
an Occupy Sandy registry on Amazon that is shipping purchases to
a distribution center in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . Another
 registry  on Wal-Mart’s website lists a delivery address in
Brooklyn.  Occupy Sandy represents a shift in focus for a protest
movement that began as encampment in Zuccotti Park in lower
 Manhattan  more than a year ago. Their aim now, according to
Heggestuen, is to fill needs left unmet by traditional relief
organizations such as the American  Red Cross .  ‘Months Organizing’  “People are now experiencing what we meant by all those
months of protesting and organizing,” said Samantha Corbin, 28,
an Occupy Sandy volunteer at a Brooklyn church receiving
donations from the Amazon registry, which Heggestuen set up with
help from his friends Katherine Dolan and Alex Nordenson.
“We’re not banner-waving over this. We’re trying to build
networks of people who care about each other.”  By using Amazon, the movement may be able to provide faster
delivery of supplies directly to those in need, and a way to
bypass traditional nonprofit organizations that spend a portion
of donated funds on overhead. The risk is donors may not know
exactly who receives gifts or whether they in fact reach Sandy
victims. And donations to Occupy Sandy wouldn’t be tax-
deductible, as they would be for a traditional nonprofit.  So far, the  Brooklyn  registry on Amazon has received orders
for items including flashlights, mini refrigerators, diapers,
toothpaste, blankets and bleach, according to the company’s
website. The so-called couple describes their style as “warm,
non-perishable” and requests items be sent without gift wrap.  Packages Arriving  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Amazon, and Ravi Jariwala, a
Wal-Mart spokesman, declined to comment on the Occupy Sandy
registries. Amazon has a link on its home page to make donations
to the Red Cross, while Wal-Mart said in a  statement  today that
it would donate as much as $1.5 million to relief organizations.  Packages from Amazon are just starting to reach the  Church
of St. Luke and St. Matthew  on Clinton Avenue in Brooklyn, The
Rev. Michael Sniffen said in an interview. Deliveries so far
have included batteries, blankets and coats.  “I received a phone call from someone in Phoenix saying
they’d just sent a package,” Sniffen said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a creative way to allow people to participate
in the relief effort from all over the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in  New York  at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  