-- Oil Trades Near Four-Month Low on Greece Concern, U.S. Elections
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-05T13:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/oil-trades-near-four-month-low-as-storm-hit-refineries-stay-shut.html
Oil traded near the lowest level in
almost four months in New York amid concern that Greece will
struggle to secure another bailout and uncertainty over who will
win tomorrow’s U.S. presidential elections.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed after
falling 2.6 percent on Nov. 2 to cap a third weekly decline.
Brent crude fell below $105 a barrel in  London  for the first
time since Aug. 2. Voters decide tomorrow between giving
President  Barack Obama  another four years in office or changing
course with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  “Some clarity for the medium-term would be good for the
markets,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who predicts Brent crude will
rebound toward $110 a barrel this month. “Obama is considered
by the oil markets as being more favorable.”  Crude for December delivery was at $85.21 a barrel, up 35
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:41 p.m. London time. It rose as high as $85.38. The
contract slid 1.7 percent last week to $84.86, the lowest close
since July 10. Prices have lost 14 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange fell as much as 92 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $104.76 a
barrel. The North Sea crude dropped after Nexen Inc. was said to
have restarted the Buzzard oil field, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter. The European benchmark crude was
at a premium of $20.28 to New York-traded WTI grade.  Greek Test  European leaders’ determination to keep Greece in the euro
area will be tested this week as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
battles to win political support for measures needed to obtain
financial aid.  Brent will remain in a range of $105 to $110 a barrel as
higher refinery runs offsets risks in the global economy, Morgan
Stanley said in a report today.  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s Port Reading and Phillips 66’s Bayway
refineries in  New Jersey  remained shut after  Hurricane Sandy ,
curbing demand for crude a week after the storm struck the U.S.
East Coast.  Power was partially restored at Hess’s 70,000 barrel-a-day
plant, Lorrie Hecker, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
Power has been restored to Phillips’s 238,000 barrel-a-day
Bayway site, which is closed as the company makes repairs,  Rich Johnson , a Houston-based spokesman, said in a phone interview.
Both facilities shut before Sandy hit and lost power after the
storm made landfall Oct. 29 in southern New Jersey.  Plenty of Crude  “The impact of Sandy may be quite a regional matter, but
all over the world we still have plenty of crude, so the oil
market remains in a downtrend,” said  Ken Hasegawa , an energy
trading manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo  who predicts WTI will
drop to $80 by the end of November. “There’s also a lot of
uncertainty over the economy, so we may not be so optimistic.”  A final index of manufacturing and services in the euro
area probably fell to 45.8 in October, the lowest in more than
three years and matching the preliminary reading, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before a report tomorrow by Markit
Economics. A measure below 50 signals contraction.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index, which covers almost 90 percent of the  U.S. economy , was
at 54.5 last month, from 55.1 in September, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed before the data today.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along its lower
Bollinger Band, around $84 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures last week halted their decline
after reaching this indicator, signaling buy orders may be
clustered close to it.  Hedge Funds  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reduced
their net-long positions in crude to the lowest in almost five
months in the week ended Oct. 30, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  Managed-money bets that prices will increase outnumbered
so-called short positions by 122,863 futures and options
combined, the Washington-based regulator said in its weekly
Commitments of Traders report Nov. 2. Net-long positions fell by
15,477 contracts, or 11 percent, from a week earlier. Hedge
funds and other money managers reduced bullish bets on  Brent
crude  in the week ended Oct. 30 to the lowest level in almost
three months, according to  data from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 91,462 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s down by 2,545 lots, or 2.7 percent, from
94,007 last week, to the lowest level since Aug. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  