-- Oil Rises From Four-Month Low as Refineries Restart
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-05T21:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/oil-trades-near-a-four-month-low-as-americans-prepare.html
Oil rose from the lowest level in
almost four months as refineries restored production after
 Hurricane Sandy  tightened fuel supplies.  Prices snapped a three-week loss as four of the six
Northeast refineries that were forced to close because of Sandy
resumed output. Gains accelerated in the final 15 minutes of
floor trading as gasoline jumped and Brent oil in  London  climbed
on unprecedented delays in North Sea Forties shipments.  “Refineries are kicking back up and it’s a little
supportive for oil in the short term,” said  Kyle Cooper ,
director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston.
“Market’s sold off quite a bit and you probably have value
investors coming in.”  West Texas Intermediate oil for December delivery rose 79
cents, or 0.9 percent, to settle at $85.65 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . The contract ended at $84.86 a barrel
on Nov. 2, the lowest settlement since July 10. Prices have
dropped 13 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement increased $2.05, or 1.9
percent, to end the session at $107.73 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Three refineries in  New Jersey ,  Delaware  and  Pennsylvania 
with a total capacity of 527,200 barrels a day returned to
normal operations last week and Philadelphia Energy Solutions’
335,000-barrels-a-day plant in Philadelphia was producing at
reduced rates as of today, according to the Energy Department.  Refinery Outages  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s Port Reading and Phillips 66’s Bayway
refineries in New Jersey remained shut. Power has been restored
to Phillips’s 238,000 barrel-a-day Bayway plant and partially
restored at Hess’s 70,000 barrel-a-day site.  Colonial Pipeline Co., which operates 5,500 miles of
pipeline connecting Gulf Coast refineries to the Northeast, is
serving seven of the 24 terminals connected to its Linden, New
Jersey, fuel tank farm, according to the company.  “Demand should improve now that Sandy’s behind us,” said
 Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “You should see refineries boost operating rates to
make up for the Sandy losses. The market sold off strongly last
week, so it’s about time we have a bit of a rebound.”  Gasoline for December delivery rose 4.66 cents, or 1.8
percent, to settle at $2.6202 a gallon on the Nymex. The futures
dropped 4.6 percent last week.  Gasoline Prices  Retail gasoline averaged $4.066 a gallon in New York City
yesterday, up 2.6 cents from Nov. 3 and 9.4 cents from a week
earlier, according to  AAA , the largest U.S. motoring
organization. Nationwide, retail prices  averaged  $3.47
yesterday, down from $3.543 a week earlier and the lowest since
July 21.  About 73 percent of gas stations in the  New York 
metropolitan area had gasoline yesterday, up from 62 percent on
Nov. 3, according to the U.S.  Energy Department .  Oil prices  also advanced as 12 of 16 North Sea Forties
crude cargoes for loading in October and November were postponed
further, according to four people with knowledge of the loading
program.  Forties is the most abundant of the four North Sea crude
grades that make up the Dated Brent benchmark and, as the
cheapest of the four, typically sets the marker used to price
more than half of the world’s oil.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  Brent Boost  “Brent is helping WTI,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market
strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago. “How much
further is oil going to fall? We are getting into some buying
after the big drop.”  Oil also advanced as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erased
losses. The index was up 0.1 percent after falling as much as
0.4 percent before voters decide between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years in office or changing course with
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . The election is tomorrow.  “The general perception is that Romney is more pro-
economy,” Cooper said. “In general, the market will probably
rally on Romney victory and will sell off on an Obama victory.”  Obama led Romney 48 percent to 45 percent in an Oct. 31-
Nov. 3 national  poll  conducted by the Pew Research Center, a
survey that was deadlocked at 47 percent each a week ago.  U.S. oil  production  has jumped 36 percent since January
2009. Output rose to 6.67 million barrels a day in the week
ended Oct. 26, the most since 1995.  Production Gain  “Look at how much production has gained in the past four
years and that’s showing that there is a greater trend above and
beyond politics,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-
based analyst at Summit Energy Inc., which manages more than $20
billion in companies’ annual energy spending. “Production is
going to continue to grow whoever is elected.”  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reduced
their net-long positions in crude to the lowest in almost five
months in the week ended Oct. 30, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 396,644
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. Volume totaled 648,226 contracts on
Nov. 2, 24 percent above the three-month average. Open interest
was 1.61 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net 
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  