-- Oil-Tanker Hire Costs Climb as Supply of Vessels Remains Stable
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-11-05T17:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/oil-tanker-hire-costs-climb-as-supply-of-vessels-remains-stable.html
Charter rates rose for the largest
tankers hauling Middle East oil to  Asia  on the industry’s
busiest trade route as the supply of vessels remained stable.  Hire costs for very large crude carriers on the benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage gained 0.6 percent to 35.92
industry-standard Worldscale points, figures from the London-
based  Baltic Exchange  showed today.  The supply of VLCCs available over the next four weeks was
unchanged at 83, Marex Spectron Group said in an e-mailed
report. That compares with 87 vessels at the start of the month,
its data showed. Still, the global VLCC fleet will expand 6.7
percent this year, about double demand growth of 3.4 percent,
according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a division of the
world’s largest shipbroker.  “Rates will remain where they are,” Kevin Sy, a
Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at Marex, said in an
e-mailed report. “With the current program slightly ahead of
last month’s pace, a rush of fixings wasn’t expected.”  VLCCs are  losing  $1,799 daily on the benchmark voyage,
compared with $2,023 on Nov. 2, according to the exchange. The
ships, each able to hold 2 million barrels of crude, earned
money in only four sessions so far in the second half.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at curbing use of ship fuel, or bunkers, the industry’s biggest
expense. The price of fuel slid 1 percent to $615.13 a metric
ton, the lowest level since July 26, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 35.92 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, slid
1.2 percent to 659. The drop was the biggest in three months and
the seventh in eight sessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  