-- London Trio The Xx Dazzle in Toronto, Cancel for Sandy
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/london-trio-the-xx-dazzle-in-toronto-cancel-for-sandy.html
The xx appeared as shadows behind a
mesh screen hanging in front of the stage at Toronto’s Massey
Hall on Oct. 23. Water images and florescent colors blended on
the screen while the band opened with “Angels.”  I was lucky to catch the London trio in  Canada  because the
devastating Sandy forced the group to postpone an Oct. 29
performance at  New York ’s Paradise Theater after it played there
three days earlier.  In Toronto, Romy Madley Croft’s guitar sounded individual
notes layered with echo over Oliver Sim’s bass and  Jamie Smith ’s
drums. Croft’s soothing voice drew the audience closer, as did
the rising screen, revealing the troika clad in black.  As strobe lights twirled, the group moved into the thumping
“Heart Skipped a Beat.” It’s one of the many standout tracks
from the 2010 Mercury Prize-winning debut record “xx.” Smith’s
drum pads snapped behind Sim’s seductive voice. Croft soon
joined, and the two voices complimented each other perfectly.  The xx carved out a niche as a minimalist pop outfit that
fused elements of ’80s guitar licks, R&B bass lines and
electronic drumming. Their 2012 sophomore release, “Coexist,”
remains consistent with that simple approach.  Sims coolly walked the stage as he sung, “Fiction,” an
airy number that featured Smith working the synths and drum pads
simultaneously -- he multitasked all night. The lights went blue
while smoke pumped across the stage for the ethereal
“Fantasy,” with vocals drowned in reverb.  ‘Basic Space’  “Basic Space” had Madley Croft and Sim vocals jelling
before Smith took over on his pads to create an electronic drum
and bass solo jam. For the new tune “Reunion,” Smith, who
maneuvered all evening around mounds of electronics, drum pads
and an assortment of percussion-driven instruments, found
himself behind a steel-drum setup.  The tropically flavored number soon segued into the dark
yet bouncy “Sunset.” The crowd-lifting pulse continued as
Croft’s guitar called out “Night Time.”  After a xylophone tapped out the introduction to “VCR,” a
repetitive guitar scale and a slow bass line were all that was
needed to have the crowd join in word-for-word on this little
upbeat number.  Sandy Cancels  The set closed on the drifting guitar notes and lulling
vocals of “Infinity.” The calm soon collapsed with Sim singing
the line “give it up” and Croft responding with “can’t give
it up.” The music mushroomed around the vocals and a rear
backdrop slowly rose unveiling a large crystal-clear X pierced
by multicolored lights and the crowd’s cheering.  The xx is scheduled to return to the U.S. in January, so
perhaps a make-up date will appear for the lost Oct. 29 show.
Until then, The trio will be touring across  Europe  for the
remainder of 2013.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in November.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for  Bloomberg News . Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and  Greg
Evans  on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 