-- Hong Kong Used Home Sales Fall to 9-Month Low on Non-Locals Tax
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-11-05T01:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/hong-kong-used-home-sales-fall-to-9-month-low-on-non-locals-tax.html
The number of property transactions
recorded at  Hong Kong ’s 10 largest estates on the weekend fell
to the lowest level since January as a tax on non-local buyers
imposed last month curbs investors’ interest.  Ten sales were registered, from 12 a week earlier,
Centaline Property Agency Ltd. said in a report yesterday. The
government imposed a 15 percent tax on property purchases by
overseas and corporate buyers on Oct. 26 in its harshest
measures yet to control  home prices . Hong Kong Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying has pledged to rein in the real estate market to
stem a three-year surge that has almost doubled prices.  “Many potential sellers are choosing to hold on to their
properties rather than selling them at cut prices,” said
Vincent Cheung, an  executive director  at realtor  Midland
Holdings Ltd. (1200)  “At the same time, buyers are looking for
bargains and that’s why we’ll be seeing low transaction figures
for a while.”  The tax to deter capital inflows and reduce the risk of a
bubble in the world’s most expensive housing market marks the
third set of curbs since August. Leung has tightened mortgage
requirements and boosted the supply of land for developers as
the boom triggered protests over a widening wealth gap.  A Midland survey conducted after the new measures were
introduced showed 62 percent of 229 mainland Chinese asked said
they will hold off from buying properties in Hong Kong for the
next six months, while 3 percent said they won’t buy in the city
anymore, the company said in a Nov. 1 statement.  Other Measures  Monthly sales at the 10 largest estates rose 7.6 percent in
October, Centaline, the city’s biggest closely held realtor,
said in a second e-mailed report. Turnover will probably slow in
November and December because of the new tax, the report said.  Government officials, including Financial Secretary  John
Tsang , have said in the past week the government will consider
other measures to curb prices if necessary.  Leung, who took over as the city’s leader in July, has
pledged to increase housing supply in his battle to curb a
growing asset bubble. The former surveyor said in September that
there will be as many as 65,000 new private units available in
the next three to four years. That’s at least 30 percent higher
than the average under  Donald Tsang , his predecessor, according
to estimates by  Nicole Wong , an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  