-- Ontario Teachers Said to Near $1.3 Billion Heartland Deal
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/ontario-teachers-said-to-near-1-3-billion-heartland-deal.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan is
nearing a deal to buy Heartland Dental Care Inc. that values the
company at about $1.3 billion, outbidding traditional leveraged-
buyout funds, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The Canadian retirement fund may be prepared to announce an
agreement with Effingham, Illinois-based Heartland as soon as
today, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , Madison Dearborn
Partners LLC, and Apax Partners LLP had also pursued an
acquisition of Heartland, one of the people said.  Founded by Chief Executive Officer Richard Workman,
Heartland is one of the largest U.S. dental practice management
companies. It manages 370 practices in 19 states, helping
dentists with personnel and back-office support, according to
its  website.  CHS Capital, a Chicago-based private equity firm,
 bought  a stake of undisclosed size in Heartland in 2008.  Calls to  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for Ontario
Teachers’, and Ashley Buehnerkemper, of closely held Heartland,
weren’t immediately returned. Representatives of the private-
equity firms declined to comment.  In addition to investing in private equity funds managed by
others, Teachers, with C$117.1 billion under management as of
Dec. 31, makes its own direct investments in private equity,
usually alongside a buyout firm. Teachers has disclosed only two
acquisitions worth more than $1 billion without a co-investor,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Those were the 2007 acquisition of marine container
terminals in  Canada  and the U.S. from Oriental Overseas
International Ltd. for about $2.35 billion, and the 2000
purchase of Cadillac Fairview Corp., a commercial real estate
developer, for C$2.3 billion ($1.56 billion at the time).  Jefferies Group Inc. and Moelis & Co. are advising
Heartland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  