-- Ontario Teachers’ Agrees to Buy Stake in Heartland Dental
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-05T19:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/ontario-teachers-agrees-to-buy-stake-in-heartland-dental.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan,
 Canada ’s third-largest pension fund, agreed to buy a majority
stake in Heartland Dental Care Inc. for an undisclosed price.  Heartland Dental Care founder Richard Workman will retain a
“significant” minority stake together with management and
employees, according to a statement today by the Effingham,
Illinois-based dental service company. The deal values the
company at about $1.3 billion, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  “Our investment in Heartland Dental Care is supported by
favorable fundamentals and demographics,” Jane Rowe, senior
vice-president of Teachers’ Private Capital, said in the
statement. “We have been impressed with their dedication to
providing high-quality support services to dental practices that
reduce the administrative burdens on dentists.”  The Toronto-based pension fund manager outbid traditional
buyout funds run by  KKR & Co. (KKR) , Madison Dearborn Partners LLC,
and Apax Partners LLP, which had also pursued an acquisition of
Heartland, said one of the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. Heartland offers
leadership training and support services to more than 500
dentists in 21 states, according to today’s statement, making it
one of the largest U.S. dental practice management companies.  Calls to Ashley Buehnerkemper, of closely held Heartland,
weren’t immediately returned. Representatives of the private-
equity firms declined to comment.  Teachers’ Investments  CHS Capital, a Chicago-based private equity firm,  bought  a
stake of undisclosed size in Heartland in 2008.  In addition to investing in private-equity funds managed by
others, Teachers’, with C$117.1 billion under management as of
Dec. 31, makes its own direct investments in private equity,
usually alongside a buyout firm. Teachers’ has disclosed only
two acquisitions worth more than $1 billion without a co-
investor, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Those were the 2007 acquisition of marine container
terminals in Canada and the U.S. from Oriental Overseas
International Ltd. for about $2.35 billion, and the 2000
purchase of Cadillac Fairview Corp., a commercial real estate
developer, for C$2.3 billion ($1.56 billion at the time).  Jefferies Group Inc. and Moelis & Co. are advising
Heartland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  