-- Top U.S. Weapons Buyer Says Pentagon Begins to Plan for Cuts
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-11-05T20:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/top-u-s-weapons-buyer-says-pentagon-begins-to-plan-for-cuts-2-.html
The U.S. Defense Department’s top
weapons buyer said the Pentagon has begun preparing for
automatic budget cuts set to take effect early next year.  “We get a certain amount of criticism for not planning for
sequestration,” Frank Kendall, undersecretary of defense for
acquisition, technology and logistics, said during a speech
today at a government contracting conference in  Washington . “We
actually are starting to do some planning.”  Kendall, who didn’t elaborate on the plans, spoke a day
before the presidential election. Republican  Mitt Romney  has
pledged to stop the cuts and increase defense spending from
levels proposed by President  Barack Obama .  Under last year’s deficit-reduction legislation, the U.S.
faces $1.2 trillion in budget cuts over a decade, with half
coming from national-security spending. If sequestration takes
effect on Jan. 2 as scheduled, it would require cutting $55
billion, or about 9 percent, from the Pentagon’s budget request
of $614 billion for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1  The law requires each budget line to be cut by the same
percentage amount, Kendall said, which is a “singularly stupid
way of taking money out” and doesn’t allow the department to
prioritize, he said.  Tax cuts enacted under former President  George W. Bush  also
are scheduled to expire at the end of the year, setting up a so-
called fiscal cliff.  Normal Operations  The military may be able to withstand reductions of “a few
billion dollars” a year under a broader deficit reduction
agreement, though cuts on the scale of sequestration would be
“devastating,” Kendall said.  “A few billion dollars might be acceptable, but when you
start talking about 10, 20, 30, or 40, to say nothing of $50
billion a year, that really means we have to go fundamentally
rethink what kind of Defense Department we have,” he said.  Kendall’s comments are the first acknowledgment that the
Pentagon is planning for the possibility of the automatic cuts,
said Stan Soloway, chief executive officer of the Professional
Services Council, an Arlington, Virginia-based contractors’
group.  “It’s good news that they’re planning because it’s a
really complicated problem,” Soloway said in a phone interview.
“One would hope that as they’re planning they would begin to
engage their private-sector implementing partners, which at this
point, as far as I know, they have not begun to do. So I don’t
know how deep the planning is going.”  Previous Comments  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  during an Oct. 25 press
conference at the Pentagon urged Congress to take action to
avoid the automatic cuts.  When asked whether the White House’s Office of Management
and Budget had indicated the department could start planning for
sequestration, Panetta said: “We have not received that word.”  In a Sept. 25 memo, Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter 
directed military departments and acquisition personnel to
proceed with normal spending and operations.  “We do not want our programs, personnel and activities to
begin to suffer the harmful effects of sequestration while there
is still a chance it can be avoided,” Carter wrote. He directed
commanders and managers to “continue the defense mission under
current laws and policies, without taking steps that assume
sequestration will occur.”  U.S. lawmakers from both parties have said they want to
avoid the automatic cuts, which may hurt contractors such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Obama has
expressed confidence that a deal will be made and said during
the final presidential debate that the automatic cuts “will not
happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  