-- Orcel Announces Overhaul of UBS’s Investment Banking Team
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-11-05T10:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/orcel-announces-overhaul-of-ubs-s-investment-banking-team.html
Andrea Orcel , chief executive officer
of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s investment bank, is creating two client groups in
an overhaul of the operation to revive profit.  Corporate client solutions will include merger advisory,
 capital markets  and financing solutions for corporate, financial
institutions and private-equity firms, Orcel said in a
memorandum to employees today obtained by Bloomberg. Investor
client services will encompass equities, foreign exchange,
precious metals, rates and credit, he said.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank based in Zurich, said last
week it will exit most of its fixed-income businesses to boost
profitability of the investment bank, hurt by stricter  capital
requirements  and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. Orcel was named
the sole head of the shrunken unit, with Carsten Kengeter moving
to wind down debt businesses. UBS plans to boost the pretax
return on equity of the investment bank to more than 15 percent
from next year compared with 12 percent to 17 percent targeted
previously.  “The many moving parts of the restructuring plan serve to
enhance UBS as a very well-capitalized bank with excellent
capital return prospects,” Espirito Santo Investment Bank
analysts, led by Andrew Lim, said in an e-mailed note today.
“The plan de-emphasises the investment bank, where previously
the market was attributing a near-zero and indeed sometimes even
negative valuation.”  Organized Regionally  The corporate client solutions units, which will contribute
about a third of total revenue for the investment bank, will be
organized regionally with David Soanes heading Europe, the
 Middle East  and Africa, Steve Cummings in the Americas and
 Matthew Grounds  in the Asia-Pacific region, Orcel said. Rajeev Misra, who co-headed fixed income, currencies and commodities
with Roberto Hoornweg, will become global head of financial
solutions, he said. Hoornweg is leaving the bank, Orcel said in
a separate memo.  Soanes has been leading global capital markets for UBS
since 2011, Cummings was the chairman of investment-banking
division in the Americas, while Grounds co-headed investment
banking with Simon Warshaw. Warshaw will advise clients and
report to Orcel, according to the memo.  Investor client services, contributing two thirds of
investment-bank revenue, will be led by  Mike Stewart  as global
head of equities, Chris Vogelgesang and George Athanasopoulos as
global co-heads of foreign exchange and precious metals and
Chris Murphy as global head of rates and credit, Orcel said.
Stewart, Vogelgesang and Athanasopoulos are staying in their
previous roles, while Murphy has been heading the global rates
business.  All eight men will report to Orcel.  Richard Morton , a
spokesman for UBS, confirmed the contents of the memorandum.  “We will collaborate across the entire franchise and
ensure the investment bank is more complementary to  wealth
management , global asset management and our Swiss universal
bank,” Orcel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net 
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  