-- Morgan Stanley’s Kelleher Faces Profit Task Solo as Taubman Goes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-11-06T02:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/morgan-stanley-s-taubman-to-leave-as-kelleher-s-duties-expand.html
Colm Kelleher, who will take over as
sole head of  Morgan Stanley’s (MS)  investment bank as his counterpart
and past rival Paul J. Taubman exits, now faces the challenge of
improving returns at the firm’s biggest business.  Taubman will retire at the end of the year, the New York-
based bank said yesterday in a statement. The move concludes an
almost three-year dual-leadership role marked by enmity between
Kelleher, 55, a gregarious former fixed-income salesman, and
Taubman, 51, a reserved investment banker.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  is relying on Kelleher
to help improve earnings as the stock has traded below  book
value  for most of Gorman’s tenure. Morgan Stanley’s investment
bank has posted a return on equity, a measure of profitability,
of less than 4 percent in the first nine months of the year,
trailing competitor  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s 17 percent. In 2006,
ROE at Morgan Stanley’s investment bank was 30 percent.  “We must continue our intense focus on improving ROE,”
Gorman, 54, said in an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News.
“Aligning sales trading more closely with investment banking
and capital markets will allow us to explore and extract new
revenue opportunities within institutional securities and better
manage our costs.”  Kelleher and Taubman disagreed over how aggressively to
push clients for additional business on the back of capital-
markets deals, three former colleagues told  Bloomberg News  in
2011. Gorman, who met with the executives last year to settle
tensions, recently decided that the division would win more of
those deals with Kelleher running the entire unit, a person
briefed on the decision said.  Pushing Products  While Kelleher won out over Taubman, he may face more
obstacles in seeking to persuade bankers to push more products.  “I understand the motivation of a head of trading to
encourage investment bankers to attempt to use their contacts
with corporate treasurers to originate trades and hedging,”
Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. and a
former Morgan Stanley treasurer, said in an e-mail. “But if
faced with the tradeoff between asking for an M&A engagement and
a swap, the M&A pitch will win every time.”  Investment banks sometimes pitch clients to win derivatives
business related to a stock or bond sale, such as an interest-
rate or currency swap. While the secondary deal can boost
trading revenue, it can also make the bank a counterparty to a
client it had just advised.  Alienating Clients  With Kelleher looking to secure more deals to increase
trading revenue and Taubman seeking to avoid alienating clients,
Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, has
lagged behind rivals, the former colleagues said last year.  The interaction between trading and banking may become more
of a focus as Morgan Stanley and competitors seek to produce
more revenue with fewer people and using less capital. The firm
has said it intends to pare 4,000 positions this year through
job cuts and unit sales. In September, Chief Financial Officer
Ruth Porat laid out a plan to reduce the fixed-income trading
unit’s risk-weighted assets under Basel III rules by at least 35
percent from the third quarter of 2011 through the end of 2014.  One area of collaboration will be corporate lending, which
is likely to expand once Morgan Stanley purchases Citigroup
Inc.’s remaining stake in a brokerage joint venture and gains
control of more than $50 billion in deposits.  Goldman’s Success  Investors may struggle to gauge progress as firms don’t
disclose the amount of trading revenue derived from investment-
banking relationships.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  sought to
demonstrate its success on that front in its 2009  annual report ,
telling shareholders that revenue in “risk- management
solutions” offered to investment-banking clients climbed 32
percent annually from 2005 through 2009.  “Our advisory business serves as our primary point of
contact with our clients and is often the genesis for sourcing
other opportunities to serve them,” Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, wrote in the report.  Gorman told both men about the decision more than a week
ago and the announcement was delayed because of  Hurricane Sandy ,
according to the person who was briefed.  After being informed of Gorman’s decision to have Kelleher
take over as sole head, Taubman decided to retire from the firm,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
the discussions were private. The pair have been seen by
colleagues as potential successors to the CEO. Taubman didn’t
return a phone call seeking comment.  ‘Collective Talent’  “It’s unfortunate that Morgan Stanley couldn’t derive the
benefits of the collective talent of Colm and Paul,” said Jay Dweck, 57, who led Morgan Stanley’s strats and modeling group
until 2011. “Paul brought an enlightened client-focused view to
the institutional-sales division, which will be sorely missed.”  Mark Eichorn and Franck Petitgas were named global co-heads
of  investment banking , the area that Taubman oversaw, the firm
said in yesterday’s statement. The pair will report to Kelleher,
who has overseen trading.  While Kelleher ran the larger trading businesses, the
investment-banking unit that Taubman led performed better.
Morgan Stanley ranked fourth in investment-banking revenue among
its largest global rivals in the first nine months of this year,
the same place it held in 2011 and 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm is seventh in trading revenue
this year, compared with sixth in 2011 and eighth in 2010.  Facebook IPO  Morgan Stanley ranks second among advisers on global
mergers and acquisitions so far this year and first among
managers of global equity issues, the data show. Both of those
businesses were under Taubman’s leadership. The firm, which has
57,726 employees, has also faced investor complaints over its
handling of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering in May,
after shares of the social-network operator slid.  Kelleher, who was the firm’s CFO during the financial
crisis, has worked in the investment-banking and trading
divisions during more than 20 years at Morgan Stanley. Taubman
has only been an investment banker since joining the company in
1982.  Kelleher had made progress in reaching Gorman’s goal of an
8 percent market share for Morgan Stanley’s fixed-income unit.
The firm had a 7 percent share last year, up from as low as 5
percent in previous years, Kelleher said in March.  That progress slowed this year as the bank’s share fell to
about 6.5 percent. The decline was driven by a drop in revenue
in the second quarter as clients stepped back from trading with
Morgan Stanley amid a  credit-rating  review by Moody’s Investors
Service. Moody’s cut the firm’s grade two levels in June. The
next month, Gorman announced that he was shrinking the fixed-
income unit.  ‘Warmed Up’  Kelleher’s promotion also sets up a management structure
similar to when Gorman ran wealth and asset management and Walid Chammah headed institutional securities under then-CEO  John Mack . Gorman beat out his fellow co-president for the top job in
2009, while Chammah became chairman of the international
business before retiring this year.  Greg Fleming , 49, who runs the brokerage and asset-
management units, and Kelleher now both oversee businesses that
have contributed half of the bank’s revenue this year. Gorman,
who is also chairman, said in March that he’s “just getting
warmed up” and plans to be in the job for “a bunch of years.”
He has no plans to name a president in the near term, according
to a person briefed on his thinking, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Fleming and Kelleher each face challenges in improving
returns. Fleming has promised a 15 percent pretax margin in the
brokerage business by the middle of 2013, up from 10 percent
this year.  Public Jokes  Eichorn and Petitgas, 51, will have responsibilities for
global client coverage, mergers and acquisitions and  capital
markets . Eichorn will join the bank’s management committee along
with Jeff Holzschuh, 52, who was named chairman of institutional
securities and will focus on client relationships. Petitgas is
already a member of the committee.  Taubman and Kelleher’s relationship had shown signs of
improving after Gorman met with the pair together and separately
after last year’s Bloomberg News article, according to two
people who work with them. Enmity between Kelleher and Taubman
had become a source of public jokes.  “So how’s that co-head thing going?” mergers chief Robert Kindler asked at a 2010 meeting of more than 100 managing
directors at the Ritz-Carlton Battery Park hotel in  New York ,
drawing laughter as he gestured at Kelleher and Taubman. Neither
responded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  