-- How Today’s Election Does and Doesn’t Matter
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-05T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/how-today-s-election-does-and-doesn-t-matter.html
If you find yourself despondent after
Election Day and contemplating a move to  Canada  -- either the
socialist cafes of Toronto or the libertarian wilds of the Yukon
-- allow us to offer some advice: Stay put. Mr. James Madison’s
got your back.  There is no denying that this election between President
 Barack Obama  and Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  is
consequential. Although the range of contested policy issues is
 not vast , it is deep. Among the most serious is whether about 30
million Americans will gain access to health insurance and
whether long-term  deficit reduction  will begin with tax
increases or with service and subsidy reductions. The status of
gay Americans is not determined by which party holds more power
in Washington, but it is powerfully influenced by it. And in
four states the right to marry is on the ballot.  Climate change 
is,  unjustifiably , a partisan issue. Likewise, the balance of
power  in the Supreme Court , and the  long twilight struggle  over
abortion rights, depends in large part on the next president.  These stakes are real. They are also easily overdramatized.
Political campaigns have the unfortunate effect of stirring
fear, uncertainty and doubt about the plans and motivations of
the other side. Fortunately, these emotions have a way of
dissipating amid the mundane work of governing.  The revocation of the New Deal promised by Tea Party
candidates in 2010 is no closer to fruition in 2012, in part
because voters have shown little appetite for slashing the
social safety net. (This discovery also explains Romney’s late
rhetorical dash toward the center.) Meanwhile, the peculiar
realities of our constitutional system, even in an era of acute
polarization, can dull as much as sharpen the edges of conflict.  If the national vote yields a Democratic Senate, a
Republican House and a president from either party with a narrow
margin of victory, the man in the Oval Office won’t be sitting
astride a political steamroller. Conflict among the branches
should minimize the threat of radical amendments to the social
contract. At the same time, the government’s deep fiscal
imbalance and accumulated debt have already curbed yearnings for
new government programs.  Compromise  in this new environment won’t be any more easily
achieved than it was before the election. The difference is that
it will be more urgent. If Congress does nothing, previously
mandated spending cuts and tax increases will take place in
January -- and there’s nothing like the prospect of a tax
increase to concentrate a politician’s mind. It also helps that
the two parties have the  obvious outlines  of a deal: tax
increases in return for entitlement cuts.  So if your favored candidate falls short at the polls,
don’t fret. Madison’s constitution ensures that an Election-Day
loss does nothing to diminish your citizenship. If anything,
the American system is designed to placate the losers almost as
much as reward the winners.  The ensuing gridlock is  unproductive , even  destructive . It
was hardly unforeseen. Madison’s solution to parties “more
disposed to vex and oppress each other than to cooperate for
their common good” was not to make the victors all-powerful but
to shunt them through a legislative obstacle course.  With the institutional powers of  Washington  set one against
the other, Madison reasoned, the nation’s well-being wouldn’t
depend on “enlightened statesmen,” a breed he deemed rare enough
in his own time. Instead, he envisioned a government that could
muddle through under the stewardship of political leaders of
limited virtue and no great talent.  We’ve had a few like that. Thankfully, neither of today’s
candidates qualifies.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on recognizing  the costs of
climate change ;  Noah Feldman  on  the most civil presidential
campaign ever ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on picking a president for  the
zombie apocalypse ; William Pesek on the  rampant corruption of
China’s leaders ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  neither party wants to
talk about drones ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on
 Romney’s tax plan ; Klaus Adam on why  Greece needs to be cut off
from borrowing .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 