-- Toyota Internal Document Shows China Cutbacks Lasting to July
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-11-05T03:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/toyota-internal-document-shows-china-cutbacks-lasting-to-july.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  researchers
estimate Japanese automakers are unlikely to fully restore
Chinese production before July because of consumer backlash
stemming from a territorial dispute between the two countries,
according to a document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Japanese automakers’ output in  China  may be 40 percent less
than normal this quarter and gradually improve until it’s fully
recovered in the third quarter of next year, according to an
Oct. 23 internal note prepared by Toyota’s research division.
Toyota spokesman Joichi Tachikawa declined to comment on the
document.  The estimates indicate  Asia ’s largest carmaker is bracing
for a longer slump in Chinese demand than other Japanese
automakers.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  said last week that sales may not
return to normal until the Lunar New Year in February and
lowered its sales forecast in China, the world’s biggest 
automobile market, by 17 percent.  “Production for Japanese carmakers won’t be back to normal
any sooner than April next year,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees the equivalent of about $600 million in assets at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in  Tokyo .  Two Scenarios  The Toyota research document, which examines the
economic impact of the current political tensions between  Japan 
and China, has two scenarios. The optimistic version estimates
production will be 40 percent less than normal in the current
quarter, 20 percent in the first quarter of next year and 10
percent in the second.  In the pessimistic scenario, production will be 50 percent
less than normal in the October-to-December period, 40 percent
in the first quarter of next year, 25 percent in the second and
20 percent in the third.  The research doesn’t provide estimates beyond the third
quarter of 2013 and doesn’t provide Toyota’s own production
plans in China. The company reports earnings today.  For Japanese automakers, the boycotts against their
products follow last year’s tsunami and Thai floods that
destroyed factories and disrupted supply lines.  The decades-long territorial dispute, involving a group of
islands called Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, was
reignited in April, when then-Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara,
a longtime critic of China, proposed buying the territories.
That led Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration to
purchase the islets in September, escalating tensions between
the two nations and sparking violent protests across China.  Honda cut its annual profit forecast by 20 percent last
week, citing China.  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , the maker of
Subaru-brand cars, has said it may take about half a year for
production to normalize.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  has said it expects
sales to be cut by about 20 percent through March next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  