-- Panasonic Falls to 37-Year Low on Wider Loss Target
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-11-05T06:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/panasonic-falls-to-37-year-low-on-wider-loss-target-tokyo-mover.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,  Japan ’s second-
largest TV maker, fell for a third day to the lowest level in 37
years after widening its loss estimate on restructuring costs
and falling demand.  Panasonic fell 5.6 percent to 388 yen in Tokyo trading.
That’s the lowest since February 1975, the year the Betamax
video recorder was introduced. The stock has declined 41 percent
this year, the ninth-largest drop among companies in Japan’s
benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average. (NKY)   The company, founded in 1918, predicted a  net loss  of 765
billion yen ($9.5 billion) in the year ending March 31,
scrapping its May projection of 50 billion yen in profit, it
said Oct. 31. The forecast prompted Osaka-based Panasonic to say
it won’t pay a  dividend  for the first time since 1950 because of
an “urgent need” to improve its financial position.  “It’s difficult to see much hope,” said Amir Anvarzadeh,
Singapore-based manager for Asia equity sales at  BGC Partners
Inc. (BGCP) , “Panasonic has no notable edge in audio and video.”  The company had its  credit rating  cut two levels by
 Standard & Poor’s  on Nov. 2. The long-term debt was rated BBB,
down from A-, S&P said in a statement, citing “huge” losses
and the outlook for a slow recovery at the maker of consumer
electronics, solar panels and home appliances. The rating, which
is the second-lowest investment grade, was assigned with a
stable outlook.  Restructuring Charges  The bulk of Panasonic’s projected loss will come from 440
billion yen of restructuring expenses, which includes writedowns
of goodwill on solar cells, lithium-ion batteries and mobile-
phone operations, the company said in its earnings statement.
Panasonic is also taking 412.5 billion yen in charges to write
down deferred tax assets, it said.  Panasonic purchased a controlling stake in Sanyo Electric
Co. in 2008 to accelerate its expansion into the solar-panel and
battery businesses. Goodwill writedowns stemming from the
purchase contributed to last year’s 772 billion-yen loss, the
company said.  “Its purchase of Sanyo has proved disastrously timed, with
the solar business imploding and automotive-battery prices
likely to fall dramatically over the next few years as electric
car sales fall very short of sales estimates,” Anvarzadeh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  