-- Pandora Media Sues Ascap Seeking Lower Songwriter Fees
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-11-05T22:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/pandora-media-sues-ascap-seeking-lower-songwriter-fees.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
Internet radio service, sued the organization representing
songwriters and composers to seek lower license fees for playing
their songs.  Pandora, which is also lobbying the  U.S. Congress  for lower
royalties on recordings, today asked a federal court in  New York 
to set “reasonable” license fees from the  American Society of
Composers, Authors and Publishers  through 2015.  Pandora is seeking a blanket licensing fee that would cover
all songs represented by the 435,000-member group. The radio
service has said the current fees prevent profitability. Ascap
and Pandora reached an “experimental” fee agreement in 2005
that lasted until 2010. Terms of their current arrangement
weren’t disclosed in the filing.  “The license rates and other material terms of the 2005
license agreement were presented to Pandora by Ascap as being
effectively non-negotiable,” the company said in court papers.
Pandora said the “experimental license agreement” it reached
in 2005 for Internet sites and services “was ill-suited and not
reasonable.”  The Oakland, California-based company, which offers
programming to subscribers based on their musical preferences,
held an initial public offering last year and says it has
150 million registered users in the U.S.  Court Jurisdiction  Pandora and Ascap were unable agree on licensing fees after
more than a year of talks, Pandora said. The U.S. District Court
in New York has jurisdiction over rate-setting if the parties
can’t come to terms.  Ascap declined to comment on the suit, Lauren Iossa, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based organization, said in an e-
mail. Ascap represents the music of artists including Beyonce,
Alan Jackson, George Gershwin and Duke Ellington.  This year Ascap negotiated a fee agreement with the Radio
Music Licensing Committee, which represents large broadcasters
such as  CC Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO) ’s Clear Channel. They will pay
1.7 percent of gross revenue minus deductions based on
advertising commissions.  Pandora said in its lawsuit that Ascap refused to offer it
the same terms. Clear Channel operates the iHeartRadio Internet
service, a direct competitor to Pandora.  Pandora also claims that it’s entitled to lower rates
because some large music publishers have announced they are
withdrawing new media rights from Ascap and negotiating
licensing fees directly with Web radio services.  Radio Rates  U.S. lawmakers in September introduced the Internet Radio
Fairness Act of 2012, which if enacted would require music
royalty rates for Web broadcasters to be comparable to what
satellite radio and cable companies pay.  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  is
the leading satellite radio company.  “Royalty rates for different formats of digital radio are
astonishingly unequal,”  Tim Westergren , Pandora’s co-founder,
said in a statement in September. “Last year Pandora paid
roughly 50 percent of its total revenue in royalties, more than
six times the percentage paid by SiriusXM.”  For the six months that ended July 31, Pandora reported
that its net loss increased to $25.6 million from $8.57 million
a year earlier, while revenue rose 54 percent to $182 million.  Pandora rose 12 cents to $8.37 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange  composite trading . The shares declined 18 percent
this year before today.  The case is Pandora Media Inc. v. American Society of
Composers, Authors and Publishers, 1:12-cv-08035, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha @bloomberg.net. 