-- Pep Guardiola Wants to Be Chelsea’s Next Manager: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-05T06:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/pep-guardiola-wants-to-be-chelsea-s-next-manager-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Guardiola to Chelsea  Pep Guardiola, who plans to return to soccer management
next year following his sabbatical, wants to be the next manager
of Chelsea, the  Daily Mail reported .  Former Barcelona coach Guardiola, 41, has made it known to
his close circle of advisers that Chelsea is his preferred
choice and is attracted by a shift in the type of player the
Blues have been acquiring, the Mail said.  Lukaku’s Loan  West Bromwich Albion faces a January transfer window fight
to keep Belgian striker Romelu Lukaku on loan from Chelsea, the
 Daily Telegraph  reported.  Lukaku has made only one Premier League start for Chelsea
since joining from Anderlecht and manager Roberto Di Matteo
disclosed that there is a clause in the loan agreement that
allows him to bring the player back to  Stamford  Bridge, the
newspaper added.  Solskjaer’s Big Dream  Former  Manchester United  striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said
he dreams about becoming the club’s manager, the  Sun reported .  “I’m not naive enough to say I can do that job but in life
you should have big dreams and big goals,” the Sun cited
Solskjaer, who has rejected offers from English clubs to remain
as manager of Norwegian club Molde, as saying. “It’s a dream
but let’s take just one step at a time.”  Recording Referees  Football Association Chairman  David Bernstein  said he is
keeping an “open mind” about the possibility of recording
referees during matches following the row involving Mark Clattenburg and Chelsea, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Premier League referees, assistant referees and the fourth
official can hear each other via a microphone link, although
what is said is not currently recorded, the newspaper added.  Clattenburg has been accused by Chelsea of using
“inappropriate language” toward their midfielder John Obi Mikel during its Oct. 28 match against Manchester United, an
allegation he is said to have denied, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  