-- Pike River Mine Deaths Blamed on Owner, Government in NZ Enquiry
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-11-05T04:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/pike-river-mine-deaths-blamed-on-owner-government-in-nz-enquiry.html
New Zealand’s Pike River mine tragedy
that killed 29 men almost two years ago was “preventable” and
caused by poor company management and ineffective regulation,
according to a report into the disaster.  Pike River Coal Ltd., the mine’s owner, lacked the
necessary systems and infrastructure necessary to safely produce
coal, the Royal Commission that investigated the tragedy said in
its report released today. Ventilation and methane drainage
systems were insufficient and “numerous” warnings of methane
build-up to explosive volumes weren’t heeded, it said.  The 29 men died after a blast on Nov. 19, 2010, at the
mine near Greymouth on the west coast of the  South Island . It
was the nation’s biggest mining accident since 1914 when 43 died
in a North Island mine. The Pike River workers were trapped and
probably died in the first explosion, while blasts over the
following five days frustrated efforts to reach the men, and
their bodies remain inside the mine.  “In relation to underground coal mining, New Zealand has
had a tragedy every generation or so, after the lessons of
previous tragedies have been forgotten,” the commission said in
the report. “This time the lessons must be remembered. That
would be the best way to show respect for the 29 men who never
returned home.”  The Department of Labour, which oversees the industry,
“didn’t have focus, capacity or strategies to ensure that Pike
was meeting its legal responsibilities under health and safety
laws,” the commission said. The Department should have stopped
Pike from operating the mine, it added. Labour Minister Kate Wilkinson resigned after the report’s release.  Key Apology  “On behalf of the government, I apologize to the families,
friends and loved ones of the deceased men for the role this
lack of regulatory effectiveness played in the tragedy,” Prime
Minister John Key said in a statement after the report was
released in Wellington.  For five days, families and friends had kept a vigil for
the miners, ranging from a 17-year-old on his first day in the
mine to a 62-year-old near retirement. Their plight had prompted
hope of a recovery effort akin to the October 2010 rescue of 33
men trapped in a shaft below the Atacama desert for 70 days.  The government should create a new regulator with a sole
focus on health and safety across all industries, the commission
said in the report. It recommends updated mining regulations and
improvements to emergency incident management.  “Unacceptable Risks”  “The drive for coal production before the mine was ready
created the circumstances within which the tragedy has
occurred,” the report said. “Directors and executive managers
paid insufficient attention to health and safety and exposed the
company’s workers to unacceptable risks. Mining should have
stopped until the risks could be properly managed.”  Pike River Coal went into receivership because it couldn’t
pay its debts, and in May this year the administrators agreed to
sell the assets to state-owned Solid Energy  New Zealand  Ltd. The
new owner told the families of the dead miners that there was no
safe way of extracting the bodies.  Last month, former Pike River Chief Executive Officer Peter Whittall pleaded not guilty to 12 charges of failing to comply
with the Health and Safety in Employment Act, brought by the
Labour Department.  The three-man commission was headed by Justice Graham
Panckhurst, a High Court judge based in Christchurch. It held
extensive hearings from mid-2011 before preparing its report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net  