-- Pork Yielding to Chicken as Spain’s Other White Meat
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/pork-yielding-to-chicken-as-spain-s-other-white-meat.html
In most places, calling someone a pig
is an insult. In  Spain , the joke goes, it’s a way of saying you
love every inch of them. These days, “Chicken” would be more
appropriate for amorous Spaniards.  Spain’s passion for the dry-cured meat known as jamon,
cultivated for centuries and inextricably tied to its culture,
has been severely tested by the nation’s prolonged economic
slump and soaring costs for pork across Europe. It’s gotten so
bad that the Spanish, Europe’s biggest pork eaters, consumed
more chicken than pig last year for the first time ever,
according to market researcher Euromonitor.  Pork prices have advanced as much as 35 percent over the
past year, according to Britain’s  BPEX , which tracks the hog
industry. The causes: Fewer European swine mature enough to
slaughter, rising feed costs after the U.S. summer drought, and
a doubling of exports to  China , where the growing middle class
hankers for pork.  At stake is an 11 billion-euro ($14 billion) industry that
accounts for 5.5 percent of all fresh food sold in Spain,
according to Euromonitor and Confecarne, Spain’s meat industry
association. Sales of pork in Spain declined 6.2 percent last
year to 798,000 tons, while poultry sales were little changed at
810,000 tons, Euromonitor found. Spaniards on average ate 1.2
kilograms less pig in 2011 than the previous year, and sales of
 jamon iberico  -- Spain’s priciest pork product -- have fallen
the most.  While the Spanish are cutting back on all meats, “pork was
by far the worst-performing category, paying the toll of soaring
prices during a time of economic recession and high
unemployment,” said Euromonitor analyst Anastasia Alieva.  Acorn-Fed  Isabel Romero, a jobless mother of two, spends about 700
euros a month on food, 30 percent less than three years ago.
She’s traded down from her son’s favorite, jamon iberico -- made
from the back legs of acorn-fed black pigs and cured as long as
three years -- to cheaper varieties from supermarkets rather
than her local butcher.  “Pork has become very expensive and I now need to look for
discounts and other products such as chicken,” Romero, 48, said
while shopping in  Madrid . “I also buy more prepackaged or
processed jamon than before, although the flavor isn’t as
good.”  Honorario Gallo, who runs three butcher shops in Madrid,
said his sales are down about 15 percent this year, forcing him
to cut staff.  “Our customers try to save as much as they can by buying
other cheaper things,” Gallo, whose business traces its roots
back to 1840, said in his shop in Madrid’s lively Gaztambide
neighborhood. “Pork prices are totally out of hand.”  Prepackaged Turkey  It’s not just economic distress and rising prices that have
curtailed pork sales. Spain’s burgeoning population of Latin
American immigrants favor poultry over pork, while the elderly
tend to choose leaner proteins such as fish. Marleny Santos, a
52-year-old Madrid resident, said she’s substituting chopped,
prepackaged turkey for pork these days, as it’s “cheaper and
healthier.” Those trends will continue to hurt Spanish pork
sales, which Euromonitor expects to decline another 3.6 percent
this year.  Spanish retailers are dangling special offers to entice
shoppers to buy more pig. At Hipercor supermarkets, buying three
150-gram packages of sliced jamon iberico costs 8.60 euros per
pack, compared with 12.90 euros for one. And a 65-euro leg of
jamon serrano comes with a free half-block of cured cheese.  Movie Outing  Spain’s pork partisans are fighting back, albeit with
dwindling resources. Jose Ramon Godoy, manager of the  Jamon
Serrano Foundation , said his budget has declined 20 percent over
the past four years as fewer regional governments contribute to
the Madrid organization’s campaigns to champion pork products.
The group says a full leg of jamon serrano provides more than 50
servings at about the same cost as a family movie outing.  Godoy says one can’t understand Spanish culture without
appreciating jamon, a staple of the country’s diet since the
Romans crossbred their pigs with wild Iberian boars in the
second century B.C. Hams and sausages hang conspicuously in
taverns and shops across Spain, a legacy of the Spanish
Inquisition, when Muslims and Jews were  obliged  to prove they
had converted to Christianity by openly displaying their
affinity for a meat forbidden by their previous religions.  China Sales  With the Spanish retail sales down a record 11 percent in
September, Godoy said he’s now focused on boosting jamon sales
abroad with tastings across  Europe  and as far away as China and
 Mexico .  As Spaniards have stopped buying, visitors to Spain are
helping keep some jamon purveyors afloat. Like many other
butchers, Andres Montalvo has tried to make his shop next to
Madrid’s Plaza Mayor more inviting to foreigners, who now
account for 90 percent of sales.  “Local customers spend way less on jamon than they used
to,” he said. “However, tourists love jamon and most of them
have a lot of money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  