-- Pound Falls Second Day Versus Dollar on Service Data; Gilts Rise
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-05T16:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/pound-rises-to-five-week-high-versus-euro-before-services-report.html
The pound fell for a second day
against the dollar after an industry report showed U.K. services
growth slowed more than analysts forecast in October, damping
optimism the economy is recovering.  Sterling weakened versus all except three of its 16 major
counterparts before the  Bank of England  meets this week to
decide whether to increase monetary stimulus through so-called
quantitative easing. The pound pared an advance against the euro
after earlier rising to the strongest level in five weeks. U.K.
government bonds gained for a second day.  “The U.K. data seems to have knocked sterling but I’d be
wary of further weakness,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist
at FxPro Group Ltd. in  London . “The hurdle for more QE is
reasonably high.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5980 at 4:08 p.m. London
time after dropping 0.7 percent on Nov. 2. Sterling was little
changed at 80.03 pence per euro after appreciating to 79.86
pence, the strongest since Oct. 2.  While the U.K. economy emerged from recession in the three
months through September, recent data have been mixed.  A gauge based on a survey of  purchasing managers  fell to
50.6 last month from 52.2 in September, Markit Economics and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in London.
That’s below the lowest estimate of 51 in a survey of 30
economists by  Bloomberg News .  Bank of  England  policy makers will probably halt their
stimulus program at their Nov. 7-8 meeting, economists said in a
Bloomberg survey. They last increased it in July, when they
added 50 billion pounds.  ‘Same Bite’  Consumer and business concerns about the economic outlook
may undermine the impact of QE, central bank Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean said Oct. 31. In September, his fellow deputy
governor  Paul Tucker  said the asset-purchase program no longer
had “the same bite.”  The pound has gained 1.4 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro dropped 3.1 percent and
the dollar fell 1.7 percent.  Investors should use options to bet the pound will extend
recent gains versus the euro, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  “Diverging growth expectations (improving U.K. data and
stagnant euro-area data), central bank outlooks and intensifying
euro zone risks leave a bearish outlook for euro-sterling,”
foreign-exchange strategist Naeem Wahid in London, wrote in a
note to clients.  The U.K. 10-year yield fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.82 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 advanced 0.335, or 3.35 pounds per 1,000-pound
face amount, to 99.39.  Gilts have returned 2.5 percent this year through Nov. 2,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained
3.5 percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  