-- Prudential to Buy Thai Insurer for Up to 368 Million Pounds
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-11-05T04:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/prudential-to-buy-thai-insurer-for-up-to-368-million-pounds-1-.html
Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s  biggest
insurer  by market value, will buy the life insurance business of
Thanachart Bank Pcl, which is part-owned by Canada’s  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) , for as much as 368 million pounds ($590 million).  Prudential will pay Bangkok-based Thanachart 358 million
pounds in cash when the transaction is completed and a further
10 million pounds 12 months later, the London-based insurer said
in a statement through the Singapore stock exchange. The
transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to
close in the first quarter of 2013, the company said.  Prudential Life Assurance ( Thailand ) Pcl, a unit of the
U.K. insurer, will also establish an exclusive 15-year
partnership with Thanachart Bank, the London-based company said
in the statement. The joint venture will develop the group’s so-
called bancassurance business, which is focused on distributing
insurance products via banks.  “This transaction builds on Prudential’s strategy of
focusing on the highly attractive markets of  Southeast Asia ,”
the group said in the statement. “Life insurance penetration in
Thailand remains low at only 2.7 percent, providing substantial
long-term profitable growth opportunities.”  The acquisition of Thanachart Life, which is among the top
10 insurers by gross premiums in Thailand, will double
Prudential’s market share in the country, it said. The insurance
company had profit after tax of 1.23 billion baht ($40 million)
in the 12 months ended June 30, according to the statement.  Substantial Profit  Thanachart Capital Pcl (TCAP) , the parent of privately-held
Thanachart Bank, rose as much as 6 percent to 39.75 baht in
Bangkok, the biggest intraday gain in four weeks. The stock was
at 38.50 baht as of 11:08 a.m. local time.  “Thanachart will make a substantial profit from this
transaction,” Tanadech Rungsrithananon, an analyst at Krungsri
Securities Co. in Bangkok, said by phone today. “The
partnership with a global brand like Prudential will enable
Thanachart to sell more insurance products through its branch
network.”  Thanachart Capital, which owns 51 percent of the banking
unit, may book a gain of at least 7 billion baht from the
transaction in the first quarter of 2013, according to Tanadech,
who has a trading buy rating on the stock with a share-price
estimate of 44.50 baht  Thanachart Bank, Thailand’s fifth biggest, has more than 4
million customers and 630 branches, according to Prudential.  Prudential’s  shares  have rallied 34 percent this year as it
avoided the European sovereign debt crisis by focusing on
selling life insurance to  Asia ’s growing middle classes and
pension products to  baby boomers  in the U.S. The insurer, which
gets 80 percent of its revenue from outside the U.K., is midway
through a plan to double profit in Asia from 2009 levels.  Thanachart was advised by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Thanachart
Securities Pcl, while Prudential was advised by  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
two people with knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be
identified as the information is private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  