-- Qatar, UAE Seek Up to $7.6 Billion in Lockheed Defenses
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-05T23:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/qatar-uae-seek-up-to-7-6-billion-in-lockheed-defenses.html
Qatar and the United Arab Emirates
want to buy  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  air-defense interceptors,
radar, parts and support valued at as much as $7.6 billion if
all options are exercised, according to the Pentagon.  The U.S. Defense Security Cooperation Agency notified
Congress yesterday of a potential $6.5 billion  sale  to Qatar,
location of a key U.S. regional air-operations center. It also
announced a $1.13 billion  sale  to the United Arab Emirates for
additional weapons, launchers and spare parts -- its second
purchase of the interceptor system known as  Thaad .  The interceptors are part of the regional defense that
President Barack Obama’s administration is deploying in the
Middle East against Iran’s medium- and long-range ballistic
missiles. Batteries of land-based interceptors would be linked
with the U.S. Navy’s detection systems on Aegis-class destroyers
and cruisers.  Iran ’s military continues to improve the accuracy and
killing power of its long- and short-range ballistic missiles,
including designing a weapon to target vessels, according to a
Pentagon report to Congress.  “Iran has boosted the lethality and effectiveness of
existing systems by improving accuracy and developing new
submunition payloads” that extend the destructive power over a
wider area than a solid warhead, according to the June 29
assessment.  The latest UAE request is in addition to two Thaad units
the nation bought from Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed in
December 2011, valued at about $1.96 billion. The UAE was the
first international buyer of Thaad.  Raytheon, Honeywell  When the UAE sale was first proposed in September 2008 for
congressional approval, the Pentagon said the deal might be
valued at as much as $6.95 billion if all options were
exercised.  The Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, missile
interceptors are produced in Troy, Alabama, and fire-control
equipment and launchers are made in Camden, Arkansas.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , based in Waltham, Massachusetts, provides the
radar, and Morris Township, New Jersey-based  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  makes the missile’s mission computer.
Aerojet, part of  GenCorp Inc. (GY) , based in Rancho Cordova,
California, makes the Thaad rocket motor. The U.S. subsidiary of
the U.K.’s  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  produces the missile seeker.  Lockheed rose 38 cents to $94.10 yesterday at the close of
 New York  trading and has climbed 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  