-- Transocean’s Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-11-05T21:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/transocean-s-third-quarter-loss-widens-after-rig-sale-writedown.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore rig contractor, reported earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates for the third consecutive quarter as it
reduced costs. The shares rose the most in a year.  Excluding costs from the sale of rigs and other one-time
items, third-quarter profit was $1.37 a share, 73 percent more
than the average of 35  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
climbed to $2.44 billion, 23 percent more than a year earlier,
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean said in a statement
yesterday.  The company agreed in September to sell 38 shallow-water
drilling rigs for $1.05 billion to Shelf Drilling International,
a newly formed company owned by private-equity investors and
management. It also cut costs during the quarter for ultra-
deepwater rigs, which charge the highest rates, by 14 percent to
$443 million, according to a separate  statement  on its website.  “A noisy earnings release had been anticipated due to the
disposal of the standard jackups, and indeed this report does
contain a large number of distortive elements,” according to a
note today from analysts at Simmons & Co. in Houston. “The
underlying results here ultimately represent a massive beat
versus expectations from both a revenue and cost perspective.”  Transocean  rose  5.6 percent to $48.64 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since October 2011.  Gulf Rigs  Discoveries off the coasts of  Brazil  and West Africa and in
the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  have helped boost the number of deep-
water drilling rigs and the demand for services including well
completion. The number of industry  rigs  operating in the Gulf
rose 60 percent to an average of 48 during the third quarter
from 30 a year earlier, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   The U.S. has issued the most deep-water oil-drilling
permits for the Gulf this year since 2007 as high crude prices
revive exploration slowed by the 2010  BP Plc (BP/)  spill. Transocean
owned the Deepwater Horizon, the drilling rig that exploded and
sank at the Macondo well.  Including an $878 million one-time cost, mostly attributed
to exiting the shallow-water rig business, Transocean’s net loss
widened to $381 million, or $1.06 a share, from a loss of $32
million, or 10 cents, a year earlier.  Total  capital spending  is expected to rise to $3 billion
next year from as much as $1.65 billion this year as it makes
payments on new-build drillships, Chief Financial Officer Greg Cauthen told analysts and investors today on a conference call.  Legal Costs  Transocean expects operating and maintenance costs for
continued operations this year to be as much as $5.5 billion,
Cauthen said. That’s expected to increase 5 to 7 percent next
year as costs to operate rigs and train workers continue to
climb, he said.  Legal costs related to the Macondo spill are forecast to be
about $15 million to $20 million a quarter next year, Cauthen
said.  The company reported 81 percent utilization during the
quarter for floating rigs that command the highest rates, the
most since the first quarter of 2010, said Matt Conlan, an
analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York.  Transocean sees having 1,744 out-of-service days for its
fleet next year, the lowest since 2009 when it had 1,749 days,
according to slides posted on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  