-- RBS to Settle Libor, Nomura Insider Trading: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-05T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/rbs-to-settle-libor-nomura-insider-trading-compliance.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, said it expects to pay
a fine in the coming months to settle regulators’ probes into
allegations the lender tried to manipulate Libor.  Whether the penalty exceeds the record 290 million pounds
($467 million) Barclays Plc paid in June or not “it will still
be a miserable day in RBS’s history,” Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Hester told reporters on a call Nov. 2 as the bank
posted third-quarter operating profit that beat  analyst 
estimates.  RBS is one of more than a dozen banks worldwide facing
regulatory probes into allegations that they manipulated the
 London  interbank offered rate, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities. The Edinburgh-based lender has fired at
least four traders following an internal probe, and last month
suspended its head of rates trading for  Europe  and the Asia-
Pacific region, the first senior manager to be put on leave.  Libor is the biggest regulatory obstacle to overshadow
Hester’s attempts to overhaul the company after it received the
biggest banking bailout in history in 2008. RBS said Nov. 2 it
would set aside a further 400 million pounds to compensate
clients wrongly sold loan insurance and derivatives, bringing
the total the bank has earmarked to 1.7 billion pounds.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Nomura Embroiled in Insider Trading of Elpida Shares in 2011  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s largest brokerage, was found
by the country’s securities watchdog to have been involved in an
insider-trading incident last year.  A Nomura employee tipped off staff from Japan Advisory
Ltd., a hedge fund advisory firm, about a share sale it managed
for Elpida Memory Inc. in 2011, an official from the Securities
and Exchange Surveillance Commission said at a news briefing
Nov. 2, speaking anonymously in accordance with the agency’s
policy. Japan Advisory then traded Elpida shares, the SESC said.  Nomura has been embroiled in four of six cases unveiled
this year as authorities crack down on trading based on tips
provided by underwriters about clients’ equity offerings. The
latest revelations underscore the task Chief Executive Officer
Koji Nagai faces in proving to investors that internal controls
have been tightened after the scandal cost it investment banking
mandates and prompted his predecessor to resign.  The SESC’s findings were helped by an internal probe
conducted by Tokyo-based Nomura, the official said.  “During one of our voluntary investigations we learned of
circumstances with a strong possibility of being related to this
incident and we reported our findings to the commission,”
Nomura said in a statement Nov. 2.  “Nomura has implemented a series of improvement measures
and has continued to conduct voluntary inspections and
investigations in relation to internal controls for corporate-
related information,” the bank said in the statement.  Ex-Head of Anglo Irish Bank Gets Jail Time for Contempt of Court  Bankrupt Irish businessman  Sean Quinn , once the country’s
richest man, was sentenced to nine weeks in jail by a Dublin
court.  Judge Elizabeth Dunne made the ruling in Dublin Nov. 2
after a contempt-of-court hearing related to efforts to move
some of his family’s property beyond the grasp of Irish Bank
Resolution Corp., formerly known as Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Quinn
began serving his sentence while pursuing an appeal in the
 Supreme Court , his lawyer Eugene Grant said.  “It is not disputed that significant assets worth millions
of euros have been put beyond the reach of the bank,” the judge
said Nov. 2. Moving the assets is “nothing short of outrageous
-- it is a serious contempt of court.”  Quinn gave his backing to efforts of placing assets outside
the reach of nationalized IBRC, Dunne said, a matter for which
she found him, his son, who is also named Sean, and his nephew
Peter Darragh Quinn in contempt in June. Based on the evidence,
Dunne said she had no choice but to sentence the elder Quinn to
prison, even after taking his charitable work and medical
condition into account.  The former cement-to-insurance empire tycoon was declared
bankrupt in January, two months after a court ruled Quinn owed
IBRC 2.16 billion euros ($2.78 billion). Quinn was worth about
$6 billion in 2008, according to Forbes magazine.  Quinn said he wanted to “get on” with his prison term
before being taken into custody.  “I did stupid things,” Quinn told reporters, saying that
IBRC “took my companies, my reputation and they put me in
jail.”  Ex-Polly Peck CEO Ordered to Pay $8 Million for Theft Conviction  Asil Nadir, the former Polly Peck International Plc chief
executive officer, was ordered to pay 5 million pounds ($8
million) to compensate victims after he was found guilty of
stealing from the company.  Nadir, who built Polly Peck from a textile company in
London’s East End to a FTSE 100 firm, must pay within two years
or he will face another 72 months in prison, Judge Timothy
Holroyde ruled Nov. 2, according to  David Jones , a spokesman for
the  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecuted the case.  Nadir fled the U.K. in 1993 for Northern Cyprus to avoid
trial after the company collapsed and returned 17 years later to
face the charges. He was found guilty by a London jury in August
of stealing nearly 29 million pounds from the company and
sentenced to 10 years in prison.  Nadir’s lawyer, Giles Bark-Jones, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment about last week’s ruling.  Orthofix Will Pay U.S. $30 Million to Settle Kickbacks  Orthofix International NV, (OFIX)  a maker of spinal implants,
agreed to pay the U.S. $30 million to settle claims that a
subsidiary paid illegal kickbacks and provided prostitutes to
doctors in return for orders.  The subsidiary, Blackstone Medical Inc., paid kickbacks to
spinal surgeons in the form of phony consulting and royalty
agreements and travel and entertainment, the U.S. Justice
Department said in a statement Nov. 2.  The allegations in this case arose from a whistle-blower
lawsuit filed under the  False Claims Act . Susan Hutcheson, the
whistle-blower, will get $8 million out of the settlement,
according to the statement.  The settlement’s approval comes after Orthofix officials
agreed to pay $42 million to resolve a separate whistle-blower
suit and a criminal probe of allegations it paid kickbacks to
doctors who used its bone-growth stimulators.  “I am very pleased with the final resolution of this
matter,” Robert Vaters, the chief executive of Orthofix, said
in a statement. “Orthofix has made a significant improvement to
its compliance practices.”  The case is U.S. ex rel Hutcheson and Brown v. Blackstone
Medical Inc. and Orthofix International NV, 06-11771, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  Compliance Policy  Volcker Rule Splits Regional U.S. Banks From Wall Street Agenda  Midsized banks that mostly let  Wall Street  and small firms
speak for the industry during the debate over the Dodd-Frank Act
have decided it’s time to carve out their own agenda in
 Washington .  Companies including  U.S. Bancorp (USB) ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  are
opening their own lobbying shops and staffing them with seasoned
Washington hands. Regulators and lawmakers have begun to pay
attention as the banks argue for changes in how they’re affected
by Dodd-Frank rules including the so-called Volcker ban on
proprietary trading and procedures for unwinding failed banks.  Executives and lobbyists for regional banks say they should
be treated differently by agencies implementing the new
regulations, because they focus on traditional deposits and
lending rather than the higher-risk activities of firms such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “We are not Wall Street banks but we face the same
regulatory regime as a Wall Street bank,” said Mark Oesterle, a
lobbyist for SunTrust who formerly served as an aide to Senator
 Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the top Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee.  Regional banks tend to have more than $50 billion in
assets, mostly in commercial and retail loans rather than
complex investment banking products. Their size is well short of
a  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which is 20 times larger with assets of
more than $1 trillion. Most have a distinct geographical
footprint, like Regions in the South. There are about a dozen
such firms in the U.S. who have become active in Washington.  For more, click here.  Union Busting Through Non-Profit Actions May Violate Tax Rules  When  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  was trying to fend off a union
organizing drive at its largest meat-processing plant, it hired
public relations executive Rick Berman. They discussed
“preparing the nuclear strike,” according to e-mail records.  Soon after, a non-profit called the Center for Union Facts
began running television ads slamming the “ union bosses ” who
were trying to organize Smithfield’s plant in Tar Heel,  North
Carolina . That was no coincidence: Berman also runs the center.  According to Mark Drajem and Brian Wingfield of  Bloomberg
News , Berman operates five such non-profit groups from the
offices of his for-profit Washington public relations firm.
Those five organizations paid his firm $15 million from 2008 to
2010 for its work, tax records show.  Tax lawyers say this arrangement may violate  Internal
Revenue Service  rules that prohibit executives from  profiting 
off the tax-exempt entities they run. IRS rules also require
charities to have a public purpose.  The IRS is being urged to revoke the groups’ exempt status
and impose penalties. The  Humane Society  of the U.S. filed a
complaint with the IRS in June, saying the non-profit groups
allow companies to fund anonymous corporate campaigns under a
charitable cover, and for Berman to unjustly profit.  Anthony Burke, a spokesman for the IRS, said the agency is
prohibited by law from discussing any investigation, or even
confirming if an inquiry is under way. Such complaints can be
filed by anyone and the IRS doesn’t have to pursue them,
according to IRS rules. Past complaints against Berman’s
organization haven’t resulted in adverse judgments.  Berman didn’t return telephone messages left at his office.
Alan Dye, a lawyer for Berman’s groups, didn’t return telephone
and e-mail messages. Sarah Longwell, a vice president of
communications at  Richard Berman and Company Inc. , declined by
e-mail to comment. She provided a Web link to a  fact sheet  that
says the groups Berman manages adhere to IRS standards. The IRS
examined their structures in the past, and hasn’t sanctioned or
altered their tax status, it said.  Bloomberg obtained the IRS complaint from the Humane
Society and independently reviewed tax documents, legal filings
and other public information about Berman’s groups. Five
independent outside experts contacted by Bloomberg said the
allegations warrant an IRS review.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Solyndra Judge’s Approval of Bankruptcy Plan Faces Appeal by IRS  The Internal Revenue Service appealed a bankruptcy judge’s
approval of Solyndra LLC’s plan to exit court protection and
requested an immediate stay to keep the plan from being
implemented.  Under the plan, Solyndra, the failed solar-panel maker that
received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan guarantee
before going bankrupt, will be liquidated.  The agency notified U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in
Wilmington,  Delaware , of its appeal to the U.S. District Court
of Delaware in a court filing Nov. 1. The IRS asked for an
immediate stay while the court considers its request to delay
the plan approval during its appeal.  The government said in court papers “irreparable harm will
result from denial of the stay” because Solyndra could take
actions to implement the plan which would essentially make its
appeal moot.  Walrath approved the plan last month over the government’s
objection that the principle purpose of the plan was to allow
Argonaut Ventures I LLC and Madrone Partners LP, Solyndra’s plan
sponsors and indirect owners, to avoid taxes.  Solyndra had agreed to extend the 10-day stay that Walrath
put in effect until today because of  Hurricane Sandy , but the
company’s lawyers objected to the IRS’s request to hold up the
plan further saying that an “interim stay is not warranted.”  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington). The appeal is In re
USA v. Solyndra LLC, 12-cv-01380, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  Speeches and Interviews  Regulators Need to Consider Cocktail of Policies, Turner Says  Global regulators and central bankers may need to consider
“innovative and unconventional combinations” of policies to
prevent deflation,  Financial Services Authority  Chairman  Adair
Turner  said in a speech in  South Africa  last week.  Turner said “the deflationary impact on economic growth
could extend for many years ahead” if the policy response to
the 2008 financial crisis wasn’t carefully designed.  The Bank of England’s policy of quantitative easing “may
be subject to declining marginal impact,” Turner said, causing
“a liquidity trap in which replacing private sector holdings of
bonds with private sector holdings of money has little impact on
behavior and thus on demand.”  Turner has overseen a loosening in FSA requirements for
banks’ to hold capital and liquidity buffers since June. The FSA
relaxed the amount of funds U.K. banks must hold against
domestic lending last month. The regulator has also said it
would include BOE liquidity measures in calculating banks’
liquid asset buffers, giving lenders room to dip into reserves.  UPS-TNT, Hutchison-Orange Need Antitrust Remedies, EU Says  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s bid for  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  and
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s pending purchase of Orange Austria
Telecommunications GmbH require “substantial remedies” to
resolve antitrust concerns, the European Union’s top competition
official said.  “Our preliminary view is that serious competition concerns
would arise in both cases, and substantial remedies are
needed,”  Joaquin Almunia  said in prepared remarks for a speech
Nov. 2 in Cernobbio,  Italy .  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, received
antitrust objections from regulators last month listing possible
issues with the takeover of Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT --a
5.16 billion-euro ($6.62 billion) deal announced in March that
would double its size in Europe.  “We are committed to the transaction and look forward to
the confidential discussions with the EU over the coming weeks
to address the concerns,” Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for
Atlanta-based UPS, said Nov. 2 in an e-mail.  A TNT spokesman, Cyrille Gibot, said he was unable to
comment until he had seen the full content of the speech. The
Dutch company and UPS remain in conversation with competition
authorities.  Hutchison, based in  Hong Kong , has made additional
concessions over its bid for mobile-phone operator Orange
Austria in an attempt to soothe European Commission concerns on
the deal.  The EU’s merger review can require companies to divest
businesses or change the way they do business to eliminate
concerns a combined firm could unfairly squeeze rivals or
increase prices.  The EU plans to simplify merger filings in uncomplicated
transactions next year, Almunia said. The revised rules may also
see regulators examine non-controlling minority stakes for the
first time, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  