-- Treasuries Rise for 2nd Day as Close Vote Adds Haven Bid
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-05T22:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/treasuries-snap-gain-before-u-s-service-industries-data.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose for a
second day as Americans prepared to choose a president with
polls showing a close election that boosted demand for the
perceived safety of U.S.  government securities .  Benchmark securities  extended a gain from last week as
 Greece  struggles to win support for measures to obtain a
bailout, adding demand for haven assets. President  Barack Obama 
and challenger  Mitt Romney  will ask voters to choose who will
steer the economy during the next four years in tomorrow’s vote
as the winner faces the so-called fiscal cliff. The U.S. will
sell $72 billion in notes and bonds this week starting tomorrow.  “There are two gigantic 900-pound gorillas in the room in
the election and the fiscal cliff,” said Paul Montaquila, head
of fixed-income trading at Bank of the West in  San Ramon ,
 California . “Until there is more clarity on the election and
the fiscal cliff, it’s best to let thing play themselves and sit
on the sidelines, and that means investors will buy safety.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.68 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due August 2022 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount,
to 99 1/2. The yield fell three basis points last week.  Fed Buys  The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.85 billion of Treasuries due
from February 2036 to August 2042 today, according to the Fed
Bank of New York’s  website . The Fed is swapping shorter-term
Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years as
part of its efforts to support the economy by capping long-term
borrowing costs.  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $32 billion of three-year
notes tomorrow, $24 billion of 10-year securities the next day
and $16 billion of 30-year bonds on Nov. 8.  The U.S. auctioned the same round of debt during the week
ended on Oct. 12, selling $32 billion of three-year notes on
Oct. 9  with a record 3.96 bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered.  A $21 billion sale of 10-year debt Oct. 10 yielded 1.7
percent with higher-than-average demand, and a $13 billion
auction of 30-year bonds on Oct. 11 yielded 2.90 percent.  Election Polls  Obama led Romney 48 percent to 45 percent in an Oct. 31-
Nov. 3 national poll conducted by the Pew Research Center, a
survey that was deadlocked at 47 percent each a week ago. Polls
conducted by NBC News with the Wall Street Journal and ABC News
with the Washington Post also showed movement for the president
in recent days, albeit Obama’s one-percentage-point edge in both
is inside the margin of error for the surveys.  “Domestically, the focus is on the elections tomorrow, and
a race that looks to be very close,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in  New York  of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “When you have this much uncertainty,
people buy Treasuries.”  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers meeting
in Mexico City pushed for action to head off the so-called
fiscal cliff, more than $600 billion of tax increases and budget
cuts scheduled to take effect next year unless Congress acts. A
draft of the statement to be issued by G-20 policy makers
described growth as modest and risks elevated, said an official
from one of the countries who asked not to be identified because
the statement hasn’t been finalized.  Europe’s Debt  Spanish and Italian debt declined, while German government
securities rose.  Spain ’s 10-year debt added nine basis points to
5.75 percent and  Italy ’s gained five basis points to 5 percent,
while German 10-year yields eased two basis points to 1.43
percent.  “Uncertainty in Greece and the U.S. election outcome is
creating an environment of cautious behavior, and that is why we
are seeing the Treasury market catch a bid,” said  Adrian Miller , director of global market strategy at GMP Securities LLC
in New York, said in a telephone interview.  The difference in yield, or  spread , between two- and 10-
year Treasuries fell to 141 basis points. It reached 140 basis
points Oct. 31, the narrowest since Oct. 15.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 54.2 in October from the prior month’s 55.1,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast
of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 54.5.  Economic Data  “It’s not too often that the market ignored ISM data, but
that is what we are getting because of the political uncertainty
at home and abroad,” GMP Securities’ Miller said.  U.S. payrolls expanded by 171,000 last month, following a
148,000 gain in September that was larger than first estimated,
the Labor Department said Nov. 2. Unemployment rose to 7.9
percent from 7.8 percent.  Treasuries were also supported as challenges re-emerge in
Greece. As the country seeks a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion)
financing tranche this month, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is
facing down a revolt in his three-party coalition. The leader of
the Democratic Left yesterday reiterated his party’s opposition
to changes in the labor law demanded by international creditors.
While no date has been set for a vote on that bill, it may come
as soon as Nov. 7. The budget vote is slated for Nov. 11.  From the U.S. to  Germany  and even  Japan , where the  bond
market  is twice the size of the economy, investors can’t get
enough government securities even though rising debt loads are
blamed for curbing global growth.  For the first time since the financial crisis in 2008, all
26 markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies including Treasuries are poised to
generate returns on an annual basis. Gains this year range from
 Portugal ’s 47 percent to Japan’s 1.78 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  