-- Renault to Revive Alpine to Mirror VW’s Premium Success
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-11-05T13:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/renault-to-revive-alpine-to-mirror-vw-s-premium-success.html
Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-biggest
carmaker, will revive the Alpine upscale brand as it seeks to
reduce its reliance on  Europe ’s plunging volume car business.  The 113-year-old automaker will form a joint venture with
U.K.-based Caterham Group to manufacture Alpine sports cars,
bringing the first vehicle to market in three to four years, the
French automaker said at a press conference its headquarters in
the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt.  “The Alpine rebirth is only the beginning,” Chief
Operating Officer  Carlos Tavares  told reporters at the event.
“Now we need to make a great car, which is the most important
thing. We will do the same on the premium side.”  Renault,  Fiat SpA (F)  and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the European
volume carmakers hardest hit by the region’s plunging auto
market, are trying to develop high-end offerings in an attempt
to mirror  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s success with Audi and other luxury
brands, which bring in about half of the entire group’s profit.
European car sales are on track to drop the most in 19 years in
2012, the ACEA industry group forecasts.  The premium automakers are fairing better than their volume
counterparts because their customers are less price sensitive to
economic downturns. Sales at  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW
brand are down 1.8 percent in Europe through September and
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes is 2.4 percent lower. Audi has increased
deliveries 4.8 percent in the region. Renault has slumped 18
percent, Peugeot 13 percent and Fiat 17 percent.  Emulating VW  Renault’s new line boosts the number of brands at the
carmaker to three, with the Romania-based Dacia selling no-
frills vehicles. VW, which is Europe’s biggest automaker, this
year took full ownership of sports-car maker Porsche, making it
the group’s 12th brand alongside Bentley and Lamborghini.  Tavares said in a June interview that the French company is
keen to emulate VW’s success with Audi, an assessment shared by
other automotive executives. Fiat Chief Executive  Sergio Marchionne  said last week that he will introduce nine new Alfa
Romeo vehicles and six Maserati models in the next four years to
boost the brands’ contribution to the carmaker’s earnings.
Peugeot announced plans last year to expand its DS line of
upscale Citroen cars.  Renault has started adding the Initiale Paris suffix to its
upscale derivatives, and is looking to develop the nameplate
into a standalone brand.  “At the moment it doesn’t meet my expectations in terms of
premiumness,” Tavares said. “It will evolve and improve, and
it is going to be the starting point of a long-term story
because premium brands are about decades.”  Expensive Undertaking  Building up luxury brands can be an expensive and prolonged
task. VW in the last decade has poured 20 billion euros into
Audi’s research and development alone. Audi now sells 12 model
lines, twice what it had in 2003, including three sport-utility
vehicles, the A1 compact and the R8 sports car. Audi’s
deliveries in the last 10 years have doubled.  Alpine was founded in the 1950s and became well-known among
sports-car enthusiasts for the A110 and Berlinette, which was
introduced in 1962. Alpine signed a partnership with Renault in
the mid-1960s and its cars were distributed through Renault
dealers. Renault bought a majority of Alpine in the early 1970s.
The carmaker stopped making Alpine models in 1995.  With no high-end marques currently, Renault’s most
expensive car is the large minivan Espace, which has a base
price of about 32,440 euros in  Germany . The flagship A8 sedan
from Audi starts at 69,600 euros.  Renault and Caterham will both bring vehicles to market
under the Alpine brand, they said. Renault declined to say how
much the two plan to invest in the project.  “We believe we can build an affordable car that people
want,” Caterham President  Tony Fernandes , who runs  AirAsia
Bhd. (AIRA) , said at the press conference. “We’ll produce a car that
many more people will be able to afford with F1 technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  