-- Robertson’s Tiger Back New Fund Focusing on Asian Stocks
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-11-06T08:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/robertson-s-tiger-back-new-fund-focusing-on-asian-stocks.html
Billionaire  Julian Robertson  is
seeding a new investment partnership that will focus on
investing in Asian equities.  The new partnership, Tiger Pacific Capital LP, will be
headed by Run Ye, Junji Takegami and Hoyon Hwang, according to a
statement issued by Robertson’s firm, Tiger Management LLC. The
three were senior members of Tiger  Asia  Management LLC, the
hedge fund that was seeded by Robertson and started 2001, which
founder Bill Hwang decided to wind down earlier this year.  Tiger Management, based in  New York , didn’t disclose how
much money Robertson and his firm would invest in the
partnership. Fraser Seitel, a Tiger spokesman, declined to
comment.  Robertson, 80, built Tiger Management into one of the
world’s largest hedge funds by generating average annual returns
of 32 percent, lifting his assets under management to $22
billion by mid-1998. After customer defections and losses cut
Tiger’s assets to $6 billion two years later, Robertson decided
to return money to clients and employ Tiger Management to invest
his own fortune in hedge-fund managers, taking a share of
profits in exchange.  Tiger Management has employed at least 40 portfolio
managers and analysts who subsequently formed their own firms
and became known as Tiger cubs. Those he seeded after 2000 with
his own capital are known as “grand cubs.”  Returning Capital  Tiger Asia, a New York-based firm owned by Bill Hwang, had
about $1.2 billion under management as of August. That month,
the firm said it would return outside capital to investors amid
a three-year investigation by  Hong Kong  regulators.  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission alleged that
Tiger Asia traded on inside information from bankers arranging
placements of  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of China
Ltd. shares in 2008 and 2009, pocketing HK$38.5 million ($5
million).  Tiger Asia, which has no employees and physical presence in
Hong Kong, denied the allegations in an Oct. 12, 2010 letter to
investors. It had also received a subpoena from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission after the Hong Kong
allegations, it told clients that month.  Ye, based in New York, declined to comment on his fund’s
plan in an e-mail. He is among former managers and senior
analysts leaving Tiger Cubs to start their own funds. Peter Boodell, a former partner at Eastern Advisors, another Asia-
focused Tiger Cub, set up his own hedge fund Boodell & Co. in
March 2011.  Greyson Capital  Hugh Kim, a former managing director of Tiger Asia, started
New York-based Greyson Capital Management LLC last year. Greyson
invests in large- and medium-sized companies in  Greater China ,
 Japan  and  South Korea , according to a document distributed to
potential investors and seen by Bloomberg in May last year.  Adam Leitzes, who had helped assess investments for Tiger
Management in  Shanghai , started Hong Kong-based Karst Peak
Capital Ltd., his own hedge fund betting on Asian stocks, in the
first half, according to  information  posted on the Website of
the city’s Securities and Futures Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  