-- Roche’s Good Cholesterol Drug Shows Negative Side Effects
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-05T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/roche-s-good-cholesterol-drug-shows-negative-side-effects.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s abandoned heart
drug dalcetrapib, designed to raise levels of good cholesterol,
also boosted blood pressure and inflammation, researchers said.  Dalcetrapib marks the second failure in what was expected
to be a new blockbuster class of heart medicines known as CETP
inhibitors. The Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker halted
development of the drug in May, saying an early look at study
results found the medicine wasn’t helping patients.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
dropped its pill torcetrapib in December 2006 after studies
showed it raised blood pressure and boosted death rates.  The findings presented today at the American Heart
Association  meeting  in Los Angeles showed dalcetrapib had
unexpected side effects that may have contributed to its
downfall. While it didn’t increase hypertension in the same
manner or amount as torcetrapib and there weren’t more deaths,
it’s possible the medicines could have damaged blood vessels,
the researchers said. That may have implications for  Merck & Co. (MRK) 
and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , who are developing similar compounds.  “It was a surprise that the blood pressure effect was
evident,” since earlier studies didn’t find any increase, said
Gregory Schwartz, chief of cardiology at the U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Denver, in an interview.
“That’s why it’s so important to do large trials, to detect
small but important safety effects.”  Neither Merck’s anacetrapib nor Lilly’s evacetrapib have
shown any signs of boosting blood pressure, Schwartz said. That
could change in larger trials. Both medicines also raise levels
of good cholesterol much more than dalcetrapib and slash bad
cholesterol that chokes the arteries. The improvement in bad
cholesterol levels may propel the drugs to market, he said.  Little Comparison  Officials at Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck and
Indianapolis-based Lilly said the difference in potency makes
comparisons between dalcetrapib and their compounds irrelevant.
The drugs are designed to inhibit a molecule known as CETP,
which results in higher levels of good HDL cholesterol that is
known to ferry fatty lipids out of the arteries. Still, the
amount and type of good cholesterol varies between drugs.  “We haven’t changed our confidence in the molecule,” said
Yale Mitchel, associate vice president of cardiovascular
research at Merck. “We believe the epidemiology and other
evidence support CETP as a mechanism that provides a benefit.”  In the Roche study known as dal-Outcomes, dalcetrapib
raised good cholesterol called HDL by 30 percent and had no
effect on bad cholesterol. The trial of 15,871 patients found
8.3 percent of those getting the drug died, suffered another
heart attack, stroke or were hospitalized for chest pain,
compared with 8 percent of those on a placebo.  ‘Weak’ Action  “What you have here is a weak inhibitor of CETP,” said
 Jeffrey Reismeyer , Lilly’s senior medical director for
evacetrapib. “You need more inhibition than you can get with
dalcetrapib,” he said. The benefit of raising good cholesterol
with powerful CETP inhibitors “is still an important question
and one that hasn’t been answered. This study doesn’t reflect on
our development or even Merck’s.”  Merck’s anacetrapib raises good HDL cholesterol by 140
percent and cuts bad LDL cholesterol by 40 percent, Mitchel
said. Lilly’s evacetrapib increases good cholesterol by about
130 percent and cuts bad cholesterol by 36 percent in studies.  “Based on what we now know with dalcetrapib and how far
along we are with anacetrapib, the idea of having a deleterious
effect is very unlikely,” Mitchel said.  The final studies of anacetrapib are well under way, with
more than 20,000 of the 30,000 patients enrolled, he said. Merck
expects to report results in 2016, he said. Lilly began its
11,000 patient final study of evacetrapib last month and said it
may be completed by the end of 2015.  Heart Risk  There are other reasons dalcetrapib may not have worked,
said Schwartz, who is also a professor of medicine at the
University of  Colorado  in Denver. Even in the patients who had
the biggest HDL boost, there was no apparent decrease in heart
risk, he said. About 1,600 patients had their HDL levels rise
well into the 70s, though that didn’t cut their risk.  Patients had recently had a heart attack or were
hospitalized for chest pain, and were already getting aggressive
medical care. For them, raising HDL may not provide additional
benefits. In addition, the good cholesterol that was created may
not have functioned properly, he said, or the way dalcetrapib
raises good cholesterol may not be beneficial.  “HDL is a very complicated particle and has a very
complicated function,” Schwartz said, pointing out that several
recent trials found raising levels didn’t bring heart benefits.
“We’ll have to see if the HDL that was formed had good
function.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  