-- Romney Threatens Pimco’s Gross With Bernanke-Dumping Plan
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-11-05T19:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/romney-threatens-pimco-favorite-with-qe-disdain-mexico-credit.html
Mitt Romney ’s pledge to dump Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is threatening  Bill Gross  with
losses on his Mexican bonds.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 fell 1.04 percentage
points this year to 5.62 percent as the Fed’s effort to suppress
borrowing costs at record lows caused fixed-income investors to
pile into the debt to boost returns. Gross’s Pacific Investment
Management Co., the biggest holder of the notes, called Mexican
debt one if its favorites Oct. 3, three months after he said he
preferred them over German bunds. Mexican bonds returned 19.2
percent this year through last week, twice the average for
 emerging markets .  Romney, the Republican Party candidate in tomorrow’s U.S.
presidential election, has vowed to replace Bernanke when his
term ends in January 2014 because “the amount of currency that
he’s created” with his purchases of Treasuries and other debt
securities have failed to create jobs. Bank of America Corp.
says that a Romney win could spark a selloff in Treasuries that
will be mirrored in Mexican notes, the most correlated to U.S.
government bonds of any debt in Latin America.  “They’ll want a much tighter monetary policy, removing a
lot of these accommodative measures which Bernanke has been
putting in place, so that’s negative for Treasuries in the short
term,”  Kevin Daly , who helps oversee about $10 billion of
emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said by
telephone from  London . “The initial reaction to Treasury yields
going up is that Mexican peso bond yields could go higher too.”  Yield Gap  Amanda Henneberg, a spokeswoman for the Romney campaign,
didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  Mark Porterfield , a
spokesman for  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco didn’t
respond to voice and e-mail messages seeking comment. Jen Psaki,
a spokeswoman for the campaign of incumbent President  Barack Obama , also didn’t respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  The 60-day  correlation coefficient  between 10-year peso
bonds and similar-maturity Treasuries touched a 14-month high of
0.59 on Oct. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
reading of 1 would signal the securities moved in lockstep.  Peso bonds due in 2024 yield 5.62 percent, three times more
than similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries , the data show. German
bunds yield 1.52 percent.  Mexico ’s lower debt levels and higher yields made investing
in the nation’s debt instead of German notes a decision so
obvious to Gross, chief investment officer at Pimco, the world’s
largest manager of bond funds, that he ended his June comments
on the Pimco Twitter account with the word “duh.”  Foreign Investment  The  International Monetary Fund  in April projected that
government debt will equal 42.9 percent of Mexico’s gross
domestic product this year, versus 106.6 percent for the U.S.,
78.9 percent in  Germany  and 90 percent for the euro area.  While Gross said on the firm’s website Nov. 1 that near-
zero  interest rates  and quantitative easing are not leading to
investment in the U.S., mutual funds, pensions and  hedge funds 
outside Mexico poured a record $6.81 billion this year into the
nation’s debt securities in search of higher returns, according
to data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm
EPFR Global.  International investors held 953.9 billion pesos ($73.1
billion) in fixed-rate Mexican peso bonds, an all-time high, on
Oct. 24, data from the central bank showed.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund owns about 12 percent of
outstanding peso bonds due in 2024, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, making it the largest holder of the securities.
Yields on bonds fell to a record low 5.10 percent in July.  ‘More Hawkish’  Claudio Irigoyen, the head of  Latin America  fixed-income
and foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of America, says if Romney
wins, speculation will increase that he would push for “a more
hawkish Fed” and lead to declines in Mexico’s peso debt as U.S.
Treasury yields rise.  Obama led Romney 48 percent to 45 percent in a national
poll conducted by the Pew Research Center released on Nov. 4.
The survey, conducted Oct. 31-Nov. 3 among 2,709 likely voters,
has a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points. In weekend polls
in Ohio and Iowa, two of the most hard-fought states, the
president held a slight advantage, suggesting the race will turn
on which candidate does the better job of turning out his own
supporters.  “You can expect a selloff in U.S. rates and that’s going
to have an impact on Mexican rates” Irigoyen said in a
telephone interview from  New York .  Led by Bernanke, the Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of bonds
in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing since 2008 to
boost the economy and reduce unemployment.  Operation Twist  In June, the central bank expanded its so-called Operation
Twist program to replace $400 billion of short-term bonds with
longer-term debt, by $267 billion. The Fed announced Sept. 13 a
third round of QE with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month. Policy makers said they will keep pumping
money into the economy until there was “ongoing, sustained
improvement” in the labor market.  The Fed said Oct. 24 that rates are likely to stay near
zero “at least through mid-2015.” Mexico has kept its
benchmark rate at a record low 4.5 percent since July 2009.  Josh Thimons, a  money manager  at Pimco,  wrote in  an article
posted on Institutional Investor’s website on Nov. 1 that while
Treasury yields are likely to rise along with Romney’s chance of
victory because of “fear of what he will do when it comes to
Fed nominations,” U.S. monetary policy will remain
“accommodative” regardless of who wins.  ‘Independent Entity’  Alberto Bernal, the head of fixed-income research at
Bulltick Capital Markets, says a Romney win won’t undermine the
gain in Mexican peso bonds, known as Mbonos, because the U.S.
government can’t force Bernanke to change monetary policy.  “The Fed is an independent entity, and Romney cannot
dictate the policies of the Fed,” Bernal said in a telephone
interview from Miami. “It’s as simple as that. I would not sell
Mbonos based on the expectation Bernanke will no longer be head
of the Fed.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point to
160 basis points at 1:37 p.m. in Mexico City, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment fell
one basis point to 100 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Credit default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer
fails to comply with debt agreements.  Default Swaps  The peso depreciated 0.1 percent to 13.0514 per dollar.
Yields on Mexican interbank rate futures contracts due in
December, known as TIIE, rose two basis points on Nov. 1 to 4.91
percent. Markets were closed Nov. 2 for a holiday.  After the Fed announced the latest round of QE on Sept. 13,
Romney said the decision reflected Obama’s failure to revive the
economy.  “The president’s saying the economy’s making progress,
coming back,” Romney said in an interview with ABC News.
“Bernanke’s saying, ‘No, it’s not. I’ve got to print more
money.” He added that “printing more money, at this point,
comes at a higher cost than the benefit it’s going to create.”  Republican  Bob Corker , a member of the Senate panel with
Fed oversight authority, said at a Bloomberg Government
breakfast on Sept. 25 that the move shows Bernanke has “stayed
too long.” Romney has called for replacing Bernanke when the
chairman’s term expires.  “It’s a year-plus away,” Aberdeen’s Daly said. “The
market will certainly be getting positioned for that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  