-- Royal Park Sues Bank of America Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-05T16:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/royal-park-sues-bank-of-america-over-mortgage-securities.html
Royal Park Investments SA/NV sued
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest  U.S. bank , in  New York 
state court over losses on about $1.6 billion in residential
mortgage-backed securities.  The suit seeks damages of more than $713 million for losses
on the securities, which were initially purchased by third
parties, according to a complaint filed in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan  on Oct. 26. The court was closed last
week because of  Hurricane Sandy .  Royal Park, based in Brussels, was set up in May 2009 by
Fortis Bank SA/NV, the Belgian state and BNP Paribas SA to
manage a pool of distressed-debt securities. It sued Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit and other defendants, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse
Group AG, and Deutsche Bank AG in the same court in July over
losses on mortage-backed securities.  Royal Park said in the complaint that it relied on
“misrepresentations and omissions” in offering materials for
the securities, and accused the bank of making “false and
misleading” statements about statistical characteristics of the
loans underlying the investments, such as the percentage of
owner-occupied properties.  Securitized Loans  The securities are pools of home loans securitized into
bonds. Such investments were a central part of the crisis that
helped send the U.S. into the worst recession since the 1930s
when the housing market collapsed and the market for the
securities evaporated.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the suit.  Bank of America said in a regulatory filing on Nov. 2 that
it settled three cases where foreign mortgage-bond investors
accused the lender of misrepresenting the quality of loans with
the securities.  The firm settled suits with  Dexia SA (DEXB) , Sealink Funding Ltd.
and  Bayerische Landesbank , Germany’s second-biggest state-owned
lender, on Sept. 27, Bank of America said in the regulatory
filing. The firm didn’t disclose the amounts it paid.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, has spent
more than $40 billion to clean up defective mortgages and
improper foreclosures. The third-quarter settlements mean a suit
from insurer American International Group Inc. is one of the
firm’s remaining major disputes over mortgage securities.  The lender also said it could have as much as $2.8 billion
in legal costs as of Sept. 30 beyond what it has already set
aside. That’s a decline from the $4.1 billion estimated three
months earlier because of a settlement of a class-action suit
tied to the 2009 takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co., said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman.  The case is Royal Park Investments SA/NV v. Bank of America
Corp., 653773/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  