-- RusHydro Swings Abate as Kremlin Pledges Funds: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-11-05T23:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/rushydro-swings-abate-as-kremlin-pledges-funds-russia-overnight.html
OAO RusHydro (RSHYY)  is posting the smallest
price swings in two years after Russia’s government said it will
inject cash into the biggest renewable energy producer to fund
the construction of new  power plants .  RusHydro (HYDR)  depositary receipts traded in London climbed 0.3
percent yesterday, with 10-day volatility on the U.K.-traded
shares falling to 14.6, the lowest since October 2010. The
stock’s volatility reading was 85 percent above that for the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Utilities Index (MXEF0UT) , the smallest gap in more
than two weeks. With markets in Moscow closed for a holiday, the
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
companies in the U.S. slipped 0.3 percent to 94.40.  The Kremlin will give cash to Moscow-based RusHydro from
the  federal budget , Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  told
reporters in Laos yesterday. The company, which is seeking money
to fund its $12.3 billion expansion program over the next four
years, should receive 50 billion rubles ($1.6 billion) from the
government, Dvorkovich said on Aug. 23. RusHydro’s cash flow
stalled as President  Vladimir Putin  delayed electricity tariff
increases ahead of the March 4 election.  “This ends the uncertainty and solves the problem,”
Sergey Beiden, an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp., which has
a hold rating on RusHydro, said by phone from Moscow yesterday.
“This means the company will receive 50 billion rubles from the
budget and close a gap in its investment program. The market’s
reaction to the news is clearly positive.”  ETF Gains  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 0.8 percent
to $28.18 in New York yesterday, the highest level since Oct.
25.  RusHydro rose to $2.35 in London yesterday, the biggest
advance in a week. The company’s  American depositary receipts 
traded in New York fell 0.4 percent to $2.34, after earlier
gaining as much as 1.3 percent.  Shares on Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index added 0.5 percent when they
last traded on Nov. 2 and are down 21 percent this year. The
Micex has climbed 2.7 percent in 2012.  RusHydro needs a cash injection to expand its production
facilities throughout the country and upgrade aging
hydroelectricity plants. The company plans to invest  98.3
billion rubles  ($3.2 billion) to develop its sites in 2012,
according to its website. RusHydro plans to invest a total of
381.8 billion rubles through 2016.  Oil Rebounds  The government  owned  60.5 percent of the company as of June
30 according to its website. Russia will inject funds by
increasing its stake in RusHydro, Otkritie’s Beiden said
yesterday.  Oil, which together with natural gas accounted for half of
state budget revenue in 2011, rose from the lowest level in
almost four months as refineries restored production after
 Hurricane Sandy  tightened fuel supplies in the U.S.  Crude rose 0.9 percent to $85.65 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange yesterday. The contract settled at $84.86 a
barrel on Nov. 2, the lowest level since July 10. Prices have
dropped 13 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement climbed 1.9 percent to
$107.73 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, while
Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, gained 1.7 percent to
$107.50 a barrel yesterday.  U.S. Election  The decline in the Russia-US gauge -- which  tracks  ADRs of
companies including world’s biggest natural gas producer OAO
Gazprom and Nasdaq Stock Exchange-traded shares of Internet
company  Yandex NV (YNDX)  -- can be attributed to hesitation by
investors to buy and sell before today’s U.S. presidential
election,  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Sberbank-CIB, the
investment banking arm of Russia’s largest lender, said by e-
mail from Toronto yesterday.  “For investors in Russia and emerging markets generally,
the outcome of the U.S. election is particularly important
because who forms the next administration is likely to have an
impact on where the dollar trades,” Weafer said. “Given that a
weaker dollar is much better for the oil price and investor
flows into emerging market assets, an Obama victory would be
better for Russia investors.”  The dollar gained against all but six of the 16 major world
currencies tracked by Bloomberg yesterday, strengthening 0.3
percent versus the euro. The ruble slid 0.7 percent to 31.47 per
dollar when it last traded in Moscow on Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  