-- Russian Inflation Rate Probably Rose to 11-Month High in October
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-11-05T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/russian-inflation-rate-probably-rose-to-11-month-high-in-october.html
Russia ’s inflation probably
accelerated for a fifth month in October as droughts drove up
prices for grains, economists said.  Consumer  prices  rose 6.7 percent in October from a year
earlier, the most in almost a year after a 6.6 percent increase
in September, according to the median estimate of 17 economists
in a Bloomberg  survey . Prices grew 0.6 percent in the month, a
second poll showed. The Federal Statistics Service in Moscow
will  report  the data Nov. 6 or Nov. 7.  The central bank in September unexpectedly raised interest
rates as concerns over inflation outweighed the dangers of a
slowing economy. The pace of price growth has surged past the
central bank’s target of 5 percent to 6 percent this year. Dry
weather damaged crops this year in Russia, the third-biggest
wheat exporter last season, cutting global stockpiles and
helping boost  food costs  7.7 percent in July-September.  “In the near term I don’t expect a slowdown in
inflation,” Evgeny Nadorshin, chief economist at AFK Sistema, a
Russian  investment company  with assets ranging from
telecommunications to oil, said by phone Nov. 2. “There are no
monetary-policy measures that can contain inflation in 2012.”  The ruble is the third-worst performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the last
six months, losing more that 6 percent against the dollar. It
weakened 0.7 percent to 31.469 per dollar on Nov. 2, the last
trading day before a national holiday. Non-deliverable forwards,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements,
showed the ruble at 31.9385 per dollar in three months.  Inflation Focus  Russia, the only major emerging economy to raise interest
rates this year, is struggling to keep a lid on prices after
droughts in the U.S. and locally drove up food costs. The
government’s top priority is fighting inflation, even at the
expense of short-term growth, President  Vladimir Putin  said Oct.
2 at an investment conference in Moscow.  The increase in interest rates in September harmed the
country’s industry and investment without curtailing inflation,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Oct. 19. The
government isn’t planning to raise its forecast for annual price
growth to reach 7 percent in 2012, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said Oct. 31.  Inflation slowed to a post-Soviet low of 3.6 percent in
April and May after the government pushed back increases in
utility tariffs by six months to July 1. Most Russians named
rising prices as their biggest concern, topping corruption,
poverty and drug abuse in an August poll published by the
Moscow-based Levada Center.  Harvest Drops  Russian farmers reaped 72.2 million tons of all grains
before drying and cleaning as of Oct. 26, down from about 95.4
million tons a year earlier. In July, world food prices rose the
most in a month since 2009.  Russia’s central bank held back from raising  interest rates 
in October, keeping the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent.
Economists project policy makers will keep the rate unchanged at
year-end.  “Given the economy’s deceleration and criticism from the
banking system and the real sector, the central bank will likely
hold off from increasing rates by the end of the year,” said
Alexey Devyatov, economist at UralSib Financial Corp. “Next
spring, closer to the summer, a rate decrease is possible, if
food inflation slows down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  