-- SapuraKencana Agrees to Buy Seadrill Tender Rigs
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-11-05T10:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/sapurakencana-buys-seadrill-tender-rigs-in-2-9-billion-deal-1-.html
SapuraKencana Petroleum Bhd. (SAKP) ,
 Malaysia ’s biggest oil and gas services company, agreed to buy
 Seadrill Ltd.’s (SDRL)  tender-rig operations in a $2.9 billion deal.  Seadrill, the Norwegian oil-rig company controlled by
billionaire  John Fredriksen , will receive $350 million of new
SapuraKencana  shares  as part of the deal, doubling its stake to
about 13 percent, according to a stock exchange filing in Kuala
Lumpur today. The transaction is subject to approval from
existing customers, Seadrill said in a separate statement.  Selangor-based SapuraKencana was formed this year following
the 11.9 billion-ringgit ($3.9 billion) merger between
Malaysia’s SapuraCrest Petroleum Bhd. and Kencana Petroleum Bhd.
Before the merger, they won rights to jointly develop their
first oilfield off the country’s eastern coast with  Petrofac
Ltd. (PFC)  By joining forces, they want to bid for larger contracts
and further expand into exploration.  “Seadrill believes in the potential of SapuraKencana’s
expansion,” Fredriksen, Seadrill’s chairman said in the
statement. “Net proceeds from the transaction will be
redeployed as equity to aggressively grow our deep-water fleet
and also open up for significant new investment in the jack-up
sector.”  Financing  SapuraKencana would operate a total 16 existing tender-rigs
after the deal, with five more under construction, according to
the filing. The $2.9 billion enterprise value of transaction
includes about $363 million in remaining capital expenditure on
the new rigs and about $800 million of bank debt, it said.  The balance of $1.39 billion is expected to be financed
through external borrowing, a $187 million seller’s note and
internally generated funds and equity, the filing showed.  The existing rigs are currently on long-term lease to
companies including Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , it said. SapuraKencana will also be
offered a right to manage three further rigs which are not part of
the deal, according to the statement.  Oslo-based Pareto Securities said today in a note that the
implied valuation of the deal was below the investment bank’s
$3.3 billion estimate for the tender rigs.  Seadrill, which is managed out of Stavanger, Norway, fell 1
percent to 232 kroner in Oslo trading as of 10:50 a.m.  SapuraKencana shares were halted in Kuala Lumpur today for
the announcement. The stock rose 3.8 percent to 2.71 ringgit on
Nov. 2, up 21 percent from its debut price on May 17 following
the merger.  “After a period of transformation and consolidation, I’m
truly excited about entering the next phase of growth with
Seadrill to together create an undisputed Asian offshore
services champion,” Shahril Shamsuddin, SapuraKencana’s group
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  