-- Saudi King Names Prince Mohammed Bin Nayef Interior Minister
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-11-05T20:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/saudi-king-names-prince-mohammed-bin-nayef-interior-minister-1-.html
Saudi Arabia ’s interior minister
stepped down after less than five months in the job, causing
 King Abdullah  to appoint a top official to the kingdom’s key
security post.  Newly named Interior Minister Mohammed bin Nayef was
previously deputy minister for security affairs and is son of
the late Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz, who died in June
after serving as interior minister for three decades. Mohammed
replaces Prince Ahmed bin Abdulaziz, who took on the role after
his brother Nayef died, the official Saudi Press Agency reported
today. No reason was given for the change.  “New thinking and younger, more energetic leadership seem
needed” for the security problems Saudi Arabia faces, said  Paul Sullivan , an economics professor specializing in  Middle East 
security at  Georgetown University  in Washington. “To have this
tough and demanding job in Saudi Arabia would really need nearly
24-7 taking of the pulse of the country.”  Mohammed, who was born in 1959, was injured in August 2009
when a suicide bomber blew himself up at the prince’s office in
the Red Sea coastal city of Jeddah. Islamic militants had begun
a violent campaign against the country in 2003 in an effort to
weaken the ruling family’s control of its oil reserves and to
end ties with the U.S. Western nationals were targeted in the
violence, which included kidnappings and bombings, until a
crackdown by the  Interior Ministry  subdued the militants.  Six Kings  Mohammed’s father Nayef was a member the influential
“Sudairi” brothers, sons of the founder of the kingdom. A law
introduced in 1992 stipulates that the next king must be a son
or grandson of King Abdulaziz Al Saud. Six kings have ruled
Saudi Arabia since it was established in 1932.  Mohammed is the first from the younger generation to be
appointed interior minister, one of the most powerful official
positions in Saudi Arabia.  “This latest move would seem to increase the likelihood of
the royal succession moving to the third generation earlier than
many expected,” Jane Kinninmont, a senior research fellow for
the Middle East and North Africa at  Chatham House , a U.K.
research institute, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  