-- HSBC Says U.K. Wholesale Banks May Be Harmed by Firewalls
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-11-05T17:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/hsbc-says-u-k-wholesale-banks-may-be-harmed-by-firewalls-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said U.K. plans to
force lenders to separate their consumer operations may put
banks with securities arms at a disadvantage, leaving client
companies increasingly dependent on financial institutions based
outside the country.  The proposals by the Independent Commission on Banking will
make so-called wholesale banks smaller, with more volatile cash
flow and lower credit ratings, the London-based lender said in a
written submission to the Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards. Banks will also be forced to hold more capital than
international competitors without being able to draw on consumer
deposits as a source of funding, said HSBC,  Europe ’s largest
bank by market value.  “We see a risk of a long-term decline in U.K.-domiciled
wholesale banking and a rising dependency among U.K. corporates
and other institutions, such as pension funds, on overseas
universal banks for their more sophisticated requirements,”
HSBC said. “This could leave the City of  London  more vulnerable
to external competition than it is today.”  The government is putting into law the Independent
Commission on Banking’s recommendation to partially separate
consumer and investment banking. The panel, led by Oxford
University academic John Vickers, recommended that banks create
separate boards for their consumer and securities units with at
least two-thirds of their members sitting on only one. Banks
will also be forced to have separate risk committees.  Extra Capital  HSBC, which operates in about 85 countries, did not require
a government bailout during the financial crisis, unlike British
rivals Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. Unlike some of its global rivals, its worst losses during
the crisis weren’t focused on investment banking.  The lender has criticized U.K. regulation before, and Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said last year he’d consider
moving HSBC’s head office abroad.  Large banks should have “loss-absorbing capacity,”
including equity, of 17 percent to 20 percent of their so-called
risk-weighted assets, according to the ICB report, which was
published in September 2011. The remainder could be held as so-
called bail-in bonds, which can take a loss when a bank fails
and may be converted into equity.  HSBC today said that extra capital requirements will make
U.K. banks less attractive stocks to hold.  “In the global marketplace in which wholesale banking
operates, if it is not possible for wholesale banks
headquartered in the U.K. to attract the necessary incremental
capital because they offer returns to investors which are below
those available elsewhere,” then “activities will migrate over
time” to other institutions, HSBC said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , in a separate submission, said banks not
protected by a firebreak should be allowed to fund ring-fenced
units should they need it.  Earlier today, HSBC reported profit that missed analysts’
estimates and said it was likely to face criminal charges in the
U.S., where the costs of settling U.S. anti-money laundering
probes may “significantly” exceed the $1.5 billion the bank
has already set aside.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  