-- Scene in D.C.: Etheridge, Lobbyists Rock at Women Artists’ Gala
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-11-05T16:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/scene-in-d-c-etheridge-lobbyists-rock-at-women-artists-gala.html
The  National Museum of Women in the
Arts  held its 25th anniversary fall benefit last night, and the
usual rules of gala attire didn’t apply.  Hap Holladay, the president of Holladay Corp., wore his
Rolling Stones “Voodoo Lounge” tour shirt, which he said he
dug out of “mothballs” in his closet.  Boots replaced stilettos and leather jackets prevailed over
pinstripes.  The gala’s invitation called for some sartorial creativity
in celebration of the museum’s current exhibition, “Women Who
Rock: Vision, Passion, Power.” The 330 guests arrived for the
cocktail hour by walking through halls with  Aretha Franklin ’s
gown, Lady Gaga’s childhood piano and Madonna’s notebooks.  Susan Fisher Sterling, the museum’s director, said that
this year’s gala theme could best be described as “girls just
want to have fun. Think of Cyndi Lauper.”  Surveying the museum’s Great Hall, aglow with chandeliers
and set for dinner, Holladay’s mother, Wilhelmina Cole Holladay,
the 90-year-old museum co-founder, remembered when she first
discovered the building in 1985. It was a dilapidated, rat-
infested space, aching for a makeover.  At the time Cole Holladay, an avid art collector and
patron, was frustrated with the lack of exhibitions showcasing
women artists.  New York ’s  Metropolitan Museum  hadn’t had a woman
artist exhibition in 138 years, and the National Gallery of
Art’s record was similarly woeful.  Celebrated Women  Today the museum celebrates women artists from all over the
world, in a variety of disciplines.  Tamera Luzzatto, managing director of government relations
for the  Pew Charitable Trusts , and her husband, David Leiter,
president of  ML Strategies LLC , posed for a picture in front of
one of Cher’s stage ensembles designed by Bob Mackie. They both
played it safe in suits.  In  Johnny Cash  black with fringes stretching down her
sleeve, lobbyist Heather Podesta said, “I’m channeling me.”
She added that her outfit was designed by Moschino.  Singer Melissa Etheridge received the museum’s award for
excellence in the  performing arts .  She pointed out her favorite piece in the upstairs gallery.
“ To Kiss the Spirits: Now, This Is What It Is Really Like” is
a 1993 painting by  Hollis Sigler  that expresses the artist’s
fight with  breast cancer , a disease that Etheridge also battled.  The jacket Etheridge wore to the 2005 Grammys where she
performed with a bald head after undergoing chemotherapy hangs
in the exhibition.  After a dinner of roast chicken followed by pumpkin ice-
cream sundaes, Etheridge performed an acoustic set for the
guests including  Janis Joplin ’s “Me and Bobby McGee.”  She resisted political prognosticating before tomorrow’s
election, simply saying that “the American people will get
exactly what they vote for.”  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on music and  Elin
McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 