-- Service Industries in U.S. Show Expansion’s Resilience
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-11-05T21:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/services-in-u-s-expanded-more-in-september-than-forecast.html
Service industries  in the U.S. kept
growing in October, a sign the biggest part of the economy is
withstanding a global slowdown.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index declined to 54.2 last month from 55.1 in September, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. A measure above 50
signals expansion in industries that account for almost 90
percent of the economy. The October figure exceeded the third-
quarter average.  A gauge of services employment rose to a seven-month high,
corroborating a report last week that showed a stronger labor
market may provide more fuel for the economy.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are among those that stand to benefit from more
hiring at the same time homebuilders enjoy a rebound in demand
that’s helping make up for a slowdown in manufacturing.  “We should see continued modest improvement in the
economy,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, U.S. economist at BNP
Paribas in  New York , who correctly forecast the October non-
manufacturing figure. “If you’re expanding you have to have
manpower. If you can’t do it with more hours worked, you have to
hire.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s services report is the last
piece of economic data before tomorrow’s election, when voters
decide between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years
and changing course with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  Stocks gained following last week’s advance in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.2 percent to 1,417.26
at the close in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note dropped to 1.68 percent from 1.72 percent late
Nov. 2.  Economists’ Projections  Economists projected 54.5 for the non-manufacturing index,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
Estimates ranged from 53 to 57. The gauge averaged 53.8 in the
third quarter.  The group’s index of non-manufacturing employment climbed
to 54.9, the highest since March, from 51.1 in the prior month.
A measure of  new orders  decreased to 54.8 from 57.7. A gauge of
business activity fell to 55.4 from 59.9.  In the U.K., services growth cooled more than economists
forecast in October, adding to signs of weakness in the economy
at the start of the fourth quarter.  A gauge based on a survey of  purchasing managers  fell to a
22-month low of 50.6 from 52.2 in September, Markit Economics
and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in
 London  today. That’s below the lowest estimate of 51 in a survey
of 30 economists by Bloomberg. The median forecast was 52.  China Services  China ’s services industries rebounded from the slowest
expansion in at least 19 months, adding to manufacturing gains
that indicate the world’s second-biggest economy is recovering
from a seven-quarter slowdown.  The purchasing managers’ index rose to 55.5 in October from
53.7 the previous month, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in Beijing on
Nov. 3. A separate services index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics in Beijing fell to 53.5 in
October from 54.3.  The ISM’s manufacturing  gauge  on Nov. 1 showed factories
expanded in October at a faster pace than projected as orders
and production picked up. The gauge rose to a five-month high of
51.7 in from 51.5 the previous month.  A Labor Department report last week showed the U.S. job
market is strengthening. Employers added 171,000 workers to
payrolls in October, more than the most optimistic projection in
a Bloomberg survey, after a 148,000 gain in September. The
figures showed retail hiring picked up at the same time
purchases firmed.  Retail Sales  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
said last week that its October same-store sales increased 4.1
percent, topping the 4 percent average estimate of analysts
surveyed by researcher Retail Metrics Inc. Kohl’s said its
purchases climbed 3.3 percent.  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 5 percent,
excluding drugstores, beating estimates for a 4.6 percent gain,
the firm said in a Nov. 1 report. That followed a 3.9 percent
increase in September.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
reported record fourth-quarter revenue, while sales at stores
open at least 13 months in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Latin America 
advanced 7 percent.  ‘Very Challenging’  “If you look at the last few years, there is no question
that the economic environment in the U.S. has been very
challenging, fragile, and depending on the region, very
difficult at times,” Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz 
said on a Nov. 1 earnings call. Still, “we’re confident that we
can continue to navigate through changes in the economy and
we’ve done it now year-over-year.”  Homebuilding is another bright spot for the economy.
Americans bought new homes in September at the fastest pace in
two years, a sign the industry at the heart of the last
recession is bouncing back, according to Commerce Department
figures.  Population growth and mortgage rates pushed to record lows
by Federal Reserve purchases of housing debt are generating
sales for builders like  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  Housing starts in
September jumped 15 percent to the fastest pace since July 2008,
according to the Commerce Department.  At the same time, the service industry may be held back by
a weaker global economy and concerns about the so-called fiscal
cliff of more than $600 billion in tax increases and  government
spending  cuts set to occur if lawmakers fail to act by the end
of the year.  “Corporate America is cautious ahead of the elections and
fiscal cliff discussions, so it’s unlikely that we’ll see any
uptick in the fourth quarter,” Vasant Prabhu, chief financial
officer at Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., said on an
Oct. 25 earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  