-- Sharp Drops ‘Material Doubt’ From English Earnings Statement
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-11-05T03:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/sharp-drops-material-doubt-from-english-earnings-statement.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the world’s worst-
performing major stock, revised the English version of its
quarterly earnings statement to remove the words “material
doubt” in describing its status as an assumed going concern.  “There exist conditions which might raise uncertainties
about Sharp being an assumed going concern,” the  Osaka , Japan-
based company said in an e-mailed  statement  today, altering its
translation of the financial statement for the  quarter  ended
Sept. 30. Sharp is trying to describe its status “more
precisely,” it said in today’s statement.  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal-display panels on
Nov. 1  forecast  a record net loss of 450 billion yen ($5.6
billion) for the year ending March 31, scrapping its earlier
projection for a 250 billion-yen loss. The original English
version released that day said: “Sharp is in circumstances in
which material doubt about its assumed going concern is found.”  The Japanese version of the earnings statement wasn’t
changed, Atsushi Yoshida, a Sharp spokesman, said by phone
today.  Sharp, hit by falling prices of LCDs, hemorrhaged 103
billion yen in cash from operations in the first half of the
year as  Japan’s electronics industry  struggles with dwindling
demand and competition from Samsung Electronics Co.  Panasonic
Corp. (6752)  and Sony Corp. are also cutting jobs and closing down
factories in an attempt to return to profitability.  Sharp  fell  as much as 5.5 percent to 156 yen in Tokyo
trading, extending this year’s decline to 77 percent, the worst
performer among more than 1,600 companies in the MSCI World
Index of developed nations.  Default Risk  The bond risk for the maker of Aquos TVs is signaling a
94.9 percent chance of default in five years. The cost of
insuring 1 billion yen of Sharp’s debt for five years rose by
125 million yen in the past month to 680 million yen in advance
and 10 million yen annually, according to data provider CMA.  The 94.9 percent chance of default is based on the
assumption that investors would recover 27 percent of the bonds’
value if the company fails to adhere to its debt commitments, an
expectation that CMA lowered from 30 percent a month ago.  Fitch Ratings  cut the company’s  credit rating  to junk on
Nov. 2, lowering it by six levels to B-, as it cited growing
liquidity risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  