-- Sharp Default Odds Seen at 94.9% as Panasonic Cut: Japan Credit
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a ,   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-05T05:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/sharp-default-odds-seen-at-94-9-as-panasonic-cut-japan-credit.html
Sharp (6753)  Corp.’s bond risk is signaling
a 94.9 percent chance of default in five years as the yen near
postwar highs swells losses at Japanese electronics companies,
prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to cut  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s  rating .  The cost of insuring 1 billion yen ($12.4 million) of
Sharp’s debt for five years rose by 125 million yen in the past
month to 680 million yen in advance and 10 million yen annually,
according to data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps of
Panasonic and  Sony Corp. (6758)  have also surged, with contracts
pricing in a non-payment risk of about 30 percent. Those for
 South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. were little changed in the
period, the data show.  Fitch Ratings  cut Sharp from one level above junk, or non-
investment grade, by six steps to B-, after the company forecast
last week a record $5.6 billion full-year loss and said there’s
“material doubt” about its ability to survive. Panasonic,
Japan’s No. 2 TV maker, had its debt rating lowered two levels
by S&P on Nov. 2 after predicting it’ll lose 30 times as much
money as analysts estimated.  “It won’t be easy for Japanese electronics companies to
recover because the center of gravity in the industry is
shifting to developing  Asia ,”  Ayako Sera , a market strategist
at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd., which has the equivalent of
$411 billion in assets, said on Nov. 2. “If the Japanese
companies don’t do anything, their brand value will fade away.”  ‘Extreme Danger’  Japanese technology companies including Sharp are failing
to come up with hit products to challenge Samsung and Apple Inc.
The yen trading about 6 percent from its post-World War II high
is also weighing on earnings by making their products more
expensive abroad. Elpida Memory Inc., the last major Japanese
maker of computer-memory chips, filed for bankruptcy in
February.  “From the market’s perspective, Sharp is in extreme danger
of going out of business,” Taketoshi Tsuchiya, Tokyo-based
director of credit trading at Barclays Plc., said on Nov. 2.  Sharp’s 94.9 percent chance of default in five years is
based on the assumption that investors would recover 27 percent
of the bonds’ value if the company fails to adhere to its debt
commitments, an expectation that CMA lowered from 30 percent a
month ago.  “We’ve cleared concerns over our funding in the immediate
future by getting syndicated lending,” said  Miyuki Nakayama , a
spokeswoman for Sharp. “Our two main banks have also made clear
their willingness to support us. We’ll continue making efforts
to improve our financing situation.”  Nakayama declined to comment on Sharp’s CDS prices and
default risk. Mami Imada, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Sony,
and Chieko Gyobu, a Panasonic spokeswoman in  Tokyo , also
declined to comment on the market moves.  Poland Samurai  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  Poland  sold 56 billion
yen of five-year, 1.05 percent Samurai notes and 10 billion yen
of 15-year, 2.5 percent bonds, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a
statement on Nov. 2. The eastern European government last
offered yen-denominated debt in the Japanese markets in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sekisui House Ltd., an  Osaka , Japan-based home builder,
sold 20 billion yen of five-year, 0.311 percent securities,
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. said in a statement
last week.  Japanese corporate bonds have handed investors a 1.27
percent return this year, compared with a 4.30 percent gain for
Samurai notes, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Company debt worldwide has returned 10.1 percent during
the period, the data show.  Statement Revised  Yields on  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year government bonds were
little changed at 0.77 percent in Tokyo today, near the nine-
year low of 0.72 percent reached July 23. The bonds yielded 94
basis points, or 0.94 percentage point, less than similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared with 99 basis points a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp revised the English version of its quarterly earnings
statement to remove the words “material doubt” in describing
its status as an assumed going concern. “There exist conditions
which might raise uncertainties about Sharp being an assumed
going concern,” the nation’s largest maker of liquid-crystal-
display panels said in a statement today. Sharp is trying to
describe its status “more precisely,” it said.  Panasonic Risk  Panasonic’s credit-default swaps jumped 91 basis points to
a record 472 on Nov. 1, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts are signaling a 29.9
percent probability of non-payment in five years assuming
investors would recover 35 percent of the notes’ value.  The bond risk of Sony, Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics
exporter, rose 32 basis points to an all-time high of 488 on
Nov. 1, according to CMA. That indicates a 30.4 percent
probability of default through 2017, assuming that holders get
back 35 percent of the value of the debt.  Not all Japanese electronics companies are seeing their
credit risk increase. Swaps of Canon Inc., the world’s largest
camera maker, fell nine basis points to 50 last month, according
to CMA. A decrease in the contracts signals improving
perceptions of creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the
opposite.  Outstanding Debt  Sharp needs to  repay  565 billion yen of debt in 2013 and
130 billion yen the following year, data compiled by  Bloomberg
News  show. The maker of Aquos TVs secured 360 billion yen of
funding from its lenders last month.  Osaka, Japan-based Sharp has failed to win a planned 67
billion yen investment from  Taiwan ’s Foxconn Technology Group.
Sharp is in talks with Apple, Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. to
form partnerships,  Kyodo News  said Oct. 29, without saying where
it got the information. Sharp declined to comment on the report
at the time.  Fitch cited “growing risks” to the company’s liquidity as
a reason for the downgrade, according to a Nov. 2 statement  Panasonic projected its net loss for the year ending March
2013 may be 765 billion yen, which would be the second-highest
shortfall in its history. That prompted the Osaka-based company
to skip a dividend for the first time since 1950 because of an
“urgent need” to improve its financial position.  S&P reduced Panasonic’s rating to BBB, two levels above
junk grade, saying in a Nov. 2 statement that the TV maker’s
recovery to profitability will be slow.  Panasonic’s cash and cash equivalents fell to 443.9 billion
yen as of the end of September from 536.7 billion yen in June,
while current liabilities slid to 2.75 trillion yen from 2.82
trillion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg News. The
company also needs to repay 610 billion yen of debts in the next
two years, the data show.  “Japanese electronics makers have lost superiority because
they are competing in markets where the advantage goes to
whoever can mass-produce products at cheaper prices,” said Koji Toda, Tokyo-based chief fund manager at Resona Bank Ltd., which
oversees about $75 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  