-- Sika Speeds Latin America Expansion Amid Europe Slump
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-11-05T15:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/sika-ceo-accelerates-latin-america-expansion-amid-europe-slump.html
(Corrects earnings definition in sixth paragraph; company
corrects stake and voting rights in last paragraph.)  Sika AG (SIK) ’s chief executive officer
said the world’s largest maker of construction chemicals can
reach sales of 8 billion Swiss francs ($8.5 billion) in five to
six years by edging out smaller competitors in  emerging markets .  “We have initiated an acceleration of this expansion” in
emerging markets, CEO Jan Jenisch, 46, said in a telephone
interview. “Last year we only had one factory in  Brazil . When I
look at the footprint and the potential, we should have five or
six factories there.”  The maker of concrete admixtures and mortars has plans for
new production lines and factories in Brazil, Argentina,  Chile ,
 Uruguay ,  Colombia  and Mexico, Jenisch said. Baar, Switzerland-
based Sika plans acquisitions worth 1.5 billion francs over the
next five years, including purchases in emerging markets, where
local competitors are greater rivals than multinationals such as
 BASF SE (BAS)  and Henkel AG, he said.  The CEO, who joined Sika in 1996 and took the top job in
January is looking to new areas for growth amid a construction
slump in  Europe , which accounted for about half of the company’s
4.56 billion francs in revenue last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales from emerging markets advanced to
more than  36 percent  of the total last year from less than 10
percent in 1990.  Big Targets  For acquisitions “we have a few bigger targets, but at the
moment there’s no super-big target,” Jenisch said. “For us a
big target is 200 million.” Sika isn’t considering targets as
large as 500 million francs and Jenisch may talk more about its
deal pipeline in a couple of months, he said.  Sika will be “well within” a target for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization at 12 percent to
14 percent of sales next year and will come close to the lower
end of that range this year, Jenisch said. Sika has raised
prices to counter higher costs for raw materials such as crude
oil derivatives which led to unsatisfactory margins in 2011, he
said.  Sika has grown to become part of the 30-stock Swiss Leader
Index by acquiring 50 businesses since 2000. They included
 Switzerland ’s Sarna Kunststoff Holding AG in 2005 for 407
million francs excluding debt. This year, Sika acquired only two
companies because of high asking prices, Jenisch said.  “We have a couple of companies in the market, owned by
financial investors, and it looks like their price expectations
are quite high,” Jenisch said.  This year, investment firm Wendel’s sale of part of
building materials supplier Materis SA stalled after bids didn’t
meet expectations, three people with knowledge of the matter
said in July.  Sika has been majority-controlled by Switzerland’s Burkard
family for 102 years and Urs F. Burkard of the fourth generation
of the founding family sits on the board of directors. The
family has a 15 percent stake and 53 percent  voting rights  via
holding company Schenker-Winkler Holding AG, said Dominik Slappnig, a spokesman for Sika.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  