-- Silver Wheaton CEO Says He Expects Fourth-Quarter Rebound
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-11-05T21:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/silver-wheaton-ceo-says-he-expects-fourth-quarter-rebound.html
Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , which pays
mining companies upfront for future production, expects cash
flow and dividends will increase in the last three months of
2012 as sales of the metal catch up with production.  Silver Wheaton reported third-quarter earnings today that
missed  analysts’ estimates  after the number of ounces sold
lagged output because of the timing of shipments. The Vancouver-
based company also said its cash flow-linked dividend declined.  “We’ve already seen a bunch of shipments from these mines
where inventory did build up,” Chief Executive Officer Randy Smallwood said today in a phone interview. The fourth quarter is
“always a good one in terms of inventory” as mining companies
push sales to improve year-end earnings, he said.  Third-quarter  net income  fell 11 percent to $119.7 million,
or 34 cents a share, from $135 million, or 38 cents, a year
earlier, Silver Wheaton said in a statement today. The average
of 13 analysts’ estimates was for 40 cents. Sales fell 13
percent to $161.3 million.  Production rose to the equivalent of 7.69 million ounces of
silver from the third quarter of 2011, the company said, while
metal sales gained less than 1 percent to 5.14 million ounces.  Silver Wheaton declared a quarterly  dividend  of 7 cents a
share, 30 percent less than in the previous quarter. The company
isn’t planning to change its policy of paying out 20 percent of
cash generated by operating activities in the previous quarter,
Smallwood said.  ‘Very Nice’  “The reason it’s down is the same reason it was up in the
last quarter,” he said. “We’re pretty confident that dividend
will be very, very nice at the end of the fourth quarter.”  The dividend decline is “expected to be temporary”, Dan Rollins, a Toronto-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in
a note today. Silver Wheaton may declare a dividend of 12 cents
a share in the first quarter and may close the year on a
“strong note,” he wrote.  Silver Wheaton fell 1.4 percent to C$38.88 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have risen 32 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent increase in silver futures on the Comex in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  