-- Singapore Airlines Declines on Wider Loss at Cargo Unit
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-05T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/singapore-airlines-declines-as-cargo-loss-hits-earnings.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , the world’s
third-largest carrier by market value, fell in  Singapore  trading
after posting a 54 percent drop in profit because of a wider
loss at its cargo unit.  The  carrier  dropped 1 percent at the close to S$10.47,
after earlier touching S$10.40. The benchmark Straits Times
Index fell 0.3 percent.  Losses at the carrier’s cargo unit tripled in the quarter
ended September as it contends with slower trade and  competition 
from Middle East airlines. The Singapore-based company will park
one of its 13  Boeing Co. (BA)  747 freighters for more than a year to
cut capacity and it would consider plane sales, Chief Executive
Officer Goh Choon Phong told reporters in the city today.  “We can expect that going forward the economy will
continue to be very challenging, or perhaps even more
challenging,” he said. “We don’t see any reprieve in terms of
improvement, especially from economies such as  Europe .”  The carrier would be open to selling freighters “if
there’s a good enough offer” he said. It’s also looking at ways
to shed passenger planes, he said without elaboration.  Cargo capacity for Singapore Airlines may be as much as 3
percent lower in the year ending March than a year earlier, said
Chan Hon Chew, senior vice president for finance. Group
passenger capacity will probably rise 4 percent, he said.  Cargo Loss  Operating losses at the cargo unit jumped to S$50 million
in the quarter ended September, according to Bloomberg
calculations. Earnings at the main airline unit fell 5.6 percent
to S$84 million. The engineering division’s operating profit
fell 5.9 to S$32 million, while regional carrier SilkAir boosted
its figure 46 percent to S$19 million. The numbers were derived
by subtracting first-quarter earnings from first-half results.  “We are not convinced that we will see a material earnings
pickup over coming months,” Hong Kong-based Deutsche Bank AG
analyst Joe Liew said in a note today. “We continue to see no
reason to own the stock.” He recommends selling the stock and
has a 12-month price forecast of S$8.65. That’s the lowest among
16  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The airline cut its interim  dividend  to 6 Singaporean cents
from 10 Singaporean cents a year earlier. The 747 freighter will
be parked from January until May 2014, according to a statement.
The move follows cuts in long-haul freighter flights earlier
this year.  The carrier has risen about 3 percent this year, trailing a
15 percent gain for the Straits Times Index.  Cargo Falling  Global cargo volumes fell 0.6 percent in September from
August, according to the  International Air Transport Association .
Freight load factors were 45.6 percent in the period.  “We will have to ride out the current challenges that we
are facing,” said Ng Chin Hwee, chairman of Singapore Air’s
cargo unit and executive vice president for HR and operations.
“When the economy picks up we will start to see the cargo
business coming back.”  Singapore Air last week agreed to buy a 10 percent stake in
Virgin  Australia  Holdings Ltd. for A$105 million ($109 million).
The company is facing rising competition on Australia-Europe
routes from fast-growing Gulf airlines led by Emirates.  “The deal with Virgin Australia is a cementing of the
relationship with Virgin Australia and a demonstration of our
commitment to the Australian market,” Goh said. “We look for
opportunities of growth in terms of partnerships.”  Budget Carrier  The carrier has no immediate plans to increase the  Virgin
Australia (VAH)  stake or to buy into other carriers, he said. Still,
the company would look at other investments “if it makes
business sense,” he said.  Singapore Air also this year formed long-haul budget
carrier Scoot. The unit is filling about 80 percent of seats,
Goh said.  The carrier said Oct. 24 it would end the world’s longest
non-stop flights, from Singapore to  Newark ,  New Jersey , and  Los
Angeles . It announced plans to buy 25 Airbus SAS aircraft worth
about $7.5 billion at list prices to replace less fuel-efficient
models the same day.  The company is able to finance the plane purchases from
 internal sources , Goh said. The airline has also hedged 43
percent of its fuel needs for the six months through March at an
average price of $123 a barrel of  jet fuel , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  