-- Soured Commercial Mortgage Debt Falls to Lowest Since April 2010
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-11-05T16:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/soured-commercial-mortgage-debt-falls-to-lowest-since-april-2010.html
The amount of delinquent commercial-
property loans backing bonds fell to the lowest in 18 months as
landlords take advantage of low borrowing costs, according to
Citigroup Inc.  The balance of debt past due tied to skyscrapers, shopping
malls and hotels fell $1.5 billion to $53 billion last month,
the lowest since April 2010, Citigroup analysts said in a Nov. 2
report. The rate of payments more than 30 days late fell 27
basis points to 9.76 percent, they said.  Property owners are benefiting as Federal Reserve efforts
to stimulate economic growth by holding its benchmark lending
rate at almost zero for a fourth year pushes lenders to take on
more risk for less reward. Sales of commercial-mortgage backed
securities are surging as investors gravitate toward the debt in
search of higher yields even as sluggish U.S. economic growth
threatens to hold down rent and occupancy rates.  “While any deterioration in the economy could certainly
spur an uptick in the pace of term defaults, the recent level
may be a near-term equilibrium,” said the Citigroup analysts
led by Jeffrey Berenbaum in  New York .  The delinquency rate soared as high as 10.23 percent in the
second quarter as borrowers struggled to pay off maturing loans,
according to Citigroup.  Refinancing Boon  Rising commercial-mortgage bond sales are a boon for
landlords with maturing debt. Banks have arranged about $32.3
billion of the deals this year, up from $28 billion in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales may reach $45
billion in 2012, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. Sales
peaked at $232 billion in 2007.  Low borrowing costs and demand for distressed commercial
real estate means that some borrowers with marginal loans that
would have struggled to refinance a year ago will be able to pay
off their mortgages, Trepp LLC, a commercial-mortgage data
provider, said in a statement today.  The extra yield investors demand to own top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries fell to 1.01 on
Oct. 24, the lowest in at least four years, and down from 2.47
percentage points on Jan. 3, according to a Barclays Plc  index .
The spread rose to 107 basis points, or 1.07 percentage point,
on Nov. 2 amid concern that damage from  Hurricane Sandy  may hurt
revenue.  “Market sentiment is for modestly wider sentiment due to
the storm-related uncertainty,” the Citigroup analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  