-- Spain Stalls Mersch’s ECB Board Appointment, Prolonging Tussle
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-05T15:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/spain-stalls-mersch-s-ecb-board-appointment-prolonging-tussle.html
Spain  prolonged what is already the
most protracted personnel battle in the euro’s 13-year history
by stalling the appointment of Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch to the
 European Central Bank ’s board.  Making use of arcane legal procedures, Spain forced the
issue onto the agenda of a European summit, possibly on Nov. 22
when the leaders are set to struggle with the European Union
budget and debt crisis. Spain, relying on 100 billion euros
($128 billion) in European aid for its banks and potentially
seeking more to shore up its public finances, had put forward a
losing candidate for the post.  Bailout politics and a protest by European parliamentarians
against the central bank’s all-male cast have combined to leave
the seat empty since June, the first time since the euro’s debut
in 1999 that governments have failed to fill an ECB vacancy.  “The battle continues to avoid an ECB board made up only
of men, in violation of the fundamental principles of the EU,”
Sylvie Goulard of  France  and Sven Giegold of  Germany , members of
the European Parliament committee that weighed Mersch’s
candidacy, said in an e-mailed statement in Brussels today.  The fight is over a successor to Jose Manuel Gonzalez- Paramo, a Spaniard whose term on the ECB’s six-member Frankfurt-
based Executive Board ended on May 31. Spain originally counted
on European leaders to uphold an informal understanding that the
four largest euro countries -- Germany, France,  Italy  and Spain
-- would always have ECB board seats.  Gentlemen’s Agreement  Germany led the way in tearing up that gentleman’s
agreement, chafing at the perception that southern European
countries were gaining the upper hand at the ECB after the
selection of  Mario Draghi  of Italy as president last year. The
bank’s vice president,  Vitor Constancio , is from  Portugal , one
of four countries drawing on financial aid.  As Luxembourg’s representative on the ECB’s wider interest-
rate-setting Governing Council, Mersch, 63, is the euro area’s
longest serving central-bank chief and enjoys a reputation as a
German-style inflation hawk.  The Spanish candidate, Antonio Sainz de Vicuna, head of
legal services at the ECB, stayed in the running until he was
deserted by the new French government. Euro-area finance
ministers backed Mersch in July, mustering a “qualified
majority” with votes weighted by each country’s size.  All previous ECB nominations by finance ministers have been
rubber stamped. In Mersch’s case, the parliament voted 325 to
300 with 49 abstentions to make its first-ever negative
recommendation of a central banker to decry the shortage of
women in top European jobs.  Government Leaders  Following that non-binding resolution, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  went ahead with the appointment. Van Rompuy sent
letters to the 17 euro government leaders, setting noon today as
a deadline for them to respond by mail, fax or e-mail with an
assent to the Luxembourger.  Spain’s national interests meshed with the parliament’s
opposition today, when Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
employed a delaying tactic by objecting to the use of the
written procedure to make the appointment.  “We don’t agree with the written procedure, given that the
European Parliament has voted against,” Carmen Martinez Castro,
Spain’s deputy minister for communication, said in a telephone
interview. “We think there must be a debate” among euro-zone
leaders.  She declined to say whether Spain might propose a female
alternative to Mersch. One candidate might be Belen Romana
Garcia, a Spanish woman floated by the media as a contender for
the job of running the euro zone’s rescue fund. That post went
to Klaus Regling of Germany.  Voting Rules  As a result, the decision will be made at a face-to-face
meeting of leaders, with the next ones set for Nov. 22 and Dec.
13. At a summit, the regular voting rules would apply, denying
Rajoy a veto. He would have to get one larger country --
Germany, France or Italy -- or a coalition of smaller ones to
block Mersch.  Leaders were “not today in a position to take a decision
by written procedure,”  Van Rompuy ’s office said in a  statement .
“The issue will be on the agenda of an upcoming meeting” with
the goal “of taking the formal decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  