-- Sports Authority Said to Set Rate on $630 Million Term Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-11-05T20:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/sports-authority-said-to-set-rate-on-630-million-term-loan-1-.html
Sports Authority Inc., the sporting-
goods retailer controller by Leonard Green & Partners, set the
 interest rate  it will pay on a $630 million term loan B it’s
seeking to refinance debt, according to a person with knowledge
of the transaction.  The seven-year loan will pay interest at 5.5 percentage
points to 6 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. Libor, a rate banks say they
can borrow in dollars from each other, will have a 1.25 percent
floor.  Sports Authority is proposing to sell the loan at 99 cents
on the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the
company and boosting the yield to investors.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1 cent more
than face value to refinance the debt during the first year, the
person said.  Proceeds will be used to refinance the company’s existing
term loan B due in 2017 and its senior subordinated notes due
2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sports Authority ’s current term loan pays interest at 6
percentage points more than Libor, with a 1.5 percent floor, the
data show. The debt was sold to investors at 97 cents and was
quoted at 100.875 cent today.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of
Montreal, Credit Suisse Group AG, Royal Bank of Canada, UBS AG
and  Wells Fargo & Co . are arranging the deal for the Englewood,
Colorado-based company. Commitments are due Nov. 13, according
to the person.  Thomas Hendrickson, chief financial officer of Sports
Authority, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  