-- StarHub to Guard Market With Sticky TV Content: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-05T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/starhub-to-guard-market-with-sticky-tv-content-southeast-asia.html
StarHub Ltd. (STH) , Singapore’s biggest
broadband Internet and cable TV operator, is adding new content
to make them “stickier” and stop customers from moving to rivals
including  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)   About 1.2 percent of Starhub’s pay TV customers switched
operators in the third quarter, the highest since the year-
earlier period, the company said in a slide presentation last
week. It lost 1.5 percent of its residential broadband
subscribers in the three months, it said, exceeding the average
in the past year.  “The main strategy here is to link the customers with
broadband with the TV customers,” StarHub Chief Executive
Officer Neil Montefiore said in a Nov. 2 interview. “It makes
them stickier and should reduce the churn going forward.”  StarHub is defending its market share as the number of
residential broadband Internet subscribers reached 1.2 million
in the first quarter, exceeding the number of households in the
city-state, according to Infocomm Development Authority of
 Singapore ’s  data . Singapore is also rolling out a nationwide
network that may threaten Starhub’s position as the market
leader as more customers switch service providers.  “Definitely it would be increasing because other than
SingTel, they are the only other player in town with residential
broadband, so people are switching from the old fixed broadband
to the new fiber broadband,” said Gregory Yap, an analyst at
Kim Eng Securities Pte. in Singapore. “But eventually it will
be made up for by additional connections on fiber.”  TV Strategy  The company, which is also Singapore’s biggest phone
company after SingTel, introduced a service that allows
customers to watch TV on their smartphones and tablets to build
loyalty. Montefiore estimates his company has more than half of
residential broadband Internet market in Singapore, which has
operators including SingTel and  M1 (M1)  Ltd.  Starhub said Nov. 2 its  third-quarter profit  climbed 27
percent to S$96.2 million, exceeding the average S$82.9 million
estimate of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating revenue increased 2.4 percent to S$585.9 million.  The number of pay TV customers dropped to 541,000 in the
third quarter, down from 543,000 in the previous three months,
StarHub said. SingTel has 380,000 cable TV subscribers as of
June 30 and is scheduled to release details of its quarterly
performance on Nov. 14.  StarHub is also fighting back with new content, Montefiore
said. The company yesterday unveiled Sony Max, its ninth Hindi
channel featuring Bollywood movies ahead of the Deepavali Hindu
holiday next week.  Differentiating Itself  “They don’t want to match the low price that the new
entrants are coming in at,” said Kelvin Goh, an equity analyst
at CIMB in  Kuala Lumpur , referring to new broadband  Internet
service providers . “Starhub wants to differentiate itself with
better service offering.”  The company may also be willing to forgo low-paying
broadband customers who usually switch when there’s a cheaper
offer from its competitors, said  Carey Wong , an analyst at OCBC
Investment Research in Singapore.  “These kind of customers typically are price sensitive and
they don’t stay, they don’t trade up,” Wong said. “They’re
typically quite price sensitive and they don’t subscribe to more
than one service. It’s a business decision that they let them
go.”  StarHub shares climbed 26 percent this year, exceeding
bigger SingTel’s 2.9 percent advance and a 4.8 percent gain in
M1. The Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  increased 15
percent.  Most Expensive  The stock jump made Starhub the most expensive among the
three telecommunications companies. The shares traded at 17.4
times  earnings , exceeding SingTel’s multiple of 12.6 and 16.5
times for M1.  A veteran with more than 35 years of experience in the
telecommunications industry, Montefiore joined StarHub in
January 2010 as its CEO. Before that he was the head of M1, the
country’s No. 3 phone operator. Montefiore is a  permanent
resident  of Singapore, according to the company’s website, and
has lived in the city for 16 years.  “We’ve already introduced quite a number of new channels
onto the system,” he said. “We’ve also launched our TV
anywhere strategy that allows people to view the content across
all our platforms and across all devices within the household so
that’s what we hope will maintain our customer base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  