-- Stifel to Purchase KBW in Deal Valued at $575 Million
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-11-05T21:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/stifel-to-purchase-kbw-in-deal-valued-at-575-million.html
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , the St.
Louis-based brokerage, agreed to buy  KBW Inc. (KBW)  in a cash-and-
stock transaction valued at $575 million to build its financial-
services business.  KBW shareholders will receive $17.50 per share, comprised
of $10 in cash and $7.50 in Stifel common stock, the companies
said today in a statement. The deal values KBW, a New York-based
broker-dealer and investment bank, 7.4 percent higher than its
closing price on Nov. 2.  Stifel, run by Chief Executive Officer Ronald Kruszewski,
has been seeking acquisitions to gain market share as the
financial-services industry recovers from the credit crisis.
KBW, which lost 67 employees at its World Trade Center
headquarters in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, has posted a loss
in five of the past six quarters as bank mergers dwindle.  The KBW purchase “provides Stifel with an exciting
opportunity to grow and become a market leader in the financial-
services sector,” Kruszewski, 53, said in the statement. “This
combination expands our capabilities at a time when we believe
the financial-services sector is poised to benefit from
improving fundamentals.”  Stifel’s  acquisitions , including  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s capital-
markets business and Thomas Weisel Partners Group Inc., have
helped the firm post record  net revenue  every year since 1997,
when Kruszewski became CEO. The KBW deal will make Stifel the
No. 1 adviser on mergers and acquisitions in the financial-
institutions industry, Stifel said in a  web presentation .  Morgan Keegan  Stifel was among companies that bid on part or all of bond-
trading firm Gleacher & Co., according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. Stifel was also in talks to buy  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF) ’s Morgan Keegan brokerage last year, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Stifel rose 2.1 percent to $32.58 in  New York  trading at
4:15 p.m. KBW jumped 7.2 percent to $17.47, the biggest increase
in a year.  The purchase is expected to generate a 10 percent to 16
percent return on equity, and it will be 5 percent to 7 percent
accretive to earnings per share, Kruszewski said today on a
conference call. The transaction is expected to be completed
early next year, he said.  Keeping Employees  KBW is expected to generate between $250 million and $325
million of revenue and $64 million in operating expenses. Stifel
is offering retention packages to “key” KBW employees, and
about 85 people have signed on, Kruszewski and KBW CEO Thomas Michaud said on the call. Most of the staff cuts will come from
employees who don’t deal directly with customers, Kruszewski
said.  Stifel said third-quarter net income rose to $37.7 million,
or 60 cents a share, from $22.3 million, or 35 cents, a year
earlier, according to a separate statement today. Excluding a 9-
cent gain on Stifel’s investment in  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ,
earnings were 51 cents, compared with the 47-cent average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Stifel’s earnings were strong, and the KBW deal is
cheap,”  David Trone , an analyst with JMP Securities LLC, said
today in a note. “We continue to recommend Stifel, particularly
because we felt KBW would bounce back within the year.”  Knight Rescue  Stifel was one of the companies that participated in the
rescue of  Knight Capital  after the trading firm posted a $440
million loss tied to faulty computer software. Stifel made a $30
million investment.  KBW reported a third-quarter net loss of $3.1 million, or
11 cents a share, compared with a loss of $14.6 million, or 47
cents, a year earlier, according to a statement today. Two
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated a net loss of 5 cents.  Deal volume for mergers involving lenders fell 21 percent
in the first three quarters of this year to $131.6 billion from
the same period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  KBW had its initial public offering in 2006, and its shares
fell 22 percent through Nov. 2. In 1999, KBW canceled a planned
IPO after its then-chief executive was caught passing stock tips
to his porn-star girlfriend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  