-- Stocks Drop, Bankers Argue in High-Tech Theater Show
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/stocks-drop-bankers-argue-in-high-tech-theater-show.html
Who knew “The Grapes of Wrath,”
theater on live stream and mortgage-backed securities had so
much in common?  They’re all in “House/Divided,” a play from the Builders
Association, a cutting-edge performance and media company. (The
group’s name, along with the fact that the drama is sponsored by
contractor E.W. Howell Co., is pure chance.)  Taking place simultaneously during the Great Depression and
the time of  Lehman Brothers ’ collapse, the play features a
futuristic set with a house created from real materials as well
as a shifting series of projections.  A wraparound onstage screen displays a stream of stock
quotes interspersed with the actors’ faces. The group, based in
New York, integrates technology and theater in every production.  Marianne Weems , the show’s director, spoke to me the day
after opening night at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.  Wearing a gray coat, purple and yellow dress and a necklace
with a peace symbol that doubles as a magnifying glass, she laid
out her vision for the theater.  Tarmy: I brought a friend who works at  JPMorgan (JPM)  to the
show. He thought you were too soft on bankers.  Critical Bankers  Weems: That’s so great. The nice thing about playing it in
New York is that there are people who, on a personal level, are
going to be able to judge it critically.  We’ve been touring it in the Midwest, where there’s a lot
more identification with the foreclosure side, not the power-
mongering side of it.  Tarmy: How did you ensure that all of the details in the
show were accurate?  Weems: That took a lot of work. An associate wrote an
algorithm for the ticker and got all of the exact stock quotes
for the days that the show is marking. We did a lot of digging
through  FCIC  documents -- the story just kind of tells itself.  Tarmy: You manage to seamlessly integrate technology with
theater.  Weems: That’s kind of our signature. The aesthetic is about
this high tech world, not necessarily celebrating it, so there
is a complicated interplay between critique and celebration.  Tarmy: Is the integration of technology into live
performance the future of theater?  Future Theater  Weems: We’re operating at the edge of what people consider
legitimate theater. Because to see people on stage with nothing
around them, with a kitchen sink, it’s like, “What audience are
you talking to, and what are you representing?”  They’re representing a generation and a way of living
that’s long gone. We’re swimming in mediatization, so putting
that on stage seems relatively obvious.  Tarmy: Why do you think that the practice isn’t more
mainstream?  Weems: When it goes to Broadway it’s drained of meaning:
it’s utterly meaningless to have a huge video wall that is just
a backdrop. You might as well just have scenery that is less
expensive. So this whole investigation of how to have technology
be part of the storytelling is really key.  Tarmy: So what’s next?  IPad Theater  Weems: AR -- “augmented reality.” The audience will be
either invited to use their own phone or given an iPad as they
go into the theater, and they’re going to be able to view the
scenery and much of the show through their screen.  So what you would see when you hold up the screen is a
giant castle over the proscenium, which the actors are acting
within... but you don’t need to build the fricking castle.
That’s the point.  Tarmy: How much did this show cost to produce?  Weems: Around $300,000. That’s all the workshops, the
development phases, set materials and some new computers. And we
believe in paying the artists, which is really a problem for
artists now.  Tarmy: Theater actors don’t get paid?  Weems: It is difficult now, more than ever, because
unfortunately many of the arts organizations that have
cultivated and fed this whole scene have had to pull in their
skirts because of their own issues.  After 9/11 there was also a massive dip in funding but then
it crept back up. But now foundations have closed their doors or
changed their mission.  Tarmy: How do you compensate for that?  Individual Donors  Weems: The current wisdom is that everyone has to cultivate
individual donors. That’s what foundations tell nonprofits. That
you have to go out and find out deep pockets. It’s a hugely
time-consuming task, and it’s a different kind of fundraising.  Tarmy: When you have single donors, do they try to
influence the content of your shows?  Weems: No, but they come up with crackpot funding ideas.
Like when we did a show about outsourcing work to  India , and we
actually all thought that we were going to get Virgin to fund
it. When we asked Virgin they were just like “No. Your show is
a critique of what we do.”  Tarmy: You were actually surprised that Virgin turned you
down?  Weems: Yeah, well, that’s what I mean. Live and learn.  The Builders Association presents “Sontag: Reborn” at the
Wexner Center for the Arts in Columbus,  Ohio , on Nov. 15 to 18.  Information:  http://www.thebuildersassociation.org .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and Jaime Widder
on  music .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 