-- Strategic Hotels Climbs After CEO Resigns: Chicago Mover
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-11-05T21:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/strategic-hotels-climbs-after-ceo-resigns-chicago-mover.html
Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) , a
real estate investment trust with stakes in luxury hotels,
jumped the most in more than two years, after Chief Executive
Officer  Laurence Geller  announced his resignation.  The Chicago-based company climbed 13 percent to $6.31 at
the close of  New York  trading. It was the biggest increase since
March 24, 2010.  Geller, 64, announced his resignation as CEO, president and
a member of the Strategic board on Nov. 2 after the close of
regular U.S. trading. Geller, the author of two  novels , is
leaving Strategic to “focus on my myriad other activities and
the next chapter in my life,” he said in a statement. Chairman
Raymond L. “Rip” Gellein Jr. will replace him in the CEO post.  “Geller was hardly perfect as CEO, and the company’s
aggressive, debt-fueled, high multiple acquisition binge prior
to the unprecedented 2008-2009 industry downturn pushed the
company to the very edge of survivability,” William Crow, a
Raymond James & Associates Inc. analyst, said in a research
note. “Today, the company is well-financed and that same
portfolio -- plus a few more recent additions -- has generated
some of the best top- and bottom-line growth in the industry.”  Crow has an outperform rating on Strategic shares, the
equivalent of a buy.  William Marks , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC, raised his
rating on the REIT to market outperform from market perform and
set a 12-month price target of $7, “given the CEO’s departure
as well as a declining valuation,” he said in a research note.  Strategic holds stakes in luxury hotels such as the Four
Seasons Jackson Hole in Wyoming and Four Seasons Silicon Valley
in  California . In September, Strategic bought Essex House, an
80-year-old hotel on Central Park South in Manhattan, for $362.3
million. Strategic formed a partnership with KSL Capital
Partners LLC to fund the acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  