-- Superman Heirs, DC Comics Appeal Copyright Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-05T22:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/superman-heirs-dc-comics-appeal-copyright-case.html
The heirs of Superman creators Jerome
Siegel and Joseph Shuster took their 15-year-old fight with  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s DC Comics unit to reclaim the rights to the comic
book hero before a federal appeals court.  A U.S. Court of Appeals panel today heard arguments in
Pasadena, California, over whether Siegel’s daughter can
terminate the rights agreement dating back to 1938, when DC’s
predecessor, Detective Comics, published the first Superman
story in Action Comics. The panel also heard arguments in a
lawsuit by DC Comics against Shuster’s heirs and their lawyer.  “Superman is probably the second most valuable character
of Warner Bros. behind Batman,” said Jeremiah Reynolds, an
entertainment lawyer with Kinsella Weitzman Iser Kump & Aldisert
LLP in Santa Monica, California, who isn’t involved in the case.
“Any litigation where a studio is fighting over one of its most
valuable assets will be of great interest to the entertainment
industry.”  The first Superman movie Warner Bros. released in 1978
initiated the era of big-budget superhero pictures and brought
in about $300 million worldwide in ticket sales, according to
 Box Office Mojo LLP , a compiler of box-office numbers. The film
now ranks No. 29 on Box Office Mojo’s list of most successful
superhero movies by domestic ticket sales.  ‘The Avengers’  The best-selling movie on the list is “Marvel’s The
Avengers,” released this year by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Buena Vista
unit, which brought in $623 million in domestic ticket sales and
$1.5 billion worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  DC Comics licenses the Superman rights to Warner Bros.,
also a unit of New York-based Time Warner. Daniel Petrocelli, a
lawyer for the company, said at today’s hearing that Laura
Siegel Larson, Siegel’s daughter, can’t terminate the 1938
copyright agreement because she and her late mother made a new
agreement with DC Comics in 2006 that they are now trying to
renege on.  Petrocelli asked the appellate panel to reverse a trial-
court judge’s 2008 ruling that, as a matter of law, DC Comics
and the Siegels didn’t have a binding agreement in 2001 that
could be enforced because the parties never executed a “long-
term” contract that detailed all the terms.  “At the very minimum we believe we’re entitled to a
trial” over whether the parties had an agreement, Petrocelli
said. “This has the potential to dispose of the entire
dispute.”  Valid Contract  If it is proven there’s a valid contract that can be
enforced, Siegel’s daughter would immediately receive a $20
million payment in exchange for her father’s share in some of
the earliest Superman stories, Petrocelli said.  DC Comics argues the Siegels wanted to get out of the
agreement because they were approached by a different lawyer,
Marc Toberoff, who promised them more money as part of a plan to
get the rights from both the Siegel and Shuster heirs.  Toberoff said at today’s hearing that there never was an
agreement because Warner Bros. lawyers changed the terms of what
was only a deal in principle in 2001. Toberoff asked the panel
to upheld U.S. District Judge Stephen Larson’s decision that
this wasn’t a matter for a jury to decide.  The judges questioned Toberoff’s claim it was right for a
judge, not a jury, to decide that an Oct. 19, 2006, acceptance
letter by the Siegels’ previous lawyer was made invalid by
Warner Bros.’ subsequent changes in a reply letter to what
royalties the Siegels would get.  ‘Genuine Issue’  “If there’s a legitimate offer on the 16th and the
acceptance on the 19th, does it really matter what happens
afterward?” U.S. Circuit Judge Sidney Thomas asked Toberoff.
“This suggests there’s probably a genuine issue of material
fact.”  DC Comics is also challenging Larson’s ruling that Siegel’s
heirs could terminate his half of the copyrights for the first
Superman story published in 1938 and some other earlier works
because these weren’t produced on a “work-for-hire” basis,
which would have given controlling rights to the party
commissioning the work and paying the artists.  Larson ruled that the later Superman stories were work for
hire and that the Siegels couldn’t recapture any copyrights in
those. Laura Siegel Larson appealed that ruling.  The heirs to the creators argue the stories weren’t work-
for-hire because Siegel, the writer, and Shuster, the cartoon
artist, produced the first story independently of DC Comics and
the later ones, when they had a contract with DC Comics, on a
speculative basis. That left them with the creative control and
financial risk, the heirs said in court filings.  ‘Self-Employed’  “Siegel and Shuster were self-employed, with their own
expanding comic production business, the American Artists
League, which supplied and sold finished comic book stories that
Detective purchased for publication and finished Superman comic
strips that McClure Newspaper Syndicate distributed to
newspapers,” Laura Siegel Larson said in court papers.  A year after Siegel’s death in 1996, his widow and daughter
sought to end DC Comics’ rights to Superman under the 1976 U.S.
Copyright Act that gave original authors and certain heirs the
right to recapture their original copyrights 56 years from the
date they first signed them over.  After the 2001 agreement fell through, the Siegels sued DC
Comics and Warner Bros. for a court ruling that they had
successfully terminated Jerome Siegel’s grant of his rights to
DC Comics in 1938.  The judge concluded that while DC Comics retained the
copyright to some black and white promotional announcements
published before the first Superman story, the crusader’s
storyline, including his name, his Clark Kent alter ego, his
origins, his mission and his heroic abilities, was no longer
within the comic book company’s sole possession to exploit.  Leotard, Cape  DC Comics “may continue to exploit the image of a person
with extraordinary strength who wears a black and white leotard
and cape,” the judge said.  He said what the company really wanted was “the entire
storyline from Action Comics Vol. 1, Superman’s distinctive blue
leotard, complete with its inverted triangular crest across the
chest with a red ‘S’ on a yellow background, a red cape and
boots, and his superhuman ability to leap tall buildings, repel
bullets, and run faster than a locomotive.”  Siegel and Shuster met working on their high school
newspaper in  Cleveland . Their first Superman character in a 1933
short story was a villain instead of a hero. Siegel rewrote the
character the next year as a superhero from outer space who
assumes the persona of mild-mannered newspaper reporter Clark
Kent to blend in with everyday society.  More Lawsuits  Even if the appeals court rules in Laura Siegel Larson’s
favor and affirms that she has successfully recaptured Siegel’s
half of the copyright, she still may have to settle with DC
Comics because any effort to market or exploit the Superman
character without DC Comics will result in more lawsuits,
Reynolds said.  “It’s a recipe for litigation,” Reynolds said in a phone
interview. “It’s hard to imagine the Siegels will be able to do
anything without DC Comics.”  While the Siegels succeeded in the lower court in
recapturing their interest in Superman, the Shusters lost their
battle with DC Comics over their half of the copyright. Because
DC Comics and Warner Bros. retained that half, they are free
under U.S. copyright law to exploit those rights by making
another Superman movie due out next year, as long as they
account for the profits owed to the Siegel heirs.  U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright II, who inherited the
Superman cases after Larson went into private practice, ruled
last month that the Shuster heirs forfeited their rights in a
1992 agreement with DC Comics that boosted a survivor payment
for the late artist’s brother and sister from $5,000 to $25,000.  1992 Contract  Wright said that the Shuster heirs, having locked
themselves into the 1992 contract, couldn’t rely on the 1976
copyright re-capture law because it applies only to agreements
made before 1978.  The 20-year-old agreement “exhausted the single
opportunity provided by the statute to the Shuster heirs to
revisit the terms of Shuster’s original grants of his
copyright,” Wright said in his ruling.  While Wright’s decision on that ruling wasn’t before the
appeals court today, the three-judge panel took under submission
Toberoff’s appeal of Wright’s earlier ruling that DC Comics can
sue him for interfering with DC Comics 1992 agreement with
Shuster’s heirs, who he also represents.  In 2010, DC Comics sued Toberoff, of Malibu,  California ,
and the Shuster estate, claiming the lawyer “orchestrated a web
of collusive agreements concerning the Superman rights.”  Heirs’ Lawyer  “By these agreements, Toberoff purported to secure a
majority of and controlling financial stake in copyright
interests in Superman assertedly held by the Siegel and Shuster
heirs and preclude the heirs from freely entering into new
agreements with DC Comics,” the company said in its complaint.  DC Comics alleges Toberoff induced the Shusters to
repudiate their 1992 deal and enter into in a fifty-fifty joint
venture with his company, Pacific Pictures Corp., that would own
their rights if they got them back.  Toberoff, who referred to himself in a court filing as “a
well-known artists’ rights attorney,” said in his appeal that
the lower court should have dismissed the interference claim, as
well as the company’s allegation that his agreements with the
Siegels and Shusters for a stake in their rights to Superman are
void.  The cases are Larson v. Warner Bros., 11-55863, and DC
Comics v. Pacific Pictures Corp., 11-56934, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( Pasadena , California).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  