-- U.K. Stocks Decline as HSBC Drops After Reporting Profit
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-05T16:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/u-k-stocks-decline-as-hsbc-drops-after-reporting-profit.html
U.K. stocks  fell the most this month
amid concern that Greece will struggle to obtain more aid and as
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  reported profit that missed estimates.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by value, retreated 1.3 percent
after making a $800 million provision. Rio Tinto Group and
 Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  both slipped more than 2 percent as metal prices
dropped.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , the region’s biggest discount
airline, climbed 5.8 percent after raising its outlook.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slid 0.5 percent to 5,839.06 at the
close of trading in London. The equity benchmark has still
 rallied 11 percent from this year’s low  on June 1 as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do everything to
protect the euro. The broader FTSE All-Share Index retreated 0.5
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 1.1 percent.  “In order for Greece to receive the next tranche of
bailout funds, more budget cuts are needed,” wrote Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in London.
“With not all of the coalition partners potentially in full
agreement with these budget cuts, it needs to be seen if these
important austerity measures will indeed pass a parliament vote
scheduled for this coming Wednesday.”  Greece’s Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, will seek to
obtain approval for austerity measures including wage and
pension cuts this week. Greek lawmakers’ first vote on the
country’s budget will come as early as Nov. 7.  In the U.S., voters will decide tomorrow between giving
President  Barack Obama  another four years in office or changing
course with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  “Everyone is focused on the election,” said Yves Marcais,
an equity sales trader at Global Equities in Paris. “It’s
difficult to say who will win, so there is a lot of uncertainty.
The market hates uncertainty.”  Service Industries  In the U.K.,  service industries  grew at a slower pace in
October than economists had forecast, adding to signs of
weakness in the economy at the start of the fourth quarter. A
gauge based on a survey of  purchasing managers  fell to 50.6, a
22-month low, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said in London.  HSBC lost 1.3 percent to 618 pence. Third-quarter
underlying pretax profit rose to $5 billion, missing the $5.6
billion  median estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The bank made today’s provision in addition to $700 million
that it set aside in July for any fines after a Senate committee
found it had given terrorists and drug cartels access to the
U.S. financial system.  Rio Tinto  declined 2.2 percent to 3,145 pence. Kazakhmys
slipped 2.4 percent to 717.5 pence. Copper, nickel and zinc all
retreated in London.  Ryanair Gains  In Dublin, Ryanair soared 5.8 percent to 4.81 euros. The
airline’s fiscal  second-quarter profit  climbed 23 percent to
496.8 million euros ($635 million), exceeding the average
analyst estimate of 440 million euros. The company raised its
 forecast  for full-year earnings after increasing its average
fare by 7 percent.  Ryanair said it will generate annual earnings of as much as
520 million euros in fiscal 2013, compared with 502.6 million
euros in fiscal 2012. The airline had projected profit of
between 400 million euros and 440 million euros.  Severfield-Rowen Plc (SFR)  plunged 24 percent to 107 pence, its
biggest slide since January 2008, after saying two of its
businesses have missed its own forecasts.  Inmarsat, Telecity  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  lost 3.2 percent to 560 pence. The company
reported third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates
and said it will bring forward investment next year to prepare
for the start of its Global Xpress mobile-data service.  Telecity Group Plc (TCY)  tumbled 8.5 percent to 835 pence.
Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note that the company will miss
the average analyst projection for earnings per share in 2013.
The brokerage reiterated its sell rating on the securities.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  advanced 4.6 percent to 1,831 pence. The
company predicted profit will grow at a double-digit pace this
year and that net debt will fall by the end of December.  Centamin Plc (CEY)  surged 23 percent to 74.6 pence, paring last
week’s 38 percent slump. The Egyptian Mineral Resources
Authority said it will appeal a court ruling that stripped the
company of a contract to extract gold from the Sukari mine in
the North African country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  