-- U.S. Says Irregularities Marred Nicaraguan Municipal Elections
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-05T21:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/u-s-says-irregularities-marred-nicaraguan-municipal-elections.html
Nicaragua ’s municipal elections
lacked transparency and were rife with irregularities and voter
fraud, the U.S. State Department said today.  The Nov. 4 elections “failed to demonstrate a degree of
transparency” and several reports of voter obstructionism were
reported nationwide, Victoria Nuland, spokesperson for the U.S.
State Department, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Irregularities observed on election day included citizens
being denied the right to vote, a failure to respect the secrecy
of citizens’ votes, and reported cases of voters being allowed
to vote multiple times,” Nuland said in the statement. “These
disturbing practices have marred multiple recent Nicaraguan
elections.”  More than 75 percent of total votes cast were for the
ruling Sandinista National Liberation Front, which won 127 of
153 national municipalities, including the capital Managua,
where candidate Daysi Torres received more than 83 percent of
the vote, according to the Supreme Electoral Council.  The Sandinista party, headed by President Daniel Ortega, a
former Marxist rebel, was also accused of voter fraud in the
2008 municipal elections, which resulted in violent clashes in
Managua. The opposition Independent Liberal Party denounced the
Supreme Electoral Council for obstructionism yesterday and
claimed polling stations turned away voters on the grounds that
they were not properly registered.  Only 57 percent of eligible voters cast ballots yesterday,
according to the Supreme Electoral Council. Two people were
killed in Ciudad Dario, about 60 miles north of Managua, due to
an election-related incident, according to Managua-based
newspaper La Prensa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 Awilliams111@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  