-- U.S. Debt Risk Soars as Election Anxiety Fuels Fiscal Cliff Woes
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-11-05T16:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/u-s-debt-risk-soars-as-election-anxiety-fuels-fiscal-cliff-woes.html
The cost of insuring U.S. Treasuries
jumped by the most in three years before tomorrow’s presidential
election on concern a failure to tackle the so-called fiscal
cliff will tip the world’s largest economy into recession.  Credit-default swaps on  U.S. government debt  rose as much
as seven basis points to 37, and cost 35 basis points at 11:30
a.m. in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest increase since at least 2009 when Bloomberg
began tracking the data.  As Americans prepare to vote for President  Barack Obama  or
Republican  Mitt Romney , Group of 20 finance ministers pressed
the U.S. to prevent the $600 billion in tax increases and
 government spending  cuts set to occur unless Congress can reach
a budget compromise by the end of the year. Europe, the subject
of the group’s ire for the past three years, is enjoying some
respite from its debt crisis after the  European Central Bank 
pledged to buy bonds.  “Fundamentally, now the concerns are now shifting to the
other side of the pond,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director
at Spiro Sovereign Strategy. “It’s dawned on investors that
this is going to be a very, very complicated and very risk
strewn process where there are a number of extremely difficult
pieces that need to fall into place.”  Swaps on the U.S. rose to the highest level in three weeks
after trading at a more than six-month low of 29 basis points on
Oct. 26.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.8 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  