-- U.S. October ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-11-05T15:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/u-s-october-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the  Institute for Supply
Management .  NMI at 54.2%; October Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business; Business Activity Index at 55.4%; New Orders Index at
54.8%; Employment Index at 54.9%  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various
regional purchasing reports released across the country. The
national report’s information reflects the entire  United States ,
while the regional reports contain primarily regional data from
their local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional
reports is not used in calculating the results of the national
report. The information compiled in this report is for the month
of October 2012.  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
October for the 34th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M.,
CFPM, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered
54.2 percent in October, 0.9 percentage point lower than the
55.1 percent registered in September. This indicates continued
growth this month at a slightly slower rate in the non-
manufacturing sector. The Non-Manufacturing Business Activity
Index registered 55.4 percent, which is 4.5 percentage points
lower than the 59.9 percent reported in September, reflecting
growth for the 39th consecutive month. The New Orders Index
decreased by 2.9 percentage points to 54.8 percent. The
Employment Index increased by 3.8 percentage points to 54.9
percent, indicating growth in employment for the third
consecutive month. The Prices Index decreased 2.5 percentage
points to 65.6 percent, indicating prices increased at a slower
rate in October when compared to September. According to the
NMI, 13 non-manufacturing industries reported growth in October.
The majority of the respondents’ comments reflect a positive but
guarded outlook on business conditions and the economy.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE  The 13 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in
October -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Construction; Other Services; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Finance & Insurance; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Accommodation & Food Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Information; Educational
Services; and Retail Trade. The five industries reporting
contraction in October are: Mining; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation;  Wholesale Trade ; Utilities; and Public
Administration.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Business with markets and customers we serve remains
strong.” (Management of Companies & Support Services) “Business
is steady, with good fourth quarter expected.” (Information)
“The sluggish pace of economic recovery coupled with rapid
increases in gas prices on the West Coast continue to drag down
customer traffic and discretionary spending. Levels remain well
below last year.” (Arts, Entertainment & Recreation) “Ongoing
concerns about healthcare reform; reluctance to expand or hire.”
(Health Care & Social Assistance) “Outlook is positive yet still
guarded. Clients have some pent-up demand that they are acting
on with short-term contracts.” (Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services) “More companies seeking relief from fuel
increases.” (Public Administration  * Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business data is seasonally
adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices and
Employment. Manufacturing ISM Report On Business data is
seasonally adjusted for New Orders, Production, Employment and
Supplier Deliveries.  ** Number of months moving in current direction  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price  Beef; Chemical Products; Chicken; Computer Products; Copper
Products; Corrugated Products; Dairy (2); #1  Diesel Fuel  (3); #2
Diesel Fuel* (3); Food Products (2); Fuel (4); Fuel Surcharges;
Gasoline* (10); Gasoline Related (2); Medical Supplies*; Oils;
Packaging Supplies; Pallets; Paper; Pharmaceuticals; Pharmacy
Products; Plastic/Poly Bags (3); Pork; Produce; and Urea.  Commodities Down in Price  #2 Diesel Fuel*; Gasoline*; Lumber; Medical Supplies*; and
Soybean Meal.  Commodities in Short Supply  Pharmaceuticals; and Pharmacy Products are the only
commodities reported in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item. *Reported as both up and down in
price.  OCTOBER 2012 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI In October, the NMI registered 54.2 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 34th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in October
registered 55.4 percent, 4.5 percentage points lower than the
59.9 percent registered in September. Ten industries reported
increased business activity, and five industries reported
decreased activity for the month of October. Comments from
respondents include: “Economic outlook appears to be dimmer in
2013. Company implemented spend freeze before the fourth
quarter” and “Slight delay in several major capital projects.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in
October -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Construction; Finance & Insurance; Other
Services; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Information; Health Care & Social Assistance; Accommodation &
Food Services; Management of Companies & Support Services; and
Educational Services. The industries reporting decreased
business activity in October are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Mining; Wholesale Trade; Utilities; and Public
Administration.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in October
for the 39th consecutive month. The index registered 54.8
percent, a decrease of 2.9 percentage points from the 57.7
percent reported in September. Comments from respondents
include: “Higher awards due to lower  unemployment rate  and
increased business activity with existing clients” and “End-of-
year budget spending.”  The 10 industries reporting growth of new orders in October
-- listed in order -- are: Construction; Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Other Services; Finance & Insurance; Health Care &
Social Assistance; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Accommodation & Food Services; Educational Services; and Public
Administration. The four industries reporting contraction of new
orders in October are: Mining; Wholesale Trade; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; and Utilities.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
October for the third consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing
Employment Index registered 54.9 percent, which reflects an
increase of 3.8 percentage points when compared to the 51.1
percent registered in September. Seven industries reported
increased employment, seven industries reported decreased
employment, and four industries reported unchanged employment
compared to September. Comments from respondents include:
“Additional work related to integrating recent acquisitions” and
“Assumed responsibility for new process.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in
October -- listed in order -- are: Management of Companies &
Support Services; Other Services; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing
& Hunting; Retail Trade; Construction; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Finance & Insurance. The industries reporting a
reduction in employment in October -- listed in order -- are:
Mining; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Utilities; Educational
Services; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Information; and Wholesale Trade.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 51.5 percent in
October, which is the same percentage that was reported in both
September and August, indicating that supplier deliveries were
slower in October for the third consecutive month. A reading
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries, while a reading
below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries.  The eight industries reporting slower deliveries in October
-- listed in order -- are: Utilities; Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Educational Services; Management of Companies
& Support Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Accommodation & Food Services; and
Information. The four industries reporting faster supplier
deliveries in October are: Mining; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Wholesale Trade; and Public Administration. Six
industries reported no change in supplier deliveries in October
compared to September.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index contracted for
the second consecutive month in October after seven months of
growth. The index registered 46.5 percent, which is 2 percentage
points lower than the 48.5 percent reported in September. Of the
total respondents in September, 27 percent indicated they do not
have inventories or do not measure them. Comments from
respondents include: “Deliberate plan to reduce stock” and
“Beginning to right-size in line with declining sales.”  The seven industries reporting an increase in inventories
in October -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Utilities; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Retail Trade;
and Accommodation & Food Services. The seven industries
reporting decreases in inventories in October -- listed in order
-- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Educational Services;
Finance & Insurance; Wholesale Trade; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and
Public Administration.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for
purchased materials and services increased in October for the
fourth consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index
for October registered 65.6 percent, 2.5 percentage points lower
than the 68.1 percent reported in September. In October, the
percentage of respondents reporting higher prices is 25 percent,
the percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 68
percent, and 7 percent of the respondents reported lower prices.  Fourteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase
in prices paid during the month of October, in the following
order: Accommodation & Food Services; Educational Services;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Retail Trade; Information;
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Utilities; Wholesale Trade;
Public Administration; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; and Finance &
Insurance. No industry reported a decrease in prices paid during
October.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index contracted
in October, representing the fourth time the index has
contracted in the last five months. The index registered 49
percent, which is 1 percentage point higher than the 48 percent
reported in September. Of the total respondents in October, 37
percent indicated they do not measure backlog of orders.  The six industries reporting an increase in order backlogs
in October -- listed in order -- are: Construction; Educational
Services; Management of Companies & Support Services; Finance &
Insurance; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and
Transportation & Warehousing. The seven industries reporting
lower backlog of orders in October -- listed in order -- are:
Mining; Other Services; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Accommodation & Food Services; Wholesale Trade; Health
Care & Social Assistance; and Information.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-
manufacturing activities to be provided outside of the United
States by domestically based personnel contracted in October
after three consecutive months of growth. The New Export Orders
Index for October registered 47.5 percent, which is 3 percentage
points lower than the 50.5 percent reported in September. Of the
total respondents in September, 64 percent indicated they either
do not perform, or do not separately measure, orders for work
outside of the United States.  The four industries reporting an increase in new export
orders in October are: Construction; Information; Public
Administration; and Accommodation & Food Services. The six
industries reporting a decrease in export orders in October --
listed in order -- are: Mining; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; and Finance & Insurance. Seven
industries reported no change in export orders in October
compared to September.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index contracted in
October for the third time in the last four months. This month’s
reading at 49.5 percent is 0.5 percentage point lower than the
50 percent reported in September. Fifty-eight percent of
respondents reported that they do not use, or do not track, the
use of imported materials.  The three industries reporting an increase in imports for
the month of October are: Public Administration; Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; and Retail Trade. The three
industries reporting a decrease in imports for the month of
October are: Educational Services; Wholesale Trade; and
Accommodation & Food Services. Twelve industries reported no
change in imports for the month of October compared to
September.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in
October registered 64 percent, which is 1 percentage point lower
than the 65 percent reported in September. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In October, 31 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 3 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 66 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 12 industries reporting a feeling that their
inventories are too high in October -- listed in order -- are:
Wholesale Trade; Mining; Utilities; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Finance & Insurance; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Retail Trade; Accommodation & Food Services;
Information; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Public Administration; and Health Care & Social Assistance. The
two industries reporting that their inventories are too low in
October are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; and
Construction.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on
data compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index
based on the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with
equal weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted)
and Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties
of leading indicators and are convenient summary measures
showing the prevailing direction of change and the scope of
change. An index reading above 50 percent indicates that the
non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are
sent out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee
respondents the first part of each month. Respondents are asked
to ONLY report on information for the current month. ISM
receives survey responses throughout most of any given month,
with the majority of respondents generally waiting until late in
the month to submit responses in order to give the most accurate
picture of current business activity. ISM then compiles the
reports for release on the third business day of the following
month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the Institute for Supply Management, the first supply
institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and
serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to lead the supply management profession
through its standards of excellence, research, promotional
activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the
third business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring
the November 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Wednesday, December 5, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  