-- Swiss Property in ‘Risk Zone’ for First Time Since 1991
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-11-05T12:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/ubs-swiss-property-bubble-index-slips-for-second-quarter.html
The UBS Swiss Real Estate Bubble
Index entered the “risk zone” for the first time since 1991,
putting pressure on the  Swiss National Bank  to take measures to
curb the country’s property boom.  The index rose to 1.02 point in the three months through
September from 0.82 point in the previous quarter,  UBS AG (UBSN)  said
in a  statement  today. A reading above 1 indicates “risk.”  “Although  population growth  continues to favor price
increases, the high price level is increasingly being supported
by demand for real estate as an investment as well as by the low
 interest rates ,” said Matthias Holzhey and Claudio Saputelli,
UBS economists. “The continued strong increase in household
mortgage debt is showing no signs of abatement” and the
reversal of that “could trigger a price correction,” they
said.  The Swiss government introduced measures in July to reduce
mortgage-lending risks, including rules that will give it the
discretion to raise  capital requirements  for all banks by as
much as 2.5 percent of total domestic risk-weighted assets to
target specific parts of the credit market. SNB Vice Chairman
Jean-Pierre Danthine said last month that he was “uneasy”
about the Swiss  property market .  Continued Rise  The SNB, which according to the rules would have to request
the capital buffer for the government to act, won’t make such an
application before next year, the central bank’s president,
Thomas Jordan, said in August.  UBS’s Holzhey foresees the index continuing to rise next
year, driven by interest rates that are “too low,” he said in
a telephone interview from Zurich.  Switzerland has one of  Europe ’s most stable and prosperous
economies, and the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis is
spurring cross-border investment. The SNB imposed a ceiling of
1.20 Swiss francs to the euro in September 2011. This, combined
with rate cuts by the  European Central Bank , has prevented
Switzerland from tightening monetary policy to avert a property
bubble.  The average Swiss  household income  required to buy a home
rose in the third quarter. That’s due to a “renewed increase in
real estate prices in the third quarter combined with stagnating
income,” the analysts said. While the 5.9 times income needed
to buy is up slightly from the second quarter, it’s still below
the 6.8 times peak in 1990, they said.  Franc Ceiling  The SNB’s decision to impose a ceiling on the franc as
demand for the currency surged has made the Swiss property
market more attractive for foreign investors seeking a haven for
their money. At the same time, the euro’s weakness has
discouraged people living in  Switzerland  from buying assets in
other countries.  About 50,000 people a year migrate to Switzerland, where
unemployment is lower and income higher than most of Europe. The
tax rate of 28.5 percent of gross domestic product is below the
Organization for Economic Cooperation Development average of
33.8 percent, luring foreigners to settle in the 8 million-
inhabitant country. That’s leading to a drop in vacancies,
boosting rent levels in Zurich and Geneva.  Those two cities together with Lausanne in western
Switzerland remain the areas most at risk from residential real-
estate bubbles, UBS said, citing their “national importance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  