-- Hudson’s Bay Zellers Rent Hangs Over Share Sale
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-11-05T21:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/hudson-s-bay-zellers-rent-hangs-over-share-sale.html
Hudson’s Bay Co., Canada’s oldest
company, is trying to free itself of more than C$225 million
($226 million) in rent payments left over from the sale of store
leases to  Target Corp. (TGT)  as it prepares to raise about C$400
million in an initial public offering.  The retailer, founded in 1670 as a fur-trading venture,
owes rent through at least 2016 on leases at its Zellers
discount chain that weren’t sold to Target, regulatory filings
for the IPO show. The rent this year alone on the stores is
equal to almost half the Toronto-based retailer’s adjusted
profit.  “It will probably be a drag on the stock initially,”
 Brendan Caldwell , who manages about $1 billion as president of
Caldwell Investment Management said by phone from Toronto.
There’s “only upside” if the company manages to reduce its
lease obligations or they wind down naturally, he said. Caldwell
may buy shares for clients, he said.  The 64 locations will go dark in March as Zellers stores
are shuttered. While the company may repurpose some stores, 52
have been advertised to subletters as it negotiates with
landlords to end the leases, an advertising flyer shows. The
stores range in size from 48,000 to 128,000 square feet and are
mostly in small towns.  No Hurry  Target, based in  Minneapolis , bought 189 Zellers leases for
$1.8 billion from Hudson’s Bay to kickstart its entry into
Canada and sold 39 of the sites to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  as
retail competition intensifies in Canada. Unless another large
tenant comes to take the remaining leases, Hudson’s Bay can
spend money subdividing the spaces to attract smaller tenants,
buyout the leases, or keep paying rent.  “HBC is continuing to look at options for the Zellers
stores not acquired by Target,” said Tiffany Bourre, a
spokeswoman for Hudson’s Bay in an e-mail. Bourre said she was
unable to comment on the company’s efforts to reduce future rent
payments for Zellers stores.  Landlords may be in no hurry to terminate the leases,
preferring to have rent coming in, said John Crombie, Canadian
national retail director at Cushman & Wakefield Inc., a real
estate consultancy, by phone from Toronto.  A landlord may say, “Well, what do I do with it?,”
Crombie said. “When you take in excess of 50,000 square foot
tenants in the Canadian market, it’s a thin market.”  ‘Expansion Opportunity’  Hudson’s Bay will pay C$126.5 million in rent for Zellers
stores this year. It will pay C$46 million next year after they
close, C$31.9 million in 2014, C$27 million in 2015, C$24
million in 2016 and C$97.5 million in the years after, the IPO
documents filed on Oct. 17 show. The company had earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of C$309 million
for the year ended in January.  Hudson’s Bay will sell shares this month for C$18.50 to
C$21.50 each in its IPO, according to Nov. 1 sale documents. The
company, which owns 48 Lord & Taylor department stores in the
U.S., 90 The Bay stores, and 69 Home Outfitters stores in
 Canada , plans to sell 18.6 million to 21.6 million shares, or as
much as 19 percent of the company, giving it a projected market
value of about C$2.4 billion. The company will hold an investor
road show tomorrow in Toronto and on Nov. 7 in  Montreal  on the
offering.  The Hudson’s Bay IPO is being led by  Royal Bank of Canada ,
Bank of Montreal, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. The banks have an option to sell another
15 percent of the offering after the deal closes, which is
expected around Nov. 26.  Large Spaces  It has retained  New York  real estate firm DJM Realty LLC to
market its leases and advertise the locations as a “Canadian
expansion opportunity” in a flyer listing the properties. The
median population among the 50 communities with Zellers leases
available is about 30,000. The smallest is St. Basile,  New
Brunswick , a parish of 717 people in 2011, according to
 Statistics Canada . Half the stores are in Ontario.  Jim Avallone, the representative of DJM listed on the
flyer, declined to comment when reached by phone.  “Most of the retailers that we know are moving up from the
states, they tend to be at much higher price points,” said  John
Andrew , a professor of real estate at Queen’s University by
phone from Kingston, Ontario. “They tend to be the luxury
brands, and they’re not going to have interest in the kinds of
locations that Zellers is essentially abandoning.”  Most of the Canadian retailers that use large spaces, like
 Canadian Tire Corp. Ltd. (CTC/A) , Rona Inc., or large grocery chains,
are already present in these communities, he said. That leaves
subdividing the space as the main option.  Brockville Shopping Centre, in a town of about 22,000
people three hours drive east of Toronto, holds one of the
Zellers stores set to close. Jameel Madhani, who manages the
plaza for Equiprop Management Ltd., said that economic
conditions in Brockville don’t warrant many higher end
retailers. Vacancy rates for retail space in 2011 were still
above their 2007 levels,  data  from the City of Brockville show.  Bay Landlords  “In today’s retail landscape, it would be a unique
challenge to find a single tenant to occupy the full 85,000
square feet Zellers has in Brockville,” said Madhani by phone
from Toronto. “We have generated interest from smaller users,
but it could easily cost $30 a foot to sub-divide the space into
multiple units.”  Hudson’s Bay still has about five years left on its lease
in Brockville but the landlord would be willing to negotiate a
buyout, if commitments from new tenants were secured first,
Madhani said.  Among Hudson’s Bay’s landlords are  RioCan Real Estate
Investment Trust (REI-U) , Retrocom Mid-Market REIT, Crombie REIT,
Calloway REIT, Primaris REIT and Artis REIT, according to mall
and company websites.  Primaris won’t disclose its strategy regarding the Zellers
lease it has for its mall in Alliston, Ontario, said John Morrison, chief executive officer, by phone from Toronto.
Spokesmen for other REITs didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Patrick MacIsaac, president of Southridge Mall in Sudbury,
Ontario, nearly 400 kilometers north of Toronto, said replacing
Zellers with new tenants is preferable to collecting rent from a
dark store, particularly because Zellers commands one of the
main entrances to the mall, blocking traffic to other tenants.
MacIsaac said he has had preliminary discussions with Hudson’s
Bay.  “While we have the advantage of having the revenue stream,
it’s much better to have your space occupied with active
retailers who are bringing shoppers to your mall,” he said.
“The question lies in what kind of arrangement would be
reasonable and satisfactory to the landlord to forgo that
revenue stream?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  