-- Humana to Buy Metropolitan Health for $500 Million
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-11-05T21:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/humana-to-buy-metropolitan-health-for-500-million.html
Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-biggest
private Medicare insurer, agreed to buy medical provider
 Metropolitan Health Networks Inc. (MDF)  for about $500 million as the
company expands beyond paying claims into delivering care.  Humana also reported third-quarter profit that fell less
than analysts estimated, raised its earnings forecast for the
year and said President Bruce Broussard, previously announced as
the incoming chief executive officer, will take over Jan. 1.
Humana will pay off $350 million of Metropolitan debt, valuing
the deal at $850 million.  Stockholders of  Boca Raton , Florida-based Metropolitan
Health will receive $11.25 a share in cash, the companies said
in a statement today. The price is 3.7 percent above
Metropolitan Health’s closing level Nov. 2. Louisville,
Kentucky-based Humana also will buy a company that helps doctors
share patient records and a stake in another medical provider.  The purchase of Metropolitan Health is Humana’s latest
foray into providing medical services, as the insurer seeks more
levers to control rising costs in Medicare, the U.S.-backed
program for the elderly. The company bought Concentra Inc. for
$790 million in 2010, adding 300 health clinics in 40 states,
and since then has also invested in urgent-care clinics, a home-
care company and other providers.  ‘Right Move’  The deal is “strategically the right move” and showcases
Broussard’s growth strategy, said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, in an e-mail. “All the
moves drive Humana’s prowess further up in coordinated care
management and delivery which in our view is critical for the
success” of private insurers covering Medicare patients.  Shares of Metropolitan Health, already a contractor with
Humana, had risen 45 percent this year through last week, and
investors had likely “priced in” some type of acquisition,
Gupte said. The stock gained 2.8 percent to $11.15 at the close
in New York.  Humana rose less than 1 percent to $75.52. The shares have
lost 14 percent this year.  Metropolitan Health had $323.5 million in long-term
 liabilities  and debt as of June 30, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The acquisition gives Humana a company with experience
coordinating care for 87,500 customers mostly covered by
Medicare and Medicaid, the joint state-federal program covering
the poor. Both are expected to grow as the U.S. population ages
and government services expand under the 2010 health-care law
passed by Congress.  Three Deals  The three deals announced today “significantly advanced
our strategy of aligning physician pay to quality,” Broussard
said in a statement. Combined with previous acquisitions,
“Humana will soon employ or have strategic investments in
medical practices that include nearly 2,300 physicians
nationwide.”  The purchase of Metropolitan Health is expected to close in
next year’s first quarter.  Humana also agreed to  buy   San Jose , California-based
Certify Data Systems, a health-information exchange company that
helps doctors share electronic medical records, and purchased a
non-controlling equity interest in MCCI Holdings LLC, another
care provider that primarily serves Medicare and Medicaid
members in Florida and  Texas . Terms of those deals weren’t
disclosed. Humana said the acquisitions would increase earnings
“modestly” in 2013.  Third-quarter profit fell 4 percent as Humana continued to
grapple with higher-than-expected medical costs.  Net income  fell to $426 million, or $2.62 a share, from
$444.8 million, or $2.67, a year earlier. The results beat the
$2.05 average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company raised its 2012 profit forecast to $7.25 to
$7.35 a share, after cutting its outlook in June due to rising
costs. Analysts had estimated an average of $7.11.  Humana said last year that Broussard, 50, would succeed
Michael McCallister, who is retiring after 12 years as CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  