-- Hungary Has Room to Cut Interest Rates, Policy Makers Say
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-11-06T10:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/hungary-central-bank-has-room-to-reduce-rates-policy-makers-say.html
Hungary ’s central bank has room to
lower the European Union’s highest  benchmark rate  as the
country’s risk assessment improves and the inflation target
remains within reach on the policy horizon, central bankers
Andrea Bartfai-Mager, Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky said.  Interest-rate reductions must be cautious and gradual as
policy makers seek to move along with market sentiment and avoid
forcing anything, Bartfai-Mager said in an interview in Budapest
yesterday. Cuts shouldn’t exceed a quarter-point at a time,
Gerhardt said in the same interview, which included three of the
four non-executive rate setters who have driven policy easing
since August. The country’s “equilibrium interest rate” is 4.5
percent to 5 percent, Gerhardt said.  “Favorable developments in risk premiums and the exchange
rate are persistent based on currently available information”
and provide maneuvering room for monetary policy, Bartfai-Mager
said. Accelerating  inflation  is primarily fueled by first-round
effects, which central banks typically overlook, she said.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  on Oct. 30 reduced the two-week
deposit rate for a third month by a quarter-point to 6.25
percent as concern about a recession outweighed the EU’s fastest
inflation and uncertainty about obtaining international aid.
Policy makers had a “narrow majority” for the cut over a
proposal for no change, MNB President  Andras Simor  said.  Inflation, the fastest in the EU, accelerated to 6.6
percent in September, the quickest since July 2008, as fuel
prices rose 2.8 percent and food costs increased 0.6 percent.  Forint, CDS  The forint was little changed at 282.62 per euro as of
11:01 a.m. in Budapest. It has gained 11.5 percent against the
euro this year, the best performance in the world, as investors
bet Hungary will obtain an International Monetary Fund loan.  The cost of insuring Hungarian debt against default for
five years using credit-default swaps was 283 basis points,
compared with a 2 1/2 year low of 235 on Oct. 17, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Yields on the benchmark bonds maturing in
2017 rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.34
percent, compared with a 2 1/2 year low of 6.23 percent on Oct.
18.  “Until now, there has been no indication at all from the
market that the Monetary Council cannot get away with continuing
this strategy thanks to continued bond market inflows,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based analyst at Nomura International
Plc said in an e-mail yesterday.  Economic Outlook  Hungary is in its second  recession  in four years as the
euro crisis curbs demand for the country’s exports while
government measures to contain the budget deficit crimp domestic
lending. The Cabinet last month cut its projection to a
contraction of 1.2 percent this year from 0.1 percent growth and
predicts an expansion of 0.9 percent in 2013, compared with a
previous estimate of 1.6 percent.  Corporate lending probably won’t recover in the next two
years, exacerbating the recession as banks’ profit outlook is
“distressed” by deteriorating loan quality and taxes, the
central bank said in a report yesterday.  The central bank will consider further interest rate cuts
if data in the “coming months confirm that the improvement in
financial-market sentiment persists” and the medium-term
outlook for inflation remains consistent with the 3 percent
target, the Monetary Council said Oct. 30.  “The economy is being hit with repeated cost shocks and we
constantly have to re-examine” the impact, Bartfai-Mager said.
“These gradual small steps provide an opportunity to decide
whether to proceed when we can and to pause when that moment
comes -- not to finish the cycle, but to pause and see how
trends are developing.”  ‘Equilibrium’ Rate  An “equilibrium” interest rate would support economic
growth and control inflation, Gerhardt said, adding that it
would be “extremely brave” to forecast anything in advance.  The European Central Bank last month left its main interest
rates unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent. The Czech central
bank cut its main interest rate to a record-low 0.05 percent on
Nov. 1 while the Polish central bank, which surprised the market
with a rate increase in May, on Nov. 7 will cut its benchmark to
4.5 percent from 4.75 percent, according to 34 of 35 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  Hungary’s central bank pressed ahead with the third
quarter-point cut since August as the four non-executive members
outvoted Simor and his two deputies on two occasions.  Professional Disputes  It’s “too big a leap” to divide the Monetary Council into
inflation and growth-oriented factions, Bartfai-Mager said,
adding that it’s as an “oversimplification and needless” to
presume there is a political divide, because the disputes are
professional.  Disputes that occur in the council are professional and
concern inflation scenarios, Kocziszky said.  Talks on international aid remain deadlocked one year after
the government turned to the IMF and the EU because of a
disagreement over budget measures. The IMF isn’t currently
planning to resume its mission to Hungary, Gerry Rice, a
spokesman for the lender, said Nov. 1.  The government is still seeking a financial safety net from
the IMF,  Peter Szijjarto , a state secretary in the prime
minister’s office, said Oct. 4, adding that the Cabinet won’t
give up the “fundamental points” of its economic policies.  “For the past 12 months we have recommended and supported
the striking of an IMF agreement and we haven’t changed that
despite the favorable risk assessment in the world,” Bartfai-
Mager said. “In my personal decisions I presume that there will
be a deal between Hungary and the IMF/EU.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  