-- Munger, Debevoise, Morgan Lewis: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-05T12:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/munger-debevoise-morgan-lewis-jones-day-business-of-law.html
Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP advised
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  on its agreement to buy
closely held Oriental Trading Co., the U.S. direct retailer of
party and craft supplies. Debevoise & Plimpton LLP is advising
Orient Trading.  The Munger Tolles team includes Mary Ann Todd, Renee
Delphin-Rodriguez and John Senior, corporate; Stephen Rose and
Patrick Anderson, tax; and Williana Chang, executive
compensation/employee benefits.  Debevoise partner Sarah A.W. Fitts is leading the team for
Oriental. The team also includes partners Gary M. Friedman and
Elizabeth Pagel Serebransky.  The acquisition of the firm, based in Buffett’s hometown of
Omaha,  Nebraska , will be completed this month, Berkshire said
yesterday in a statement, without disclosing terms. Berkshire
will pay about $500 million for Oriental Trading, according to a
person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because the details are private.  Buffett, 82, has been making smaller acquisitions as he
searches for larger takeovers to expand the firm he built over
four decades by buying  stocks  such as Coca-Cola Co. and
companies including railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe. The
billionaire’s  acquisitions  this year include a food distributor,
newspapers and a building insulation maker. The addition of
Oriental Trading will add to Berkshire’s retail operations,
which span jewelers to candy stores.  For more, click here.  Kirkland, Mayer Brown Advise GTCR on Purchase of Premium Credit  Kirkland & Ellis LLP and Mayer Brown LLP advised private
equity firm GTCR in its $1.45 billion acquisition of Premium
Credit Ltd. from MBNA  Europe , a Bank of America Corp. unit.  The Kirkland team was led by Chicago private equity partner
Stephen Ritchie. It also included London private equity partner
Gavin Gordon and partner Christopher Greeno on the corporate
side. Tax partners William Welke, Ian Taplin and Mike Carew,
finance partner Scott Gordon and IP partner Shannon Yavorsky
also worked on the deal.  From Mayer Brown, banking and finance partner Bruce
Bloomingdale led a team.  Premium Credit provides payment facilitation and financing
services in the U.K. and Ireland. GTCR is partnering with new
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Doman and the existing management
of Premium Credit to recapitalize the company and further invest
in its technology and services, according to a statement.  Moves  Jones Day Hires Allens Partners in Singapore  Jones Day hired  Allens  partners Darren Murphy and Matthew Skinner, who headed the Asian dispute resolution practice, as
partners in the firm’s  Singapore  office.  Murphy, who joins the Asia energy practice, has experience
advising on mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and
development of projects throughout Asia, including in Singapore,
 Indonesia ,  Vietnam ,  China , Mongolia,  Thailand , Cambodia and
 Australia .  Skinner, who joins the Global Disputes practice, has
experience in court and arbitration tribunals, as well as in
mediation and other forms of alternative dispute resolution. His
practice has an emphasis on international arbitration,
contractual disputes and regulatory investigations. He will work
closely with the energy practice, the firm said.  Jones Day has 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices worldwide.  Locke Lord Hires London M&A/Capital Markets Partner  Corporate finance lawyer James Channo joined the London
office of Locke Lord LLP as a partner. He was previously at Fox
Williams LLP.  Channo will work on corporate matters, including AIM and
Main Market listings, cross-border mergers and acquisitions,
joint ventures and other transactional work. His experience
extends to jurisdictions such as Spain, Latin America and
Australia.  His practice focuses on energy and equity capital markets
for oil and gas and mining companies and acting for corporate
finance houses. He has wide-ranging experience in the hotel,
leisure and retail sectors.  Locke Lord LLP has more than 650 lawyers in 13 offices in
the U.S.,  London  and Hong Kong.  Pepper Hamilton Hires Two IP Partners in Boston  Pepper Hamilton LLP hired Thomas J. Engellenner and Reza
Mollaaghababa as partners in the intellectual property
transactions and rights management practice group in Boston.  Both lawyers were previously partners at Nutter McClennen &
Fish LLP, where Engellenner was chair of the firm’s life
sciences practice group, the firm said in a statement.  Engellenner’s practice includes patents, licensing,
trademarks, copyrights and litigation. He has particular focus
on the patenting and licensing of biotechnology, pharmaceuticals
and medical devices.  Mollaaghababa’s practice focuses on intellectual property
law, including prosecution of patent and trademark applications,
and preparation of patentability, infringement, validity and
clearance opinions.  Pepper Hamilton LLP 500 lawyers in 12 U.S. offices.  Mintz Levin Hires Former Energy Official in Boston  Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky and Popeo PC  hired Haynes
and Boone LLP partner Paul Dickerson, a former U.S. Department
of Energy senior official, as of counsel in the  Boston  office.  Dickerson served as Chief Operating Officer of the U.S.
Department of Energy’s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy from 2006-2008, overseeing the office’s $1.8 billion
budget, the firm said.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and London.  Firm News  Dewey Collects $11.5 Million in Fees During September  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP collected $11.5 million in fees from
former clients in September. Collections allowed the former law
firm to pay $6.1 million to secured creditors during the month.  Despite the so-called cash sweep, cash grew by $1.28
million during September, to end the month at $25.6 million.  The former law firm’s operating report filed with the
bankruptcy court in New York showed that Dewey has collected
$63.5 million in fees since bankruptcy began.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.
There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Retired Morgan Lewis Firm Chair John Quarles Dies  John R. Quarles Jr., former firm chair of Morgan, Lewis &
Bockius LLP and an environmental partner and former leader of
the firm’s environmental practice, passed away Oct. 29 at the
age of 77.  Quarles helped to create the Environmental Protection
Agency, before joining Morgan Lewis in 1977 as a partner, the
firm said in a statement. During his time at Morgan Lewis, which
lasted until his 2006 retirement, he established the firm’s
environmental practice.  Morgan Lewis created a  remembrance page  for Quarles with
more information about his professional and personal
accomplishments and his time at the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 