-- United States of Europe Needed for Obama-Style Auto Fix
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-11-05T23:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/united-states-of-europe-needed-for-obama-style-auto-fix-cars.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
bid today in part is a referendum on the government-backed auto-
industry restructuring. Win or lose, his administration’s work
on the U.S. auto industry is held up as a model for Europe.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC’s pre-bailout
predecessors were hamstrung by too many plants staffed with
workers clinging to costly wage-and-benefit packages. In 2008
and 2009, when the automakers received $80 billion from the Bush
and Obama administrations, GM and Chrysler closed 15 domestic
factories, reduced U.S. production capacity by 33 percent and
cut 45,000 hourly jobs in the process.  While many communities suffered the pain of the cuts and
the industry’s rescue was a divisive election topic, GM and
Chrysler -- as well as Ford Motor Co. and foreign rivals -- now
report healthy North American profits and people are going back
to work. That has led to calls for a government-led intervention
in Europe, where new-vehicle demand is set to tumble for the
fifth straight year and slump to its lowest level since 1995.  “Finding the will and determination to create a united
Europe is essential,” Sergio Marchionne, chief executive
officer of  Italy ’s  Fiat SpA (F)  and Chrysler, told reporters last
month in Brussels. “We saw the same story in the U.S. in 2008
and 2009.”  Of the continent’s three biggest automakers, only  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  has marked a plant for closing. Current plans by
automakers to shut five factories fall far short of the roughly
17 needed, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Closings Resisted  Automakers remain hobbled by unused production capacity as
national governments resist plant closings to protect local jobs
and unions fend off major changes to compensation and work
rules. Paris-based Peugeot, the No. 2 carmaker in Europe, lost
662 million euros ($847 million) at its auto operations in the
first half. Fiat’s mass-market brands reported an operating loss
of 573 million euros in the region through September. GM and
 Ford (F)  forecast losses in Europe until mid-decade.  “As we look across the industry, we really don’t see
anybody making money in Europe today at all,” GM Chief
Financial Officer Dan Ammann said in an Oct. 31 interview on
Bloomberg Radio. “The industry has to restructure.”  By contrast, GM’s and Ford’s North American operations
earned a combined $11.95 billion in pretax profit this year
through September, the companies said last week, pushing their
shares to the highest since April. Fiat-controlled Chrysler,
which generates almost all of its revenue in North America,
reported $4.1 billion using its measure of operating profit.  Like 2009  “Europe feels and smells like the U.S. in 2009,” said
Gerald Greenwald, a former Chrysler Corp. vice chairman and co-
founder of private-equity firm Greenbriar Equity Group LLC.
“The same fix is needed, and that is shrinking capacity.”  The U.S. restructuring provides a “road map” for  Europe ,
said Arndt Ellinghorst a London-based analyst with Credit
Suisse. A centralized task force could remove the “first-mover
disadvantage” of companies that bear the cost of shutting
factories only to help competitors by easing the burden of
overcapacity, he said.  While that would be an effective method, it isn’t very
likely, saidSteven Rattner, who ran the Obama administration’s
automotive task force.  “The chance of a bunch of countries that can’t agree on
anything agreeing to delegate the responsibility to solve this
problem and the authority to implement it is approximately
zero,” Rattner said in an e-mail.  Limited Moves  The hurdles to factory closures have limited the amount of
restructuring in Europe. Just two factories have stopped
production since Europe’s auto contraction started in 2008: a GM
facility in  Belgium  and a Fiat plant in Sicily.  Five more plants are due to be closed in the coming years.
Peugeot, which secured as much as 7 billion euros in backing
from the French government to shore up its financing arm, plans
to close a factory near Paris in 2014. Last month, Ford said
that it will close two plants in the U.K. and a third in Belgium
beginning next year. GM plans to shutter a factory in Bochum,
 Germany , after 2016.  Still, these shutdowns won’t be enough, according to Stefan Burgstaller, a London-based analyst with Goldman Sachs. He
estimates that plants capable of producing 4 million vehicles a
year need to be closed to restore the industry to stable profit
margins. That would represent 18 percent of total production
capacity, or the equivalent of about 17 of the region’s 96
assembly plants, according to a Nov. 2 note.  Restructuring Politicized  In the U.S. presidential campaign, both Republicans and
Democrats have sought to use the job done by the Obama
administration’s automotive task force to win votes. For the
Democratic incumbent, it was about saving America’s industrial
base. For his Republican challenger,  Mitt Romney , it’s an
example of government’s unnecessary interference in the economy.  “It’s a shame” to see the U.S. auto rescue become such a
partisan issue, said Harry Wilson, a member of the task force
and a Republican supporter of former Governor Romney.  “The Democrats take credit for it, the Republicans attack
it,” Wilson said in a Sept. 6 interview on Bloomberg
Television. “The reality is GM had its most profitable year
ever last year. That is objectively successful.”  GM and Chrysler’s closures in 2008 and 2009 were spread
across eight states, including the sites of key races in today’s
election such as  Ohio  and  Wisconsin . GM shut sport-utility
vehicle plants in Moraine, about 70 miles west of Ohio’s capital
of Columbus, and in Janesville, Wisconsin, where Romney’s
running mate, Paul D. Ryan, grew up.  In accepting the nomination Aug. 29, Ryan attacked Obama,
blaming him for the Janesville factory’s demise even though it
ceased making GM’s SUVs while George W. Bush was in office.  Provincial Concerns  Provincial concerns plague any potential pan-European
solution, said Stefano Aversa, a London-based co-president of
the consulting firm AlixPartners LLP. He estimates that 40
percent of Europe’s auto plants are using less than 70 percent
of their capacity, a minimum level to break even.  “This is something that needs to be addressed, ideally
with a coordinated approach across Europe,” he said in a
telephone interview. “But Europe at the moment has all sorts of
other problems they are dealing with, and this probably will be
a solution that will be taken country-by-country and company-by-
company.”  Each country fending for its own workforce delays the
progress needed for the whole industry to become profitable
again, he said.  Giuliano Noci, associate dean at Milan Polytechnic’s
business school, agrees.  “A U.S.-style turnaround isn’t replicable in Europe, as we
don’t have the United States of Europe,” Noci said. “Europe
can’t drive the restructuring. The consequence will be a
Darwinian selection process among carmakers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  