-- United Arab Emirates Appoints Al Kindi as Central Bank Chairman
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-11-05T10:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/united-arab-emirates-appoints-al-kindi-as-central-bank-chairman.html
The  United Arab Emirates  appointed
Khalifa Mohamed Al Kindi as its central bank chairman, replacing
Khalil Mohammed Sharif Foulathi.  The announcement was made through an e-mailed statement
from the bank, which said: “The Board of Directors of central
bank of the U.A.E. held its 7th meeting for the year 2012 at
10:00 morning on Sunday, 4 November, 2012 in Abu Dhabi under the
chairmanship of H.E. Khalifa Mohammed Al Kindi.”  Al Kindi most recently served as managing director of Abu
Dhabi Investment Council, which assists the holder of about 6
percent of the world’s proven oil reserves with its investments.  Bank Governor Sultan Bin Nasser Al-Suwaidi has been at the
helm of the central bank for 21 years. Under his watch, the
central bank bought Dubai’s $10 billion bond in February 2009 as
part of a $20 billion bailout to help the emirate avert a
default. The bank is in talks with individual lenders in the
emirates to impose lending caps to government and government
related entities.  While the Sept. 30 deadline to comply with the new rules
wasn’t postponed,  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  received a
six-month extension, according to chief executive officer
Michael Tomalin.  The central bank still listed Foulathi as chairman on its
 website . A spokesman at the central bank’s press office, who
declined to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly, referred back to today’s press release when asked if
there had been a change and declined to provide additional
comment.  The U.A.E.’s economic growth is projected at 4 percent this
year, after a 4.2 percent expansion in 2011, according to
central bank estimates. The broadest measure of  money supply  in
the economy, M3, rose 1.5 percent in August from July to 1.05
trillion dirhams, the highest since May.  The emirate of  Abu Dhabi , which is home to the capital of
the U.A.E., holds most of the nation’s oil reserves. Its
sovereign wealth fund, the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, is
one of the world’s richest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  