-- Universal Music, Counterfeit Coach: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-05T12:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/universal-music-counterfeit-coach-intellectual-property.html
Universal Music Group  agreed to
settle a lawsuit brought by the Detroit producers who helped
start rapper Eminem’s career over royalties from Apple Inc.’s
iTunes and mobile-phone ringtones.  Lawyers for the  Vivendi SA (VIV)  unit and the producers filed a
request to dismiss the case in federal court in  Los Angeles  on
Oct. 29, saying “this action has been resolved to the
satisfaction of all parties.” Terms of the settlement weren’t
disclosed.  In 2009, a jury rejected arguments by FBT Productions LLC
that Eminem is entitled to half the net receipts the record
company gets for the downloads, rather than his standard
royalties from record sales. The producers, who first signed
Eminem in 1995, get 40 percent of the royalties.  A federal appeals court in 2010 reversed the verdict,
saying the trial judge had incorrectly denied a request by the
producers for a pretrial ruling that the “masters license”
agreement for the recordings clearly applied to downloads and
not the records-sold provision.  Peter Lofrumento , a spokesman for  Universal Music , and
Richard Busch, a lawyer for the producers, confirmed the
settlement without providing additional comment.  Eminem, whose real name is Marshall B. Mathers III, wasn’t
a party in the case.  FBT Productions, owned by brothers Jeff and Mark Bass,
signed Eminem to an exclusive recording deal in 1995. In 1998,
they made a deal with rapper Dr. Dre’s Aftermath Records, a unit
of Universal Music, which released Eminem’s breakthrough album,
“The Slim Shady LP.”  The case is FBT Productions v. Aftermath Records, 07-
cv-3314, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Coach Wins $257 Million Court Ruling Against Counterfeiters  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, said it
won a $257 million default judgment in a lawsuit filed against
businesses that operate websites selling counterfeit
merchandise.  The judgment also awards Coach ownership of 573 Internet
domain names, the company said Nov. 2 in a statement. The docket
in the case, filed in federal court in Chicago, shows that the
decision was rendered Oct. 15.  “This judgment should serve as a warning to everyone
involved in any aspect of trafficking in counterfeit goods that
Coach will find you and will seek to impose the harshest
penalties available against you,” Coach’s general counsel, Todd
Kahn, said in the statement.  The judgment is the latest victory in Coach’s anti-
counterfeiting campaign known as “Operation Turnlock,” the
company said. Since the program’s inception in 2009, Coach has
obtained monetary awards against manufacturers, wholesalers,
flea market operators and other links in the counterfeit
distribution chain, the New York-based company said.  The case is Coach Inc. v. Does 1-573, 12-cv-01514, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more trademark news, click here.  Patent  Enzo Awarded $49 Million in Trial Against Life’s Applera Unit  Enzo Biochem Inc. was awarded $48.6 million after a federal
jury said  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) ’s Applera unit infringed a
patent over a way to detect genetic sequences and diagnose human
diseases such as cancer.  The federal jury in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , rejected
Applera’s claims that the patent was invalid. Enzo said it will
ask for interest that could add tens of millions of dollars to
the final damage award.  The suit was first filed in 2004 by New York-based Enzo and
 Yale University . They were demanding royalties on Life
Technologies’s genetic research and screening. The trial focused
on Applera’s dRhodamine and BigDye Terminator products used to
sequence DNA. The patent, issued in 1995, has since expired.  Enzo said the verdict could help it resolve cases it filed
against other companies.  Enzo Chief Executive Officer Elazar Rabbani said in a
statement that “The case has taken eight years, but we have
finally prevailed. It is a vindication of the investments we
have made in developing and protecting our  intellectual
property .”  In its earnings release Nov. 1, Life Technologies said it
“strongly disagrees with the verdict.” The release also noted
that because the relevant patent expired in 2004, the verdict
“does not have any effect” on the company’s business going
forward.  The case is  Enzo Biochem Inc. (ENZ)  v. Applera Corp., 04-cv-929,
U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  Google Defends Hard-Nosed Patent Fees in Microsoft, Apple Trials  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which spent $12.5 billion to buy handset
manufacturer Motorola Mobility and its more than 17,000 patents,
now has to defend what critics say is its acquisition’s hard-
nosed licensing tactics.  Federal judges 2,000 miles apart will hear complaints from
Apple Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  that Motorola Mobility is
demanding excessive royalties on patents deemed essential to
standards for how electronic devices function. The trials are
scheduled to start today in Madison,  Wisconsin , and next week in
 Seattle , as regulators in the U.S. and Europe investigate
whether Motorola Mobility is misusing those patents to curb
competition in the $219 billion smartphone market.  Together, they mark the first time courts will seek to
define licensing obligations of patent owners who help create
technological specifications.  Apple and Microsoft raised breach-of-contract claims in
federal court in response to separate patent-infringement cases
Motorola Mobility filed at the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington, which could ban on imports of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox video-gaming system.  An ITC judge is considering whether Microsoft, based in
Redmond, Washington, violated two patents for video decoding and
a non-essential patent for a way to establish communication
between the Xbox and accessories.  The agency in August said Cupertino, California-based Apple
didn’t infringe Motorola Mobility patents for standard wireless
technology, while ordering a trade judge to review a patent for
a sensor that prevents accidental hang-ups.  The two trials probably won’t end the litigation among the
companies. Still, the cases could alter the dynamics in Google’s
effort to use the Motorola Mobility patents as a bulwark against
Apple’s claims that Google’s Android operating system for
wireless devices copied the iPhone. Apple’s largest smartphone
competitor, Samsung Electronics Co., uses Android.  The cases are: Apple Inc. v. Motorola Mobility Inc.,
11cv178, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison); and Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., 10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington.  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Internet  Google Android Apps Collect Too Much User Data, Researcher Says  More than 100,000 applications available for download from
Google Inc.’s online marketplace may be collecting too much data
from users, a research firm said.  About one-quarter of more than 400,000 applications studied
are “suspicious”  or “questionable” because of what they do
in the background, such as location tracking, accessing contact
lists or harvesting the contents of e-mail messages, according a
report issued Nov. 1 by security firm Bit9 Inc. Those functions
typically go far beyond the programs’ stated purpose, Bit9 said.  Android phones warn users when they download applications
about what information the programs will access. Whether most
people actually read those warnings is another matter. A Google
representative didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  Some of the most aggressive apps are programs purporting to
be affiliated with popular brands, such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , Bit9 Chief Technology Officer Harry Sverdlove wrote
in an e-mail interview with Bloomberg.com. The extra functions
don’t necessarily make the programs malicious, he said, but may
raise questions about the developers’ intentions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  