-- Unprecedented Forties Loading Delays Inflate Brent Oil Price
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-11-05T15:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/unprecedented-forties-loading-delays-inflate-brent-oil-price-1-.html
North Sea Forties shipments faced
unprecedented delays as output from Buzzard halted, pushing the
spread between the world’s two biggest benchmark crudes to the
widest in a year as traders struggled to meet obligations.  The deferral of 15 out of 16 Forties cargoes in October and
at least 60 percent of consignments in November were unheard of,
according to a survey of five traders, three of whom have been
involved in this crude market for more than 10 years. The delays
pushed benchmark Brent crude’s  premium  over its counterpart West
Texas Intermediate to $24.34 a barrel on Oct. 30, the most since
Oct. 17, 2011. The front-month Brent futures spread, or
backwardation, widened 48 percent in October from a month ago.  “The repeated deferral of a start up of the Buzzard field
has sustained the wide premium of Brent over WTI and
backwardation in the structure of the Brent curve,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s head of commodity markets
strategy in London, said Nov. 2. “While a $20 plus Brent
premium over WTI is ultimately going to dissipate, this will
take time given the Forties program for October and November
loadings has been heavily delayed.”  Brent, cheaper than WTI for most of the past two decades,
reached a record settlement premium of $27.88 a barrel on Oct.
14 last year amid surging U.S. domestic oil production and
political tensions in the  Middle East . The North Sea blend,
which is shipped worldwide, is typically more affected by
international events than its U.S. equivalent, which is consumed
domestically. The spread between these two futures contracts is
the largest traded on exchanges.  Buzzard Restarts  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  confirmed today that it had restarted the
200,000 barrel-a-day North Sea Buzzard oil field, the biggest
contributor to Forties blend, after two-month maintenance.  Brent for December settlement on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange fell as much as 92 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $104.76 a
barrel today. The European benchmark crude’s premium to WTI,
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , narrowed to as
little as $20.13 following news of the restart and was at $20.64
as of 3:37 London time.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said on Oct. 18 the difference
will narrow to $4 a barrel early next year before widening to $6
by the end of 2013. BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Bank
of America Corp. forecast the gap will shrink as North Sea
output rebounds.  Bigger Backwardation  The field produced about 134,000 barrels yesterday and is
scheduled to pump 160,000 barrels today, two traders with
knowledge of the matter said, declining to be identified as the
information is confidential. Patti Lewis, a Calgary-based
company spokeswoman, who earlier wasn’t available for comment,
confirmed the resumption and the planned crude flow rate.  Its resumption was delayed several times from the planned
mid-October start, leading to a series of cargo deferrals and
one dropped lot in the Forties loading program. The blend is the
most abundant of the four crudes that make up the Dated Brent
benchmark and, as the cheapest of the four, typically sets the
marker used to price more than half of the world’s oil.  Delays to the Buzzard restart also contributed to a bigger
backwardation, or spread between the front-months, in Brent
market. Backwardation denotes a market in which oil for nearer
delivery trades at higher prices than later-dated contracts,
potentially indicating concern about supply or rising demand.  Buzzard has been “massively supportive for the Brent
market itself, but more of this is reflected in the time
spread,” Torbjoern Kjus, a senior oil analyst at  DNB ASA (DNB)  in
Oslo, said by phone on Nov. 2. “Brent backwardation has been
very strong because of this.”  The front-month Brent futures averaged 95 cents a barrel
more expensive than the second month last month, compared with
64 cents a month earlier .  Cargo F1016  Of the Forties shipments planned for loading in October,
cargo F1016 was faced the longest delay, deferred by 34 days to
December, according to revised loading programs. Of the 14
consignments for November, one was dropped and at least nine
were postponed, the plans showed.  Forties exports for November are planned at 320,000 barrels
a day, up from a five-year low of 160,000 barrels in September,
and about 30 percent less than a year earlier, according to
loading programs.  Cargo deferrals have caused a series of operational issues,
according to the survey. For owners of the crude, any delays in
a backwardated market mean they lose money, while for shipping
companies and buyers, they will have to renegotiate loading or
delivery dates, find other grades to meet refining needs, said
traders in the survey.  “With the closure of field, buyers had to turn to
alternative crude of similar quality, and likely leading to a
strengthening of the differentials of these crudes relative to
Brent,” Tchilinguirian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  