-- Turkey Puts Israeli Officers on Trial in Absentia
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-06T14:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/turkey-puts-israeli-officers-on-trial.html
Turkey  put former Israeli military
chiefs on trial in absentia for ordering a deadly raid on a
Gaza-bound aid ship, prolonging a dispute between the former
allies even as their interests in the region converge.  Islamist demonstrators cheered outside the Istanbul court
today at the start of the trial. Hundreds of supporters of the
Humanitarian Relief Foundation, or IHH, the Islamic charity that
organized the Gaza aid ship, waved Palestinian flags and shouted
anti-Israeli slogans, television footage showed. Israel outlawed
the IHH in 2008 on grounds of alleged ties to Hamas.  The suspects, including ex-chief of staff Gabi Ashkenazi,
are charged with “inciting to kill monstrously and by
torturing” in the May 2010 raid. Judge Umit Kaptan said today
that they couldn’t be summoned to court.  Israel  says extremists
aboard the ship attacked commandos seeking to stop it from
breaking the Gaza blockade. Several plaintiffs told the court
about their ordeal during the Israeli raid, which left nine
Turks dead, Anatolia said today.  While Turkey won’t be able to enforce any verdict against
the Israelis, the case highlights the lack of progress in
mending ties between the U.S. allies at a time when their
regional interests coincide. Both countries cite concern about
risks from the escalating revolt against Bashar al-Assad in
 Syria  and Turkey has backed away from its friendship with
Israel’s chief enemy, Iran.  “Whether they like it or not, Turkey and Israel have
increasingly overlapping threat perceptions,” said Soner Cagaptay, director of the Turkish Research Program at the
Washington Institute for Near East Studies. “The two countries
share a problem: what happens after Assad,” while Turkey has
recently “taken a less benign view of  Iran .”  Trade Flourishing  Israel has threatened military attacks on Iran to halt its
nuclear program, and warned of the risk that Syria’s ally
Hezbollah may get hold of its chemical weapons. Turkey is
backing the rebels fighting to oust Assad, Iran’s ally, and has
retaliated with artillery fire after the shelling of Turkish
soil by Syrian forces.  Turkey and Israel have kept business channels open during
their dispute, allowing  trade  to flourish. It reached a record
$4.4 billion last year, up from $2.6 billion in 2009, and was
about $3 billion in the first nine months of 2012, according to
official Turkish data.  Economic ties might have been closer still without the
political tensions, which have “scared away some foreign
investors” who would have been interested in projects such as
the proposed third Bosporus bridge, said Ahmet Reyiz Yilmaz. The
chief executive of Yilmazlar Holding, which has $1 billion of
construction projects in Israel, spoke in his office in Ankara,
decorated with pictures of him shaking hands with Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and other Israeli leaders.  No Normalization  The standoff also hurt agricultural ties, though in the
defense industry the impact “was marginal because most of the
big projects were already completed,” said Nurhan Yonezer, co-
author of a study of Turkey’s economy after the 2001 crisis.
Turkey has bought drones and other army equipment from Israel.  Tourism, meanwhile, has slumped as Israelis shunned Turkey,
once a favorite destination. The number of visitors dropped to
80,000 last year from about 500,000 a year before 2009,
according to the Israeli Embassy in Ankara.  Ties can’t be “normalized” until all Turkey’s demands are
met, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in Berlin last
week. Turkey says Israel must apologize for the killings, pay
compensation and end the blockade of Gaza.  Today’s case involves charges against Ashkenazi, now
chairman of  Shemen Oil and Gas Resources Ltd. , as well as former
head of the navy Eliezer Marom and military intelligence chiefs
Avishai Levi and Amos Yadlin.  ‘Political Show’  Nizar Amer, spokesman for the Israeli Embassy, called the
trial “a political show with no judicial credibility.”  “We’ve discussed apology and are willing to discuss it
again,” Amer said in a Nov. 2 interview. “For that, we need a
constructive approach from both sides.”  Israel, which has expressed regret for the loss of lives,
says activists attacked the commandos with metal rods and
knives. Turkish authorities, citing autopsy reports, say some of
the victims were shot dead from close range and in the back, and
that several Israeli commandos could also face separate charges.  Ties deteriorated after Israel’s invasion of Gaza in
December 2008. Erdogan, whose party has Islamist roots, accused
the Jewish state of using excessive force. Turkey canceled
military ties and backed the Palestinian bid for statehood.  ‘Bigger Fish’  Turkey and Israel had previously held joint military
exercises. The U.S., which also took part, is keen for a
reconciliation but unwilling to “mount direct pressure on
Turkey due to fears that it might hurt Turkey-U.S. ties,” said
Ilter Turan, a professor of political science at Istanbul’s
Bilgi University.  While the trial of the Israeli officers may “look like an
escalatory step,” behind the scenes Turkish leaders as well as
Israelis are increasingly open to a rapprochement, Cagaptay
said.  “In the language of the Turks, it’s Ankara saying to the
Israelis, ‘apologize and we will drop all this inconvenience and
start a new page’,” he said. “The region has changed so much
that both countries appear to think they may have bigger fish to
fry than each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  