-- Turkey’s Inflation Rate Dropped to One-Year Low in October
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-11-05T15:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/turkey-s-inflation-rate-dropped-to-one-year-low-in-october-1-.html
Turkey’s  inflation rate  fell to the
lowest in 11 months as a slowing economy outweighed the impact
of government price increases on gas and electricity.  Inflation slowed to 7.8 percent from 9.2 percent the month
before, the statistics office in Ankara said on its website
today. The median  forecast  of 10 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was 8 percent. Prices rose 2 percent in the month.  The government increased charges on cars, energy and
alcohol in September and early October, as it seeks to plug a
widening budget deficit. Inflation slowed in October even after
those increases, as demand eased and year-earlier price
increases dropped out of the annual rate.  “Core inflation is low and expectations are under
control,” Hakan Aklar, an economist at AK Investment, said by
phone from Istanbul. “We expect the central bank to continue
their current monetary policy, meaning they will keep the
average cost of funding to the banking sector low.”  Core inflation, which strips out volatile prices such as
food and energy, eased to 6.1 percent, the lowest since July
last year, from 6.7 percent.  Turkish policy makers have been divided over whether to
prioritize growth or inflation, with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan arguing that
interest rates should be lower to spur the economy. The central
bank has pushed borrowing costs close to the bottom of its
interest-rate corridor in recent weeks.  Fitch Upgrade  The central bank on Oct. 24 increased its forecast for
year-end inflation to 7.4 percent from 6.2 percent, citing
higher oil prices and taxes. Economic growth will slow to about
3 percent this year, down from 8.5 percent in 2011, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yields on  Turkey ’s benchmark  two-year bonds , which were
initially little changed after the inflation data, plunged when
Fitch Ratings awarded Turkey its first investment grade since
2004. They were trading at 6.94 percent, close to a record low,
at 4:30 p.m. in Istanbul. The lira strengthened 0.6 percent to
1.7824 per dollar, the highest in almost two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  