-- Murray Opens ATP World Tour Finals With Win Against Berdych
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-05T17:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/murray-opens-atp-world-tour-finals-with-win-against-berdych-1-.html
U.S. Open champion  Andy Murray 
started the season-ending  ATP World Tour Finals  in London with a
win against Tomas Berdych.  Competing in his first singles match on home soil since he
won gold at the  London Olympics , Murray beat the former
Wimbledon finalist from the Czech Republic 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 in the
tournament for the world’s best eight tennis players.  “It was a very tough one from the start, Tomas has had a
great year,” Murray said in a court-side interview.  The third-ranked Murray received loud cheers from the crowd
at London’s O2 arena as he walked onto court. The 25-year-old
right-hander from Dunblane,  Scotland , is having a breakthrough
season, with Olympic victory followed by a first major title at
the  U.S. Open  in September. His win in  New York  ended Britain’s
76-year long wait for a male British major singles champion.  The home support helped today, said Murray, who struggled
to convert break points.  “I’ve been playing such big matches in London in the past
few months,” Murray said. “So many people watching you
helps.”  The ATP Finals feature a round-robin format. The top eight
players in the ATP World Tour rankings are divided into two
groups of four, with the top two in each section moving into the
knockout semifinals.  Federer-Tipsarevic  Novak Djokovic  of  Serbia , who will end the season as the
world’s top-ranked player for the second straight year, was
drawn in the same group as Murray and will play  France ’s Jo- Wilfried Tsonga in the evening session.  Defending champion  Roger Federer  was placed in Group B,
which starts tomorrow. The 17-time Grand Slam champion from
 Switzerland  starts his campaign for a seventh ATP Finals title
against Serbia’s Janko Tipsarevic. Spain’s David Ferrer plays
former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina in
the other match in Group B.  Murray was rusty in the first set, getting only half his
first serves in, and missing five break points in the first five
games. Serving at 2-3, Murray screamed as a forehand into the
net handed the sixth-ranked Berdych the break. Serving at 5-3,
the six-foot-five Czech saved two break points before taking the
set on a forehand error by his opponent.  The match turned at 2-1 in the second set, when Murray
finally broke Berdych on his 11th break point. Murray took the
match into a decider as Berdych missed a backhand on set point.  Under Pressure  Murray continued to keep Berdych under pressure, breaking
at 1-1 in the third set on an unforced error. Dictating with his
forehand, Murray quickly raced to a 4-2 lead and won the match
as Berdych dumped a backhand in the net.  “It was a very, very good and solid match from both of
us,” Berdych told reporters. “Unfortunately there was just a
few small details that decided today.”  Murray, a two-time finalist at the season-ending event,
said he treats the group matches “like a knockout, if you win
the first two matches, you have a good chance of progressing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  London ’s O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  