-- Hurricane Sandy Alters Calculus of Climate Change
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/hurricane-sandy-alters-calculus-of-climate-change.html
If the worst Atlantic storm in U.S.
history holds an economic lesson, it is this: We all need to
come to terms with the cost of  climate change .  The increasing frequency with which weather-related
disasters occur in the U.S., together with a growing climate-
science literature, suggests devastating storms are going to be
much more than once-in-a-lifetime events. Aside from the
implications for global environmental policy and the survival of
the human race, the changing pattern has an unmistakable bottom
line: The long-term cost of natural disasters, for everyone from
municipalities to mobile-phone companies to homeowners, is going
to be much greater than previously thought.  Therein lies an opportunity. Once a cost is recognized,
investments to reduce it suddenly make economic sense.
Expenditures can be profitable as long as they are smaller than
the losses they prevent. This kind of cost-benefit analysis is a
major driver of innovation. Medical companies invest in designing
better stents for heart surgeries, and hospitals buy them,
because they can prevent expensive repeat procedures. Automakers
invest in fuel-efficient cars in part because consumers want to
reduce gasoline bills.  Vast Market  The potential market is vast. In a recent  report , the
insurer  Munich Re  estimated that from 1980 to 2011, weather-
related catastrophes cost an inflation-adjusted $1.06 trillion
in  North America  alone, an average of more than $34 billion a
year. What’s more, the losses have been rising in a long-term
trend consistent with models of climate change. It’s reasonable
to assume they will keep growing: The sea levels and water
temperatures that contribute to weather disasters will increase
even if the world gets serious about combating global warming
today.  The challenge, then, is for governments and businesses to
find the most cost-effective investments. If, for example, we
now expect storm surges to do $10 billion or so in damage every
decade in the  New York City  area, a $15 billion surge barrier
might make sense. At the smaller end of the scale, $500 spent on
roof sealing for a single-family home can reduce water damage in
the event of a hurricane by more than $10,000,  according to
tests  run by the Insurance Institute for Business & Home Safety,
an industry-funded group.  The rising cost of weather disasters should also change the
calculus of deciding where to build homes and locate industrial
facilities. As Bloomberg View  has noted , decentralized
electricity grids are much more resilient to disaster and can
limit blackouts that result in large economic losses.
Telecommunications systems might have weathered the storm better
if they depended less on a major hub in  New York  City.  To be sure, investments in reducing weather risk will
entail immediate costs. Putting  power lines  underground in
suburban areas, for example, would almost certainly increase
electricity bills. On the positive side, the spending would
create regular jobs working on infrastructure and technologies
designed to reduce our vulnerability to natural disasters,
rather than one-time jobs such as sandbagging and rebuilding.  Ultimately, the best way to deal with climate change is a
coordinated global effort to address its causes. In the
meantime, we are left with the task of mitigating its effects.
Now that the potential costs are becoming apparent, the next
step is making the investments needed to ensure they don’t
become unbearable.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how  this U.S. election does
(and doesn’t) matter ;  Noah Feldman  on  the most civil
presidential campaign ever ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on picking a
president for  the zombie apocalypse ; William Pesek on the
 rampant corruption of China’s leaders ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why
 neither party wants to talk about drones ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on  Romney’s tax plan ; Klaus Adam on why  Greece
needs to be cut off from borrowing .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  