-- Hurricane Sandy to Cost $15 Billion to $20 Billion, Hiscox Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-11-05T10:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/hurricane-sandy-to-cost-15-billion-to-20-billion-hiscox-says.html
Hurricane Sandy , which slammed into
 New York  and  New Jersey  last week, will cost insurers $15
billion to $20 billion in claims, according to  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX) , the
biggest Lloyd’s of London insurer by market value.  “It is a huge area, a thousand miles wide, being affected
by the storm,” Chief Executive Officer Bronek Masojada said in
a telephone interview today. “It could be $20 billion. All the
nickeling and diming across huge numbers of properties suggests
to me it’s going to be more expensive than not.”  Hurricane Sandy hit New York and New Jersey Oct. 29,
barreling through the most populous region of the U.S., killing
at least 90 people and leaving as many as 8.5 million homes and
businesses without power. Masojada’s forecast is at the upper
end of the $10 billion to $20 billion estimate by  Eqecat Inc. , a
provider of catastrophic risk models.  Claims of more than $13 billion would make Sandy the third-
most expensive hurricane on record, behind Katrina in 2005,
which cost $62.2 billion, and Andrew in 1992, Masojada said.
Hurricane Ike, which struck the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2008, is
currently the third-most costly on record.  It’s “too early” to give a meaningful estimate of
Hiscox’s losses from the storm though the insurer is in a “good
position” to absorb any losses given the relative lack of
natural disasters this year, the firm said in a statement today.  The stock  dropped  1.7 percent to 475.2 pence a share at
10:12 a.m. today in London trading, valuing the insurer at about
1.87 billion pounds ($3 billion).  Record Year  Insurers paid out $105 billion last year, with earthquakes
in  Japan  and  New Zealand  and flooding in  Thailand  making it the
industry’s most expensive calendar year on record, according to
 Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer.  The bulk of insurance claims will be paid out to companies
with property damaged by the storm, subsequent floods and
covering loss of revenue during the affected period, Masojada
said. Flooding is typically not included in U.S. home insurance
policies for individuals and instead is covered by the federal
government, he said.  Losses “above between $5 billion and $10 billion will
start penetrating the reinsurance market,” Masojada said.
Hiscox, which gets 40 percent of its revenue from the U.S., will
pay out most of its losses on policies covering small companies
and construction sites, he said.  Before the storm, property insurance rates had been rising
across the U.S. following  Hurricane Irene , which last year cost
$5 billion, and changes to catastrophe modeling systems. Premium
rates for U.S. property rose 10 percent in the year to Sept. 30,
from the same period in 2011 and international reinsurance rates
for policies covering catastrophes climbed 5 percent to 10
percent, Hiscox said in the statement.  Sandy will likely send reinsurance rates 5 percent higher
while U.S. property premiums will increase a further 5 percent
to 10 percent, Masojada said.  Hiscox’s revenue rose 6.4 percent to 1.24 billion pounds in
the nine months to Sept. 30, compared with the same period in
2011, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based insurer said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  