-- What's Next for Tim Geithner?
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-05T18:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/what-s-next-for-tim-geithner-.html
Speculation is building over who might replace  Tim Geithner  as  Treasury
secretary  if President  Barack Obama  wins a second term. Less attention is being
paid to what Geithner -- who's made no  secret  of his plans to leave -- might do
next. The only thing for certain is that Geithner will return to Larchmont, New
York, to join his family, which previously moved back so Geithner's son could
finish his final year of high school there. As for what he'll do next, the big money is on Geithner heading to the
private sector, with asset management and private-equity shop  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
often mentioned as a potential landing post. The chatter has been fueled by
Geithner's frequent conversations with BlackRock Chairman  Laurence Fink : The two
spoke 49 times over the past 18 months, according to Geithner's  calendar . (Fink,
it's worth noting, is also mentioned as a potential successor to Geithner if
Obama wins a second term.) Less likely, say those who know Geithner, is that he'll end up at a big bank
like JPMorgan Chase & Co. or Goldman Sachs Group Inc. This is in part because it
would make for "bad optics" (the Obama administration spent the better part of
four years chastising  Wall Street  for its practices while Geithner has been
criticized for being too soft on bailed-out banks) and in part because it's not
Geithner's style. Despite the fact that much of the public -- not to mention some  lawmakers  on
Capitol Hill -- assume Geithner worked on Wall Street, he never has. Instead, he
has spent most of his career in public service. Before taking the Treasury post
in 2009, Geithner  headed  the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  for six years and
worked at the  International Monetary Fund . His main private-sector job was at
Kissinger Associates Inc. The years in public service -- particularly engaging in diplomacy with
domestic and foreign partners -- left a deep impression on Geithner, infusing
him with a sense of purpose that he might find lacking on Wall Street (see: " Why
I Left Goldman Sachs " by  Greg Smith ). Yet the years in civil servitude have also left Geithner in need of a better
salary. Geithner is one of the least wealthy men to head the Treasury Department
in recent years. He took more than a 50 percent pay cut to assume the job. His
$199,700 salary is higher than the $174,000 earned by most  members  of Congress.
His pay has been increased by $8,400 in three years, yet his net worth pales
next to such predecessors as  Hank Paulson  and Bob Rubin. With two mortgages and two college-age children, the lure of private-sector
money could be hard to resist. BlackRock's Fink, for instance, received $23.8
million in salary and stock in 2011,  making him  No. 1 in the Finance 50,
Bloomberg Markets' annual ranking of the best-paid CEOs at the largest U.S.
financial companies. Another option for Geithner -- one his own father-in-law recently  blabbed 
about in a New York restaurant -- is to head back to his alma mater,  Dartmouth
College , to run the university. The departure of Jim Yong Kim to head the  World
Bank  leaves an opening for Geithner (class of 1983), whose father, grandfather
and wife are all Dartmouth grads. Kim’s compensation at Dartmouth was $612,768,
including a base salary of $419,754, as of year-end 2010,  according  to  Bloomberg
News . That's not a BlackRock-sized paycheck, but it's a raise. Still, it's
unlikely he'd move to  New Hampshire  before his son leaves for college. Those who know Geithner say he's unlikely to rush into anything and will
probably take some time -- maybe six months -- before taking a new job.
Meantime, he could earn money by giving speeches and writing a book (he has
 publicly  ruled out the book, but he could reconsider). Still, in news he no doubt already knows, Geithner may not be going anywhere
for a little while. Assuming Obama wins a second term, the administration is
expected to nominate someone quickly to head Treasury, but confirmation depends
on the Senate. With the debt ceiling and fiscal cliff fast approaching, Geithner
may have to stick around and aid that process until the Treasury nominee gets
the Senate's (sometimes slow) blessing. ( Deborah Solomon  is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker.