-- When Zombies Invade, Who Do You Want for President?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-11-05T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/when-zombies-invade-who-do-you-want-for-president-.html
And so we are finally here, and not a
moment too soon. Every insult has been hurled, every fact
misrepresented; positions have been shifted and ventilated and
dissected and caricatured.  We know, more or less (less, in the case of one candidate)
where the next president will come down on critical issues such
as health care, taxation, deficit spending and  Iran .  But there is one question -- a question of surpassing, even
existential importance -- that was the subject of not a single
debate question or policy paper: Which candidate,  Mitt Romney  or
President  Barack Obama , would be better equipped to save
civilization in the face of a global zombie uprising?  The mother of all 3 a.m. phone calls would begin like this:
“Mr. President, very sorry to wake you, but it seems that a
devastating pathogen has reanimated the dead and turned them
into cannibals, and now they’re feasting on the living,
especially in the swing states of Ohio and  Virginia . Would you
like me to assemble those members of the Cabinet who aren’t
eating their deputies?”  A zombie invasion, although a low-probability event (only
for the technical reason that zombies don’t exist) represents,
in the words of Daniel W. Drezner, the author of “Theories of
International Politics and Zombies” and a Tufts University
professor, “the perfect, protean 21st century threat -- it’s
terrorism and biowarfare and pandemic rolled into one.”  Drezner argues that zombies are a prism through which we
can understand how governments react to supreme emergencies --
of obvious relevance in an era when disaster seems to be
visiting us with great frequency.  Civilizational Fragility  Zombies never seem to exhaust themselves as a subject of
horror movies and fright literature. From time to time, popular
interest wanes, but then along comes an attack like that of
Sept. 11, or a dire recession, or a  Hurricane Sandy , and people
begin to contemplate the fragility of civilization and the
limitations of government -- just ask the people of Long Island
and the Jersey Shore. As Drezner says, zombie movies and comics
and television shows aren’t actually about zombies: “What
they’re about is how humans react to the threat of zombies.”  One problem a president would face, Drezner says, is that
the zombie crisis, like so many today, might begin ambiguously:
“When it emerges, it will be very, very hard to define exactly
what the threat is.”  Presumably, it would begin with some sort of terrible
pathogen (the sort that has turned most of humanity into zombies
on one of cable television’s most popular shows, “The Walking
Dead”), but the devastation wouldn’t be immediate. The 3 a.m.
phone call might begin more like this: “Something bad is
happening, Mr. President, but we’re not sure what.”  Within days, though, it would become clear that in order to
save what remains of humanity, a president would have to take
the most dire and seemingly cruel steps imaginable, working in
an atmosphere of paranoia and pervasive death and bureaucratic
miscommunication.  “The problem with the undead is that they pose a nightmare
for interagency policy coordination,” Drezner says, noting the
large number of federal organizations that would be required to
fight the zombies.  So which candidate would be better equipped to make the
decisions necessary to thwart this threat? To answer that
question, we have to understand each man’s vision of the role of
the federal government.  Fighting Zombification  Romney, we already know,  isn’t exactly enamored  of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency; we can assume he won’t be
doubling the budgets of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention or the National Institutes of Health, the
organizations that, with any luck, would find an antidote to
zombification.  Obama, on the other hand, thinks the federal government
should play a primary role in disaster management, and that
government is generally a force for good. But there is a
downside to overly generous federal spending: Drezner argues
that the chance that a zombie pathogen could escape from a
government laboratory grows as federal spending increases.  “The more biocontainment facilities built by the NIH and
the CDC,” he says, “and the more experiments and studies done on
dangerous pathogens, the more likely it is that you could have a
pathogen leak.”  Something else works in Romney’s favor: a commitment to a
 larger military . If martial law is declared -- if whole cities
need to be sealed off -- the president is going to need high
troop levels (although Drezner notes that a bigger Navy, such as
the one Romney wants, would be of limited utility against land-
based zombies).  Ultimately, this crisis would demand the sort of
decisiveness few leaders possess. Romney might extend his theory
of international relations to zombies, Drezner says, and simply
argue that “the best way to defeat the zombies is to project
strength and resolve.” This would not, of course, be helpful
against an enemy that possesses no higher brain function.  Obama’s reaction, Drezner says, might not be calibrated for
maximum effectiveness either: “He would initially try to project
a large degree of calm, but unfortunately that could play out
like Benghazi, and people would start asking, ‘Why didn’t they
figure out what was happening?’” before announcing that the
situation was under control.  I tend to think that during a global zombie uprising,
citizens would grow mistrustful very quickly if they thought
they were being told lies. Drezner thinks the same thing, and we
both arrived at the name of a leader who might have the
wherewithal to neutralize the zombie threat: New Jersey Governor
Chris Christie.  “He would get out there and say, ‘Don’t be a moron, these
are zombies -- if they bite you, you’re gonna die,’” Drezner
says. “What you need is someone willing to talk straight,
someone with steady nerves.”  Dysfunction, Disaster  Romney and Obama each have certain useful characteristics,
of course: Romney proved himself to be a master of bureaucracy
at the Salt Lake City Olympics; Obama has shown, with the
assassination of Osama bin Laden, that he is ready to take
lethal action even in the absence of definitive information.
Both men, I think it’s fair to say, would bring something to the
zombie fight.  On the other hand, they might not be able to overcome the
highly politicized recriminations that would begin at the outset
of a zombie crisis and only intensify as the situation
deteriorated. It is safe to assume that, if a Republican were
president during a zombie invasion, liberals would blame the
crisis on Halliburton and George W. Bush. If a Democrat were in
charge, conservatives would blame Obamacare.  We are living in an age in which the velocity of cataclysm
seems to be accelerating. Combine that with political
dysfunction and widespread cynicism, and you have a formula for
eventual disaster, with or without zombies.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how  this U.S. election does
(and doesn’t) matter  and on recognizing  the costs of climate
change ; Noah Feldman on  the most civil presidential campaign
ever ; William Pesek on the  rampant corruption of China’s
leaders ; Ramesh Ponnuru on why  neither party wants to talk about
drones ; Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers on  Romney’s tax
plan ; Klaus Adam on why  Greece needs to be cut off from
borrowing .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 