-- Why Drones Stayed Out of Sight in the 2012 Campaign
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-11-05T23:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/why-drones-stayed-out-of-sight-in-the-2012-campaign.html
“Homeland,” Showtime’s series about
an al-Qaeda sleeper agent in Congress, is both implausible and
addictive. President  Barack Obama   is a fan . That means he has
heard more discussion of the downside of drone strikes in a
television drama than he has in the presidential race.  In the foreign-policy debate on Oct. 22, moderator Bob Schieffer of CBS  asked  Obama’s opponent,  Mitt Romney , about the
use of drones. Romney responded, “I support that entirely and
feel the president was right to up the usage of that technology
and believe that we should continue to use it to continue to go
after the people who represent a threat to this nation and to
our friends.”  This bouquet in hand, Obama didn’t even have to use the
word “drone” when his turn came to speak.  Neither side wants to look softer than the other on
terrorists. Hence the bipartisan support for the strikes.
Liberal groups that might be inclined to protest the policy  have
been quiet  because Obama put it in place. The lack of debate
about our reliance on drones is a shame, because there are both
practical and moral objections to it.  Bipartisan Worries  A few conservatives have raised one practical concern:
Killing terrorists is justified, they say, but we need to kill
fewer and capture more to gain intelligence. You don’t have to
support waterboarding, as some of these critics do, to agree
with that point.  Another concern, raised by a few liberals, is that the
strikes have increased anti-Americanism abroad. (On “Homeland,”
one of them turns an American soldier into a terrorist.) The Pew
Research Center has  found  strong opposition to drone strikes in
almost every country. The strikes may also be setting a
 dangerous precedent , goes another argument, since “more than 70
countries now own some type of drone.”  But the morality of the policy is what most deserves
scrutiny. The tradition of thinking about wartime ethics holds
that it is permissible to cause the death of innocent civilians
under certain conditions: when the war itself is just, the
deaths are unintended and the number of innocents killed is
proportional to the good the military action is expected to
achieve.  Attacks on terrorists from the air meet the first two
criteria even if civilians get killed. Whether they meet the
third is harder to determine, largely because we don’t have
reliable numbers. In January,  Obama said , “I want to make sure
that people understand actually drones have not caused a huge
number of civilian casualties.” A report by the Bureau of
Investigative Journalism found hundreds of civilian casualties
in  Pakistan , including 176 children.  In May, the  New York  Times  reported  one possible
explanation for the discrepancy in estimates: Obama “in effect
counts all military-age males in a strike zone as combatants,
according to several administration officials, unless there is
explicit intelligence posthumously proving them innocent.” In
other words, Obama has not found much evidence of civilian
casualties because he’s not looking for any. The Times also
reported that former senior intelligence officials doubt the
administration’s public line about low casualties.  The alternatives to drone strikes have costs. Ground
operations would also cause civilian casualties and could put
American troops at risk. Scaling back the drone strikes risks
letting some terrorists go to plot more evil. But the costs of
killing, injuring, endangering and terrifying civilians have to
be entered into the equation.  Robert P. George, a professor of politics at Princeton
University and a leading social conservative,  argues  that
“considerations of justice to noncombatants” sometimes forbid
drone strikes “even if that means grave risks must be endured by
our own forces in the prosecution of a war.”  Rule of Thumb  If we wouldn’t be willing to expose our troops to those
risks, then maybe the mission isn’t so compelling that it
justifies exposing civilians to them either. That’s the
conclusion that Kurt Volker, the head of the McCain Institute
for International Leadership and a former ambassador, has
reached. He  writes  that “a good rule of thumb might be that we
should authorize drone strikes only if we would be willing to
send in a pilot or soldier to do the job if a drone were not
available.”  Rules of thumb are probably the best we can hope for on
this question, since we need a policy that makes use of drone
strikes while drawing the line when the risks to civilians
become too high. The danger is that using them is so convenient
for policy makers that we will use them too much.  The president’s aides told the Times that he is a “student
of writings on war by Augustine and Thomas Aquinas” and can be
trusted to make the right judgments. His practical definition of
combatants as anyone we happened to kill suggests otherwise,
although too much of the program is secret to say for sure. The
fact that we have barely debated this issue makes it hard to
believe that our political system is getting it right, either.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  