-- Why Voters Should Fear Romney’s Tax Plan
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-11-05T19:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/why-voters-should-fear-romney-s-tax-plan.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  has been strategically slippery about his tax plan,
largely refusing to explain how he would pay for the sweeping
tax cuts that represent his primary promise to voters.  In the second debate, though, he offered just enough detail
for us to sketch the outlines of his program. If you’re poor or
worried about the state of the U.S. government’s finances, the
picture is not pretty.  The first course in Romney’s plan is dessert: Tax breaks
for everyone! He would start by extending the tax cuts put in
place by former President George W. Bush. He would then cut
everyone’s rates by another 20 percent, repeal the alternative
minimum tax, and get rid of the estate tax.  How would he pay for this? Mainly by limiting the amount
people can deduct from their taxable income. Here’s the most
detailed statement Romney has made: “One way of doing that would
be say everybody gets -- I’ll pick a number -- $25,000 of
deductions and credits, and you can decide which ones to use.
Your home mortgage interest deduction, charity, child tax credit
and so forth, you can use those as part of filling that bucket,
if you will, of deductions.”  Big Shortfall  Putting both halves of Romney’s plan together, we compared
the impact of the tax cuts with the  offsetting effect  of
limiting itemized deductions. The result: While a cap on
deductions is an interesting idea, it couldn’t possibly raise
enough revenue to make up for the big tax giveaways Romney has
promised. The shortfall would be a whopping $3.7 trillion over
the next decade. Lowering the deduction limit to, say, $17,000
 wouldn’t much change  the math. The gap would still be $3.4
trillion.  Romney’s plan is most striking in its distributional
implications (see chart). The greatest benefit would go to the
rich. The top one-fifth of households would enjoy a staggering
$16,000 average tax cut, offset by a tax increase of $4,000 due
to the deduction cap. Net gain: $12,000. Actually, though, most
of this group wouldn’t see that large of a benefit. About half
of the spoils would go directly to the top 1 percent, which
would get an average net tax cut of $100,000 a year.  The further one goes down the income scale, the worse
Romney’s plan looks. The average household in the middle of the
income distribution -- the heart of the middle class -- would
get a cut of a little more than $800, which wouldn’t be much
changed by the limit on deductions. The poor would actually pay
slightly more tax, because Romney would end stimulus-related
measures -- such as an expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit
-- that have benefited them.  True, any across-the-board tax cut would give more money to
the rich in dollar terms, because they pay most of the taxes in
the first place. But Romney’s plan goes further. It would reduce
the amount the richest Americans pay relative to their income
more than for anyone else. Specifically, the richest fifth would
go from paying 26 percent of their income in taxes to 22
percent. The middle fifth would go from 16 percent to 15
percent. The tax burden on the poor would rise.  Romney has explicitly denied that his tax plan would favor
the rich: “I will not, under any circumstances, reduce the share
that’s being paid by the highest-income taxpayers.”  If this was truly his intention, he could have proposed tax
cuts that were proportional to income -- say, by offering simply
to cut everyone’s tax rates by a few percentage points, rather
than by a certain percentage. This would give the rich a bigger
tax cut in dollar terms while preserving the distributional
structure of our tax system.  Benefit Distribution  As it stands, Romney’s plan would result in 48 percent of
the net tax cut going to the richest 1 percent (see pie chart).
Another 32 percent would go to the next richest 4 percent of the
population. All told, 94 percent of the benefit would go to the
top 10 percent of the income distribution, leaving only 6
percent for the rest.  Many of Romney’s biggest boosters argue that he would be a
more moderate president than he has been a candidate. Perhaps
that’s plausible. On taxes, though, he has left himself little
room to maneuver. His constituency would expect him to deliver
on the very specific tax cuts he has promised. Meanwhile, his
vagueness on the offsetting deduction limits would leave him
with no mandate to get rid of the most popular tax breaks, such
as those for charitable giving, mortgage interest or health
insurance.  Hence, the most probable outcome would be a tax system that
is radically less progressive, achieved through cuts that would
create a much larger long-run budget deficit. Both outcomes
would be colossal failures at a time in which true tax reform is
greatly needed.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the University of Michigan. Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
University of Pennsylvania, and a non-resident senior fellow of
the Brookings Institution. Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@umich.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@umich.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  