-- Wine Geeks Get New Book of Oddball Varietals: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/wine-geeks-get-new-book-of-oddball-varietals-elin-mccoy.html
On a tasting trip to  Italy ’s Friuli
region in 2005, Napa Valley viticulture whiz Steve Matthiasson
had an “aha” moment. He fell in love with ribolla gialla, a
local white grape.  This little-known variety is now a hot vino-geek item in
 California , with at least five winemakers producing it. Its rise
neatly jibes with the vogue for obscure varieties showing up on
trendy restaurant lists.  Sated by oceans of boring chardonnay, neutral pinot grigio,
and same-old cabernet, adventurous wine lovers have been
pursuing the exotic to expand their wine universes.  The Wine
Century Club , whose members swear to have sampled at least 100
different varietals to join, celebrated its 7th anniversary in
June.  Sipping Matthiasson’s 2010 ($45) bottling at a weathered
wooden table on his farm behind a Napa subdivision, I find it
deliciously nutty and spicy, with a unique stony, mineral
character. Then he pours his juicy, intense 2009 Refosco ($40).
Made from the Italian red grape of the same name, it smells of
crushed berries.  But wait, there’s more.  The day before, I tried  Lagier Meredith’s  dark, rich,
peppery 2010 Mondeuse ($42), an old grape (mondeuse noire) from
 France ’s Savoie region that winemaker Steve Lagier and grape
geneticist Carole Meredith planted on Napa’s Mount Veeder.  Flamenco Dancer  I’m also a fan of the Basque country’s simple, fizzy
Txakoli (pronounced chuh-KO-lee), made mostly from hondarribi
zuri. And a few months ago I savored tangy  Vina Mein , a Spanish
blend ($16) of treixadura, godello, loureira, torrontes,
albarino, albilla, and lado (Got that?) in a San Diego
restaurant while a flamenco dancer stomped.  Part of all this interest comes with winemakers’
rediscoveries of hundreds of indigenous grapes in their native
countries -- and from the fact that plenty of these wines
provide new taste thrills for under $20 a bottle. Varietal mania
has even inspired a new blog: fringewine.blogspot.com.  Now, comes the one book that explains them all.  “Wine
Grapes” (Ecco Press),  which goes on sale Nov. 6 in the U.S.,
took four years to research and write, weighs seven pounds in
its fabric-covered box and could double as a doorstop or maybe a
grape press.  Jancis Robinson  The all-star author team of two Masters of Wine --
internationally-known writer Jancis Robinson and her colleague
Julia Harding -- and Swiss grape geneticist Jose Vouillamoz
gives added weight to the book’s 1,280 pages, 1,368 varieties,
80 color plates of grapes reproduced from a century-old
ampelography, 14 grape family tree charts and $175 price tag.
(Amazon.com is offering it for $110.25; Winegrapes.org for 75
pounds.)  I quickly gave the book a taste test, zoning in on refosco,
which turned out to have a surprisingly complex family history.
The cutting-edge DNA research that informs the book shows most
of California’s refosco vines are actually mondeuse, though
Matthiasson’s are definitely the real thing, whose full name is
refosco dal peduncolo rosso.  Recommended Producers  I dipped here and there, hunting down grapes whose wines
have wowed me recently. The most useful bits were the capsule
phrases printed below each grape name, as in “Areni:  Armenia ’s
signature variety making top-quality dry and sweet reds,” along
with the list of alternative names of each grape, descriptions
of where it’s grown and what the wine tastes like, and a brief
mention of recommended producers.  Who knew  Turkmenistan  has two native varieties or that
pinot noir is related to teroldego or that sagrantino was
brought to Italy by Byzantine monks?  This isn’t the first modern take on grapes, but it is the
most complete: amazingly informative and insightful, resembling
an encyclopedia much more than Oz Clarke’s highly opinionated,
irreverent and out of print “Encyclopedia of Grapes” (1996).
Simplest of all grape guides is  De Long’s Wine Grape Varietal
Table , a cleverly designed 24 by 36 inch chart ($25) that
describes the taste of wines made from 184 different varieties.  So much fascinating research is packed into “Wine Grapes”
that it seems almost churlish to mention a few quibbles.  Tongue Twisters  Why does such a comprehensive work come without
pronunciation guides? Even the wine cognoscenti have trouble
with names like agiorgitiko (from  Greece ), posip bijeli
( Croatia ), and cserszegi fuszeres (Hungary).  And I’m not sure how immediately useful it will be for most
wine consumers. I can’t imagine anyone lugging this tome to a
wine shop or a restaurant to check on an unfamiliar grape before
splurging on its bottled form.  If that’s your intention, you may want to wait for the
electronic version, which, Robinson assured me in an email, will
be out next March.  Don’t get me wrong. “Wine Grapes” is an essential
reference that belongs on every wine lover’s bookshelf, right up
there next to  “The World Atlas of Wine.”   One of the biggest pleasures of wine is its diversity.
“Wine Grapes” will inspire you to stick your nose and tongue
into new aromas and flavors.  But only wine obsessives like me will haul it to bed.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  pop music  and  books .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 