-- Xi Gains Power Mixing Father’s Capitalism With Mao’s Marxism
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-06T07:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/xi-climbs-to-power-mixing-father-s-capitalism-with-mao-communism.html
Days after Xi Jinping became chief in
2002 of Zhejiang,  China ’s hotbed of private enterprise, he set
out on a tour of the province. His message: more capitalism.  Promoted five years later to the party’s top policy making
body in Beijing, and heir-apparent to President Hu Jintao, Xi
 lectured students  at the Communist Party’s main school, by the
Imperial Summer Palace. His plea this time: more Marxism.  His ascent to the country’s most powerful position,
including becoming party general secretary later this month,
will put the 59-year-old in a position where he has to reconcile
those opposing faces of China’s transformation. On one side are
businesses and politicians calling for a revival of the market-
opening policies pioneered by Xi’s father in the 1970s. On the
other are powerful state-owned monopolies and local governments
that prospered under Hu and resist change.  “The next administration doesn’t have a lot of time to
dilly-dally,” said James McGregor, author of the book “No
Ancient Wisdom, No Followers: The Challenges of Authoritarian
Capitalism,” published this month. “To keep this economy going
and keep this restive population happy, reform is the only
answer. The party’s entire legitimacy is based on growth and
making people’s lives better.”  Xi, scheduled to take over the presidency in March, may
face economic growth of 7 percent in 2013, the slowest in 23
years, according to Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s largest bond fund. Standard Chartered Plc sees
a risk of annual growth slumping to between 3 percent and 4
percent within 10 to 15 years without market-driven change to
introduce more competition for state enterprises.  Wealth Gap  The slowdown is fueling unrest in an industrial workforce
reliant on migrant labor, with a wealth gap exceeding a level
analysts use to gauge potential social unrest. Add to that a
rapidly aging population, a legacy of industrial pollution,
widespread corruption and an escalation in territorial disputes
with neighbors, and Xi is facing one of the toughest leadership
transitions since Deng Xiaoping rose to power in the late 1970s.  His challenge is to build a consensus among political and
industrial leaders to back policies that promote consumption and
boost access to credit for small and medium-size enterprises --
goals enshrined in the government’s five-year plan -- as well as
break up the state monopolies, McGregor said.  Those advocating change point to Xi’s pedigree. His father,
Xi Zhongxun, gained prominence for implementing Deng’s reforms
in Guangdong, turning rice paddies into industrial cities like
Shenzhen and Zhuhai that underpinned three decades of export-
driven growth. Xi himself helmed Fujian and Zhejiang, coastal
provinces that now have economies bigger than Hong Kong’s and
 Taiwan ’s, respectively.  Market Understanding  “It won’t be easy, but I think he has reform in his DNA,”
said  Jon Huntsman , U.S. ambassador to China in 2009-2011. “I’ve
been impressed with his work in the regional areas, in Fujian
and Zhejiang, and he understands the marketplace and what the
needs are in order to keep moving in a direction of reform.”  Xi’s father was a hero of the revolution, who helped Mao Zedong win control of China in 1949 before falling into disfavor
in 1962. He regained prominence after Mao’s death in 1976,
spearheading Deng’s opening of the economy as governor of
Guangdong province, next to Hong Kong.  “His father was the most democratic person in the whole
Chinese leadership,” said Sidney Rittenberg Sr., who was a
translator for Mao and knew the elder Xi well. “I just hope
some of his father rubbed off on him.”  The son spent 22 years working in provinces dominated by
the private sector on the industrial east coast, where he became
known for curbing bureaucracy, encouraging  private enterprise 
and cracking down on corruption.  China’s Richest  “We didn’t have to seek approval for every action we took,
such as selecting a site for a factory,” said  Zong Qinghou , who
became China’s richest man by building Zhejiang-based Hangzhou
Wahaha Group Co., China’s biggest seller of bottled water.  “It’s likely that Xi will change the current situation
that state-owned companies are taking ground from private
ones,” said Zong, whose $19.2 billion fortune puts him 34th in
the world on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . “He understands
that monopolies actually weaken state-owned companies’
competitiveness.”  Even as Xi allowed private companies to prosper during his
time as party secretary of Zhejiang from 2002 to 2007, state
enterprises there and elsewhere in China still hold most of the
advantages, such as access to cheaper capital and land. When
Premier Wen Jiabao visited the city of Wenzhou a year ago, after
company failures sparked a series of suicides, some
entrepreneurs were paying interest of as much as 7 percent a
month to illegal lenders to try to keep their businesses afloat.  Debt Sales  By contrast, state-owned developer Wenzhou Anjufang City
Development Co., set up by the local government, sold bonds to
raise 1.2 billion  yuan  ($192 million) earlier this year at 7.65
percent annual interest. Private companies are almost completely
absent from the bond market. Of the top 50 bond sellers in China
this year, 49 are government units or state owned.  To rejuvenate private-sector expansion, Xi would have to
implement measures to boost competition and end monopolies that
would jeopardize close to 10 million “official sinecures” in
state enterprises, regulatory agencies and government, said
Minxin Pei, a professor specializing in China at Claremont
McKenna College in  California , in a March paper.  With the economy slowing and demand from China’s
traditional export markets hit by  Europe ’s debt crisis, the cost
of failing to rebalance the economy toward private enterprise
and domestic consumers may be higher.  ‘Widespread Alienation’  The public’s “very widespread alienation from the
leadership” means “a real danger of chaos” if Xi fails to
move ahead with market-driven change, said Ezra Vogel, author of
“Deng Xiaoping and the Transformation of China.”  “The new leaders are very aware that their back is to the
wall,” said Vogel, a professor emeritus at Harvard University
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “There’s such a strong feeling in
the country that they need bold reforms and big changes and to
attack corruption. A lot of high officials will have to
suffer.”  That won’t be easy in a system where Xi’s power will be
limited by consensus-based decision making among the party elite,
designed to prevent the nation “galloping off too rapidly in
one direction,” said U.S.-based Robert Kuhn, author of “How
China’s Leaders Think” and an adviser to the Chinese government.  Xi’s task is complicated by rivalry within the Communist
Party between the factions of Hu Jintao and former president
Jiang Zemin, who will continue to wield influence even after Xi
takes office, said New York-based Gao Wenqian, author of “Zhou Enlai: The Last Perfect Revolutionary.”  Two Supervisors  “You have to compromise with every group,” Gao said. “Hu
Jintao hasn’t been able to achieve anything over 10 years
because above him he has a supervisor, who is Jiang Zemin. But
Xi Jinping will have not one but two supervisors watching over
him: Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao.”  As well as Xi and probable Premier Li Keqiang, the seven or
nine members of the Politburo Standing Committee that will rule
the party, and hence the country, won’t be known until the end
of the 18th Communist Party Congress, which opens in Beijing on
Nov. 8. Among the people on the committee, and the 25-member
Politburo, are likely to be many who prospered from the current
system and are resistant to change.  “When everybody had nothing back in the late 1970s, there
may have been ideological resistance to reform but there wasn’t
personal-property, personal-wealth resistance to reform,”
McGregor said. “Now you’ve got a lot of people with millions,
tens of millions and even billions of dollars riding on their
position. That is an order of magnitude different.”  Family Fortune  Xi’s own extended family has seen its fortunes skyrocket in
the decade since patriarch Xi Zhongxun died. The families of two
of his sisters held investments in companies with total assets
of $376 million; Hong Kong real estate worth $55.6 million,
including a Repulse Bay villa worth $31.5 million owned by Xi’s
niece; an 18 percent indirect stake in a rare-earths company
with $1.73 billion in assets; and a $20.2 million holding in a
publicly traded technology company, Bloomberg News reported on
June 29.  No assets were traced to Xi, or his wife or daughter, and
there was no indication Xi intervened to advance his relatives’
business transactions.  China’s Gini coefficient, a measure of inequality, will
stay “dangerously” high over the coming decade, said Li Shi,
executive dean of Beijing Normal University’s China Institute of
Income Distribution. The gauge may hover around 0.5, he said in
September, exceeding the 0.4 risk level for social unrest.  Democratic Style  In Xi’s favor is a political career that has been
highlighted by his ability to gain the support of different and
often opposing factions.  “We talked to a number of people in Hangzhou and other
towns when he was in charge” of Zhejiang, Rittenberg said.
“They really seemed to love this guy. He was approachable and
had a democratic style. He listens to people. He keeps his ear
to the ground and never made life hard for political
opponents.”  During Xi’s time in charge of Zhejiang, the township of
Zeguo in Wenling city carried out an experiment in deliberative
democracy -- allowing citizens to debate how the local budget
was spent, said He Baogang, a professor at Deakin University in
 Melbourne , who advised Zeguo’s government on the project.  Marxist Theories  At the same time, Xi’s time as vice president shows that he
adheres to core Communist Party rhetoric, such as the lectures
at the central party school in Beijing, which he heads,
discussing the theories of Karl Marx and Vladimir Lenin.  “From Xi’s speeches it’s quite clear he takes Marxist
theory very seriously,” Rittenberg said. “Not just slogans and
lip service -- he tries to analyze things.”  That may help him bridge political factions within the
party as well as powerful groups such as the People’s Liberation
Army, said Kerry Brown, a professor at the University of Sydney.  “There’s no other leader quite like him,” said Brown, who
served as a British diplomat in Beijing from 2000 to 2003. “A
president able to unify a leadership facing all these problems
isn’t a bad place to start.”  The duality of Xi’s political evolution can be traced back
to his upbringing, which included a spell as a teenager during
the Cultural Revolution.  Cave Dweller  With his father out of favor, Xi, like millions of other
city residents, was sent to the countryside to learn from the
peasants. Xi spent seven years in a village in Shaanxi near the
Gobi desert, where even today, village homes are often caves
hollowed out of the hillside to reduce the extremes of freezing
winters and baking summer heat.  “The experiences from my time in the countryside have left
a deep impression,” Xi said in a 2000 interview with magazine
Zhonghua Ernu that was translated into English this year by the
 Nordic Institute of Asian Studies . “When later I have come
across problems, I have never experienced them as big as then.”  His father’s democratic and reformist legacy also endured.  “Cooperation was something I learned at home as a child,”
Xi said in the interview. “My father often talked about it.
When you live with other people and only follow your own opinion,
things will go badly.”  As China’s Cultural Revolution wound down, Xi returned to
the capital, enrolled as an engineering student at Tsinghua
University and graduated in 1979. By then, his father was the
top official in Guangdong, and Xi entered the State Council’s
Office of General Affairs and worked as a secretary to Geng Biao,
General Secretary of the Central Military Commission, according
to his official  biography.  He married Ke Lingling, daughter of
China’s ambassador to the U.K., a union that ended in divorce.  U.S. Visit  Xi left Beijing once again in 1982, to gain experience in
local government, taking a post in Zhengding County in the
northern province of Hebei, where he became party secretary.  During this period, he made his now-famous trip to the U.S.,
spending time in 1985 with a family in Muscatine,  Iowa , to learn
how U.S. farmers grew crops and raised livestock. He returned to
the Mississippi River town earlier this year, recalling how
residents then were surprised he watched American movies such as
“The Godfather.”  “It’s my second visit to Muscatine after a hiatus of 27
years, and all the memories of my being here are now coming
back,” he said. “Coming here is really like coming back
home.”  Party Ranks  For the next 17 years, Xi rose through the party ranks in
Fujian, ending up as governor from 1999 through November 2002,
when he moved to Zhejiang as party secretary.  “He didn’t roll out any major specific measures,” said
Zong, at Hangzhou Wahaha Group. “His rule was to just let them
do business freely.”  In 2007, he spent a few months as party secretary in
 Shanghai  before his elevation to the Politburo Standing
Committee and the vice presidency.  Xi married his current wife, People’s Liberation Army folk
singer Peng Liyuan, in 1987. Peng, who is now a major general,
was more famous than her husband in the 1980s, when she starred
in the popular Chinese Spring Festival gala on China Central
Television. She’s active in anti-smoking and anti-AIDS work and
is a World Health Organization goodwill ambassador for HIV/AIDS
and tuberculosis. The couple has one child, daughter Xi Mingze,
who is an undergraduate at Harvard.  Xi oversaw preparations for the $70 billion 2008 Olympic
Games in Beijing, the showpiece sporting event designed to
highlight China’s development to the world. The success of the
games “further established Xi as a national leader,” Professor
Zheng Yongnian and research fellow Chen Gang of the National
University of  Singapore ’s East Asian Institute wrote in 2008.  Failing Model  Xi comes to power as China’s authoritarian model -- and its
ability to make and swiftly implement decisions -- is running
out of steam, said Tony Saich, a professor of public policy at
Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.  “The defenders of authoritarianism in the developmental
phase are really beginning to reach the ends of their
arguments,” said Saich, whose program to train senior and mid-
level Chinese officials counts Communist Party Organization
Department head  Li Yuanchao  as a graduate. “A lot of these
policies that would be good for the country do not necessarily
get through.”  An example is the property tax, which would provide a
predictable revenue stream for local governments, allowing them
to end reliance on land sales and expand the social safety net,
Saich said. Party cadres with ties to developers are resisting
moves to implement such a tax, he said.  Bo Ouster  “The men near the top in China don’t want an innovator, a
reformer, a boat-rocker like Bo Xilai because their collective
interest is to keep the power-elite’s boat afloat,” said Perry Link, a professor at the University of California, Riverside,
who helped to translate the “Tiananmen Papers,” Communist
Party accounts of the events surrounding the 1989 crackdown on
protests in Beijing.  Bo, former head of Chongqing in Central China, was expelled 
from the party in September, on charges of abusing power.  In contrast to this week’s presidential election in the
U.S., ordinary Chinese have little to do with the rise of Xi.  “All I hear is that he’s been chosen,” said Karen Shen,
36, who works in technical support for a company in her native
Shanghai. “I don’t think he’ll change much. I hope they’ll
allow more discussions, more freedom, more openness -- let
people participate in things like voting.”  Increased Protests  Failure to implement change could also increase protests
against the government, making it more difficult to maintain
order, Vogel said. “There’s even a danger that the uncertainty
and turmoil could lead China to be more aggressively
patriotic,” causing problems in places like the South China Sea
and with China’s international relations, he said.  To follow in his father’s footsteps and revive the
restructuring of China’s economy, Xi may have to spend years
building his own power base at the top of the party. Should he
achieve that, Xi will then show whether his years of encouraging
change can be squared with his conservative Marxist rhetoric.  “There are two Xi Jinpings,” said Gao, now a senior
policy adviser to Human Rights in China. “One of them is the
son of Xi Zhongxun. The second Xi Jinping is a son of the party,
the red empire. There will be conflicts between the two Xis.”  --Kevin Hamlin and Michael Forsythe. With assistance from  Henry
Sanderson  and Daryl Loo in Beijing, Michael Wei and Alexandra Ho
in Shanghai and Shai Oster in Hong Kong. Editors: Adam Majendie,
Scott Lanman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  