-- Hyundai, Kia Shares Tumble on Overstated Mileage Claims
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-11-05T07:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/hyundai-kia-shares-tumble-on-overstated-mileage-claims.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  tumbled in Seoul trading, wiping out a combined $4.7
billion in market value, after a U.S. regulator found they
overstated mileage claims on some of their vehicles.  Hyundai,  South Korea ’s No. 1 carmaker, declined 7.2 percent
to 199,500 won at the close on the Korea Exchange, its steepest
loss since August 2011. Kia, the second-largest,  lost  6.9
percent to 56,300 won, the lowest level since February 2011. The
two stocks were the  biggest drag  on the benchmark  Kospi index ,
which fell 0.6 percent.  The Seoul-based affiliates must re-label the window
stickers on their cars and trucks for the error, the first time
such a large number of vehicles from the same manufacturer have
deviated so much, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said
Nov. 2. The automakers, which share engines, model platforms and
a chairman, said they will compensate buyers.  “This would be negative on their share price as impact on
sales seems inevitable given that their strategy has been
focused at high  fuel efficiency  and reasonable price,” Nam Kyeong Moon, an analyst at KTB Investment & Securities Co.,
wrote in a report today. The compensation may cost the
affiliates a combined 395.1 billion won ($362 million), he said.  The companies said the overstatement resulted from
“procedural errors” at their testing facility in South Korea.  Other Markets  “The incorrect fuel economy ratings affect only vehicles
sold in  North America ,” Hyundai said in an e-mailed statement
today. “All Hyundai cars sold in other  regions  of the world
have been properly certified with correct fuel economy ratings
by each respective certification agency.”  In  China , the General Administration of Quality
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine didn’t immediately
respond to a faxed request for comment. Phone calls to the
Ministry of Industry and Information Technology’s press office
weren’t answered.  Combined U.S. sales of Hyundai and Kia vehicles through
October reached a record 1.07 million cars and trucks, placing
them sixth in the U.S. this year, ahead of Nissan Motor Co.  Led by its Elantra compact, Hyundai boasted in its
advertising of having more cars offering 40 miles per gallon in
highway driving than competitors. With the revisions, no Hyundai
or Kia model reaches 40 mpg.  Elantra, Soul  Consumer Watchdog, an advocacy group based in  Santa Monica ,
 California , filed a lawsuit in July claiming Hyundai overstated
mileage for 2011 and 2012 Elantras.  The Kia Soul will face the largest adjustment, down 6 miles
per gallon in its highway rating. Most 2012 and 2013 models from
the automakers will be adjusted by 1 or 2 miles per gallon, the
agency said in a statement.  EPA’s testing of vehicles occasionally uncovers individual
vehicles with incorrect labels, and twice since 2000 the agency
required changes. This is the first time a large number of
vehicles from the same manufacturer have deviated so much,
according to the EPA.  Owners of about 900,000 vehicles affected by the revision
will receive debit cards with values covering the difference in
“the EPA combined fuel-economy rating, based on the fuel price
in their area and their own actual miles driven,” plus an
additional 15 percent, Hyundai and Kia said in their statement.  Hyundai a decade ago reimbursed U.S. customers with
discounts on accessories and offered extended warranties and
roadside assistance for overstating horsepower ratings, which
the company said then were also the result of testing errors.  Hyundai Mobis Co. (012330) , South Korea’s biggest auto-parts maker,
dropped 4.1 percent to 259,500 won.  Hyundai Wia Corp. (011210)  sank 5.2
percent to 163,000 won.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  