-- Lafarge's Idle Egyptian Plants May Deepen Dividend Cut, Speed Asset Sales
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2011-02-03T23:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/lafarge-s-idle-egypt-plants-may-reduce-dividend-speed-disposal-of-assets.html
  Lafarge SA , which spent $15 billion
on purchases in Egypt in 2008, may have to accelerate asset
sales and make deeper cuts to its dividend as political turmoil
in the North African country threatens profit.  Mass protests to oust President  Hosni Mubarak  forced Paris-
based Lafarge to shutter plants in Egypt, depriving it of
potential sales in its most profitable market. The purchase of
Orascom Cement transformed it into the Middle East’s biggest
supplier of the building material. Egypt generated 564 million
euros ($779 million) in sales in the first nine months of 2010,
equal to 4.6 percent of Lafarge’s total.  “If that continues for a while, normal activity would be
disrupted, and that could impact cash flows,” said Ankur
Agarwal, a Dubai-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “That
may lead to an early decision around disposals. The most prudent
decision would be to cut the dividend.”  Lafarge, the world’s biggest cement maker is already poised
to lower its payout to shareholders by 20 percent, according to
Bloomberg forecasts. The Paris-based company reports results on
Feb. 18. One possibility is paying shareholders in new shares
rather than cash, Nomura’s Agarwal said.  At the time of the deal, Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont faced criticism for paying over the odds for Cairo-based
Orascom, a purchase that aimed to expand Lafarge’s emerging
market base. The price paid, at 12.2 times estimated earnings,
was more than multiples in other deals at that time.    Egypt  Earnings  Lafarge’s Middle East and African operations -- extending
from  Nigeria  to  Iraq  -- represented 24 percent of the group’s
revenue in the first nine months of 2010. The region as a whole
was its most profitable, accounting for 40 percent of earnings
excluding one-time items such as  capital gains .  Egypt alone represents 13 percent of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to a
report last month by Davy Stockbrokers analysts including  Tim
Cahill . Caroline Brugere, an analyst at  Credit Agricole ,
estimates that figure to be more like 10 percent. The company
doesn’t provide a breakdown of profit by country.  “Given the tight credit metrics of Lafarge, we believe
that even a small impact on earnings and  cash flow  could put
even more pressure on the company to take additional measures to
reduce debt,” Brugere said in a Feb. 1 note to investors.  Population growth and urbanization underpin Egypt’s
construction prospects and factories there are poised to restart
when the political situation improves, said Lafarge spokeswoman
Claire Mathieu. She declined to comment on the financial impact.  Ratings Pressure  The cement maker aims to retain investment-grade credit
ratings after inflating borrowings to buy Orascom. The purchase
came just prior to the biggest slump since World War II.  In January 2009, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the
company’s debt to Baa3, the lowest investment-grade rating, with
a negative outlook. It opted to leave the rating unchanged in
August, assuming the company would take “all measures that are
needed” to improve its debt and cash flow ratios.  Lafarge has teetered on the edge of junk status at Standard
and Poor’s, which changed its outlook on Lafarge’s BBB- credit
rating to negative from stable in March.  CEO Lafont in November pledged to step up disposals and
reduce spending to eat away at 14.7 billion euros of net debt.
One option could be the divestment of a gypsum business, which
is drawing interest from buyout firms, four people familiar with
the situation told Bloomberg last month.  With construction markets in the U.S. and  Europe  struggling
to recover, Lafont also pledged to trim investment this year by
300 million euros.  Takeover Optimism  When the purchase of Orascom was announced on Dec. 10,
2007, Lafarge shares jumped 13 percent. They have lost more than
half of their value since then as profit dwindled.  Shareholders are keen to see returns after helping Lafarge
raise 1.5 billion euros in a rights offer in 2009. Lafont sold
920 million euros worth of assets, cut spending, and halved the
dividend to 2 euros that same year. The payout was maintained in
2010, resulting in a cash outflow of 575 million euros.  Cutting the dividend would risk the ire of investors Groupe
Bruxelles Lambert and NNS Holding Sarl, which had 21 percent and
13.9 percent of Lafarge’s capital respectively at the end of
2009. Both took part in the rights offer.  With debt equal to four times Ebitda, rising energy costs
and political risk in emerging markets, Lafarge is left “with
little room for maneuver and increased risk for both equity and
debt investors,” said RBS analysts including John Messenger in
a Jan. 27 note. It creates “increased pressure to consider very
carefully a maintained dividend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 