-- Akamai Evokes AOL-Time Warner at 30 Years of Earnings: Real M&A
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-02-03T22:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/akamai-evokes-aol-time-warner-at-30-years-of-earnings-real-m-a.html
  Akamai Technologies Inc ., the U.S.
company with the most takeover speculation since 2005, would
cost almost 30 years of earnings in an acquisition, more than
any other technology deal in the past decade.  Akamai, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based provider of
server space to help make websites load faster, rose 82 percent
in the past year through yesterday, boosting its market value to
$8.8 billion. Including net debt, the company trades at 22 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Based on the 31 percent
premium for technology takeovers of $10 billion or more, Akamai
would fetch 29.4 times its Ebitda. That’s almost triple the
average in the biggest deals in the past 10 years.  With U.S. technology companies sitting on at least $274
billion in cash for acquisitions and a projected tripling of  Internet traffic  straining networks used by companies from  Apple
Inc . to Netflix Inc., Akamai’s share price has grown more than
twice as fast as its profit in the past year. When America
Online Inc. agreed to buy  Time Warner Inc . for $186 billion in
2000 in a deal built on the promise of high-speed  Internet
access , it also paid 30 years of earnings, the data show.  “It’s difficult to rationalize those kinds of valuations
and how one would extract reasonable return on M&A,” said Brian Barish, president of Cambiar Investors LLC, which manages $6.5
billion in Denver. “Akamai is an expensive stock on most
conventional valuation measures. You’d need a ferocious amount
of growth. It’s hard to make the numbers work.”  Biggest U.S. Deals  Barish’s $1.29 billion  Cambiar Opportunity Fund  has
outperformed 99 percent of rival funds in the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Akamai was the subject of more buyout rumors than any other
American company from 2005 through 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company was named as a target 21 times by
electronic news services, brokerages or newspapers.  Since February 2001, six U.S. technology companies from
Veritas Software Corp. to Freescale Semiconductor Inc. have been
bought in takeovers of at least $10 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. On average, acquirers paid 11.6 times Ebitda in
deals with announced premiums of 31 percent.  The historical average would value Akamai at $64.47 a share
in an acquisition, versus the average of $49.22 in the past 20
trading days. Including net debt, the company would then cost
about $11.2 billion, or 29.4 times its $381 million in Ebitda in
the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  History Lesson  The multiple would be higher than any of the biggest U.S.
technology deals completed in the past 10 years, the data show.  Akamai’s shares were little changed at $48.11 today in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Liz Bradley, a spokeswoman at Akamai, declined to comment.  The most expensive deal was completed by  Symantec Corp .,
the world’s biggest maker of anti-virus software, which in 2004
agreed to buy Veritas for 20.4 times its reported Ebitda.  Mountain View , California-based Symantec fell 31 percent in the
year after completing the takeover, versus a 1.3 percent decline
for technology shares in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  AOL paid even more for Time Warner. The acquisition valued
the New York-based global media company at 30.48 times Ebitda,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company, named AOL Time
Warner, had planned to sell television shows and magazines via
the Internet. Instead, it lost customers to faster online
services from telephone and cable-TV carriers.  When the deal was announced in January 2000, the combined
company was valued at about $350 billion. Two years later, it
had lost about two-thirds of its market capitalization.  Apple’s Cash  Akamai, which supplies the computer power that speeds
delivery of content over Cupertino, California-based Apple’s
iTunes software, could make an attractive acquisition target for
Apple, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst with Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco . Apple had about $27 billion in cash and short-
term investments at the end of December, Bloomberg data show.  Apple spokesman Steve Dowling declined to comment. The
company’s shares slipped 0.3 percent to $343.44 today.  Options contracts on Akamai suggest that some traders are
betting the company may be taken over. The ratio of outstanding
calls, which give the right to buy shares, versus puts to sell
has jumped by 40 percent from the end of November to 1.35-to-1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s close to the
five-month high of 1.36 from Jan. 25.  Derivatives Bets  Open interest for calls is getting its biggest boost from
the February $50 calls, which are this year’s fastest growing
bets on the stock after jumping to 12,852 existing contracts
from 2,223 and are now the most widely owned Akamai contracts,
accounting for about 14 percent of all 91,075 outstanding calls.
February $55 calls are the second most owned. The shares haven’t
closed above that level since February 2007.  The most widely cited estimate of Internet traffic, from  San Jose , California-based  Cisco Systems Inc ., projects it will
triple by 2014, to 64 exabytes a month. An exabyte is equivalent
to a quintillion bytes. Monthly traffic in 2006 was 5 exabytes,
enough to store every word ever spoken. By 2014, more than 90
percent of the traffic will be video.  Akamai, which traded at 20.4 times net income a year ago,
is now valued at 49 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
company went public in October 1999, with New York-based  Morgan
Stanley  leading the sale, Bloomberg data show.  Future Growth  “There is a lot of future growth banked into its
valuation,” said Ken Smith, a money manager at Birmingham,
Michigan-based Munder Capital Management, which oversees $14.3
billion. “That doesn’t mean someone couldn’t take them out, but
it does make it more difficult for someone to make an offer.”  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Sony Corp ., Japan’s
biggest exporter of consumer electronics, agreed to acquire
Seiko Epson Corp.’s Chinese liquid-crystal-display subsidiary
for 775 million yuan ($118 million) in cash, the Tokyo-based
company said yesterday in a statement on its website.  IAC/InterActiveCorp said yesterday its Match.com division
acquired OkCupid, a U.S. online dating service, for $50 million
in cash. OkCupid generates revenue primarily through advertising
sales, unlike New York-based IAC’s other dating sites.  There have been 2,196 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $178.1 billion, a 15 percent increase from the $154.2
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Tsang  in  New York  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ; 