-- Taleb Advises ‘First’ Avoid Treasuries, Then Dollar
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2011-02-03T13:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/taleb-advises-first-avoid-treasuries-then-dollar-update1-.html
Nassim Taleb, author of “The  Black
Swan ,” said the “first thing” investors should avoid is U.S.
Treasuries and the second is the dollar.  Taleb, a principal at Universa Investments LP whose 2007
 bestselling book  argued that history is littered with rare
events that can’t be predicted by trends, also said he would
rather hold euros than dollars, even as the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis persists. “Euros have  Germany , the dollar has
nothing,” he said at a conference in Moscow.  Taleb made similar comments at the same forum last year,
saying “every single human being” should bet Treasuries will
decline because of the policies of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and President Barack Obama. Bernanke has pledged to
inject dollars into the U.S. financial system and cut borrowing
costs by buying $2.3 trillion of Treasuries and other assets, a
tactic known as quantitative easing.  “As skeptical as I am about  Europe , I prefer it by far to
the  United States ,” said Taleb at the conference, hosted by
 Troika Dialog , Russia’s oldest investment bank.  The U.S. is just like Greece, only without the  International Monetary Fund  to enforce discipline, Taleb said
today.  Greece  came close to defaulting on its sovereign debt
last year before receiving a bailout from the European Union.  “We have a very dire situation in the United States, and
every day that goes by it gets worse,” Taleb said. “Every day
that goes by, we’re spending money. We’re increasing that
cumulative debt.”  Treasury Yields Climb  Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields rose one basis point to
3.49 percent by 12:39 p.m. in  London , the highest since Dec. 15.
The U.S. government has said it would sell $72 billion of notes
and bonds next week.  Yields have climbed since the announcement of the second
phase of the Fed’s bond-buying program on Nov. 3. The return on
the 10-year note has risen 0.92 percentage point, or 92 basis
points, according to Bloomberg generic data, while the yield on
two-year Treasuries has more than doubled, adding 35 basis
points to 0.68 percent over the same period.  The dollar climbed against 10 of the 16 other major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg today, including the euro and
the  New Zealand dollar , amid speculation reports this week will
point to an acceleration in U.S. economic growth.  Bill Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. predicted the “end of the  bull market ” for Treasuries in a report published on Jan. 7,
saying the bonds may need to be “exorcised” from model
portfolios and replaced with “more attractive alternatives.”  ‘Bond Riot’  “The only happy thing that can happen in the U.S. is a
bond riot” where investors stop buying debt, Taleb said today.
This would “force some discipline” in to the Treasuries
market, he added.    Russia , the world’s third-biggest holder of short-term
Treasury debt behind  Hong Kong  and Japan, has trimmed its
holdings of the securities by 25 percent since March 2009,
according to U.S. Treasury Department data. The country held
$55.2 billion of the bills as of the end of November, or 7.3
percent of the total outstanding, the data shows.  The world’s largest energy exporter boosted its holdings of  U.S. debt  200 percent in the six months following the September
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to a record $73.2
billion in March 2009. Treasuries surged during the global
financial crisis, climbing 14 percent in 2008, as investors
sought out the relative safety of  U.S. government debt .  ‘Biggest Accident’  Rising real interest rates in the U.S. are a worldwide
concern, said  Bhanu Baweja , global head of emerging-market
fixed-income and currency strategy at UBS AG.  “The biggest accident that the global economy could face
is in the U.S. government bond market,” Baweja said by phone
from London. “I’m also worried about  U.S. Treasuries .”  Standard & Poor’s won’t cut its AAA rating on U.S.
government debt “in the short-to medium-term,” Scott Bugie,
managing director for financial institutions at the ratings
agency, said in Moscow today.  10-year Treasury yields have dropped 0.21 percentage
points, or 21 basis points, in the past year, while the yield on
two-year notes has declined 19 basis points.  It’s “a no brainer” to bet on a decline in Treasuries,
Taleb said at last year’s Troika conference in Moscow Feb. 4.
“Every single human being should have that trade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 