-- Apple Changes to IPad Newspaper Access Spark European Opposition
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2011-02-03T10:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/apple-s-changes-to-ipad-newspaper-access-trigger-opposition-in-europe.html
  Apple Inc .’s planned changes to the
way newspaper and magazine subscriptions are sold for its iPad
tablet are encountering resistance from some European
publishers.  Belgian publications say they are troubled by Apple’s
behavior after Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad said it was
banned from selling or giving away iPad subscriptions outside of
the iTunes store from the start of April. The move triggered
antitrust complaints by politicians.  “What we’re worried about is that Apple will hijack our
customer relationship,” said Caspar Van Rhijn, innovation
director at  Belgium ’s largest publishing group Corelio
Publishing NV. “If Apple would force us to use the Apple iTunes
store, we wouldn’t know the data of our subscribers, only Apple
would have the data.”  Publishers, including  News Corp .’s  Rupert Murdoch , are
betting the popularity of the iPad will draw subscribers in a
bid to confront shrinking print advertising revenue and the
reluctance of Internet users to pay for content. Apple’s tablet
dominates the market, with sales of more than 14.8 million units
worldwide since its introduction in April.  Belgian newspapers have already succeeded in curbing some
of the practices of a U.S. technology giant. A court ruling
against  Google Inc . in 2007 forced the owner of the world’s
most-used search engine to remove links, photos and graphics to
Belgian newspapers from all its sites. Google’s appeal is
pending.  Developer Terms  Apple has “not changed” its “developer terms or
guidelines,” Alan Hely, a London-based spokesman said in an e-
mail. Apple now requires companies that sold books for an iPad
program outside of the platform to also sell them “from within
the app with in-app purchase.” He declined to comment on sales
of newspaper subscriptions.  NRC Handelsblad’s digital publisher Han-Menno Depeweg said
in an e-mail today that Apple told the paper last month that it
must route purchases via iTunes starting from April 1.  According to Depeweg, Apple told the paper that offering
paid subscriptions to its online version and including the iPad
version in the price was no longer an acceptable business model
in the App Store environment.  “Apple has to find a balance between its own self-
interest” and publishers’ demands to retain some control over
customer data and payments, said  Greg Sterling , an analyst at
the Internet2Go consulting firm in  San Francisco . It risks
“pushing people into the arms of Google” as it tries to get
more revenue from the applications sold for its devices.  Tablets based on Google’s Android operating system are
starting to gain ground, capturing 22 percent of global tablet
shipments in the three months to Dec. 31.  Leverage  While Apple is trying to leverage the popularity of the
iPad, newspapers hold the upper hand in any negotiations, said
Joris van Manen, a media lawyer at Hoyng Monegier LLP in
Amsterdam. “For Apple it’s very important that newspapers stay
with Apple but if it’s going to be too costly for the newspapers
they will probably go and find something else.”  Apple is trying to grab “a bigger piece of the pie, to
make money out of our product” by taking control of newspaper
subscribers’ data, said NRC Handelsblad’s Depeweg in a phone
interview Feb. 1. The iPad “is a fantastic product but we bring
the content.”  Apple is “giving a very bad signal,” said Philippe
Nothomb, head of legal affairs of Rossel et Cie., which owns Le
Soir, the most-read French-language daily in Brussels. “Unless
Apple is open to constructive negotiations, the editors will
have to look at other possible options.”  Apple doesn’t let newspapers have a direct relationship
with their iPad readers, said Margaret Boribon, secretary-
general for the francophone newspapers in Belgium. “Apple puts
itself right in between the  Internet users  and the editors.”  Market Power  Belgian Economy Minister Vincent Van Quickenborne last
month urged national competition regulators to investigate the
new terms for a possible “abuse of market power.” The agency
should also examine whether Cupertino, California-based Apple’s
sales commission of 30 percent of the subscription price is
justified.  Ingrid Lieten, a minister for Belgium’s Flanders region
also wrote to Apple and European Union regulators on Jan. 31.  The country’s antitrust agency didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  None of the newspaper companies contacted by Bloomberg News
said they had made formal complaints to antitrust authorities.  France’s daily press association on Jan. 20 said it would
seek a probe by the country’s competition regulators into the
new policy,  according  to Le Monde. Officials at the association,
the Syndicat De La Presse Quotidienne Nationale, didn’t return
four calls and three e-mails.    France ’s antitrust authority hasn’t yet received the
newspaper group’s complaint, a spokeswoman for the regulator who
could not be cited by name under agency policy, said by
telephone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  