-- Apple CEO Succession Plan Gets Backing From Shareholder-Advisory Firm ISS
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2011-02-03T21:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/apple-shareholder-proposal-for-ceo-succession-plan-gets-backing-from-iss.html
An  Apple Inc . shareholder proposal
requiring the company to disclose a  succession plan  for Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  gained the support of  Institutional
Shareholder Services , a proxy-advising service.  ISS, which helps institutional investors decide how to vote
on shareholder propositions, wants Apple’s board to disclose a
CEO succession plan annually, according to a report released by
the firm. The measure is backed by the Laborers’ International
Union of  North America .  Jobs announced a leave of absence on Jan. 17, the third
time the Apple co-founder has taken time away from the company
since 2004 to deal with health problems. While Chief Operating
Officer  Tim Cook  has assumed control of day-to-day operations,
Apple’s board hasn’t said who will take over for Jobs if he
can’t return. The proposal will be considered at Apple’s annual
shareholder meeting on Feb. 23.  “A vote for the shareholder proposal to adopt a succession
planning policy is warranted in light of the company’s limited
disclosure regarding this issue and the market’s expression of
concern over CEO succession at Apple,” Rockville, Maryland-
based ISS said in a report dated Jan. 28. The laborers’ union
announced the group’s support in a statement today.  Apple’s Opposition  Apple, the most valuable technology company, asked
shareholders to vote against the proposal in its proxy statement
released Jan. 7. The company said its governance guidelines
require the board and CEO to annually review succession planning
for senior management. That process includes identifying
candidates for succession.  Those deliberations are kept confidential. The company said
the information could provide competitors with an unfair
advantage and give them an opportunity to poach executives. The
proposal also could harm its ability to retain executives
because it would identify who’s being considered for positions
and how they are being evaluated, Apple said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for the Cupertino, California-
based company, declined to comment beyond the filing.  Apple, maker of the iPhone and iPad devices and Macintosh
personal computers, fell 88 cents to $343.44 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The shares climbed 53 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  