-- Asia, Middle East Target Ukraine Farms to Secure Supplies, Raiffeisen Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2011-02-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/asian-middle-east-buyers-want-ukraine-grain-companies-raiffeisen-says.html
Asian and Middle East buyers want to
buy agriculture companies in Ukraine to secure supply of grains
and oilseeds, Vienna-based  Raiffeisen Investment AG  said.  Ukraine was the world’s biggest shipper of barley in the
year to September and also produces wheat and corn. Governments
in North Africa and the Middle East are seeking food supplies as
protests spread to Tunisia, Egypt, Algeria and Yemen. World food
costs rose to a record last month on higher dairy, sugar and
grain prices, the  United Nations  said yesterday.  “Countries like China and Libya are interested in buying
large agribusinesses to secure their supplies,” Wolfgang Putschek, co-head of Raiffeisen, said two days ago in an
interview in Vienna. “Several” acquisitions are pending, he
said, declining to elaborate.  Raiffeisen, part of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG , joins
Russian investment bank Renaissance Capital in targeting
agriculture in the former Soviet Union. Renaissance, part-owned
by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , said last year it may hire as
many as 10 bankers for its newly formed agriculture unit.  Siberian Agrarian Holding Co., a Russian grain and bread
producer, is in talks on the possible sale of a 49 percent
stake, its Chairman Pavel Skurikhin said in a Feb. 3 interview
in Moscow.  Typical Acquisition  Putschek, 46, who leads Raiffeisen together with Martin Schwedler, 42, said the typical agribusiness acquisition in
Ukraine is worth about 50 million euros to 200 million euros
($68 million to $273 million). “These investors are less
concerned about margins and profitability,” he said. “They
want to secure access to the produce.”  Raiffeisen is part of a banking group that dates back to
19th century farmers’ credit cooperatives in  Germany  and  Austria 
and opened its first bank in the former Communist part of  Europe 
in 1987. Raiffeisen Bank International owns Ukraine lender VAT
Raiffeisen Bank Aval.  Under President Viktor Yanukovych, Ukraine has gained a
stability that is attracting investors who were discouraged by
the infighting between former President Viktor Yushchenko and
his Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko , Putschek said.  “The political price for that is an authoritarian tendency
that shows very strongly,” he said. “However for business and
investors, the disadvantages of this authoritarianism aren’t as
decisive as the certainty they gain thanks to the stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  