-- MasterCard Profit Beats Estimates as Spending Climbs
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2011-02-03T21:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/mastercard-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates-as-consumer-spending-surges.html
  MasterCard Inc ., the world’s second-
biggest bank-card network, said fourth-quarter profit jumped 41
percent on a surge in U.S.  consumer spending  and the global
migration to electronic payments.  Net income climbed to $415 million, or $3.16 a share, from
$294 million, or $2.24, in the same period a year earlier, the
Purchase, New York-based company said today in a statement. The
average estimate of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $3.05.  “Based on the spending trends we’ve seen and the improving
consumer confidence, I’m cautiously optimistic that we’ll see
continued improvements in 2011,” Chief Executive Officer Ajay Banga said in a conference call with analysts.  Banga, 51, who has declared a “war on cash,” is seeking
growth in emerging markets through acquisitions. The company
paid $526 million in October for DataCash Group Plc, a U.K.
credit-card processor, to expand e-commerce offerings. In
December, MasterCard said it would buy prepaid card-management
assets from London-based Travelex Holdings Ltd. for 290 million
pounds ($470 million).  Net revenue during the three months ended Dec. 31 increased
11 percent to $1.44 billion as operating expenses, adjusted for
currency changes, rose 4.6 percent to $869 million, driven by an
increase in advertising and marketing spending.  Spending Climbs  Worldwide purchases on MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards
climbed 11 percent to $567 billion based on local currencies,
the company said. Cross-border volume, a measure of spending by
consumers traveling outside their home countries, surged 19
percent. Processed transactions advanced 6.3 percent to 6.2
billion.  Debit card spending rose 15 percent worldwide, fueled by a
29 percent increase in markets outside the U.S., while global
credit-card spending was up 8.8 percent.  Higher consumer spending in the U.S. also is spurring
growth for MasterCard and larger rival  Visa Inc . Household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy,
rose at a 4.4 percent pace in the quarter, the most since the
first quarter of 2006, according to Commerce Department figures
released Jan. 28. MasterCard credit-card purchases rose 2.2
percent in the U.S., climbing for the first time in 11 quarters,
Banga said.  Visa yesterday said fiscal first-quarter net income
advanced 16 percent to $884 million, as processed transactions
and total card spending rose.  MasterCard gained 2.5 percent, the most in four weeks, to
$245.39 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. San Francisco-based Visa fell 0.6 percent to $71.63.  Debit Caps  MasterCard and Visa are contending with investor concern
that U.S. caps on debit-card  interchange  fees, set to take
effect in July, may lead to more regulation and damage their
business model.  The  Federal Reserve  has proposed capping interchange, or
“swipe” fees, at 12 cents for each debit-card transaction,
replacing a formula that costs merchants about 1 percent of the
purchase price. The caps, mandated by the Dodd-Frank law that
overhauled the financial industry last year, may reduce annual
revenue at U.S. banks by more than $12 billion.  Visa and MasterCard set interchange rates and pass the
money to card issuers such as  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp ., which estimated that the debit limits may
reduce annual revenue by $2.3 billion. The lender said last
month that it will charge retail customers checking account fees
unless they maintain minimum balances, make regular deposits,
use credit cards or take advantage of online services.  ‘Very Concerning’  Banga said MasterCard will lobby Congress to seek changes
in the legislation.  “Interchange provides the balance between the cost
consumers pay and the cost merchants pay,” he said in the
conference call. “When that balance is tinkered with, the
unanticipated consequences become very, very concerning.”  MasterCard also has agreed to divide costs with fellow
defendants in antitrust litigation brought by merchants, in the
event of a settlement or judgment, the company said today in a
regulatory filing. If a global accord were reached that also
included Visa and defendant banks, MasterCard would contribute
12 percent of the payment.  Negotiations over the judgment-sharing agreement prevented
MasterCard from buying back shares under a $1 billion repurchase
program authorized in September, said Chief Financial Officer
Martina Hund-Mejean in a telephone interview.  “These are material agreements and therefore the lawyers
did not allow us to be in the market to repurchase the shares,”
Hund-Mejean said. The company should be “free and clear” to
resume buybacks in the current quarter, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  