-- Australia Building Permits Surge, Trade Surplus Beats Estimates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2011-02-03T03:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/australian-building-approvals-rose-more-than-forecast-update1-.html
Australian home-building approvals
surged by the most in nine months and the  trade surplus  was
wider than economists forecast as a mining-investment boom
contributed to a record year for job growth.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments jumped 8.7 percent to 14,457 from November, when
they fell a revised 3.9 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney today. Imports rose 1 percent in December and exports
were little changed, leaving a A$1.98 billion ($2 billion) trade
surplus that was $381 million higher than economists predicted.  The reports give a snapshot of the economy before flooding
in Queensland last month and a cyclone this week disrupted
commerce in a state that accounts for about a fifth of the
country’s gross domestic product.  Australia ’s jobless rate
dropped to 5 percent in December, the lowest level in almost two
years, as mining companies boosted hiring to meet demand from  China .  “These reports are unambiguously positive,”  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities in  Singapore , wrote after the data were released. “The clear signs
that the very interest-rate sensitive housing activity is
rebounding makes us comfortable with our May call of a 25 basis-
point increase” in rates with a year-end target of 5.75 percent,
she wrote.  The Australian dollar was little changed after the reports,
trading at $1.0113 at 1:39 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0098 just
before their release.  RBA Outlook  Swaps traders increased bets that the central bank will
raise its benchmark rate by 29 basis points over the next 12
months, up from 22 basis points yesterday, according to a Credit
Suisse AG index.  Today’s housing report showed building approvals fell 5
percent from a year earlier, less than the 13.7 percent year-
over-year drop that economists predicted. Approvals to build
private houses were little changed at 8,181 in December from
November. Approvals for apartments and renovations jumped 21.3
percent to 5,574, the report showed  Total exports were A$24.6 billion in December, another
report showed. Imports increased to A$22.6 billion, led by a 17
percent gain in fuels and lubricants, it showed.  Export sales of  iron ore  totaled A$4.97 billion in December,
a 14 percent increase from the previous month. Coal shipments
abroad totaled $3.71 billion, a 3.6 percent gain, the report
showed.  Rate Pause    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens left the
overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent this week, a level he
has called “mildly restrictive” after seven increases since
October 2009.  “Australia’s terms of trade are at their highest level
since the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly,”
Stevens said Feb. 1, referring to a measure of income earned
from exports. “There have been further indications that private
investment is beginning to pick up in response to high levels of
commodity prices.”  Increased demand for skilled workers at projects such as
Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion Gorgon liquefied natural-gas
project, under construction in  Western Australia , threatens to
stoke wage growth and inflation. BG Group Plc, Chevron, Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among companies planning
to invest about A$200 billion in proposed liquefied natural gas
projects in Australia.  Worker Shortage  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said Feb. 1 the resource
sector could be short 36,000 workers in the next four years due
to the mining boom and the government will have to introduce
measures to encourage older Australians and parents to rejoin
the workforce to meet the demand.  “We remain concerned that the construction sector will be
increasingly competing for scarce resources, driving up costs
and inflation this year and next,” Beacher said.  Earlier today Tropical Cyclone Yasi, packing winds stronger
than those from  Hurricane Katrina  that devastated  New Orleans ,
struck Australia’s northeast coast, lashing communities with the
force of a storm described by authorities as the largest in the
nation’s history. Torrential rains that inundated Queensland
last month affected about 30,000 properties, shut coal mines,
cut rail lines and damaged crops.  “The natural disasters that have struck with such force
over January and early February loom large over the trade data
for the first quarter,” Ben Jarman, an economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Sydney, wrote after the reports.  Nomura Australia Ltd. economists said today that Yasi may
cost about A$2 billion in lost GDP growth this quarter, and the
overall damage bill will be “considerably higher.” The storm
will also have a “significant impact” on inflation in the
first and second quarters as banana, beef and sugar prices rise.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  