-- Lawmakers in U.S. Call for Halting Egypt Aid to Hasten Mubarak's Departure
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-02-03T17:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/lawmakers-in-u-s-call-for-halting-egypt-aid-to-hasten-mubarak-s-departure.html
Some senior members of the  U.S.
Congress  are calling for a halt in foreign aid to  Egypt  as a
way to hasten President  Hosni Mubarak ’s exit from power amid
continuing protests against his three-decade rule.  Senator Patrick Leahy, the chairman of the panel that
controls foreign aid, said he’s prepared to stop all U.S.
financial assistance to Egypt -- which topped $1.5 billion last
year -- unless Mubarak steps aside immediately and allows a
transitional government to take over.  “If he doesn’t leave, there will not be foreign aid; I
mean, it’s as simple as that,” Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, told
Bloomberg Television in an interview yesterday. U.S. money
“will not go to the Mubarak administration,” Leahy said,
adding, “that’s a pipeline that can easily be turned off.”  Mubarak’s announcement earlier this week that he wouldn’t
run in elections scheduled for September failed to quell
protests against his government, and stoked the anger of
demonstrators who have since stepped up their demands for his
quick departure.  Leahy has been joined by Representative Lloyd Doggett, a
Texas Democrat, in pushing to use the only degree of control
lawmakers have on foreign policy matters -- the power of the
purse -- to prod Mubarak off stage.  ‘Unmistakable Message’  Doggett, a nine-term House member who previously sought to
limit aid to Egypt, wrote to President Barack Obama yesterday
asking him to make it clear to Mubarak and his government that,
“Egypt will not receive one more cent of American money until
he begins the peaceful, orderly transition to a democratically
elected government today.”  The U.S. “must send the unmistakable message to Mubarak
and all dictators who are watching our response that we will
not continue to waste money propping up his tyranny,” Doggett
wrote.  Some lawmakers have been reluctant to use the threat of
ending U.S. aid as a lever to force Mubarak from power.
Representative Nita Lowey of  New York , the top Democrat on the
House subcommittee that controls foreign assistance, hasn’t
called for such a move.  In a statement last week on the turmoil in Egypt, Lowey
didn’t mention Mubarak, saying that his country and the U.S.
had been “partners” in the Middle East peace process, and
that it was in the U.S. interest that “Egypt remain a strong
ally.”  Leahy said his preference would be to redirect the aid to
a new group of leaders.  “What I’d like to be able to say is, ‘We’re in a position
to help the transitional government that has democratic values,
believes in democracy, but also believes in helping its own
people,’” Leahy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  