-- Louisiana Pension Lawyer Pleads Guilty to Defrauding Police
-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/lawyer-helped-louisiana-cops-lose-500-million-as-golf-course-bogeyed.html
A former lawyer for the  Louisiana 
 Municipal Police Employees’ Retirement System  admitted
defrauding the statewide pension and five other victims out of
$1.2 million over five years.  Randy P. Zinna, 53, faces as much as 20 years in prison
under the criminal plea agreement unsealed last week in U.S.
District Court in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. He agreed to a
restitution order covering the $1.2 million plus $340,393 owed
to another state pension that wasn’t part of the criminal case,
according to court papers.  “It shocked us, and it is still at times hard to fathom
why he would do this,” said Jeffrey Yates, administrator for
the  East Baton Rouge City-Parish Employees’ Retirement System ,
one of Zinna’s former clients, in an interview yesterday.  The documents offer glimpses of how state and federal
investigators attempted to gain control of a scandal that
touched three statewide pension plans and contributed to losses
at the $1.2 billion retirement system for more than 10,000 local
police officers.  Known as MPERS, the police pension had unfunded liabilities
to pay future retirement benefits of $836.3 million as of June
30, a 3 1/2-fold increase from two years earlier, according to
the plan’s actuarial report.  Zinna diverted funds from clients and business vendors from
about November 2004 through October 2009, in part to pay sports
gambling debts, prosecutors said.  Cooperating With Prosecutors  Assistant U.S. Attorney Patricia Jones filed the criminal
complaint alleging mail fraud on July 2, 2010. In placing the
complaint under seal, she wrote that Zinna was cooperating with
prosecutors and “knowledge of his cooperation with authorities
may compromise the integrity of the investigation,” according
to court papers.  Zinna signed the agreement on June 17 and entered his plea
on Oct. 26, according to the unsealed records.  Both Jones and Richard Crane, one of Zinna’s defense
lawyers, based in Nashville,  Tennessee , declined to comment.
Randy Roche, an attorney for the police retirement system,
didn’t immediately return a telephone call requesting comment.  According to the plea agreement, Zinna was interviewed
“several times” by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and by
the State Inspector General’s office.  In August, Louisiana Legislative Auditor Daryl Purpera
linked Zinna to financial irregularities at three statewide
pensions that he had served as a contract attorney.  Zinna “diverted or held” $5.1 million from a real estate
subsidiary of the police pension to his private law firm’s
escrow account, keeping $934,705 for himself, according to the
auditor.  Widow’s Money  Some of the money Zinna used to repay the diverted funds
came from $570,000 that an unidentified 83-year-old widow gave
him to invest for her in 2009, according to court papers. While
Zinna repaid the police pension $4.2 million, according to the
state auditor’s report, prosecutors said he still owes the widow
$546,352 and the police pension $434,164.  Other victims were a police-owned real estate developer,
Olde Oaks Development LLC, owed $136,614, and three vendors owed
a total of $116,515, according to the plea agreement.  The state auditor found that the East  Baton Rouge  City-
Parish Employees’ Retirement System carried a $300,000
receivable on its books for almost a decade, unaware that Zinna
obtained the funds in June 2001 and apparently never turned it
over to the plan that employed him.  “During our interview with Mr. Zinna, he indicated that he
does not know what happened” to the money, according to the
legislative auditor’s report. Under the criminal plea agreement,
Zinna will repay the money even though prosecutors didn’t accuse
him of misappropriating the funds.  Court Clerks  Another of Zinna’s clients, the Louisiana Clerks of Court
Retirement and Relief Fund, received two lawsuit settlement
checks of about $114,500 each from the WorldCom Settlement Fund
in December 2006, the auditor said. While Zinna said the
payments weren’t duplicative, he deposited one check into his
private law-firm account and said the clerks were owed only
$36,026 of it, the auditor said.  Debbie Hudnall, the clerks fund’s executive director, said
yesterday she had no comment.  Zinna resigned from the Louisiana police pension in October
2009 after state officials raided his office. The Louisiana
Supreme Court suspended Zinna’s law practice in an order dated
July 29 and effective Oct. 5.  The case is  United States of America  v. Randy P. Zinna,
10-98-RET-DLD, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Louisiana
(Baton Rouge).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elliot Blair Smith in  Washington  at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 