-- Axa Will Pay $242 Million Over Claims It Hid Error
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2011-02-03T22:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/axa-will-pay-240-million-to-settle-claims-it-hid-error-that-led-to-losses.html
  Axa SA ,  France ’s biggest insurer,
will pay $242 million to resolve claims in the first U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission case to target an error in a
quantitative investment model for managing client assets.  Clients of the company’s Axa Rosenberg unit lost $217
million after a senior manager declined to fix the error after
learning about it in June 2009 and directed others to keep quiet
about the problem, the SEC said today in a statement. The
company agreed to return money to customers who were harmed and
pay an additional $25 million fine, the agency said.  “This is a wake-up call to all quant managers,” Bruce Karpati, co-chief of the SEC enforcement’s asset management
unit, said in the statement. “Managers must be fully
forthcoming about the risks of their model-driven strategies,
especially when errors occur and the models don’t work.”  Instead of disclosing and fixing the error, which disabled
a component for managing risk when it was introduced in April
2007, Axa initially attributed the model’s under-performance to
market volatility, the SEC said. The firm, which later repaired
the error for all portfolios, didn’t have procedures to ensure
the model would assess certain risk factors, the agency said.  Increased Scrutiny  “To protect  trade secrets , quantitative investment
managers often isolate their complex computer models from the
firm’s compliance and risk-management functions, leaving
oversight to programmers,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in the SEC’s statement. The Axa case reflects the
agency’s increased scrutiny of compliance procedures at firms
that use such models.  Axa settled the allegations without admitting or denying
wrongdoing, the SEC said. No individuals were named in the SEC
complaint and the investigation is continuing, the agency said.  “We deeply regret that the coding error adversely impacted
many of our clients,” Axa Rosenberg chairman Dominique Carrel- Billiard said in a statement. “The exhaustive review that we
undertook of this matter reflects our commitment to regaining
our client’s confidence and restoring trust.”  AXA Rosenberg has taken several actions to reinforce and
further enhance its investment platform, including the
appointment of Jeremy Baskin as global chief executive officer,
according to the statement.  As part of the settlement, Axa agreed to hire an
independent consultant with expertise in quantitative investment
techniques to review disclosures and enhance compliance.  The accord isn’t expected to have “any additional material
impact” on its full-year 2010 accounts, Paris-based Axa said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 