-- Backup Veteran Asigra Keeps Calm as Competitors Crowd the Cloud
-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 2011-02-03T21:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/backup-veteran-asigra-keeps-calm-as-competitors-crowd-the-cloud.html
Two decades before such buzzwords as “cloud computing” and
“software as a service” entered the lexicon, a small Toronto software maker called
 Asigra  was helping companies back up their data to remote sites over telephone lines.  Now the growth of cloud computing -- using software and storing data over the Internet
rather than on a company’s own computers -- and particularly online backup have
propelled demand for Asigra’s software. The same trend means the 100-employee
company, which had close to $50 million in revenue in 2010, faces new competition
from rivals large and small.  Founder David Farajun started Asigra in 1986 after a hard-drive failure doomed his
previous company, which was building an operating system. With few options to save
and recover his own files, Farajun founded Asigra to fill a market need and help other
companies avoid the same fate. His early clients would transmit their data, using 300
baud modems, to a secure vault, where Farajun had stacks of foot-long hard discs that
could store 10 megabytes -- a huge amount of data in the 1980s, now about the
equivalent of a few MP3 song files.  About two years into the business, with 32 backup clients, Farajun realized that few
companies wanted to trust his unknown startup with their data. So he began to sell
Asigra’s software to other computer service providers that already had relationships with
companies needing to back up their data. “That’s when the whole business shifted,”
says Eran Farajun, the founder’s 39-year-old son, who now serves as executive vice-
president.  EXPANDING CLOUD  Today, hundreds of service providers use white-label versions of Asigra’s software to
sell online backup services, from Hewlett Packard to Telecom Italia to CDW. The
market for cloud backup services is about $2 billion and growing rapidly, estimates
Rachel Dines, an analyst at Forrester research. Dines says online backup, originally
considered a tool best suited for small businesses with few IT staff, is increasingly
adopted by larger enterprises with offices and workers spanning the globe. “More and
more companies realize that there’s critical data being stored on people’s PCs, and they
go out into the world with their laptops, and they can lose them,” she says.  The growing demand means new companies are rushing in to offer online backups.
“There are hundreds of cloud backup providers, and most of them have popped up in
the past couple of years,” Dines says. Asigra is among the handful of online backup
pioneers that is still around. “They were doing cloud backup before it was cloud
backup,” says Dines.  Eran Farajun says Asigra’s competition comes from opposite ends of the spectrum. On
one side are smaller backup startups that he says sell “weaker” software at a fraction of
Asigra’s prices. On the other, such tech giants as IBM and Symantec that have strong
brands may offer free or discounted backups to customers that buy other services.  SELECTIVE UPDATING  Asigra’s advantage is that it was “at the forefront of figuring out the most optimized way
to copy and transfer data,” says Lauren Whitehouse, a senior analyst at IT researcher
Enterprise Strategy Group in Milford, Mass. For example, while many backup programs
will copy an entire file that has been updated since the most recent backup, Asigra’s will
detect only those blocks of data within the file that need to be updated, reducing the
amount of data that has to be moved over limited bandwidth.  The company has also remained focused on selling its software only to service
providers, rather than providing backup services directly to businesses. That means it
doesn’t have any data storage vaults of its own, and companies using its software may
not even recognize the Asigra name.  The strategy carries the risk that Asigra could fall to better-known competitors, says
Dines, the Forrester analyst. “The biggest risk is the lack of  brand recognition . Because
of the route they’ve taken, and [because] so many organizations are white-labeling their
solution, they actually have huge market adoption and very, very little market
awareness,” she says. Competitors such as backup provider Mozy won’t license their
services unless the provider identifies it as “powered by Mozy,” Dines points out.  Farajun says the company is pushing to have more of its partners label their backups as
“powered by Asigra” so the end users meet the brand. For now, demand has not let up.
The company is hiring for 30 sales positions, and Farajun says Asigra’s revenue is
growing by high-double digits. He sees the sudden growth in online backup as a boon
and welcomes new entrants to the marketplace. “We thought, ‘Competition is
wonderful,’ because it helps validate the idea and the concept,” he says.  To contact the report on this story: John Tozzi at  jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  