-- Barclays, HSBC Threats to Quit London Recede With Breakup Risk
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2011-02-03T10:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/barclays-hsbc-threats-to-quit-london-recede-with-breakup-risk.html
  Barclays Plc ,  Standard Chartered Plc 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc , three of Britain’s biggest lenders, are
toning down threats they made last year to leave London as
pressure to break up commercial and investment banking eases.  Barclays Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond told U.K.
lawmakers last month that London remains the “premier financial
center in the world.” HSBC Chairman  Douglas Flint  listed its
advantages over rivals. Mike Rees, Standard Chartered’s head of
corporate banking, praised the city’s “great neutrality.” Five
months ago, the three banks warned that any attempt by the U.K.
to force their breakup risked triggering an exodus.  The change in tone was prompted by the U.K.’s  Independent
Commission on Banking , which was asked by the government to
consider splitting bank’s consumer and investment units.  John Vickers , the commission’s Chairman, said in a Jan. 22 speech he
wouldn’t recommend a breakup. Six days later, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the U.K. shouldn’t take “revenge” on the
banks and pledged a more “balanced” approach on bonuses.  “The mood music has definitely changed and become more
conciliatory in recent weeks,” said  Ian Gordon , a banking
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London. “The shift in tone
suggests we’re getting past the greatest excesses of the
brinkmanship and moving towards the end game.”  HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, and Standard Chartered make a
majority of pretax profit outside the U.K. Barclays earned two
thirds of its first-half profit in 2010 from its investment
banking unit, which includes the former North American unit of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The U.K. government is the biggest
shareholder in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc , the country’s two remaining top-five banks.  Adverse Reactions  The tax and regulatory complexities of moving, coupled with
the challenge of choosing a new base without offending other
cities and governments makes it very difficult to move a bank’s
headquarters, Standard Chartered’s Rees, 54, said in an
interview at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.  “You can’t just uplift a company on a whim, that’s a huge
thing to do,” Rees said. “Think of the destruction you put
through your shareholding. Think of the disruption from a
management point of view.”  A move elsewhere would also spark adverse reactions from
the losers, Rees said.  “If you go to  Hong Kong , how does India and  Singapore  feel
about it? If you go to  China ,  India  would hate you. You’ve got
all these rivalries you’re playing into, and  London  has a great
neutrality.”  ‘Real Frustration’  Still, the banks feel “real frustration” that the
“significant reforms of the past few years are seldom
recognized in public debate,” the  British Bankers’ Association ,
the industry’s largest lobby group, said last month.  Britain’s  Financial Services Authority  in December approved
new rules agreed by European Union regulators that restrict
guaranteed bonuses and up-front cash payments for banks’
proprietary traders and broker-dealers. The rules mean bankers
will receive about 25 percent of their bonuses in cash
immediately, with the rest deferred or held in shares for a
minimum of three years.  The Labour government also imposed a one-time levy on
banker bonuses to help plug a record budget deficit after
taxpayers propped up the financial system with more than 1
trillion pounds ($1.6 trillion) of assistance since 2008.  Vickers Commission  The coalition government, which took office in May,
followed with a levy on bank balance sheets designed to raise
2.5 billion pounds annually. It also appointed Vickers, an
 Oxford University  professor and former Bank of  England 
economist, to investigate ways to increase competition in the
industry. The five-member inquiry will report in September.  Talks between the government and banks over an agreement to
limit pay and boost lending to small companies, the so-called
Project Merlin, have helped to improve the relationship between
the coalition and the lenders, analysts said.  “It would appear that the banks have reached some sort of
an understanding with the government, whereby they stop
threatening to leave the U.K. and the government stops bashing
them,” said Simon Maughan, co-head of European equities at
London-based MF Global Ltd.  “We’ve been consistent in saying that investors and
shareholders ask us to look at where we are headquartered and we
do that, but there are a number of benefits to remaining
regulated in London,”  Standard Chartered  spokesman Jon Tracey
said.  No ‘Ironclad Guarantee’  HSBC spokesman Brendan McNamara referred to CEO Stuart Gulliver’s comments at a conference in September, when he said
the bank’s preference was to remain headquartered in the U.K. A
spokesman for Barclays wasn’t immediately available to comment.  The banking commission will recommend a Swiss-style
increase in capital holdings, Jonathan Pierce, a banking analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note to clients today.  “The commission, like Switzerland, will opt for
substantially increased capital and liquidity requirements for
systemically important firms, i.e. all of the listed U.K. banks,
rather than major structural changes,” Pierce wrote.  Should the burden of regulation become too great,
shareholders may still press banks to quit. Diamond, 59, told
the House of Commons  Treasury committee  on Jan. 11 that while
London was “the place where we want to be,” he could not give
“an ironclad guarantee.”  Flint, 55, this week told the same committee that HSBC was
conducting a regular three-yearly review on where it should be
based. Even so, he explained why the British capital is so
valued by financial firms.  London ‘Most Attractive’  London “has set its stall out as being the most attractive
place for wholesale market activity,” said Flint. “It
dominates the foreign-exchange world, the interest-rate world,
equity capital market flows and is second to  New York  in terms
of servicing  hedge funds . No other country in the world has
quite the unique competitive advantage London has.”  Britain is home to about 80 percent of  Europe ’s hedge funds
and about 60 percent of its private equity firms. The U.K.
accounted for about 37 percent of all global foreign exchange
trading in April last year and 46 percent of global interest
rate over-the-counter derivative trading, according to
TheCityUK, a lobby group started by the  City of London
Corporation , the financial center’s municipal government.  The British government benefits, with the financial
services industry generating about 61 billion pounds of tax
revenue, 12 percent of the U.K. total, according to estimates by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the City Corporation.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  “There has been no city in the world that has benefited
more or been more supportive of foreign trade and flows of
business” than London, Barclays’ Diamond told parliamentarians.
“London has become a place that is recognized as very good for
business and very good for talent. This is the place that we
want to succeed.”  Cameron paid tribute to the City when in Davos last week
and promised to “fight extremely hard” to defend it against
European Union regulations that might jeopardize London’s share
of the financial services industry.  “The City of London and financial institutions are a great
strength to our economy,” Cameron said. “It is one of the
reasons businesses from all over the world want to come and
invest and grow in Britain. I don’t want us to lose that
competitive advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  