-- Berkowitz Bought $1.6 Billion of Santander, Espirito Paper After Selloff
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2011-02-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/berkowitz-bought-1-6-billion-of-santander-espirito-debt.html
  Bruce Berkowitz , co-founder of
Fairholme Capital Management LLC, bought $1.6 billion of short-
term debt from banks in Spain and Portugal last year as yields
rose amid an exodus of investors from European credit markets.  The $18.8 billion Fairholme Fund held $779 million of
commercial paper from  Banco Santander SA  in  Madrid  and $834
million of similar debt from Lisbon-based  Banco Espirito Santo
SA  as of Nov. 30, according to a regulatory filing this week.
The dollar-denominated securities were issued by U.S. affiliates
of the two banks.  Funding costs for banks such as Santander and Espirito
Santo soared following Ireland’s bailout last year by the
European Union, as traders speculated that Spain and  Portugal 
may also require aid. Betting such fears were overblown,
Fairholme bought debt with yields that were almost twice the
benchmark rate.  “Sometimes there is an anomaly and we take advantage of
it,” Berkowitz, 53, said in a telephone interview from Miami,
where his firm is based. “We thought it was tremendous value
for the money.”  Fairholme bought commercial paper with maturities ranging
from one to six months, in many cases acquiring it directly from
the banks rather than in the open market, Berkowitz said.
Commercial paper is the term for unsecured corporate IOUs that
generally mature in 270 days or less.  Top Banks  The Santander debt matures between January and March with
yields ranging from 0.934 percent to 1.005 percent, according to
the fund’s annual report, which was filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on Feb. 1. Fairholme bought
about $599 million of the debt from  Spain ’s largest bank between
May 30 and Aug. 31 and then added to its holdings during the
next three months, the filing shows.  The fund’s commercial paper from Espirito Santo, Portugal’s
largest privately owned bank, matures in January and February
and yields as much as 1.355 percent, according to the annual
report. Fairholme bought the securities between Sept. 1 and Nov.
30, according to the filing.  In comparison, the London Interbank Offered Rate for a six-
month loan denominated in dollars averaged about 57 basis
points, or 0.57 percent, during the six-month period ended Nov.
30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Libor, the rate at
which banks lend to one another in the London Interbank market,
is the benchmark for commercial paper.  Boosting Cash  Santander and Espirito Santo have to offer higher rates to
investors because  money-market funds  are no longer buying their
commercial paper, said  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC,
a money-fund research firm in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  “Nobody would be caught dead with six-month commercial
paper from a European bank name these days,” Crane said in an
interview. “The headline risk is too great for money market
funds.”  Fairholme has returned 8.9 percent annually over the past 5
years, beating 97 percent of similarly managed funds, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Berkowitz was named U.S. stock
fund manager of the decade last year by research firm
Morningstar Inc.  The fund increased its cash and short-term securities,
including commercial paper, money-market funds and U.S. Treasury
bills, to 22.4 percent of net assets as of Nov. 31 from 14.9
percent on May 31, according to the filing. Berkowitz has said
that he keeps money in cash to enhance his ability to scoop up
bargains.  Berkowitz also bought 2.89 million Santander common shares
for the  Fairholme Fund  during the three months ended Nov. 30,
according to the SEC report. He said that Spanish banking
regulations prevented the fund from acquiring a larger stake.  “We like the bank a lot, but there are limitations on what
we can do,” Berkowitz said. “There are certain laws in Spain
that would not allow us to own the kind of position in Santander
that we would like to own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  