-- Berlusconi Secures Reprieve With Tax Law and Parliament Vote on Sex Probe
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2011-02-04T12:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/berlusconi-wins-reprieve-with-tax-law-parliament-vote-on-probe.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government won a reprieve to stay in power and
possibly avoid early elections after passing a decree to give
cities more tax powers and surviving a key vote in parliament.  The Cabinet approved the decree on fiscal federalism, a
priority of Berlusconi’s  Northern League  ally, in a late-night
meeting in Rome yesterday hours after a markup of the law failed
to pass in a parliamentary committee. The Cabinet’s move came
after the premier won a separate vote in the Chamber of Deputies
linked to an underage prostitution investigation targeting him.  “For now, we’re pushing forward,” Northern League leader
Umberto Bossi said after the meeting. His party had staked its
support for Berlusconi’s coalition, which has more than two
years left in its term, on approval of the law implementing the
tax measure.  While Berlusconi has warded off immediate political danger,
he still must win approval for the decree from President Giorgio Napolitano amid opposition criticism that the legislation may be
unconstitutional. Berlusconi said today he expects the president
to support the decree.  Political Instability  Asked by reporters whether he anticipates “problems” with
Napolitano, Berlusconi said “I hope not” at a summit of
European Union leaders in Brussels.  Investor concern that political instability will make it
more difficult for Italy’s government to tackle  Europe ’s debt
crisis has boosted borrowing costs. The premium investors demand
to hold Italy’s 10-year bonds over comparable German debt fell
five basis points today to 135 basis points, down from a euro-
era high of 212 on Nov. 30 though more than twice the average of
the past decade.  As he seeks to push through the tax overhaul and retain the
Northern League’s support, Berlusconi also faces possible
criminal charges of engaging in prostitution with a minor and
abuse of office. Milan prosecutors are pressing forward with a
criminal investigation into allegations that he paid for sexual
relations with a 17-year-old and then helped aid her release
from police custody on an unrelated charge.  Vote Victory  In the Chamber yesterday, Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party won a vote to delay action on a request by the prosecutors
to search the Milan office of one his accountants, Giuseppe
Spinelli, who is suspected of making payments on behalf of the
premier to women who attended parties at his Milan residence.  The lower house voted 315 to 298 in favor of a motion to
shift responsibility for deciding on the prosecutors’ request to
a special tribunal instead of the committee originally asked for
authorization. One person abstained.  Bossi said the 17-vote victory showed the government still
has a “good” majority after it survived a no-confidence motion
by three votes on Dec. 14. The defection of Berlusconi’s long-
time ally,  Gianfranco Fini , and dozens of his backers has left
Berlusconi scrambling for a working majority.  Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti called the tax overhaul an
“epochal” change that will help Italy to decentralize finances
and reduce waste and public debt, which is Europe’s largest in
nominal terms. The overhaul “is the biggest structural reform”
undertaken in Italy “in decades,” he told a news conference in
Rome today.  ‘Unconstitutional’  Opposition members, including Chamber Deputy Speaker Rosy Bindi, said the law may be unconstitutional. “It’s extremely
grave,” Bindi, a member of the  Democratic Party , said in an
interview yesterday on television channel LA7. “The government
put out a decree that violated procedures because it didn’t take
into account the view of parliament,” and  Italy ’s highest court
may rule against it, she said.  After yesterday’s vote, responsibility for deciding on the
prosecutors’ request shifts to a special tribunal instead of the
committee initially asked to permit the search. Milan Prosecutor
Edmondo Bruti Liberati said two days ago he will file a request
as soon as Feb. 7 for the start of the trial.  Berlusconi has said he’s willing to be questioned by
prosecutors on the condition that the trial is moved to the
tribunal of ministers, citing an alleged bias against him by the
Milan court. The three-judge tribunal oversees cases against
senior government ministers.  The probe, known as Rubygate after the nickname of the
young woman at its center, hasn’t further eroded voter support
for Berlusconi and his coalition, according to a poll released
this week by IPR Marketing. Berlusconi’s popularity held at 35
percent last month, matching the lowest level since his re-
election in 2008, the survey of 1,000 adults showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Rome  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  