-- Berlusconi Loses Federalism Vote, Testing Loyalty of Northern League Ally
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-02-03T15:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/berlusconi-faces-key-vote-that-will-test-loyalty-of-northern-league-ally.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  lost a parliamentary vote today on a law giving more
power to local governments, a setback that may lead to early
elections.  The  parliamentary committee  for fiscal federalism was split
15-15 in a vote to activate the law designed to give more tax
power to cities. The draw counts as a rejection and will test
the  Northern League  party’s willingness to sustain Berlusconi’s
majority in parliament. The League had threatened to push for
elections two years early if the measure failed to pass.  Northern League  leader Umberto Bossi said he “didn’t
think” he’d move to force early elections after meeting with
Berlusconi in  Rome  after the vote. The comments contradicted
remarks by his chief lieutenants prior to the balloting.  “If federalism doesn’t pass, we’ll all go home,” Interior
Minister Roberto Maroni, a party leader, told  Corriere della
Sera  in a Jan. 31 interview.  Enrico La Loggia, the member of Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party who heads the committee, said after the vote that
the government will approve activating the law through a decree.
Such a move would force another vote in the entire Chamber of
Deputies within 60 days of the decree.  Prostitution Allegations  The setback for Berlusconi, 74, comes as he faces possible
criminal charges of engaging in prostitution with a minor.
Investor concern that political instability will make it more
difficult for the government to confront fallout from  Europe ’s
debt crisis has boosted borrowing costs. The premium investors
demand to hold  Italy ’s 10-year bonds over comparable German debt
was at 136 basis points, down from a euro-era high of 212 on
Nov. 30., though still more than twice the average of the past
decade.  Berlusconi may find it increasingly hard to resist pleas
for him to step aside as prosecutors push ahead with a criminal
investigation into allegations Berlusconi paid for sex with
underage women. Milan Prosecutor Edmondo Bruti Liberati said
yesterday he will file a request as soon as Feb. 7 for the start
of the trial. Berlusconi also faces possible charges of abuse of
power for helping get the woman released from police custody in
an unrelated detention.  Berlusconi’s ‘Waterloo’  “It’s quite difficult to form a judgment on how much
closer Berlusconi would be to ‘facing his Waterloo’ if the tax
transfer package is not approved by the parliamentary
commission,” said  Marc Ostwald , a London-based strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. “The noises coming out of the Northern
League are as ever incoherent, with Maroni blustering about
forcing a general election, but others tip-toeing around what
they might do.”  The probe, known as Ruby-gate after the nickname of the
young woman at its center, has left the government paralyzed,
said Michele Ventura, deputy head of the main opposition  Democratic Party ’s delegation in the Chamber of Deputies.
Opposition parties backed by women’s groups plan national
demonstrations on Feb. 13 to call for Berlusconi’s resignation.  “If the magistrates really do manage to bring charges this
week in the Ruby case, it would beggar belief that Berlusconi
could carry on hanging on for dear life, even though the history
of his career suggests that he will not be willing to stand
down,” Ostwald said.  Approval Rating  Berlusconi’s popularity held at 35 percent last month,
matching the lowest level since his re-election in 2008, IPR
Marketing said in a poll released yesterday and based on a
survey of 1,000 adults. Still, Ruby-gate does not appear to have
further eroded his support and Berlusconi’s coalition would
likely still win early elections, IPR said.  Berlusconi has said he’s willing to be questioned by
prosecutors on the condition that the trial is moved to the
tribunal of ministers, citing an alleged bias against him by the
Milan court. That special three-judge panel oversees cases
against government ministers. Such a move could buy him more
time, according to former prosecutor Antonio Di Pietro, leader
of the opposition Italian Values Party.  The probe announced last month comes after dozens of
lawmakers quit the ruling People of Liberty party, prompting a
confidence vote on Dec. 14 that almost brought down the
government. The defection was led by long-time ally  Gianfranco
Fini  and left Berlusconi scrambling for a working majority in
the lower house of parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story: Flavia Krause-Jackson
in
Rome at   fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: James
Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  