-- Bernanke Says Faster Employment Gains Needed to Assure Economic Recovery
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2011-02-03T20:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/bernanke-says-faster-employment-gains-needed-to-assure-economic-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. needs to see faster job growth for a
sufficient time before policy makers can be assured the economic
recovery has taken hold.  “With output growth likely to be moderate for a while and
with employers reportedly still reluctant to add to their
payrolls, it will be several years before the  unemployment rate 
has returned to a more normal level,” Bernanke said today in a
speech at the  National Press Club  in Washington. “Until we see
a sustained period of stronger  job creation , we cannot consider
the recovery to be truly established.”  Bernanke said economic growth will pick up this year and
the Fed’s purchases of $600 billion in Treasuries are
“providing significant support to job creation and the
economy.” At the same time, his emphasis on labor-market
weakness means the central bank is likely to leave stimulus in
place for a while, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .  “The Fed is still in a very growth-supportive policy
stance,” said Feroli, a former Fed researcher. “I don’t think
they make any premature feints toward heading to the exit.”  Bernanke, 57, gave no indication whether he’ll maintain or
adjust monetary stimulus after the Fed finishes the asset buying
in June. Policy makers have held the main interest rate near
zero since December 2008.  Necessary Tools  “It bears emphasizing that we have the necessary tools to
smoothly and effectively exit from the asset purchase program at
the appropriate time,” he said.  The Fed chief repeated his call for Congress to come up
with a plan to control the federal  budget deficit  and the
projected surge in health-care costs that will fuel spending if
left unchecked. He said twice in his speech that the fiscal
challenge is “daunting.”  “Acting now to develop a credible program to reduce future
deficits would not only enhance economic growth and stability in
the long run, but could also yield substantial near-term
benefits in terms of lower long-term  interest rates  and
increased consumer and business confidence,” he said.  Bernanke cautioned lawmakers about the costs of not raising
the debt ceiling, saying in reply to an audience question that
such action could put the U.S. “into a position of defaulting
on its debt and the implications of that, for our financial
system, for our fiscal policy, for our economy, would be
catastrophic.”  ‘Very Remote’  The chances of such an outcome are “very remote but it’s
not something you want to play around with,” he said.  The government will hit the $14.29 trillion legal limit on
U.S. borrowing by the end of May, a little later than initially
projected because  tax revenue  have been more robust than
expected, the Treasury Department said in a statement yesterday.  Bernanke’s comments are his first since policy makers
agreed at a Jan. 25-26 meeting to press on with their bond-
buying plan. He is also scheduled to testify Feb. 9 at the House
Budget Committee.  A report today from the  Institute for Supply Management 
showed  service industries  in the U.S. expanded in January at the
fastest pace since August 2005. Other recent data have shown
gains in manufacturing and retail sales.  “The economic recovery that began in the middle of 2009
appears to have strengthened in recent months, although, to
date, growth has not been fast enough to bring about a
significant improvement in the job market,” Bernanke said.  Added to Payrolls  A Labor Department report scheduled to be released tomorrow
will probably show that employers added 145,000 people to
payrolls last month, and the jobless rate rose to 9.5 percent,
based on the median estimates of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Job gains at companies last year “were barely sufficient
to accommodate the inflow of recent graduates and other new
entrants to the  labor force  and, therefore, not enough to
significantly reduce the overall unemployment rate,” Bernanke
said. Private employers added an average of 112,000 jobs a month
last year.  Bernanke may seek overall payroll gains of at least 200,000
a month for six months before becoming more comfortable with the
recovery, Feroli said.  In response to a question after the speech, Bernanke said
“the economy has to grow about 2.5 percent in real terms just
to accommodate people coming into the labor force.”  Recent Report  In the second quarter of 2010, the economy grew 1.7
percent, followed by 2.6 percent growth in the third quarter and
3.2 percent in the fourth quarter, according to a report from
the Commerce Department last week.  “Looking forward to 2011 we think it will be above 2.5
percent and therefore we expect to see unemployment declining
over time,” Bernanke said.  Fed policy makers are showing little alarm over the rise in
food and energy prices. The central bank’s Jan. 26 statement
acknowledged rising commodity prices while saying that longer-
term inflation expectations were stable and “underlying
inflation” was still on the decline.  While prices of some “highly visible” items such as
gasoline have “significantly” increased recently, “overall
inflation remains quite low” and wage growth has slowed,
Bernanke said. “These downward trends in wage and price
inflation are not surprising, given the substantial slack in the
economy,” Bernanke said.  Inflation Expectations  A measure of long-term inflation expectations, the 10-year
breakeven rate between nominal and inflation-indexed bonds, was
2.34 percent yesterday, down from a high this year of 2.41
percent on Jan. 5.  The inflation gauge most closely watched by the Fed, the
Commerce Department’s core personal consumption expenditures
price index excluding food and energy, rose 0.7 percent in
December from a year earlier, the smallest advance since records
began in 1959.  Bernanke attributed rising food and energy prices primarily
to increasing demand, saying that for commodities “the most
important development globally is the fact that the world
economy is growing more quickly particularly in emerging
markets.”  Bernanke said rising prices were not the primary cause of
turmoil in  Egypt . The protests against Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  are having limited impact on global financial markets,
where investors see few parallels with  Iran ’s 1979 revolution or
the contagion that followed  Thailand ’s meltdown 13 years ago.  Today’s appearance extends Bernanke’s public defense of the
asset purchases, dubbed QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing. The plan sparked a backlash from Republican leaders in
Congress who said it may weaken the dollar. The dollar has
gained 1.6 percent against a basket of six currencies since Nov.
3, the day the Fed announced its expanded asset purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  