-- Big Banks Must Be Allowed to Fail in Crisis, U.K. Lawmakers Say
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2011-02-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/big-banks-must-be-allowed-to-fail-in-any-future-crisis-u-k-lawmakers-say.html
Large banks should be allowed to
collapse under the U.K.’s proposed system of financial
supervision, a panel of lawmakers said.  No bank “should be too important to fail,” allowing
“competitive markets” to function in the industry, the
Treasury Select Committee said in a report in London today. The
lawmakers also urged the government to use “far more detailed
criteria” to assess how well a  Bank of England  panel to be set
up to monitor financial stability is doing its job.  “The assumption that certain firms cannot be allowed to
fail results in market distortion, entrenches the market power
of large incumbents and thereby stifles competition,” the
report said.  The government is pushing through the biggest shakeup in
financial regulation since 1997, scrapping the Financial
Services Authority and handing its powers to a new regulator
within the Bank of England and a markets watchdog by 2012. The
plan would also create a Financial Policy Committee in the
central bank to oversee risks to economic stability and give its
governor greater powers to intervene during a crisis.  The “low tolerance for the failure of high-impact firms”
indicated by the current FSA chief executive officer,  Hector Sants , who will lead the regulatory authority, “is a source of
concern,” the House of Commons lawmakers said.  Global regulators on the Financial Stability Board plan to
complete a list of systemically important lenders by mid-2011,
with the aim of imposing tougher capital and liquidity rules on
them.  Accountability  The Treasury should write a regular, publicly available
letter to the FPC setting out its responsibilities, the House of
Commons panel urged. It said the new committee risks being
“considerably weakened” by a lack of accountability.  “Such remit letters provide the political authority for
the operation of such independent bodies,” the lawmakers said.
“Their publication allows for scrutiny by this committee, as
well as other interested parties.”  The committee also said it was worried that European Union
plans to coordinate financial-industry regulation might hamper
U.K. regulators’ scope to act.  “We are concerned at the sheer scale and pace of the
reforms taking place at European level,” the lawmakers said.
“Inappropriate regulation will not only damage the  United
Kingdom , but the European Union as a whole.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  proposed the
regulatory overhaul in June to change a system he blamed for
failing to prevent a financial crisis that saddled taxpayers
with liabilities of as much as 1.4 trillion pounds ($2.3
trillion) and plunged the economy into the worst recession since
World War II.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  