-- Bill Miller Back on Top in ‘Great Rotation’ for Stocks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n ,   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2011-02-03T21:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/bill-miller-back-on-top-as-great-rotation-lifts-last-year-s-stock-losers.html
Equities that fell farthest last year
are surging the most in a decade, reversing the fortunes of
mutual funds and signaling developed countries, banks and Asian
exporters will extend the global rally.  The MSCI All-Country World Index’s 100 worst-performing
stocks of 2010 rose 5.3 percent as a group last month, the top
January gain since 2001, while last year’s best performers fell
2.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors
are moving into developed nations from emerging markets, buying
European banks and selling raw-materials shares, snapping up
South Korea’s electronics exporters and avoiding Indian consumer
stocks -- all at the fastest pace since the bull market began.  The switch shows increased confidence that growth in the
U.S. and Europe will underpin the global expansion as emerging
countries raise  interest rates  to combat inflation, according to
Artemis Investment Management and ING Investment Management. It
has catapulted Bill Miller’s $4.07 billion  Legg Mason Capital
Management Value Trust  to the top of the mutual fund rankings
after trailing 98 percent of peers in 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “For the bull market to continue we need to see a
broadening of the rally,” said Jacob de Tusch-Lec, who helps
oversee about $18 billion as a money manager at Artemis in
London. Without it, “you would get overheated bubbles in many
parts,” he said.  Most in Five Years  The turnaround as global stocks posted the biggest January
advance in five years shows investors are more willing to risk
money on companies where weaker economic growth or earnings
increases have pushed down valuations. The 100 stocks with the
biggest gains in 2011 trade at 2 times book value, or assets
minus liabilities, compared with 5.6 times for those whose
shares have done worst, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI All-Country World Index dropped 0.2 percent at
4:07 p.m. in  New York  after rising three straight days.  This year’s relative performance, called the “Great
Rotation” in a Jan. 27 note by Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
saddled some of last year’s top-performing money managers with
losses and boosted returns at the worst performers. Miller’s
fund gained 5.4 percent through Feb. 1 as holdings including San
Jose, California-based  Cisco Systems Inc . rebounded, putting the
61-year-old manager ahead of 91 percent of his rivals.  Bad for Performance  “Bill characterized 2010 as a very good investment year,
but not a good performance year,” Mary Chris Gay, assistant
portfolio manager of the Legg Mason Capital Management Value
Trust, said in an interview yesterday. “We were able to make a
lot of investments and increase exposure where we felt there was
considerable opportunity.”  The $21.8 billion Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund in
New York, which beat 91 percent of peers last year by loading up
on emerging-market consumer stocks including  India ’s  Hindustan
Unilever Ltd ., has trailed 93 percent of rivals this year with a
3.9 percent drop, Bloomberg data through Feb. 1 show. Oyster
Funds’ Luxembourg-based $3.5 billion European Opportunities fund
is losing to 94 percent of its peers, following a 21 percent
gain in 2010 that topped 82 percent of rivals, the data show.  “Many fund managers we suspect would have found the
beginning of 2011 to be quite painful,” Andrew Lapthorne, the
Societe Generale SA global quantitative strategist in London,
wrote in a Feb. 1 report. “The consensus seemed very much
positioned for more of the same in 2011, but from many angles
the reverse seems to have happened.”  Valuation Discount  Justin Leverenz, manager of the Oppenheimer fund, declined
to comment, according to spokeswoman Kaitlyn Downing. Oyster’s
Eric Bendahan wasn’t available to comment, spokeswoman Leila
Bernasconi said.  The value of world equities climbed 1.6 percent in January
and reached $53.6 trillion on Feb. 1, the most since June 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  MSCI World  Index, a gauge
for $29.6 trillion of advanced-country shares, is valued at 15.9
times reported profits, a 29 percent discount to the average
level since February 1995, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Analysts have boosted estimates for 12-month profit growth
in the MSCI All-Country index to 25 percent from 23 percent at
the end of December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There has been new money coming in,” said  Andrew Milligan , who helps oversee about $232 billion as head of global
strategy at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh. “There is
still an underlying conviction that the economic recovery has
legs, that profits will be positive.”  Short-Lived Shift  This year’s shifts will probably be short-lived, according
to Peter Oppenheimer, a London-based equity strategist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. More than 60 percent of similar
rotations in  Europe  during the past 30 years failed to last
longer than three months, he wrote in a Jan. 26 research report.  Maria Gordon, the London-based emerging market equity
portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co., which
oversees about $1.2 trillion, said she’s looking for
opportunities to buy shares of this year’s laggards.  “You may want to be buying the stories when they are de-
rated and the hopes and dreams have turned to disappointment,”
she said. “I like looking through the ash and finding jewels.”  Reports last month showed U.S. consumer confidence rose
more than forecast in January, while the Institute of Supply
Management-Chicago Inc.’s gauge of business expansion rose to
the highest level since 1988. German unemployment fell to an 18-
year low in January, and European retail sales increased at the
fastest rate in more than four years.  Economic Surprises  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., a
gauge of how much reports are exceeding the median economist
estimates in Bloomberg News surveys, advanced to 40 from 26 a
year ago, while the gauge for Europe has jumped to 52 from 10.
The emerging-market reading has dropped to 24 from 51.  The U.S. and euro zone had combined annual gross domestic
product of about $27 trillion at the end of 2009, World Bank
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Brazil,  Russia , India and  China , the biggest emerging economies known as the BRICs, had a
combined GDP of about $9 trillion, the data show.  The U.S. and Europe are exceeding economic projections as
the  Federal Reserve  and  European Central Bank  keep benchmark
interest rates at record lows to spur growth. Meanwhile, central
banks in the BRIC countries are tightening monetary policy.  Central Banks  Brazil’s central bank lifted its benchmark overnight rate
by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 11.25 percent on
Jan. 19. India raised rates to the highest in two years on Jan.
25 and signaled more increases. China has ordered lenders to set
aside more money as reserves four times since October and raised
interest rates twice in the fourth quarter. Russia increased
banks’ reserve requirements for the first time since 2009 on
Jan. 31 to stem the fastest inflation in a year.  “The global environment has really changed,” said
Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an emerging-markets strategist at ING
Investment Management in The Hauge, which oversees about $511
billion. “After years of disappointment on growth in the U.S
and Europe, expectations have improved. We are in an environment
where emerging markets will probably struggle relative to
developed markets.”  The MSCI World gauge of advanced-nation equities beat the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index by 5.5 percentage points this year
through yesterday, after trailing by 51 percentage points from
the start of the global bull market in March 2009 through the
end of 2010. Europe’s Stoxx 600 Banks index rallied 8.6 percent
in January as China and Japan pledged to keep buying the
region’s bonds, easing concern the debt crisis will spread.  Weaker Demand  The gauge of lenders including Brussels-based  Dexia SA  and  UniCredit SpA  of Milan is beating the Stoxx 600 Basic Resource
Index by 13 percentage points. Mining shares such as Zug,
Switzerland-based  Xstrata Plc  sank this year on speculation
demand from China will weaken as interest rates rise.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index , dominated by exporters including
Seoul-based  LG Electronics Inc ., has beaten India’s Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index by 13 percentage points in 2011, after
underperforming by 30 percentage points the previous two years.  South Korean trade amounts to about 97 percent of GDP,
double the ratio of 46 percent in India, according to the World
Trade Organization’s website. The Kospi is valued at 10 times
estimated 2011 earnings versus 17 for the so-called Sensex.  Hindustan Unilever trades for 22 times net assets, compared
with 2.9 for the 188-company MSCI All-Country World Index
Consumer Staples measure, even after the stock slid 12 percent
this year. The Mumbai-based company accounted for about 1.5
percent of the Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund at the end of
2010, according to OppenheimerFunds Inc.’s website.  ‘Year of Catch-Up’  Cisco, which generated more than 74 percent of fiscal 2010
revenue in the U.S. and Europe, trades for 15.7 times reported
earnings, 61 percent less than the average since 1991 and 9
percent cheaper than technology stocks in MSCI’s global gauge,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Legg Mason Capital
Management Value Trust held 5 million shares as of Dec. 31, or
2.6 percent of the fund’s assets, according to its  website .  Cisco shares have rallied 6.9 percent this year after
retreating 16 percent in 2010.  “We see 2011 as being more the year of the developed
markets,” Lothar Mentel, who oversees about $3.2 billion as the
London-based chief investment officer at Octopus Investments
Ltd., said in a Jan. 31 interview with Bloomberg Television.
“This year is going to be the year of the catch-up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 