-- Billionaire's Tears Can't Fool NFL's Working Grunts: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2011-02-03T13:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/billionaire-tears-can-t-fool-working-grunts-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
National Football League Commissioner
Roger Goodell, whose owners and players are bickering over a new
labor contract, talks about long-term financial goals as if the
players ought to give a damn, which they shouldn’t.  If ever there was a professional sports league in which,
financially speaking, me, me, me is an acceptable game plan,
it’s the NFL, where the smartest players get theirs and get out.  An NFL player’s career lasts, on average, about three years,
the predictable result of huge bodies repeatedly crashing into
one another. Every player steps onto the field knowing the next
play could be his last. Some are lucky. Former running back
Curtis Martin, for instance, lives without pills or pain after
11 seasons in the NFL.  “As a player, it’s hard to have a long-term vision,”
Martin says. “Owners obviously want to make more money and I
want to believe players eventually will make more money.”  Players ought to eradicate the words “eventually” and
“future” from their vocabularies during these negotiations.
Absent a new contract by March 3, when the existing  collective
bargaining  agreement expires, it’s possible the owners will
impose a lockout that in the worst case might wipe out the 2011
season.  Ah, the owners. They’re fighting, too. Only their battles
take place in private. Goodell doesn’t want to discuss his
bickering bosses, all 32 of whom just can’t seem to find common
ground on what’s fair to share. The late Wellington Mara, co-
owner of the  New York Giants , espoused a philosophy of “we,”
which helped the NFL to become the dominant U.S. sports league.  He would hate this fight.  Perfect Match  Oh, to be a football on the wall when Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  and, say, Buffalo’s Ralph Wilson debate the league’s
revenue-sharing system. Share and fair.  What’s important to note here is that NFL teams only share
national revenue. Things like TV contracts. Teams keep their
local revenue, concessions sales, sponsorship and luxury suites,
which is why Sunday’s  Super Bowl  between small-market Pittsburgh
and Green Bay is a symbolically perfect matchup for the league’s
economics.  Here are the Steelers and Packers, iconic brands, neither
of which could have remained competitive throughout the decades
without revenue sharing. And they will vie for the championship
inside the billion-dollar  Cowboys Stadium  that produces so much
unshared revenue that Jones’s team will be catapulted into a
financial league alongside the likes of the Jets and Giants, who
share a new $1.5 billion facility.  Only you won’t hear much about that fight, which, if
history is any guide, could be fiercer than anything that occurs
between owners and players.  Take a Peek  Lucky for those who like to peek behind the curtain this
Super Bowl includes the Packers, or  Green Bay  Packers Inc.,
which since 1923 has been the NFL’s sole publicly owned
corporation and must disclose its financial results.  Mark Murphy, a former player and union official who now is
chief executive of the franchise, prior to the season said
revenue grew about $10 million, to $258 million in the fiscal
year ended March 31, mostly because money shared among the
league’s clubs increased to $157 million from $147 million.
Local revenue --- and here’s the important part -- remained
little changed at about $100 million since peaking in 2007.  Only Jones, whose Cowboys haven’t reached the Super Bowl
since 1996, doesn’t want to share more of his loot. Few, if any,
of the big-revenue teams do.  “We’ve always had a strong revenue sharing system,” says
Steelers President Art Rooney II, acknowledging leaguewide
concern about a possible imbalance taking shape. “We need to
keep that.”  Selective Comments  Goodell tomorrow will hold his annual state-of-the-league
address in  Dallas , where you can bet the subject of labor unrest
will dominate the conversation. He won’t mention the owners and
their divide. He won’t talk about fair and share.  It won’t take long for the commissioner to stare into the
wall of cameras and to begin talking about a system that the
owners say pays the players too much and leaves management with
little incentive to create new revenue streams.  He will ask the players to consider the long-term health of
a league that views their long-term health as a bargaining chip.  What Goodell won’t talk about is the oodles of revenue
generated by Cowboys Stadium and how Jones will fight like heck
to keep every penny of it -- even at the expense of Mara’s
longstanding principle. Enjoy the Packers, who are a three-point
favorite with Las Vegas bookmakers, and Steelers on the big
stage. They might not be back for a while. Not if Jones gets his
way.  Forget about sharing a piece of the pie. Let’s talk about
cake. About the big-revenue owners that not only have it but
want to devour it even at the expense of competition.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  