-- BMW Expects `Significant' First-Half Sales Increase, Led by Chinese Growth
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2011-02-04T09:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/bmw-expects-significant-first-half-sales-increase-led-by-chinese-growth.html
  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest maker of luxury cars, expects “significant”
sales increases in the first half of this year on demand in  Asia 
and the U.S. for 5- and 6-Series models.  “We see definite growth in emerging markets,” Chief
Financial Friedrich Eichiner said yesterday in Cape Town,  South
Africa . “Double-digit growth in China is expected, but also in
countries like  Brazil , Korea and in  Russia  there should be
significant growth. We see the U.S. market coming back.”  Demand for luxury cars has bounced back from the global
recession on growing wealth in developing countries and a
rebound in the U.S. BMW, which also makes Mini and Rolls-Royce
cars, aims to beat its 2007 sales record of 1.5 million vehicles
this year after a 14 percent gain to 1.46 million cars and
sport-utility vehicles in 2010.  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz and
Volkswagen AG’s Audi are also targeting record sales in 2011.  “For BMW, it will be decisive how strong the growth in
China is,” said  Daniel Schwarz , a Frankfurt-based analyst with
Commerzbank, who rates the stock “hold.” While efforts by the
Chinese government to slow down the economy could soften demand,
“growth in China is structural and should provide a basis for
the long term,” he said.  BMW shares rose 0.6 percent to 57.66 euros at 9:43 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at 36.8 billion euros
($50.2 billion).  European Problems  Booming demand from China is likely to offset slowing gains
in Europe, where several countries have been beset by debt
crises, Eichiner said. Growth in  Germany , BMW’s biggest market,
will be about 5 percent to 6 percent, Eichiner said.  “Europe in total will be flat because there are still many
problems in  Europe , in countries like  Spain ,” he said. “What
we are intending is not to be heavily dependent on one market.”  BMW is expanding factories to keep up with demand as it
targets sales of 2 million vehicles by 2020. The Munich-based
manufacturer will spend 400 million euros at a plant in Leipzig,
Germany, to add production of an electric city car by 2013. The
Munich-based automaker late last year completed a $750 million
expansion of its U.S. factory in Spartanburg, South Carolina, to
make room for the revamped X3 sport-utility vehicle.  “We have the principle that the production should follow
the market,” Eichiner said. “As we see significant growth in
markets like China, it’s clear that the capacity in China will
be increased. We have already taken the decision for a new plant
in  China  that will start in 2011.”  China Investment  BMW has invested about 500 million euros in the Chinese
plant, which will initially be able to produce 75,000 vehicles a
year. The plant’s capacity is likely to be doubled to 150,000
units at a cost of an additional 500 million euros, and then
doubled again to 300,000 -- which should occur within five
years, Eichiner said.  BMW may also further expand its plant in Spartanburg, South
Carolina. While production is likely to be increased at its
German plants, the company is unlikely to open a fifth factory
in the country, Eichiner said.  BMW, which has added production outside Germany and buys
more supplies in dollars to reduce its exposure to foreign
exchange fluctuations, has hedged against changes in the value
of all major currencies, including the dollar, pound and yuan,
BMW’s CFO said.  “We have a really good hedging position,” Eichiner said.
“We are not expecting a lot of headwind coming from this side.
I’m not nervous when it comes down to the hedging for 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  