-- Brazil Auctions for Renewable Energy to Include Natural Gas
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2011-02-04T05:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/brazil-auctions-for-renewable-energy-to-include-natural-gas-power-plants.html
  Brazil  is seeking proposals for
natural gas power plants, two months after releasing an official
energy plan that said the country wouldn’t build new electricity
projects powered by fossil fuels.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy will next quarter hold an
auction for renewable energy that will include natural gas
projects along with wind, biomass and hydroelectric plants,
according to the country’s official gazette.  This contradicts the ministry’s official  10-year National
Energy Expansion Plan , released in December, and comes as the
country prepares to tap offshore reserves of oil and gas that
were discovered in 2006.  “It was announced at the end of last year there wasn’t
going to be any more thermal generation plants” that use fossil
fuels, Fabio Dias, director of Associacao Brasileira dos
Pequenos e Medios Produtores de Energia Eletrica, a Brazilian
power-industry trade group, said in an interview. The details of
the auction were  disclosed  on Feb. 2 in the gazette.  Brazil’s about-face may be an effort to take advantage of
the Santos Basin oil and gas reserves, about 300 kilometers (186
miles) offshore, according to Liana Coutinho Forster, strategic
planning analyst at Sao Paulo-based energy consulting company
Excelencia Energetica. Large-scale production from those sites
is expected to begin in the next two to three years, she said in
an interview yesterday.  ‘Not Enough Gas’  Developers of natural gas projects that sold electricity in
past auctions had difficulties securing firm contracts for the
fuel because there wasn’t enough gas, she said. That’s changed
with the offshore reserves.  Energy companies must prove they have a supply of natural
gas to take part in this year’s auction, she said.  Brazil’s production of natural gas may more than double to
231 million cubic meters a day by 2019 with a “significant
contribution” coming from the Santos Basin reserves, the
ministry said in its energy plan.  Dias said that depending solely on  renewable energy 
sources, with their unpredictable output, would be a challenge,
and including natural gas in the auctions gives the country’s
energy grid more flexibility to respond to changing demand.  The amount of electricity gas plants produce doesn’t
“depend on the weather or wind,” Dias said.  No U-Turn  Brazil’s decision is not a U-turn on renewable energy, he
said. “It’s not a sign we’ll reduce the amount of wind farms
that will be developed,” he said.  Participants in the auction will bid for 20-year power
contracts for wind, biomass and natural gas-fueled energy
projects and 30-year contracts for hydroelectric ones, according
to the statement. The facilities must go into operation by Jan.
1, 2014, the ministry said in the gazette.  Different energy sources will participate in the same
auction, without being pitted against each other, Forster said.
“They’ve all got their own quota of contracts to bid for,” she
said.  The ministry will hold another auction for 20-year power
contracts for wind and biomass projects that must come online by
July 1, 2014, and will provide backup power for the grid, the
notice said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 