-- Brent Oil Rises a Fifth Day to 28-Month High on Egypt Protests
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-03T13:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/brent-rises-a-fifth-day-as-egyptian-unrest-bolsters-concern-about-supplies.html
Oil advanced for a fifth day in  London  as protests in  Egypt  turned violent, prompting concern
that crude supplies will be disrupted and unrest may spread to
other parts of the Middle East.  North Sea  Brent crude  rose to a 28-month high of more than
$103 a barrel after clashes broke out between anti-government
protesters and supporters of President Hosni Mubarak in Cairo.
About 2.5 percent of global oil production moves through Egypt
via the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Libyan oil official Shokri
Ghanem said there’s no need yet for OPEC to raises output.  “All eyes in the oil market are on the riots and protests
in Egypt right now,” said  Robert Montefusco , senior broker at
Sucden Financial in London. “That’s keeping prices strong,
though there hasn’t been any disruption to supplies.”  Brent crude for March settlement rose as much as $1.03, or
1 percent, to $103.37 a barrel and was at $102.84 at 1 p.m. on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. It has gained 5.6
percent in the past five days, the longest rising streak since
November, and closed yesterday at $102.34, the highest since
Sept. 26, 2008.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , oil for March delivery
was up 79 cents at $91.65 a barrel after gaining as much as
$1.19 to $92.05. The next-month contract has advanced 19 percent
in the past year.  Brent’s 14-day relative strength index, a measure of how
fast prices have risen or fallen, climbed to 70.3 today, the
highest since Dec. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A reading of 70 or more can be taken as a sign that a market is
“overbought” and ready to drop.  New York  crude’s RSI was 56.9.  ‘Enough Supplies’  There are “enough supplies” in the market, Shokri Ghanem,
chairman of  Libya ’s National Oil Corp., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Francine Lacqua today. Brent crude at
about $100 a barrel is not a problem for the global economy, he
said. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
produces 40 percent of global output, next meets in June.  Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate, the crude grade
traded in New York, was at $11.21 a barrel after widening to as
much as $11.90 today. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  “The Brent-WTI spread widened as concerns that unrest in
Egypt could spread to other nations and temporarily disrupt oil
supply to Europe and  Asia , while stockpiles continue to grow in
the U.S.,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in a note today.  U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.59 million barrels to
343.2 million in the week ended Jan. 28, the Energy Department
said yesterday. They were forecast to climb 2.5 million barrels,
according to analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Egypt Unrest  Mubarak said Feb. 1 that he won’t stand down until
elections in September. The Egyptian army said protesters should
return to their homes, in a statement by a military spokesman on
state television. It came hours after President Barack Obama
said the transition to democracy must “begin now.”  Crude capped the biggest two-day rally since May on Jan. 31
on concern the unrest in North Africa will spread to crude-
producing countries in the Middle East. Jordan’s Prime Minister
Samir Rifai resigned and King Abdullah asked Marouf Bakhit to
form a new government. Protestors in  Algeria  have been killed in
clashes with security forces.  “If the Egyptian situation results in the removal of the
current administration quickly, then the consequences may be
that other regions will follow,”  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, said by
telephone today. “It could create a contagion that could see
the Middle Eastern premium being brought back in a big way
because you do have that risk to the Suez.”    Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait , three of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ biggest oil
producers, are located on the Arabian Peninsula and haven’t
experienced civil unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  