-- BT Third-Quarter Profit Beats Analyst Estimates as Broadband Clients Rise
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2011-02-03T08:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/bt-third-quarter-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-as-broadband-clients-rise.html
  BT Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest
fixed-line phone company, posted a 7 percent increase in third-
quarter adjusted operating profit, beating analysts’ estimates.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and costs from job cuts climbed to 1.48 billion pounds ($2.4
billion) in the three months through December, the London-based
company said in a statement. That beat analysts’ average
estimate of 1.45 billion pounds in a Bloomberg survey.  “These results show that we are making progress on a
number of fronts,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston said
in the statement. “Our performance underpins our outlook for
this year and the period to 2012-13.”  BT is rolling out its high-speed fiber services to counter
declining revenue from its traditional fixed-line offerings. The
company has said it plans to spend 2.5 billion pounds for a
faster network serving two-thirds of British homes by 2015. The
company signed up 188,000 net additional broadband customers in
the quarter.  BT shares climbed as much as 6.5 pence, or 3.6 percent, to
185 pence, and traded at 183.6 pence as of 8:43 a.m. in London.  The U.K. company is also seeking to expand its pay-
television offering. The company is offering  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc ’s main sports channels at a discount to
the wholesale price to attract users.  BT Global Services is set to generate operating cash flow
of about 100 million pounds in the year ending March and about
200 million pounds the following fiscal year, the company said.  The company said in November a government decision to
adjust the way that pensions are valued will cut its pension-
plan deficit and alter funding requirements after 2011.  BT is waiting for the U.K.’s pension regulator to review
its recovery plan after the watchdog said in February last year
it had “substantial concerns” on an agreement with the
trustees of the BT pension program. BT is paying 525 million
pounds each year until 2011 to reduce the liability.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 