-- California Groups Seek Overhaul of State Carbon Market
-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2011-02-03T00:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/california-advocacy-groups-seek-overhaul-of-state-s-carbon-market-rules.html
California should abandon a cap-and-
trade program for  greenhouse gases  and rewrite regulations for
cutting the emissions that scientists link to  climate change , an
environmental-justice group said.  The program, in which  power plants , refineries and
factories buy and sell the right to emit carbon dioxide, will
let companies pay to “continue polluting in low-income
communities,” Alegria De  La Cruz , legal director at the  Center
on Race, Poverty & the Environment , said today in a telephone
interview from San Francisco.  De La Cruz’s group and advocacy organizations are suing the
 California Air Resources Board , which approved the cap-and-trade
regulation in December, to force reconsideration of greenhouse-
gas regulations. The board’s climate-change rules don’t satisfy
a requirement in the state’s 2006 Global Warming Solutions Act
to clean up poor, polluted neighborhoods, she said.  The  San Francisco  County Superior Court sided with the
groups in a preliminary ruling last month. Judge Ernest
Goldsmith said the air-resources board “abused its discretion”
when it approved a December 2008 plan that laid the groundwork
for the cap-and-trade program and other greenhouse-gas
regulations. The board prematurely decided to start work on a
cap-and-trade program without offering alternative proposals and
provided “no evidence to support its chosen approach,”
Goldsmith said in the Jan. 21 decision.  The parties will get a chance to file objections to
Goldsmith’s decision next week, De La Cruz said. Stanley Young,
a spokesman for the air resources board, said in an e-mail the
agency is “still reviewing this tentative decision” and plans
to respond to the ruling.  2020 Deadline    California ’s cap-and-trade regulation seeks a 15 percent
cut in greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide from power
plants, refineries, factories, cars and trucks by 2020. The
program is scheduled to start next year.  The program is similar to the cap-and-trade plan President  Barack Obama  failed to get through Congress last year. The air
resources board will create carbon dioxide allowances, which can
be bought and sold. Each allowance represents one metric ton of
carbon dioxide.  The number of allowances would be reduced over time to
enforce the pollution cuts. Companies in the cap-and-trade
program may use offsets, which are pollution cuts from
unregulated sources such as farms and forests, to meet some of
their obligations under the carbon-cutting regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 