-- Drugmaker Endocyte Rises 29% After Initial Public Offering
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2011-02-04T21:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/cancer-drug-developer-endocyte-drops-price-for-initial-public-offering.html
Endocyte Inc., a developer of drugs
for ovarian and lung tumors, rose 29 percent in Nasdaq trading
after today’s initial public offering.  The  West Lafayette , Indiana-based company gained $1.73 to
$7.73 at 4 p.m. New York time in its first day of trading on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Endocyte sold 12.5 million shares at $6
today after reducing the price as much as 60 percent, according
to a regulatory filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Only half of the 12 IPOs originally scheduled for what
would have been the busiest week since 2007 were completed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While NeoPhotonics
Corp. and Epocrates Inc. rallied more than 20 percent after
their offerings, companies from Imperial Holdings LLC to
BioHorizons Inc. postponed their sales, the data show. The
Egyptian crisis may be causing investors to reconsider some
IPOs, said Philip Orlando of Federated Investors Inc.  “Investors are separating the wheat from the chaff and are
continuing to remain engaged with the attractive deals in the
sectors that they like,” said Orlando, chief equity market
strategist at Pittsburgh-based Federated, which manages about
$350 billion. “For the ones that they’re nervous about, they’re
allowing their concerns about geopolitical risk, particularly  Egypt , to cool their ardor.”  Lead Drug  Endocyte is in the second of three stages of tests
generally needed for U.S. approval for its most advanced drug,
called EC145, for ovarian and lung tumors. The drug attaches the
vitamin folate to a common chemotherapy to target tumors while
avoiding healthy cells.  The company said it plans to use the proceeds from its IPO
to fund more tests for EC145 and to advance development of other
treatments. Endocyte also is working on drugs for prostate
cancer and inflammatory disorders.  Endocyte would employ a 50- to 75-person sales force for
EC145 after the drug’s clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, according to the initial offering plan. The
company may seek partners to promote the drug outside the U.S.  The drugmaker said it is developing a lab test to identify
patients whose tumors have excessive amounts of  folate , making
them most likely to benefit from the drug. The vitamin aids cell
division, and some tumors overproduce folate as they grow.  The Endocyte offering was arranged by Toronto-based  Royal
Bank of Canada  and Boston-based Leerink Swann & Co. The company
had proposed offering 5.35 million shares at $13 to $15 apiece,
and then cut the price a second time to 10.7 million shares at
$7 before today’s offering.  Meeting the Goal  “The good news and the bad news all in one sentence is
that they had to double the number of shares and lower the price
to get the same amount of money they had hoped for,” said
Steven Burrill, a venture capitalist and biotechnology investor
based in  San Francisco  who said he had a 6 percent stake in the
company before the IPO.  “I think the IPO window is open, it’s just selective,”
Burrill said today in a telephone interview. “Markets are
looking for risk-mitigated companies and those with sales and
earnings and somewhat predictable revenue streams are getting a
substantially higher premium than those that still have risk
clinically or on their pathway to market or on reimbursement.”  BG Medicine Inc., the developer of diagnostic tests,
rallied 15 percent in Nasdaq trading after it raised $35 million
today. The Waltham, Massachusetts-based company, which first
filed for an IPO in 2007, had sought $71.25 million before
cutting the price of its offering this week. BG Medicine’s
shares gained $1.05 to $8.05 at the 4 p.m. close of trading.  NeoPhotonics, the  San Jose , California-based maker of
circuits for high-speed communications networks, climbed 20
percent Feb. 2 after raising $82.5 million in its IPO.
Epocrates, the  San Mateo , California-based provider of medical
reference software for mobile phones, surged 37 percent, in the
first day of trading after its $85.8 million IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  