-- Australian Sugar Area May Lose 50% of Output Potential
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-02-04T09:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/canegrowers-say-queensland-could-lose-50-of-production-in-yasi-aftermath.html
Sugarcane plantations in the north of  Australia ’s Queensland state may lose 50 percent of production
potential after Tropical Cyclone Yasi scythed through an area
accounting for a third of output, according to a growers’ group.  Farmers will begin assessing damage to the crop today,
Brisbane-based  Canegrowers  said today in an e-mailed  statement .
Losses in the world’s third-largest exporter could be at least
A$500 million ($507 million), it said.  Sugar rallied to a 30-year high in New York on Feb. 2 amid
concern Cyclone Yasi would cut output in Australia, before
slumping 9.3 percent yesterday. The 2011 crop is likely to be
“significantly reduced” by the storm, Queensland Sugar Ltd.,
the nation’s biggest exporter, said today.  “Some growers have lost 100 percent of their crop, a blow
from which they may never recover,” Canegrowers said in the
statement. “The losses will translate over many years, as
sugarcane is a multiple-year crop.”  Raw sugar for March delivery tumbled to 32.04 cents a pound
yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , the biggest drop
since Dec. 30. Prices fell as automatic sales by computer
programs exaggerated a slide that started as concerns eased that
Cyclone Yasi will lower production in Australia, traders said.
Prices reached a 30-year high of 36.08 cents on Feb. 2 and
traded at 32.55 cents at 5:06 p.m. Singapore time.  ‘Too Early’  “It is still too early for QSL to be able to fully assess
how this event will impact on next season’s sugar volumes, but
it is anticipated that the 2011 crop will be significantly
reduced,”  Queensland Sugar  said today. “We will be working
closely with industry stakeholders over the coming months in
relation to production forecasts for the 2011 season.”  The area hardest hit by the storm is one of Australia’s
biggest cane-growing areas, with 30 percent of the nation’s crop
grown from Ayr, south to Townsville and to Cairns in the north,
Canegrowers said.  Global sugar production may exceed demand by a “small”
amount in the coming 2011-2012 season, though the “fragile”
balance will remain vulnerable to weather-related risks, C.
Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd. said Jan. 31. The world market will
remain in deficit in the current 2010-2011 season, it said.  Australia may produce 3.8 million metric tons of sugar in
the 2011-2012 season, compared with 3.6 million tons a year
earlier, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a
report yesterday. Exports will be less than 2.5 million tons,
the bank said.  Devastated Fields  Raw-sugar  production  in the country could drop to about 3.3
million tons. That compares with forecasts of 4.2 million to 4.3
million tons before Yasi struck and after two months of heavy
rain and flooding in Queensland, Rabobank Groep NV commodity
analyst  Wayne Gordon  said on Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  yesterday forecast production of
about 3.6 million tons, similar to 2010 levels.  “The full impact will not become clear until growers have
had the opportunity to venture back into devastated fields, and
possibly until the commencement of harvesting in late June,”
Canegrowers said. “Harvest will be made more difficult because
of the debris in the field.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  