-- Cellulosic Ethanol to Take Off From 2013, Novozymes Chief Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2011-02-03T13:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/cellulosic-ethanol-to-take-off-from-2013-novozymes-chief-executive-says.html
The market for ethanol made from
plant waste and grasses rather than foodstuffs is set to ramp up
in 2013 as the first commercial plants start, Novozymes A/S
Chief Executive Officer Steen Riisgaard said.  Novozymes partner Poet LLC is seeking a government loan
guarantee to build a plant to make the clean fuel, called
second-generation or 2-G biofuel, within two years, Riisgaard
said yesterday in an interview. London-based  BP Plc  and  Abengoa
SA  of Seville,  Spain , plan U.S. plants by 2013, when refineries
may also open in Brazil and  China , the Novozymes CEO said.  The Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company is the world’s largest
maker of industrial enzymes, which help break down plants to
make ethanol. Distillers are trying to find ways to extract
alcohol more cheaply from plant waste such as corn stalks rather
than crops, which environmental groups including Friends of the
Earth say adds to food price inflation.  “It looks like 2013 is the year 2-G will take off,”
Riisgaard said. “It will still not be big numbers in 2013
because they’re just coming on stream, and then you will have to
wait for the next round of building based on the advances from
these first factories. 2014-15 is probably where we can see the
whole thing take off in a big way.”  The  plan  by Poet, the biggest U.S. ethanol maker, to build
by early 2012 has fallen behind schedule as they await approval
for a loan guarantee, Riisgaard said. That guarantee may occur
later this year, he said.  Chinese Customer  Even if the plants aren’t built as quickly as expected,
Riisgaard said he may be able to sell the same enzymes to
China’s Dacheng Group, which wants to use them to make  chemicals
called glycols . Dacheng is building a pilot facility now and
plans a commercial plant next year and four more in 2013,
Riisgaard said.  “If all this falls into place, he will be a very big
customer of ours,” Riisgaard said, referring to Dacheng
Chairman Xu Zhouwen. “If this flies, we’ll have to build a
factory in  Jilin province  in Manchuria, in the middle of their
corn belt.”  Riisgaard said he’s not concerned by cuts of more than 90
percent in the U.S. fuel mandate for cellulosic ethanol this
year and last. The Environmental Protection Agency last year cut
to 6.5 million gallons from 100 million gallons the amount of
cellulosic ethanol U.S. refiners should blend with gasoline,
citing the lack of commercial-scale production. This year’s
mandate is for 6.6 million gallons, the EPA said on Nov. 29.  “The mandate will reflect the capacity installed,”
Riisgaard said. “So if Poet constructs a 25 million-gallon
facility, and it’s up and running, the mandate will be adjusted
to ensure they can sell it.”  U.S. Growth  Novozymes projects U.S. production of first-generation
ethanol to grow to 13.8 billion gallons this year from 13.2
billion gallons last year, which would see company sales to the
industry increase by about 5 percent in the U.S., he said.  The Danish company currently gets about 18 percent of its
revenue from enzymes for first-generation biofuels, and less
than a percent from 2-G, the chief executive said.  Riisgaard said he’s pushing for the European Union to adopt
a U.S.-style mandate. The 27-nation bloc has a target of
deriving 10 percent of transportation fuels from renewables by
2020, though it has no specific goals for cellulosic ethanol.  The Jan. 9 agreement by DuPont Co. to buy Copenhagen-based
Danisco A/S, another enzymes-maker, is “good news” for the
industry because it’ll have more lobbying power, according to
the Novozymes CEO.  ‘Lonely Struggle’  “It has been a somewhat lonely struggle for Novozymes to
lobby for 2-G ethanol around the world,” Riisgaard said. “I’ve
been so many times to  Washington , Brussels, Beijing and Brasilia
to lobby and convince decision makers that this is a wonderful
idea. I’m reluctant to admit it but DuPont will have more sway
than we have, certainly in the U.S. We can team up with them.”  Riisgaard said there’s no danger of Novozymes being taken
over because its largest shareholder, the Novo Nordisk
Foundation, is required to maintain a controlling stake. In the
field of enzymes for biofuels, he said “there’s nothing to buy
-- maybe a few pieces of technology here and there.”  Falling Costs  In China, Sinopec and Cofco Ltd. plan a demonstration
facility by 2013, Riisgaard said.  Centro de Tecnologia
Canavieira , the Brazilian sugar cane growers research group,
have said one of their members plans a bolt-on facility to an
existing sugar mill that will use the cane waste -- known as
bagasse -- to make ethanol, he said. In  Europe , Milan-based
Gruppo Mossi & Ghisolfi and Dong Energy A/S, Denmark’s largest
energy company, also may build plants, he said.  The enzymes for 2-G biofuels currently cost about 50 cents
a gallon compared with 3-6 cents a gallon for ethanol from corn
and sugar, Riisgaard said. That’s because more volume of enzymes
are needed to break down the cellulosic material, he said.  “We expect that over time we can probably bring that down
to 30 cents,” he said. “We have to get out in scale, and as we
do that, we go up the learning curve and costs can come down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 