-- Chelsea Plans Spending to Beat Rules, Independent Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2011-02-03T11:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/chelsea-plans-spending-to-beat-rules-independent-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Chelsea Plans    Roman Abramovich  plans to continue spending on new players
after this season as Chelsea’s aging squad needs a revamp before
new financial restrictions start,  the Independent said .  The defending Premier League champion, now lagging 10
points behind leader  Manchester United , brought in Liverpool
striker Fernando Torres and Benfica defender David Luiz for 75
million pounds ($122 million) on Jan. 31. That’s more than the
club spent on new players in the three previous years, the
newspaper said.  Chelsea is targeting Dutch defender Gregory van der Wiel,
Slovakia captain Marek Hamsik of Napoli and Belgian
internationals Eden Hazard and Romelu Lukaku, the Independent
said.  Neville’s Decision  Manchester United captain Gary Neville will be offered a
coaching role at the club after he decided to retire after 20
years,  the Daily Mirror said .  Neville may move to  Sky Sports  to become a match analyst
after the broadcaster got rid of Andy Gray and Richard Keys last
month because of comments they made about female officials, the
newspaper said.  King Grounded  Tottenham captain Ledley King missed a flight to Germany,
where he was to undergo an operation on his groin, because he
couldn’t find his passport,  the Guardian said .  The operation will be delayed for a week, the newspaper
said.  Fabianski Out  Arsenal goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski will miss the rest of
the season to recover from surgery on his injured shoulder, the
 Mirror said .  The 25-year-old was hurt in the warm-ups for a Premier
League match against  Manchester City  and hasn’t played since,
the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Christopher Elser  in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 