-- Chevy, Volkswagen Sedans Drive Like Ferrari! Just Kidding: Cars
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/chevy-vw-16-000-sedans-ride-like-a-ferrari-i-m-kidding-jason-h-harper.html
It’s below freezing outside and the
air conditioner is inconveniently blowing at 64 degrees.  My knee is the problem. Or rather it’s the irksome
temperature knob, located at the exact spot my knee rests on the
center divider.  The  Chevy Cruze  is an all-new car, so it’s a simple yet
fundamental error. Oh, General Motors, I was expecting better!  Two cars I tested recently, the Cruze and the 2011
 Volkswagen Jetta , are gunning for the same meaty section of the
sedan market --  Honda Civic  and  Toyota Corolla  territory.  Both start at around $16,000, with better-equipped models
at $22,000. With those price points, these cars are like blue
jeans. Everybody knows somebody who is hunting for a pair that
fits just right, isn’t stratospherically expensive and doesn’t
fall out of fashion as soon as they hit your hips.  The Cruze replaces the Cobalt, a compact shudder-box
impossible to take seriously.  The new offering, on the other hand, is mostly a product of
the “we’re making cars you actually want” ethos at GM. So it’s
a shame about that knob.  Smarter engineering examples include the option of a tiny,
peppy turbo engine which lends impressive gas mileage, and more
standard air bags than a Scottish bagpipe quartet.  It’s also more spacious than competitors like the Toyota
Corolla.  Style Deficit  My tester was the range-topping LTZ model, which comes with
the 1.4-liter, turbocharged four-cylinder engine. With some
$1,500 in options and the $720 destination charge, the sticker
price was $24,260.  The base LT, with a non-turbo 1.8-liter motor, will likely
be the volume seller and there’s also a lighter “eco” version
that gets improved gas mileage.  Exterior styling? There isn’t much, even with an additional
$695 sport appearance package with a rear spoiler and a revised
fascia.  The Chevy has leather on its heated front seats and a
leather-wrapped steering wheel. The side door panels and dash
are partly covered by fabric, nicer to the touch than cold
plastic. The $445 stereo upgrade results in a bumping little
system. Overall okay, verging on good.  Rear egress is cramped thanks to small doors and a sloping
roofline.  But it drives like a  Ferrari !  No, not really. Like the rest of the segment, the Cruz is
characterized by its general okayness. The suspension is smartly
dialed-in, lending comfort on bad roads and a reasonable degree
of handling.  Jetta Bet  But while the turbo on the motor comes on willingly from a
standstill, its vitality wanes at higher speeds. The
transmission is geared for gas savings, not fun.  If Chevy is hoping the Cruze will prove its small-car
seriousness, VW is banking on the new Jetta and upcoming  Passat 
to help hit sales goals of 1 million in the U.S. by 2018.  No wonder the 2011 Jetta prices start at several grand less
than its predecessor. That may also be the reason many VW-heads
accuse the car of being a shadow of its former self.  My test vehicle was a Jetta SEL, which has a 2.5-liter
five-cylinder engine and plenty of pop (170 hp). With a $1,600
sport package and destination charge, the price came to $24,865.  The $16,000 base S has a 115-horsepower, four-cylinder
engine with substantially less power than the outgoing model. A
diesel variant is available from $23,000. (VW’s TDI clean-diesel
models are generally excellent.)  Hands down, the Jetta is more fun to drive than the Cruze.
Equipped with nimble suspension, the SEL thrusts itself into
traffic, only occasionally overpowering the front wheels from a
hard start.  Harsh Gears  Willing to pivot into turns, it handles predictably, with
less front-end push than most front-wheel-drives. Steering is
mild, though firm.  While a five-speed manual is available, my tester had the
six-speed automatic costing an extra $1,100. Gear changes can
feel harsh and abrupt. Nor can the Jetta’s 31 mpg on the highway
match the Chevy. The manually-equipped four-cylinder version, at
34 mpg highway, does a little better but is far slower.  Too bad about the utterly drab exterior. A cowering hood
creeps over the Jetta’s slotlike grill. Even my tester’s pretty
blue paint wasn’t enough to sharpen the boring lines.  The interior is uncluttered, as if a Scandinavian designer
had come along and ripped away embellishments. It took me only
seconds to figure out the navigation, which uses knobs, buttons
and a touch screen.  While VW plays up its German origin, only 20 percent of its
parts come from the country. Final assembly and 40 percent of
parts are from  Mexico .  Bigger than the previous model, there’s plenty of rear
legroom and the trunk is large enough to please a hoarder.  Many buyers will slip comfortably into either car -- ideal
wear-every-day items. Just don’t expect to make a fashion
statement.  The 2011 Chevy Cruze LTZ and 2011 Jetta SEL at a Glance  Engine: 1.4-liter turbocharged four-cylinder with 138 hp;  2.5-liter five-cylinder with 170 hp.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic; five-speed manual or  six-speed auto.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 9.3 seconds; 8.5.  Gas mileage per gallon: 24 city, 36 highway; 24, 31.  Price as tested: $24,260; $24,865.  Best feature: Generally decent interior and many safety  items; sporty, solid drive.  Worst feature: Boring exteriors.  Target buyer: Anyone tired of their Corolla or Civic.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 