-- Christie Hunts Illinois Jobs as Deere Digs to Pay Tax
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2011-02-03T18:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/christie-raids-illinois-for-jobs-as-deere-digs-to-pay-quinn-s-tax-increase.html
Governors in  New Jersey ,  Indiana  and
Wisconsin, angling to steal jobs from Illinois after its record
tax increase, may find that employers consider a broader range
of concerns as they decide their future in the Land of Lincoln.  Hours after Democratic Governor Pat Quinn signed the
legislation Jan. 12 to help plug a $13 billion budget hole, the
Republican chief executives began offering their states as
havens for businesses wanting to avoid higher levies on personal
and corporate income.  While some of Illinois’s largest employers --  Caterpillar
Inc ., United Continental Holdings Inc., Deere & Co. -- opposed
the increases, companies from Wisconsin, Missouri and  Oregon 
announced plans to establish operations there within days of
their enactment.  Overtures by New Jersey’s  Chris Christie , Indiana’s Mitch Daniels and Wisconsin’s Scott Walker are “a lot of political
theater, a lot of hubris,” said Kim Maisch, director of the
Illinois chapter of the  National Federation of Independent
Business , which represents about 10,000 small businesses in the
state.  New Jersey’s state and local tax burden ranked first in the
nation while Illinois ranked 30th in a  2008 survey  by the  Tax
Foundation , a privately funded research and advocacy
organization in  Washington . Illinois’s corporate tax increase
would move it into fourth place from 21st among U.S. states in
overall business taxes, the foundation said.  Flabbergasted Members  Taxes matter, said Maisch, who has called for the repeal of
the increases that she said “flabbergasted” her members. They
are a single component of a complex mix of factors that includes
workers, unemployment compensation costs and the litigation
climate, she said.  “Small businesses are different than corporate America,”
Maisch said in a telephone interview from her Springfield
office. “Many of them have two mortgages, as opposed to the CEO
in  Chicago  making $10 million. They’re part of their community,
their kids are in  Little League , and you just don’t get up and
leave.”  A state’s regulatory climate and political responsiveness
are also major considerations when a company is deciding to stay
or move, Donald Haider, co-author of “Marketing Places: How
States and Cities Market Themselves,” said in a telephone
interview from Evanston,  Illinois .  “It is simply not taxes and taxes alone,” he said.
“Usually a tax increase is an indicator of something else going
on.”  ‘Political Theater’  Illinois faced a shortfall of at least $13 billion in the
2011 budget year. When lawmakers raised the personal income tax
to 5 percent from 3 percent and the corporate income levy to 7
percent from 4.8 percent, Republican opponents predicted the
wholesale flight of businesses to  neighboring states  and those
with lower rates.  Christie, during a meeting with business leaders today in  Newark , said he will be meeting with company executives in
Chicago tomorrow, and hopes to lure them back to New Jersey.  What business leaders “want more than anything else is
certainty,” Christie said. “Now, both New Jersey and Illinois
are providing businesses with certainty and this is my pitch
tomorrow: In New Jersey you can be certain that taxes are going
down over the next three years. In Illinois you can be certain
that they’re going up.”  The mayor of Indianapolis, Gregory Ballard, invited readers
of the  Chicago Tribune  in a Jan. 18 ad to take a “serious
look” at his city in light of “large, new state tax
increases.”  ‘Clean-Up Guy’  Quinn, 62, dismissed Christie and others as “folks who
come from other places and engage in political theater” during
a Jan. 25 news conference in Chicago.  “I’m the clean-up guy,” Quinn said “I’ve got to repair
this. And that’s exactly what I’m doing.”    United Continental Holdings Inc ., the outcome of a marriage
of United and Continental airlines, opposed the tax increases,
said Mike Trevino, a spokesman in Chicago. The company has more
than 13,000 employees in the city, he said.  Deere, the farm and construction equipment maker in Moline,
also opposed the tax increase, said Ken Golden, a spokesman. The
Chicago-based  Boeing Co ., the world’s biggest aerospace company,
said the tax change did not have a “significant impact” on the
company’s operation, according to Chaz Bickers, a spokesman.  ‘No Regrets’    Navistar International Corp ., the maker of International-
brand trucks, announced before the tax increase it is moving its
headquarters to suburban Chicago from Warrenville, Illinois, and
will expand there.  “Navistar has no regrets about its decision to consolidate
in Lisle, and you can quote me,” said Roy Wiley, a spokesman.  Three companies said last month they are moving into the
state.  Each got financial incentives to move, Quinn’s office
said in press releases.  Oregon-based steel producer Evraz Inc. said Jan. 20 it is
moving its North American headquarters to Chicago from  Portland .
Becker Iron & Metal Inc. said Jan. 21 it will relocate its
headquarters to  Venice , Illinois, from  St. Louis .  American Aluminum Extrusion Co., based in Beloit,  Wisconsin , said Jan. 27 it will build a manufacturing plant in
Roscoe, Illinois.  Businesses want stability, and Illinois bought itself some,
said Justin Hoogendoorn, director of capital markets at BMO
Capital Markets in Chicago. Hoogendoorn argued for the increases
to boost investor confidence; Illinois shares with California
the lowest rating among the states from Moody’s Investors
Service, A1.  ‘Necessary Evil’  “Taxes are a necessary evil, with as big a shortfall as
the state had,” Hoogendoorn said.  A report issued yesterday by the Chicago-based Center for
Tax and Budget Accountability said that without the tax hikes,
“Illinois’ bonds would be lowered to junk status, effectively
crippling the state’s ability to issue bonds of any type and
paralyzing state financing.”  The center is a nonprofit think tank that studies tax and
economic policy.  Even after raising taxes, Illinois will still have the
lowest overall burden as a percentage of personal income of all
neighboring states, except  Missouri  -- “contrary to the
misleading spin of neighboring state governors,” the report
said.  Businesses will be looking at how the state deals with its
long-term debt, including more than $6 billion in unpaid bills
and more than $80 billion in unfunded pension liabilities,
Haider said.  “It’s the tax increase without any fiscal discipline and
without any spending reforms that causes business concern,”
Haider said. “That is probably more critical than the tax
increase itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 