-- Commodities Reach Two-Year High as Global Growth Drives Demand
-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e   a n d   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2011-02-03T11:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/commodity-index-climbs-to-two-year-high-as-economic-growth-drives-demand.html
Commodities, last month’s best-
performing asset class, jumped to their highest in more than two
years on prospects for strengthening demand and shortages as
global growth improves and extreme weather destroys crops.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities rose as much as 0.6 percent to 5,152.9 points, the
highest since November 2008. The gauge was at 5,151.7 as of
10:41 a.m. in  London . Cotton, rubber and copper rose to records
and Brent crude oil advanced for a fifth day to $102.64 a
barrel, the most since September 2008.  Commodities have risen for five consecutive months, the
longest winning streak since 2004, bolstered by an improving
economic outlook. Raw materials also advanced as drought in  Russia , flooding in  Canada  and a cyclone in  Australia  ruined
crops and as protests across the Middle East spurred concern
about supply disruptions.  “What is new is that the fundamentals are getting tighter
and the political risk premiums are increasing for energy and
agriculture,” said Jean-Marc Bonnefous, a co-founder of London-
based Tellurian Capital Management LLP, which invests in energy,
metals and agriculture.  Copper for delivery in three months rose as much as 0.6
percent to $10,000 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange
today, extending this year’s advance to 4 percent. Aluminum,
zinc, tin, lead and nickel also gained.  Supplies of copper, nickel and tin will all fall short of
demand this year, according to  Barclays Capital . A decade-long
boom in commodities may last “a couple of years” longer before
supply catches up with demand, billionaire investor  George Soros 
said in an interview in Davos,  Switzerland  on Jan. 27.  Rubber Futures  Rubber futures traded on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
gained as much as 3.8 percent to an all-time high of 490.2 yen a
kilogram ($6,004 a ton) as rain in  Thailand ,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia , the top three growers, curbed output.  Brent crude rose for a fifth day in London as protests in
Egypt turned violent, prompting concern that supplies will be
disrupted and unrest may spread to other parts of the Middle
East. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  has faced a week of
unrest. Protesters were also gathering in the Yemeni capital of
Sana’a today and Jordan’s King Abdullah replaced his prime
minister this week.  “All eyes in the oil market are on the riots and protests
in Egypt right now,” said  Robert Montefusco , senior broker at
Sucden Financial in London. “That’s keeping prices strong,
though there hasn’t been any disruption to supplies.”  Suez Canal  Egypt’s Suez Canal is open and operating normally today,
Ahmed El Manakhly, head of traffic for the Suez Canal Authority,
said by phone. About 50 ships were transiting yesterday and the
same number is expected today, he said.  Raw sugar was little changed in New York trading after
jumping to a 30-year high of 36.08 cents a pound yesterday.
Sugar cane plantations in Australia, the third-largest exporter,
suffered severe damage after Tropical Cyclone Yasi cut through
an area accounting for a third of output.  “We are going to see a massive reduction in the amount of
sugar that region produces,” Steve Greenwood, chief executive
officer of Brisbane-based producers group Canegrowers, said
today on Bloomberg television.  World food prices surged to a record last month, led by
increases in costs for dairy products, the United Nation’s Food
and Agriculture Organization said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  