-- Copper Falls From Record as Dollar Rises, Chinese Demand Cools
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2011-02-03T19:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/copper-rises-to-record-10-000-as-global-growth-fuels-shortage-speculation.html
Copper fell from a record after the
dollar climbed, reducing the appeal of industrial metals as a
hedge against inflation, and Chinese demand remained subdued.  The greenback rose as much as 0.9 percent against a six-
currency basket, which would be the most in a month, as the
mounting conflict in  Egypt  boosted demand for a haven. Tin,
nickel, lead and zinc dropped. Markets in  China , the world’s
biggest metals consumer, are closed for the weeklong Lunar New
Year holiday until Feb. 9.  “The sharp move of the dollar is the major driver in base
metals,” said Daniel Major, an analyst at RBS Global Banking &
Markets in  London .  Copper for three-month delivery fell $15, or 0.2 percent,
to $9,930 a ton ($4.50 a pound) at 6:10 p.m. on the London
Metal Exchange. Earlier, the metal climbed to $10,000, the
highest ever.  Prices have more than tripled since 2008 as mining
companies struggled to keep pace with demand. Substitution of
other metals for copper is accelerating as costs rise,  Klaus Kleinfeld , the chief executive officer of aluminum-producer
Alcoa Inc., said last month on an earnings call. There is a
potential for 20 percent copper substitution by aluminum, he
said.  “Demand destruction is a concern,” Major said. “There
will be efforts by consumers to substitute as much as possible,
but this is not necessarily an instant phenomenon.”  Prices also dropped because of “fears that China may
raise interest rates again, and the fact they are off for a
week,” said Lannie Cohen, the president of  Capitol Commodity
Services Inc.  in Indianapolis.  China has raised benchmark lending and deposit rates twice
in four months in a bid to curb inflation.  On the Comex in  New York , copper futures for March
delivery added 0.05 cent to $4.5445 a pound, after touching a
record $4.58.  Aluminum gained in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Patrick McKiernan  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 