-- Cotton Slumps From Record on Lower U.S. Exports, Egypt Turmoil
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2011-02-03T20:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/cotton-advances-for-fourth-day-to-record-on-optimism-china-demand-to-grow.html
Cotton futures dropped from a record
on signs of falling demand for U.S. fiber and as violence
escalated in Egypt, threatening the region’s stability.  U.S. shipments of upland cotton slumped 52 percent to
241,598 bales in the week ended Jan. 27 from a year earlier,
the Department of Agriculture said today. In Egypt, gunfire
erupted in Cairo’s Tahrir Square early today as supporters of
President  Hosni Mubarak  battled with demonstrators demanding an
immediate end to his 30-year rule.  While cotton consumption, especially by China, has been
strong, “at some point demand will ebb,” said Sid Love, the
president of Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting Services LLC in  Overland Park , Kansas. “Also, the market is nervous because of
the political turmoil in Egypt.”  Cotton for March delivery fell 4.36 cents, or 2.5 percent,
to settle at $1.7186 a pound at 2:46 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York. Earlier, prices retreated by the exchange limit of
5 cents after jumping the maximum 5 cents to a record $1.8122.  Cotton prices have more than doubled in the past year as
flooding slashed crops in Pakistan and  Australia . Imports by  China , the world’s biggest consumer, more than tripled in
December from a month earlier. Inventories monitored by ICE
Futures U.S. have tumbled 84 percent since June 1.  The National Cotton Council of America will release the
results of its survey on planting intentions on Feb. 5, the
council said today. Farmers will probably expand the growing
area 15 percent to a five-year high, Commerzbank AG said in a
report.  “We believe the price of cotton is already in a phase of
exaggeration and expect a sharp fall in price in the coming
months,” the bank said.  The U.S. is the largest exporter. A bale of cotton weighs
480 pounds (218 kilograms).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Patrick McKiernan  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 