-- Oil Climbs, Heads for Second Week of Gains, on Economic Optimism
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-04T07:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/crude-oil-trades-near-91-amid-concerns-about-recovery-in-u-s-fuel-demand.html
Oil rose in  New York , heading for a
second weekly gain, as economic data bolstered optimism fuel
demand will increase in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude-
consuming nation.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent, recovering from
yesterday’s decline, on bets U.S. employers added jobs. Non-farm
payrolls probably climbed by 146,000 workers in January,
according to a survey of economists before a report today. The
Labor Department said the number of Americans filing first-time
claims for jobless benefits fell more than expected last week.
Continuing protests in  Egypt  increased concern among investors
that shipments through the  Suez Canal  will be disrupted.  “Everybody is watching for the jobs data due out
tonight,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity sales manager at
broker Newedge in Tokyo. Some traders are betting the report
will be better than expected, he said, “so it’s possible the
oil price will climb. Oil is well supported at the $90 level.”  The March contract gained as much as 66 cents to $91.20 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
and was at $90.89 at 3:42 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, it
fell 32 cents to $90.54. Prices are up 1.8 percent this week and
24 percent over the past year.    Brent crude  for March settlement was at $101.93 a barrel,
up 17 cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . The
contract yesterday fell 0.6 percent to $101.76, the first
decline in five days.  Crude prices closed lower yesterday as the euro dropped
against the dollar, reducing the appeal of dollar-priced
commodities for European traders.  Egypt Concerns Remain  Oil rose as much as 1.3 percent yesterday as demonstrations
in Egypt continued, prompting concern that unrest may spread to
other parts of the Middle East and disrupt supplies. Clashes
broke out between anti-government groups and supporters of
President  Hosni Mubarak  in Cairo.  About 2.5 percent of global oil output moves through Egypt
via the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The waterway continues to
operate and the country’s energy terminals are open,  Inchcape
Shipping Services  said yesterday.  “Egypt will continue to be a bullish factor even without a
supply shortage,” said Newedge’s Hasegawa. “It’s really a
matter of sentiment.”  U.S. companies added 187,000 workers last month, according
to figures from ADP Employer Services on Feb. 2. The median
estimate in the Bloomberg News survey called for a 140,000 gain.  “U.S. data was supportive, with jobless claims better than
expected,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in a note today.  Brent Premium  Brent traded at a premium of $11.26 a barrel to  New York- 
traded West Texas Intermediate oil today.  “The WTI inventory at Cushing is at a record and this is a
big issue from a fundamental point of view,” said Hasegawa.
“Brent is much stronger than WTI now so the spread may widen.”  U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.59 million barrels to
343.2 million in the week ended Jan. 28, the Energy Department
said Feb. 2. They were forecast to climb by 2.5 million,
according to analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for WTI,
rose 667,000 barrels to 38.3 million, the highest since the
department started keeping records at the storage hub in 2004.  Oil may decline next week as U.S. inventories increase and
fuel consumption drops, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Fourteen of 31 analysts, or 45 percent, forecast crude oil
will drop through Feb. 11. Twelve respondents, or 39 percent,
predicted prices will climb and five estimated little change.
Last week, 46 percent said futures would decrease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 Christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  