-- Oil Declines as Euro Tumbles Against Dollar on Trichet Remarks
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2011-02-03T21:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/crude-oil-futures-drop-as-euro-tumbles-against-dollar-on-trichet-remarks.html
Oil fell after European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet signaled no immediate plans to
raise  interest rates , causing the euro to tumble against the
dollar and reducing the investment appeal of commodities.  Oil retreated 0.4 percent after Trichet said the ECB’s
benchmark rate, which it left at a record low of 1 percent
today, remains “appropriate.” Prices also declined after
failing to break through technical resistance above $92 a
barrel, near crude’s two-year high of $92.84.  “Oil prices are taking their direction from expectations
of how the global economy is performing,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’re trading on the strength in the dollar and
the weakness in equities after our inability to break through
technical resistance above $92 a barrel.”  Oil for March delivery dropped 32 cents to settle at $90.54
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Futures have
gained 18 percent in the past year.  The $92.84 resistance corresponds with a 100 percent
retracement on a one-year Fibonacci study.    Brent crude  for March settlement fell 58 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $101.76 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London . It was the first decline in five days. Earlier, Brent
touched a 28-month high of $103.37 a barrel in intraday trading.  The euro dropped as much as 1.5 percent against the dollar,
the most since Nov. 23, after Trichet said “very close
monitoring is warranted” on inflation, at a press conference in  Frankfurt .  The euro fell 1.72 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $1.3639 at
3:07 p.m. in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as
much as 0.7 percent in intraday trading. It was up 0.2 percent
at 1,307.04 at 3:07 p.m. in New York.  Equities, Dollar  “The equities and the dollar are setting the tone,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “There ought to be a little bit of secondary reflection
on the DOE numbers from yesterday and what those really mean.
That was a bearish report and oil went higher, not lower.”  U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.59 million barrels to
343.2 million in the week ended Jan. 28, the Energy Department
said yesterday. They were forecast to climb by 2.5 million,
according to analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  There are “enough supplies” in the market, Shokri Ghanem,
chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Francine Lacqua today. He indicated
that there’s no need yet for OPEC to boost production.  OPEC Production  If oil in New York climbs above $100 a barrel, the Arab
producers along the Persian Gulf will probably bolster output,
according to a report yesterday by Bhushan Bahree, senior
director for global oil at IHS-Cambridge Energy Research
Associates. The countries are concerned that elevated prices
would curb global economic growth.  OPEC members  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates ,  Kuwait 
and Qatar had 3.82 million barrels a day of spare production
capacity in January, 70 percent of the group’s total, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of oil companies, producers and
analysts.  OPEC will raise crude shipments 1.7 percent to 24.16
million barrels a day in the four weeks to Feb. 19 amid strong
demand from  Asia , according to a report today by tanker-tracker
Oil Movements.  Egyptian Unrest  Oil rose as much as 1.3 percent earlier today as six
protesters died overnight in demonstrations in Egypt, prompting
concern that unrest may spread to other parts of the Middle East
and disrupt supplies. Clashes broke out between anti-government
groups and supporters of President Hosni Mubarak in Cairo.  “The longer this goes on, the more it could continue to
inspire protest movements in other countries,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in St. Louis. “If you’re in  Jordan , Lebanon or Saudi
Arabia, the longer that goes on, the more you may be thinking,
‘Maybe we should do that here, too.’”  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, is
“perfectly unstable,” like  Egypt , said Nassim Taleb, author of
“The Black Swan,” and a principal at Universa Investments LP.
His book, a 2007 bestseller, argued that history is littered
with rare events that can’t be predicted by trends.  “A perfectly fragile country is a country, say like
Egypt” before “the recent events, where there is no variation
and then -- puff -- you got a crisis and it’s mayhem,” Taleb, a
New York University professor, told a conference in Moscow
hosted by Troika Dialog. “So Egypt is perfectly unstable, Saudi
Arabia, countries like that.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 622,569
contracts as of 3:09 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 798,486
contracts yesterday, 14 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.54 million contracts, the
highest level since November 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 