-- Cyclone Yasi Slams Into Australia, Ripping Apart Houses Before Weakening
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-03T04:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/cyclone-yasi-slams-into-australia-ripping-apart-houses-before-weakening.html
Tropical Cyclone Yasi slammed into  Australia ’s northeast coast early today with winds stronger than  Hurricane Katrina , ripping apart houses and cutting a swath
through sugarcane crops, though no deaths have been reported.  Yasi hit shore as a Category 5 cyclone at Mission Beach, a
resort town of about 3,000 people 1,500 kilometers (932 miles)
north of Brisbane, the  Bureau of Meteorology  said. The death and
destruction authorities had feared was minimized as the larger
cities of Cairns and Townsville escaped the brunt of the storm.  The cyclone, the first Category 5 to strike Queensland
since 1918, is the latest natural disaster to batter the state
during the southern hemisphere’s summer. Two months of rain and
flooding have left 35 people dead, disrupted coal mining and
left a cleanup tab of at least A$5.6 billion ($5.66 billion.)  “We have, I think, never seen such a rolling series of
significant natural disasters,” Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh 
told reporters in Brisbane today in a media conference broadcast
on Sky News, adding that Yasi had so far missed major towns.
“Many in north Queensland will be breathing a sigh of relief.”  Insurance stocks rose after early indications the damage
may be less than forecast. Suncorp Group Ltd., Australia’s
second-biggest insurer, rose 2.7 percent to A$8.43 at 2:24 p.m.
Sydney time on the Australian stock exchange.  Insurance
Australia Group Ltd ., the third-biggest, rose 3 percent.  Cyclone Downgrade  The cyclone battered communities along Queensland’s
northeast coast with wind gusts of as much as 290 kilometers an
hour, the Bureau of Meteorology said. Yasi has been downgraded
to a Category 2 storm and continues to weaken as it moves
inland, the bureau said.  Some 178,000 people have lost power, schools and airports
are closed and military forces were used to airlift 200 hospital
patients to the state capital of  Brisbane . Some 10,680 people
are being sheltered in more than 20 evacuation centers along the
coast to avoid a  storm surge  that is forecast to trigger
flooding, Bligh said.  Emergency crews are cutting their way into communities to
assess the damage and people were urged to stay in evacuation
centers. The worst affected towns were Tully, where one-third of
homes and 20 percent of businesses have been damaged, Mission
Beach, Cardwell, Silkwood and Innisfail, Bligh said.  “It was an incredible howling wind,” Andre Lihou, a
backpacker from New Zealand staying in Innisfail, said in a
phone interview. “We had to stay barricaded in a concrete room
and today the damage is pretty severe, with trees down, roads
flooded and  power lines  collapsed.”  Sugar Gains  Sugar futures surged to a 30-year high in  London  as
producer group Canegrowers said the harvest in Australia, the
world’s third-largest exporter, could be severely cut by Yasi.
Ninety-two percent of the crop is grown in Queensland, most in
areas hit by the cyclone, the  National Farmers’ Federation  said.  “Hills have been stripped of vegetation and I have a power
line lying on the ground right outside the window,” said Rhonda
Murdoch, owner of Montage Beach Apartments at Mission Beach.
“The wind was roaring, whistling and we could hear crashing
outside. It looks like a war zone.”  Queensland contributes about 19 percent of Australia’s
economic output, producing 80 percent of the country’s coking
coal, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last month. Mines, ports and
rail lines were shut as the cyclone headed inland. Xstrata Plc
closed its Newlands coal mine, Minmetal Resources Ltd.’s MMG
unit shut down the Century zinc mine and QR National said two
coal railway networks remained closed.  New Orleans  The cyclone will last as long as three days and may still
be a Category 1 storm, defined by winds of up to 125 kilometers
an hour, by tomorrow, when it could reach the mining town of Mt.
Isa, about 900 kilometers inland, Bligh said. The core will take
four hours to pass, according to the weather bureau.  Yasi is more severe than Category 4 Cyclone Larry, which
wiped out most of Australia’s banana crop and devastated sugar
cane fields almost five years ago. It packed winds stronger than
 Hurricane Katrina , which hit  New Orleans  in Aug. 2005. Katrina
had winds of as much as 280 kilometers an hour and storm surges
that broke levees and flood walls, flooding low-lying areas.  “This was terrifying, much worse than Larry,” said
Nicholas Pervan, who has 52 people staying at his Codge Lodge
Backpackers Resort in Innisfail. “Everyone’s well and accounted
for, but we’re all a bit shaken.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who has provided help to
Queensland from the nation’s military, said Yasi is the worst
cyclone Australia has seen, and is one of “savagery and
intensity.”  Fleeing Tourists  All but one of the designated evacuation centers in Cairns
are now full and turning away late arrivals, the municipal
government reported on its  website . The city of more than
120,000 people, about 1,700 kilometers north of Brisbane, is a
tourist destination and gateway to the Great Barrier Reef.  Some 178,000 homes were left without power, Ergon Energy
said in a posting on its Facebook page. The majority of those
hit by the outage are in the Townsville and Ingham area, the
Queensland-government owned utility said in the posting.  Tourists in Cairns, the Whitsundays and Townsville, popular
centers for cruises to the Great Barrier Reef, rushed to board
flights late yesterday before airports closed.  Banana plantations in Queensland, which account for 85
percent of national production, face “catastrophic” losses
while a fifth of the state’s A$3.3 billion cattle herd may be
wiped out, the farmer’s federation said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The last Category 5 cyclone to strike the Queensland coast
was in 1918, Bligh said. Cyclone Larry crossed near Innisfail in
2006, causing an estimated A$500 million of damage to
infrastructure and crops, damaging about 10,000 homes and
disrupting road and rail access for several days, the weather
bureau said on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  