-- Daiwa House to Revive REIT Listing Plan as Japan Property Market Recovers
-- B y   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2011-02-03T08:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/daiwa-house-to-revive-reit-listing-plan-as-japan-property-market-recovers.html
Daiwa House Industry Co., Japan’s
biggest homebuilder, aims to revive plans to sell shares in its
real estate investment trust next year as it seeks to expand its
investment operations.  The trust, known as a REIT, will invest in commercial
buildings and warehouses, Takeshi Kousokabe, director and senior
executive officer, said in an interview in  Osaka  today. Daiwa
House aims to have as much as 200 billion yen ($2.4 billion)
worth of properties at the time of the debut, and eventually
increase the value up to 500 billion yen, he said.  Daiwa House, which had sought to list the trust in 2008,
aims to tap a recovery in the nation’s property market that may
be spurred by the  Bank of Japan ’s 50 billion yen REIT-buying
program. The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index, which has lost
more than half its value since a peak in 2007, has gained 15
percent since the central bank’s announcement in October.  “We will make necessary preparations for the plan by
April, aiming to list next year,” said Kousokabe. “We think
the timing is good” as REIT prices are rising right now.  Daiwa House shares fell 1.5 percent to 1,005 yen at the 3
p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, bringing its gains this
year to 0.7 percent.  Revival  The firm canceled the REIT listing plan in June 2008,
citing market conditions, as the global credit crisis undermined
confidence in trusts that rely on borrowings to fund property
investments. Four companies, including Haseko Corp. and American
International Group Inc., withdrew planned REIT share sales in
2007 and 2008, according to  IB Research & Consulting Inc.   A total of 35 REITs are included in the Tokyo Stock
Exchange REIT Index, with no new listing since 2007. Tokyu Land
Corp., Japan’s fourth-largest developer, last month said it also
plans to start a REIT next year.  Daiwa House has a 73.5 percent stake in Daiwa House
Morimoto Asset Management Co., an asset-management unit of BLife
Investment Corp., a REIT listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japanese REITs may double property purchases in the next
fiscal year to 1 trillion yen, from as much as 600 billion yen
during the year ending March, according to Masahiro Mochizuki, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Ltd. The
central bank’s economic stimulus will create an environment
where developers can raise capital more easily for property
acquisitions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  