-- Daley's Talk of Turmoil in Egypt Returns Him to Chicago Violence of 1968
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-02-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/daley-s-talk-of-turmoil-in-egypt-returns-him-to-chicago-violence-of-1968.html
White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  was discussing the Egyptian uprising -- massive protests,
police in the streets -- and thought he had captured the impact
of it well when he said, “The world will be watching.”  Then, chuckling, Daley caught himself as his mind raced
back to 1968, when “the whole world is watching” was an anthem
of antiwar demonstrators clashing with police when his father,  Richard J. Daley , was mayor of Chicago.  “I think there’s a, you know, the world will be watching,
which is a little phrase that someone once used,” Daley said.
“Anyway, for those who don’t remember that phrase, that came
from the late '60s.”  “The whole world was watching,” he added. “The whole
world will be watching this election, OK?”  The president’s top aide went on during a Bloomberg
Breakfast in  Washington  yesterday to mention the use of tear gas
and fire hoses in Egypt and again stopped short, acknowledging
the parallel with another time of turmoil in the U.S.  Daley, 63, chairman of JPMorgan’s Midwest Banking division
and a former Commerce Department secretary before returning to
Washington this year to serve as President Barack Obama’s top
aide, laughed again as he dredged up another image from violence
in Chicago’s Grant Park during the Democratic National
Convention that nominated Hubert H. Humphrey for the presidency.  In the White House, Daley replaced fellow Chicagoan  Rahm Emanuel , now a candidate favored in the race to replace Daley’s
brother,  Richard M. Daley , as mayor of  Chicago . The current
chief of staff said he hears from his predecessor with a
surprising frequency.  “I got a lot of advice from -- I mean, everybody gets
advice -- from Rahm,” Daley said. “It’s amazing. I’m like,
’Aren’t you running for mayor? Don’t you have anything else to
do? Go out and shovel some snow or something.’”  Asked how he could perform his job differently from
Emanuel, Daley said, “Our styles are just different, you know,
the sort of people, Rahm and me. You know, it’s Rahm very much
needed to do it all. And I don’t have such a need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 