-- Dallas Fed's Fisher Says He Won't Support Further Asset Buying After June
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2011-02-03T18:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/dallas-fed-s-fisher-says-he-won-t-support-further-asset-buying-after-june.html
Richard W. Fisher, president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas , said he isn’t inclined to
support further quantitative easing after the central bank
completes its purchase of $600 billion in Treasuries in June.  “You can never say never, but I cannot imagine a
convincing argument for further quantitative easing after this
round, given what is developing now in the economy,” the 61-
year-old regional bank chief said today on Bloomberg Radio’s
“The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays .  Fisher said he regards the Fed’s asset-purchase plan as a
“fait accompli” and that he wouldn’t have supported it if he
had a vote last year. Before the Fed’s most recent meeting in
January, the Dallas president criticized the second round of
large-scale purchases, saying it may be “the wrong medicine”
for the  U.S. economy .  Recent economic data suggest the recovery will strengthen
this year, with  consumer spending  rising and manufacturing
unexpectedly accelerating last month.  “Given the way the economy is going now, and this is me
speaking just for myself, I would not be supportive of any
further quantitative easing,” Fisher said in the radio
interview. The regional bank chief became a voting member of the
policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  again this year.  The jobless rate for January was probably 9.5 percent, the
median estimate of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Unemployment figures will be released tomorrow. The jobless rate
has remained above 9 percent for 20 straight months.  Largest Economy  The world’s largest economy accelerated in the fourth
quarter of 2010 at a 3.2 percent annual rate, as consumer
spending climbed by the most in more than four years, Commerce
Department figures showed Jan. 28. For all of 2010, the economy
expanded 2.9 percent, the biggest gain in five years, after
shrinking 2.6 percent in 2009.  The expansion is moving “at a rate that has been
insufficient to bring about a significant improvement in labor
market conditions,” the Federal Open Market Committee said
after its two-day meeting in  Washington .  Fisher, a former money manager and deputy U.S. trade
representative, has been president of the Dallas Fed since 2005.  During the interview, Fisher responded to questions about
the deficit and possibility that the U.S.’s debt ceiling may not
be raised.  “I do not foresee America reneging on its obligations to
its investors and its securities,” yet the U.S. risks losing
its AAA debt rating “if we don’t get our act together,” he
said. There has been a “flight to quality” to the U.S. and a
“rush back to the dollar,” yet “if we do not correct our
situation, we will go the path of what happens to old horses in
the glue factory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  