-- Defaulting Folk Art Museum Says It Won’t Sell Works to Pay Debt
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2011-02-03T05:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/defaulting-american-folk-art-museum-says-it-won-t-sell-works-to-pay-debt.html
The  American Folk Art Museum  won’t
sell its collection to pay interest on $31.9 million it borrowed
to construct a new building, after defaulting on payments in
July 2009, the institution’s director said.  The museum, down the block from the Museum of  Modern Art ,
will sell art only “to purchase for the collection,” Executive
Director Maria Ann Conelli said in an interview, adding that she
expects to have a balanced budget for the fiscal year ending
June 30. “We’ve been hitting our target every single month.”  The Manhattan institution has missed a total of $3.7
million in payments to a debt service fund for the new premises,
a Jan. 5 filing to bondholders said. Total missed payments are
up by about $2 million in the past year -- averaging $7,700 each
weekday.  Acclaimed exhibits -- such as “Women Only: Folk Art by
Female Hands” featuring paintings, drawings and quilts --
failed to attract the attendance and revenue levels projected in
2000. Last month’s filing said the museum doesn’t expect to make
payments into the fund “for the foreseeable future.”  “We are planning our way out of this,” said Conelli,
declining to elaborate.  Holders of the tax-exempt bonds -- issued a decade ago by
the  New York City Trust for Cultural Resources , a public benefit
body -- have been paid on time. Insurer ACA Financial Guarantee
Corp. recently deposited $853,425 into the fund, according to
the filing, enabling bondholders to be paid interest due last
month. An ACA spokesman declined to comment.  Old Headache  Financial headaches at the museum date back at least to the
early 1970s. With the museum short of funds, “the financial
strain on the institution was intense,” according to a 2001
essay by former director Gerard C. Wertkin.  It then considered selling its collection at auction and
eventually kept its most important works and sold less
significant ones.  “The controversy focused attention on the needs of the
institution, and generous friends rallied to the cause,”
Wertkin wrote.  While patron and Chairman Emeritus Ralph Esmerian recently
hit tough times -- the jeweler was charged in November with bank
fraud and other crimes -- the museum has other prominent fans.
Laura Parsons, wife of Citigroup Inc. Chairman Richard Parsons,
is president of the board.  Wal-Mart Heiress  Conelli said she’s been in touch with Alice Walton, the
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. heiress and American art collector.  “I am always in conversation with potential donors,” she
said. “I had the pleasure of taking her through the museum
several times.”   Walton didn’t return a call seeking comment.  A forbearance agreement with ACA expires on June 30, a week
after the museum turns 50. In the filing, the museum said it
intends to “resolve the situation created by its inability to
service the bonds” by cooperating with ACA and “other parties
in interest.”  The  New York  Observer  reported  earlier on the museum’s
latest financial disclosure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 