-- Defamation Lawsuit Against Clemens May Proceed, Ex-Trainer's Lawyer Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2011-02-03T20:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/defamation-lawsuit-against-clemens-may-proceed-ex-trainer-s-lawyer-says.html
Former Major League Baseball pitcher
Roger Clemens must face a lawsuit by his onetime trainer  Brian McNamee , who claims he was defamed when Clemens called him a
liar, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. in  Brooklyn , New
York, while dismissing other allegations of McNamee’s complaint,
ruled the case can proceed on the defamation claim involving
Clemens’s alleged use of performance-enhancing steroids,
according to a decision filed today.  “If McNamee’s allegations are proven, Clemens will have
knowingly lied when he called McNamee a liar and his statements
defamatory,” Johnson wrote. “These statements impugning his
integrity can form the basis of a defamation action.”  Clemens, 48, was indicted by a federal grand jury in  Washington  on charges that he lied to Congress in denying he
used steroids and human growth hormone. He pleaded not guilty
and is scheduled for trial on July 6.  The ruling is “a clean-sweep victory for us,” Richard Emery, a lawyer for McNamee, said after a court hearing.  Joe Roden, a lawyer for Clemens, called Emery’s remarks
about the ruling “pure spin” because the judge dismissed two
of the three claims against Clemens.  ‘Case Dismissed’  “He just had the vast majority of the case dismissed,”
Roden said in a phone interview. “We are very pleased with the
court’s ruling.”  Clemens had asked Johnson to throw out the entire suit,
which claims that Clemens defamed McNamee by saying the trainer
lied when he told investigators Clemens used steroids. McNamee
also accused Clemens of malicious prosecution and intentional
infliction of emotional distress, claims the judge dismissed.  The trial in the defamation case will take place after the
criminal trial, Emery said.  Johnson said the defamation claim could also proceed based
on Clemens’s allegation that McNamee manufactured evidence.
Other statements, including those McNamee said accused him of
having a mental disorder, can’t be the basis for the defamation
claim, the judge ruled.  The defamation case is McNamee v. Clemens, 09-1647, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 