-- Denmark’s Biggest Pension Fund ATP Says EFSF Bonds Are Too Risky
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2011-02-03T06:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/denmark-s-biggest-pension-fund-says-eu-bailout-bonds-are-too-risky-to-buy.html
Denmark’s biggest pension fund ATP
probably won’t invest in top-rated bonds sold by  Europe ’s rescue
fund as it deems the securities to be too risky, said Henrik Gade Jepsen, the fund’s chief investment officer.  “We didn’t participate” in last week’s inaugural sale of
the bonds by the European Financial Stability Facility, Jepsen
said yesterday in an interview in Copenhagen. “We really want
the safest bonds in our portfolio. It’s very important for us
that our  government bonds  are really safe.”  The EFSF last week received bids worth almost nine times
the 5 billion euros ($6.9 billion) of AAA-rated five-year notes
on offer, with Asian investors taking 38 percent of the
securities. The fund will use the proceeds of the sale to help
pay for Ireland’s emergency loan. The facility may issue 10-year
bonds next quarter after its first sale went “really well,”
said Carl Heinz Daube, head of  Germany ’s Federal Finance Agency,
in an interview yesterday.  The securities, backed by euro-region government
guarantees, priced at a yield of 2.89 percent, or 57 basis
points more than similar-maturity German yields.  ATP had 157.3 billion kroner ($29.1 billion) invested in
government bonds at the end of 2010, when the fund held mostly
Danish and German debt as well as some French bonds, according
to its fourth-quarter report published yesterday. The portfolio
returned 4.1 percent last year, it said. ATP’s total investment
portfolio was $76.3 billion at the end of 2010.  Main Diversifier  “We see government bonds as the main diversifier against
equities in our portfolio,” Jepsen said. “If we include bonds
from  Greece  or other peripheral countries, they tend to behave
as equities when things go bad.”  European leaders are trying to persuade investors their
efforts to reduce borrowing costs for the region’s most indebted
nations won’t dilute credit markets in the euro area’s top-rated
members. Germany yesterday ruled out allowing the EFSF to fund
bond buybacks from debt-strapped governments.  A German government official briefing reporters before a
Feb. 4 European Union summit said the 440 billion-euro ($607
billion) EFSF lacks the legal authority to purchase the
outstanding debt to ease finances of countries including Greece.
European officials have said such measures are being considered
as part of a revamped crisis strategy.  Crucial for Progress  European heads of state meet in March for a summit that
will be “crucial for progressing the European debt crisis and
in getting to resolve it in a systematic fashion,”  Bill O’Neill , chief investment officer for Europe, the Middle East
and  Africa  at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, said in an
interview on Jan. 24.  The euro has gained 6 percent against the dollar since a
Jan. 6 low as Europe’s leaders persuade investors they have the
political will to keep the single currency bloc intact.  Still, 59 percent of investors who responded to a Bloomberg
Global Poll published Jan. 26 said they expect that at least one
nation will leave the euro area within five years. Eleven
percent predict an exit of one of the bloc’s most indebted
members within 12 months, the poll showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 