-- Deutsche Bank Investment Banking Profit Rises on Trading Revenue
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 2011-02-03T09:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/deutsche-bank-investment-banking-profit-rises-on-trading-revenue.html
  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, said higher revenue from fixed-income and equities trading
lifted fourth-quarter earnings at its investment bank.  Pretax profit at the division rose to 625 million euros
($862 million) from 398 million euros in the year-earlier
period, according to a  statement  today. Revenue from sales and
trading climbed 30 percent to 2.44 billion euros, helped by a
rebound in asset values, the Frankfurt-based company said.  The German bank’s trading result compares with an 8 percent
decline on average at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., Citigroup Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Anshu Jain, sole head
of Deutsche Bank’s corporate and investment bank since July
2010, is trying to increase cooperation between the trading,
finance and transaction units to boost earnings.  “Deutsche Bank performed better than many of its U.S. peers
in sales and trading,” said Andreas Plaesier, a Hamburg-based
analyst at M.M. Warburg who recommends buying the shares. “It
has been winning market share since the financial crisis.”  Deutsche Bank shares rose 2 percent to 45.32 euros as of
10:35 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. They have rallied 16 percent
this year, valuing the company at about 42 billion euros. The
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of 48
companies has climbed 12 percent in the period.  Deutsche Bank already reported net income and revenue in a
preliminary statement on Jan. 31.  Net Income, Revenue  Fourth-quarter profit fell 54 percent to 601 million euros,
missing analysts’ estimates, on costs tied to the acquisitions
of  Deutsche Postbank AG  and Sal. Oppenheim Group and changes at
the corporate and investment bank, the company said today.
Revenue climbed 34 percent to 7.43 billion euros, beating
projections, while non-interest expenses increased by 50 percent
to 6.31 billion euros.  Rising expenses included acquisition-related costs of 750
million euros and higher severance payments, the lender said.  “We expect that Deutsche Bank is doing its best to cut
costs in the investment bank to prepare for a harsher operating
environment in the years to come,”  Peter Thorne , a London-based
analyst at Helvea Ltd., said in a Feb. 1 note. The fixed income,
currencies and commodities business “for structural and
regulatory reasons is in decline at the moment and the smart
banks are adjusting before rather than after,” he said.  Postbank, Sal. Oppenheim  Deutsche Bank, led by Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , 62, bought consumer lender Postbank and private-
wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim last year to reduce dependence on  investment banking . The company today reiterated a target to
double pretax profit at its operating businesses to 10 billion
euros this year from 2009 levels.  Analysts remain skeptical Deutsche Bank can reach the 10
billion-euro goal and forecast 2011 pretax profit of 8.4 billion
euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Naturally, we are well aware that we will again have many
challenges to face and imponderables to consider this year,”
Ackermann said in a speech in Frankfurt today. “But one thing
is certain: Barring unforeseen major obstacles, we will be able
to build on last year’s hard work and draw on the momentum from
our successes to achieve our target.”  Risks include regulation, slowing global economic growth,
the sovereign-debt crisis, geopolitical risks, rising energy and
commodity prices as well as overheating in some emerging-market
economies, according to Ackermann.  Dividend  Deutsche Bank plans to pay a dividend of 75 cents for 2010,
unchanged from the previous year, with the CEO saying the firm
will maintain its “disciplined  capital management ” and “pay
an appropriate dividend.” He also said he sees “significant
upside potential” in the lender’s share price.  Deutsche Bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, was 12.3 percent at the end of December,
compared with 12.6 percent at the end of 2009. Regulators from
27 nations last year agreed to more than double  capital
requirements  for banks to help avert future financial crises.  Fourth-quarter revenue from debt sales and trading gained
26 percent to 1.57 billion euros, helped by foreign-exchange and
money markets revenue as well as writeups of 202 million euros,
following year-earlier writedowns. Equities trading revenue rose
37 percent to 872 million euros.  Banker Pay  The company increased the total amount it set aside to pay
its 15,943 corporate and investment banking employees for 2010
by 17 percent to 5.94 billion euros from a year earlier.  Pretax profit at the retail-banking unit, run by  Rainer Neske , climbed almost fivefold to 222 million euros, helped by
Postbank. The asset and wealth management unit posted a pretax
loss of 36 million euros after a 325 million-euro profit in the
year-earlier period. Earnings from transaction banking decreased
48 percent to 94 million euros.  Sal. Oppenheim may break even this year after restructuring
and should contribute 100 million euros to 150 million euros in
pretax profit from 2014, Ackermann said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jann Bettinga at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  