-- Dollar Trades Near Four-Day High Versus Euro Before Jobs Report
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2011-02-04T12:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/dollar-holds-two-day-gain-versus-euro-before-payrolls-report-eu-summit.html
The dollar was near its highest level
in four days versus the euro before a U.S. government report
that economists said will show employers added the most jobs in
three months in January.    Canada ’s dollar rose against all of its major counterparts
after a report showed employers added four times the jobs
forecast. The greenback posted its biggest advance in 10 weeks
against the common currency yesterday as traders pared bets on
European Central Bank interest-rate increases this year.
European Union leaders meet today to attempt to resolve their
differences on a solution to the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “Markets are hoping that we will get a reasonably positive
payrolls number,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in London. “There’s a degree of positivity already priced in.
We would need to see a big figure with significant back
revisions” for the dollar to extend yesterday’s gains, he said.  The U.S. currency was little changed at $1.3633 per euro at
7:41 a.m. in  New York , compared with $1.3634 yesterday, when it
rallied 1.3 percent, the most since Nov. 23. The greenback was
headed for a 0.2 percent weekly decline against its European
peer. The dollar traded at 81.65 yen, compared with 81.63. The
euro was at 111.28 yen, compared with 111.29, after sliding 1.2
percent versus the Japanese currency yesterday.  Canada’s dollar rose versus the greenback as  Statistics
Canada  reported that Employment rose by 69,200 last month after
an increase of 22,000 in December. The median forecast of 26
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for 15,000 new jobs.
The jobless rate rose to 7.8 percent.  Canada’s Dollar  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 98.61 cents
per  U.S. dollar , from 99.11 yesterday. The loonie advanced 0.6
percent to 82.82 yen.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls likely increased by 146,000 in
January after climbing by 103,000 in the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 85 analysts before
today’s Labor Department report. The jobless rate probably rose
to 9.5 percent from 9.4 percent, a separate survey showed.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S.
non-manufacturing businesses released yesterday showed service
industries expanded in January at the fastest pace since August
2005, indicating the economic recovery is broadening.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday in
a Washington speech that the U.S. needs to see faster job growth
for a sufficient time before policy makers can be assured the
recovery has taken hold.  Bernanke on Economy  “With output growth likely to be moderate for a while and
with employers reportedly still reluctant to add to their
payrolls, it will be several years before the  unemployment rate 
has returned to a more normal level,” Bernanke said.  The Fed chairman gave no indication whether he’ll maintain
or adjust monetary stimulus after the U.S. central bank finishes
in June a program of asset buying, known as quantitative easing,
aimed at boosting the economy.  The euro headed for a second weekly decline versus the yen
before EU leaders meet in Brussels to try to narrow differences
on a strategy to end the region’s financial crisis. Germany and  France , the euro region’s two leading economic powers, are at
odds over possible bond buybacks and a “competitiveness pact”
that is German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s condition for
strengthening the safety net for debt-strapped countries.  “Until those steps are officially announced, the market
remains in a state of limbo,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “I still think the sovereign-debt problem remains
elevated in the euro zone, which remains a weight on the euro.
The stage could now be set for a modest dollar rebound.”  ECB Inflation View  Inflation has been prompted “mainly” by rising energy and
commodity costs, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday, dimming the prospect of an increase in rates. Those
factors have “not so far affected our assessment that price
developments will remain in line with  price stability  over the
policy-relevant horizon,” he said.  The pound headed for weekly gains against the euro and the
dollar as a report showed  house prices  rose in January, adding
to signs the  Bank of England  may have room to raise  interest
rates  this year. Home values rose 0.8 percent to 164,173 pounds
($265,336) from the previous month, Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s
mortgage unit said in a statement today.  “All the data this week has been pretty strong,” said
Paul Bednarczyk, a strategist in London at 4Cast Ltd., a
research company that counts central banks among its
subscribers. “There’s a lot more talk of an interest rate
hike,” as early as May.  Pound’s Weekly Gain  Sterling slipped 0.2 percent to $1.6105 against the dollar
today, trimming its weekly advance to 1.5 percent. The pound was
at 84.67 pence per euro, heading for a 1.4 percent gain over the
past five days.  The Aussie gained versus the dollar after the  Reserve Bank 
boosted its annual growth forecast for 2011 to 4.25 percent from
a November prediction of 3.75 percent. Consumer prices will
increase 3 percent this year, from a previous estimate of 2.75
percent, policy makers said.    Australia ’s currency climbed to $1.0195, the strongest
level since Jan. 3, before trading at $1.0173, compared with
$1.0153 yesterday. The currency has advanced 2.4 percent against
the greenback this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  