-- Dow Earnings Top Estimates on Chemicals, Plastics
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2011-02-03T15:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/dow-profit-rises-more-than-estimated-on-chemicals-plastics.html
  Dow Chemical Co ., the largest U.S.
chemical maker, posted fourth-quarter earnings that rose more
than analysts estimated amid increasing profit from caustic soda
and plastics.  Net income almost tripled to $511 million, or 37 cents a
share, from $172 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier, Midland,
Michigan-based Dow said today in a statement. Profit excluding
one-time items, which include asset-impairment and integration
costs, was 47 cents a share, topping the 35-cent average
estimate of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer Andrew Liveris is expanding in
developing markets even as Dow’s U.S. plants benefit from low
natural-gas prices relative to oil. Profit in the basic-
chemicals unit jumped eightfold to $173 million on rising prices
for chlorine and caustic soda, known collectively as chlor-
alkali. Plastics earnings gained 40 percent to $765 million.  “We expect growth will continue, driven by a broad range
of leading end-markets in emerging geographies such as  China ,  India , Eastern  Europe  and  Brazil ,” Liveris said in the
statement. “The world continues to recover to pre-recession
levels.”  Dow increased 10 cents to $36.74 at 9:52 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares gained 33 percent
in the 12 months before today.  ‘Strong Volume’  Revenue rose 10 percent to $13.8 billion from $12.5
billion. The average of 11 analysts’ estimates in the survey was
for sales of $12.5 billion. Excluding divested units, sales
volumes gained 12 percent and average prices for Dow’s products
advanced 10 percent. Sales to emerging markets climbed 19
percent to a record $4.5 billion, said Rebecca Bentley, a
company spokeswoman.  “It was a very clean beat coming from the basics and
performance businesses and supported by strong volume growth led
by the emerging markets,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based
analyst at Alembic Global Advisors who recommends buying the
shares, said in a telephone interview. “They had substantial
margin expansion across all segments.”  Dow generated $1.8 billion in cash from operations during
the quarter, ending 2010 with $7.04 billion in cash and cash
equivalents. Net debt fell to 42.6 percent of Dow’s market
capitalization, beating the company’s year-end goal of 45
percent, Dow said.  ‘Optimism’  Liveris said signs of improvement in North American and
European business-to-business markets give him “optimism” that
growth in developed markets will continue.  “With inflation concerns in emerging geographies,
lingering unemployment issues in the U.S. and sovereign debt
issues in Europe, we remain prepared for a reversal in
momentum,” he said.  Profit margins expanded on average by more than 2
percentage points, driven by price gains for basic plastics such
as polyethylene and demand for products made by the performance
units, including insulation, auto parts, epoxy and lubricants,
Dow said.  Chlor-alkali prices rose 20 percent, driven by improving
demand from alumina and pulp-and-paper makers for caustic soda,
which is made in tandem with chlorine, used to make vinyl
products such as siding and PVC pipe. PVC exports made up for
“continued weakness” in domestic construction markets, Dow
said.  For the full year, net income more than tripled to $2.31
billion, or $1.72 a share, from $648 million, or 32 cents, a
year earlier. Sales rose 20 percent to $53.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in  New York  at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 