-- Egyptians Detain Reporters as Clashes Turn Violent
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-02-03T23:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/egyptian-forces-detain-reporters-as-clashes-in-cairo-square-turn-violent.html
Egyptian security forces detained
journalists as fighting broke out again today in Cairo’s Tahrir
Square, where the army set up a barrier after more than 800
people were injured in yesterday’s clashes.  Supporters of President  Hosni Mubarak  stormed hotels in the
capital searching for journalists, Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya
television channels reported today. Many members of the foreign
press have been staying in  hotels  near Tahrir Square, a focal
point for nine consecutive days of protests aimed at forcing
Mubarak to resign.  “This is a dark day for  Egypt  and a dark day for
journalism,” Joel Simon, director of the New York-based
Committee to Protect Journalists, said in statement. His group
has documented “systematic and sustained attacks” that “leave
no doubt that a government-orchestrated effort to target the
media and suppress the news is well underway,” he said.  Egypt has sought to curb the flow of information since
rallies began. Authorities on Jan. 29 cut off access to the
Internet for five days, and mobile services were down for at
least two.  Al Jazeera  said it had to switch its transmission to
another frequency as its signal on Nilesat was jammed. The U.S.
said it has seen indications that the harassment and detention
of journalists and aid workers were part of an organized
campaign.  Attacks on Journalists  Among those detained and released were reporters for the
New York Times and the  Washington  Post, according to those
newspapers. Employees of Time Warner Inc.’s CNN, ABC World News,
Fox News Channel,  CBS News  and Canada’s state- owned Radio  Canada  are among those who reported being attacked. A Fox
correspondent and producer have been hospitalized, according to
a  list of attacks  assembled by ABC News.  Three France 24 television channel employees have been
detained, the CFDT labor union said. The union urged  France ’s
government to contact Egyptian authorities to seek their
release.  “The regime has decided to target media personnel
physically by unleashing its supporters in an unprecedented
campaign of hatred and violence,” the secretary-general of
Reporters Without Borders, Jean-François Julliard, said in a
statement, titled “All Out Witch Hunt.” They are trying to rid
Cairo of “all journalists working for foreign news media.”  Aid workers have also been targets. Daniel Williams, a
former Bloomberg News reporter who now works for  Human Rights
Watch , has been detained by the security police in Cairo,
according to his group.  U.S. Condemnation  “We condemn in the strongest terms attacks on reporters
covering the ongoing situation in Egypt, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told reporters at the State Department today.  Brazil ’s Foreign Affairs Ministry condemned the imprisonment of
two Brazilian journalists.  The U.S. has evidence that ‘‘elements close to’’ Egypt’s
government or ruling party have played a role in the violent
counter demonstrations in Cairo, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said today.  ‘‘We have traced it to elements close to the government, or
the ruling party,’’ Crowley told reporters in Washington. ‘‘I
don’t know if we have a sense how far up the chain it went.’’  Crowley also said that there are ‘‘strong indications’’ the
attacks on foreign aid workers, human rights advocates and
journalists in Egypt have been centrally directed.  ‘‘These do not seem to be random events,’’ he said. ‘‘There
appear to be an effort to disrupt the ability of journalists to
cover today’s events,’’ Crowley said.  Editors: Ann Hughey, Joe Sobczyk  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  