-- Egypt's Dollar Bonds Rebound From Record Lows as Bill Sales Set to Resume
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r ,   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2011-02-04T17:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/egypt-bonds-rebound-risk-declines-as-bill-sales-set-to-resume.html
Egyptian dollar bonds rebounded from
record lows this week and confidence improved in the nation’s
ability to honor debts as economic growth prospects outweighed
concern protests may destabilize the country.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent bond due in 2020 fell 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 6.452 percent at 7:25
p.m. in Cairo after reaching a peak of 7.2 percent Jan. 31. The
cost of insuring  Egypt ’s debt for five years with credit-default
swaps fell 15 basis points to 364 after hitting 430 on Jan. 28,
the highest since April 2009, CMA prices in London show. The
contracts remain 62 basis points higher than before thousands of
protesters took to the streets Jan. 25 to unseat President  Hosni Mubarak .  “As the week progressed, markets started to react to
events rationally,”  Haissam Arabi , chief executive officer of
Gulfmena Alternative Investments in Dubai, said in an interview
yesterday. “Investors started to realize that this may be a
great bargain-hunting opportunity. The country remains a
domestic growth story.”  Egypt’s international borrowing costs are recovering as the
Arab world’s most-populous nation prepares to resume local debt
auctions and open the stock market for the first time since the
benchmark  EGX 30 Index  sank 16 percent in the week ended Jan.
27. The  International Monetary Fund  estimated before the unrest
began that the country’s economy would expand 5.5 percent in
2011, more than twice the 2.5 percent growth rate the IMF
forecast for developed countries.  Foreign Reserves  The central bank holds about $36 billion in official
foreign-currency reserves, and about $7 billion in its accounts
with local banks, providing resources for authorities “to
furnish liquidity as necessary,” OppenheimerFunds Inc. said in
a Feb. 1 report.  The protests, which have killed about 300 people according
to the United Nations preliminary toll on Feb. 1, pushed down
asset prices in the region as the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index , which
tracks shares in the six nations of the Gulf Cooperation
Council, lost 4.4 percent from Jan. 24 through Feb. 1 and
Israel’s benchmark TA-25 stock index dropped 2.9 percent in the
period. The benchmark index in the Gulf since recovered 1.8
percent and  Israel ’s 0.7 percent.  The Ministry of Finance plans to raise 11 billion pounds
($1.88 billion) next week by selling treasury bills ranging from
91 days to one year. It postponed the sale of  4 billion pounds 
planned for Jan. 30 after raising 2.5 billion pounds on Jan. 27.
The average yields on the sale of 182-day bills jumped 40 basis
points to a one-year high of 10.6 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bourse Re-Opening  Egypt’s bourse will open Feb. 7 for the first time since
Jan. 27, provided banks resume normal operations the previous
day, the state-run Middle East News agency reported yesterday.  Egypt’s three-month non-deliverable pound forwards
strengthened 0.2 percent to 6.325 per dollar today. The
contracts reflect bets the currency will weaken 7.4 percent in
three months from the spot rate of 5.8570.  Supporters of Mubarak clashed in Cairo with demonstrators
demanding an immediate end to the 30-year reign of the president
over the past two days. The political turmoil, which began with
an uprising in  Tunisia  before spreading to Egypt, has continued
to grow, with thousands of pro- and anti-government protesters
gathering in the Yemeni capital of Sana’a yesterday. Jordan
announced a change of government Feb. 1 after protests last
week.  Unrest Spreads  “The fear is that the political situation will worsen and
will affect economic growth of the country and region,” Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head of investment at Royal
Capital PJSC, 44 percent-owned by United Gulf Bank BSC, an
investment bank in Bahrain, said yesterday.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings cut Egypt’s credit ratings to two levels below
investment grade this week.  Egypt has “compelling” economic potential thanks to its
relatively young population and “large cadre” of well-educated
people,  Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton Emerging
Markets Group, said in an e-mailed report yesterday. Mobius said
he retains confident in his investments in the country. His $221
million FTIF Templeton Frontier Markets Fund held 6 percent of
its assets in Egypt at the end of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Global depositary receipts of  Orascom Construction
Industries , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded builder, soared 16
percent in London trading this week. The shares rebounded from a
26 percent slump the previous week.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE ,
the biggest mobile-phone operator in the Middle East by users,
climbed 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 Zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
   delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at +44-20-7673-2467 or
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  