-- Egypt's Messy Change Demands That Obama Act: Michele Dunne
-- B y   M i c h e l e   D u n n e
-- 2011-02-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/egypt-s-messy-change-demands-that-obama-act-commentary-by-michele-dunne.html
As hundreds of thousands of Egyptians
demonstrate to demand democracy, the country’s leaders are still
trying to manage the process from above rather than negotiate a
transition with opposition forces.  President  Hosni Mubarak  has meted out a series of half-
measures so far: appointing a vice president and new cabinet,
saying that he will not stand for election when his present term
ends in September, and promising to carry out some limited
political reforms. These are exactly the kind of top-down,
carefully managed changes that the U.S. has long advocated in
the Middle East.  But the managed reform approach is likely to fail. Limited
political reforms dictated by the Egyptian government, with
minimal consultation with civil society or opposition forces,
would have been welcomed a few years ago. Not now. Demonstrators
and the opposition groups seeking to represent them have tasted
power and will now insist on being part of the decision making.  The difficult question today is who can actually negotiate
this transition? On the government side, Mubarak clearly will be
an unacceptable interlocutor for the opposition. It is unknown
whether newly named Vice President  Omar Suleiman  can do the
task; he seems to have a relatively clean reputation with the
Egyptian public, but many in the opposition object to him
because of his long tenure as director of intelligence.  Opposition groups are calling for all new cabinet members
to be replaced by a national unity government that would include
members of the judiciary and representatives of various
political forces. There is a wide gap to bridge in negotiations
and the details remain unresolved.  Organized Opposition  Opponents of the government are also having difficulty
coming together. An opposition committee includes
representatives from major organized political groups such as
the Muslim Brotherhood, Wafd Party, National Association for
Change, April 6 youth movement, and Ghad Party. And  Mohamed ElBaradei  has stepped forward as someone empowered to speak on
behalf of these groups.  But his role is somewhat contested within the committee and
it is unclear whether this coalition can truly represent or
control the hundreds of thousands of demonstrators now on the
streets in Cairo, Alexandria and other Egyptian cities. Youth
organizations including April 6 initiated the original Jan. 25
demonstration that started the uprising. Now events have
snowballed to the extent that no-one is clearly in control.  Cut Losses  Still, whatever remains of the government -- at a minimum,
the military -- will need to negotiate with someone to get
Egyptians off the streets and back to their homes and jobs. For
now, ElBaradei and his coalition have the best shot at
representing them and translating their demands into a
reasonable agenda.  The government should cut its losses and get down to work
immediately. The longer demonstrators remain in the streets, the
more extreme their demands will become.  The Obama administration has been tepid in its support for
democratization in  Egypt , the most populous Arab country, and
now has to play catch-up.  The U.S. response to the outbreak of protests was initially
inadequate. Some of the rhetoric used by the Obama
administration in the first few days was out of touch with
reality. U.S. officials were essentially saying Egypt was stable
and the government was responding to the demands of its people.
This wasn’t the case.  Then the Obama administration started talking about reform,
but the time for reform was years ago.  Nearing Reality  The U.S. has gradually been improving its rhetoric and
position, and getting closer to reality. It is in a difficult
situation. The Obama administration is concerned that any new
Egyptian leader will be inclined to cool relations with both the
U.S. and  Israel . And Mubarak’s end might further complicate many
American endeavors in the region that are already troubled,
particularly Israeli-Palestinian peacemaking efforts.  On the other hand, the damage to U.S. interests will only
increase if it is seen as propping up Mubarak. The gap between
Mubarak and the Egyptian people, which has been expanding for a
decade, has now grown so wide that it isn’t possible for the
U.S. to stand on both sides. The Obama administration needs to
push for change in Egypt.  The U.S. should encourage a quick and peaceful end to this
crisis and then do what it can to support the establishment of a
new democracy in Egypt.  Is the way forward uncertain and fraught with risks for
Egyptians and the U.S.? Yes, it is. But change -- messy change
from the grassroots up, rather than tidy reforms from the
government down -- is now under way. The U.S. can’t stop it and
would only damage its interests further by trying.  (Michele Dunne is a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace and editor of the online
journal, the Arab Reform Bulletin. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Michele Dunne at  mdunne@ceip.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  