-- Egypt's Tahrir Square Tent-Builders Set to Stay Until Mubarak Goes
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2011-02-10T02:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/egypt-s-opposition-rejects-mubarak-talks-urges-supporters-to-hold-ground.html
Surrounded by tanks and the world’s
television cameras, the protesters on Cairo’s Tahrir Square are
bedding down to secure their place in history.  The groups challenging the three-decade-long rule of
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and his deputy,  Omar Suleiman ,
have built shelters from tarpaulins and made beds from blankets
and clothing as they become accustomed to sleeping outdoors next
to the caterpillar tracks of the military vehicles.  “We will not leave Tahrir until our demands are met,”
said Amr Hassan, 21, a commerce student at Cairo’s  Ain Shams
University . “We will not allow anyone from the previous regime
to stay, not Mubarak, Suleiman, or anyone else.”  Since the Egyptian uprising escalated with the call for a
million demonstrators to gather on Feb. 1, the square has become
the symbol of unrest that has rocked the Middle East as
unemployment and food prices rise. The impasse at  Tahrir  also
may make it tougher for Suleiman and opposition leaders to
settle a revolt that won support in the U.S. and western  Europe .  Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit said it will
take four months to amend the country’s constitution and prepare
for elections scheduled for September when Mubarak’s sixth term
ends. Mubarak, 82, has said he won’t run again.  ‘Open the Way’  “It will be four months until June, and in June, we open
the way for presidential elections,” Aboul Gheit said in an
interview broadcast this morning on Al Arabiya television.  Dozens of tents have sprung up to accommodate the growing
number of men, women and children vowing not to leave Tahrir
until Mubarak quits. Tahrir is the Arab word for liberation and
the square, named in honor of the 1919 revolution against
British occupation, is now home to food vendors, souvenir
salesmen, barbers and at least six medical clinics with
volunteer doctors.  “Occupying Tahrir Square has always signified a  turning
point  in Egyptian history,” Alaa Al-Aswany, 53, author of “The
Yacoubian Building,” said in the square on Jan. 25, the first
day of the protests. “That is why we intend to hold on to this
piece of land until our demands are met, no matter the cost.”  Suleiman, the former intelligence chief who was appointed
vice president by Mubarak on Jan. 29, has been meeting with
representatives of opposition groups in a bid to end the
protests calling on the president to depart immediately.  300 Dead  About 300 people died in clashes between anti- and pro-
government demonstrators and with the authorities. Suleiman, 74,
said this week the dialogue involving some opposition figures is
the only alternative to the “chaos” of regime change.  Tens of thousands of people filled Tahrir on Feb. 8, the
day after the release of Wael Ghonim, a  Google Inc . executive
and an activist. As dusk approached in Cairo, Ghonim stepped on
stage, bringing the crowd to a hush, to declare the protesters
as “heroes” and the dead as “martyrs.”  “We feel overwhelming warmth among people here,” said
Hafez Mohamed, 23, an engineer carrying a flag who yesterday
came to the square for a second day. “Everyone wants to say
‘no’ and when we chant together it looks like a carnival.”  Protesters are calling on Egyptians to demonstrate
throughout the country tomorrow following Friday prayers. Chants
and banners calling for a march to Mubarak’s presidential palace
have been increasing in Tahrir Square.  Economic Malaise  Egypt’s economic malaise has been exacerbated by the
demonstrations, according to the government, which estimated the
flight of tourists in the first nine days of protests cost $1
billion.  Egypt ’s exports dropped by 6 percent in January, state-
run television reported, citing Trade Minister Samiha Fawzy.  Banks reopened some of their branches on Feb. 6 after a
week-long closure while the stock market remains suspended until
Feb. 13. The Egyptian pound lost as much as 2.3 percent against
the dollar since Jan. 24 before recovering after the central
bank intervened. The pound was little changed yesterday at
5.8805 per dollar.  “Where does it end?” said Moutaz Hassan Rasmy, a 36-year-
old limousine manager who was forced to accept a one-third
salary cut to 1,350 pounds ($230) per month. “I agree with the
protesters’ demands but my family is now starting to suffer. I
may be able to get by this month, but what about the next?”  Long lines in front of Tahrir’s makeshift entrances between
the dozens of tanks have become the norm, starting at 4 p.m. as
people file out of their offices. Around the square, vendors
sell Egyptian flags, hats with the red, white and black national
colors and food including kushari, a staple dish consisting of
rice, lentils, chickpeas and macaroni.  ‘A Better Future’  “I come here with my son after work every day,” said
Hossam Moussa, 41, an accountant. “I feel it’s important for
him to see for himself what it takes to build a better future.”  For the demonstrators in Tahrir, and the thousands of
people staging parallel protests in cities including Alexandria,
Suez and Mahalla, maintaining momentum and support from the
likes of Rasmy in the coming weeks could prove critical.  They are becoming more organized by taking shifts in
sleeping, greeting visitors, sharing food, water and blankets
donated by others, and chanting, singing and dancing to keep
warm at night. They search those arriving to maintain security
and urge exiting crowds to come back with their friends.  “The question is not whether Mubarak goes or not -- he’s
pretty much gone,” Bassma Kodmani, executive director of the
 Arab Reform Initiative , said in an e-mailed comment. “If the
street continues to push, we will go quite far in the reforms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  