-- TeliaSonera Profit Beats Estimates Amid Growth in Eurasia; Shares Advance
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2011-02-03T08:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/teliasonera-profit-beats-estimates-amid-growth-in-eurasia-shares-advance.html
  TeliaSonera AB ,  Sweden ’s biggest
phone company, posted fourth-quarter income that beat analyst
estimates and forecast better results for this year on growth in
the Nordic region and Spain.  Net income rose 8.4 percent to 5.31 billion kronor ($825
million), from 4.90 billion kronor a year ago, Stockholm-based
TeliaSonera said in a  statement  today. Revenue slid 2.7 percent
to 26.8 billion kronor, in line with estimates. Analysts had
expected income of 5.21 billion kronor. The company raised its
dividend by 22 percent.  “They’re continuing to deliver on cost cutting, they’re
continuing to deliver growth in Swedish mobile,” said Andrew Hogley, a London-based analyst with Execution Noble.  Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg has improved margins
through cost cuts and aims to pare an additional 800 jobs in
Finland and Sweden. He said next year’s margin for earnings
before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization, excluding
non-recurring items, will improve from this year’s 34.7 percent.  “Looking ahead, we believe revenue growth in local
currencies will be somewhat higher than in 2010,” Nyberg said
in the statement. “This will mainly be driven by mobile data in
the Nordic region, increased market share in  Spain  and higher
mobile penetration in Eurasia.”  Shares rose as much as 3.7 percent in Stockholm trading,
their biggest gain in almost seven months, and were 2.9 percent
higher at 54.70 kronor as of 9:21 a.m.  Dividend Boost  The company raised its dividend to 2.75 kronor a share from
2.25 kronor last year, and said it plans to buy back about 10
billion kronor in shares.  “The dividend was a positive surprise, we were looking for
2.50, as was the street,” said Hogley.  Growth in Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Nepal contributed to
the latest quarter’s gains. Revenue in local currencies
increased 4.2 percent in the fourth quarter.  The company improved profitability in Eurasia, while its
margin narrowed in Finland and  Denmark . The Spanish unit, Yoigo,
reported a 4.8 percent Ebitda margin in the quarter from a loss
a year ago, and now aims for positive  cash flow  by the end of
the year, TeliaSonera said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  