-- English Says Kiwi Poses `Impediment' to Growth, Little Case for 2011 Gains
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2011-02-03T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/english-signals-new-zealand-fiscal-tightening-lessens-need-for-rate-rise.html
  New Zealand ’s finance minister called
a stronger local dollar an “impediment” to export growth and
said it’s difficult to see a case in which the currency advances
further this year.  “What we need to do is ensure that government behavior
isn’t putting upward pressure on interest or exchange rates,”
Bill English, who also serves as deputy prime minister, said in
an interview in Wellington yesterday. Looking at prospects for
the currency known as the kiwi in 2011, he said “it’s hard to
see the general pressures that would push it up.”  Traders yesterday scaled back bets on the  Reserve Bank of
New Zealand  to raise  interest rates  this year after a government
report showed fewer jobs than forecast were generated in the
fourth quarter. The one-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, which is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, tumbled the most seven weeks, to 3.22 percent,
compared with the RBNZ’s benchmark official cash rate of 3
percent.  New Zealand’s dollar has in the past half decade averaged a
rate that’s effectively the strongest in three decades, English
said. It’s traded at a mean of 69.30 U.S. cents over the past
five years, compared with 57.19 cents the previous five.  After his remarks were published, the currency declined,
trading at 77.09 cents as of 6 p.m. in Sydney yesterday. The
kiwi rose about 8 percent last year after a gain of almost 25
percent in 2009.  RBNZ Pressure  English said his government’s steps to shrink a fiscal
deficit should reduce the need for monetary tightening by the
central bank and ease pressure on the  exchange rate .  “We are encouraged by the  Reserve Bank  governor who said a
number of times that if fiscal policy carried more of the load
then monetary policy wouldn’t have to carry as much,” English
said his office, in a wing of the New Zealand parliament known
as the beehive for its appearance.  The jobless rate increased to 6.8 percent from 6.4 percent
three months earlier, raising the risk the economy shrank for a
second straight quarter in October to December, a government
report showed yesterday. The median estimate of 10 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 6.5 percent rate.  “We can’t see a tightening before the September policy
statement meeting and remain alert for the prospect that the
next move in the cash rate could be down,”  Darren Gibbs , chief
New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland, said in
an e-mailed note after the employment report. “Based on the
indicators available to date, we think that the economy probably
contracted 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter.”  Recession Chances  English said it will be up to “statisticians” to decide
whether there was a recession. Growth has been hurt by losses in
construction and retailing jobs as households start to boost
saving, he said.    Warehouse Group Ltd ., the nation’s largest discount
retailer, last month forecast a decline in first-half profit
after sales dropped.  “Consumers clearly remain even more focused than we
predicted on strengthening household balance sheets,” Warehouse
Chief Executive Officer  Ian Morrice  said in a statement.  The move to boost household savings and shrink the public
deficit will help the economy shift away from reliance on
consumers and the government, said English, 49, a former chief
of the ruling party when it was in opposition.  Prime Minister John Key last week pledged to cut new
spending this year, helping return the budget to surplus a year
earlier than previously forecast. The government expects to
achieve a surplus in the year ending June 30, 2015, Key said.  Bollard’s Call  RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard told reporters on Jan. 28 that a
faster elimination of the deficit “means less stimulus in the
economy. And all other things being equal, which they never are,
it means that one would be able to delay monetary policy
tightening longer than would otherwise have been the case.”  New Zealand’s government has weathered the economic
deterioration, with its popularity at 55 percent compared with
the main opposition  Labour Party  at 29 percent, according to a
Roy Morgan Research poll of 1,800 voters last month. Key earlier
this week called a general election for Nov. 26, saying the
campaign will be about which party has a plan for jobs and
income growth.  English indicated the biggest dangers for New Zealand
include a slowdown in  China , house-price bubble bursting in  Australia  or a spreading in the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Commodity ‘Spike’  “Commodity prices are starting to look like a spike,” he
added. “If they can go up as sharply as they have in the last
few months, they can come down.”  Milk prices are soaring at a 7 percent monthly pace on top
of an already “high” level, English said. Dairy products make
up almost a quarter of the nation’s exports and Auckland-based
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. is the world’s largest exporter
of the goods. English also cited crude oil costs approaching
$100 a barrel.  Commenting on wool, English signaled he wouldn’t oppose
higher prices. Asked about an effort by farmers to organize a
cartel, English welcomed the initiative while adding that the
government won’t directly help it.  “In a number of our main export sectors -- being dairy,
meat and wool -- there are tense but constructive discussions
going on about how to commit capital in the right way to take
advantage of the positive opportunities,” said English, who
took office in November 2008. “It’s great that they are working
on that stuff. We encourage it, but we’re not going to direct
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  