-- Tennessee and California Lead States With Highest Sales Taxes, Report Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2011-02-03T23:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/tennessee-and-california-lead-states-with-highest-sales-taxes-report-says.html
  Tennessee , whose residents carry the
fifth-lowest tax burden in the U.S., has the highest average
sales tax in the nation at 9.44 percent.  California, at 9.08 percent, Arizona, 9.01 percent,  Louisiana , 8.69 percent, and Washington, 8.64 percent, make up
the top five in a survey released today by the  Washington , D.C.-
based  Tax Foundation , a group that monitors fiscal policy.  The numbers are based on a combined average of the state
and local sales taxes, according to Kail Padgitt, the
foundation’s staff economist and author of the  report . Thirty-
three states allow localities to charge a local sales tax. The
rates vary by jurisdiction.  Louisiana has the highest average local sales tax rate at
4.69 percent.  California  has the highest state-level rate at
8.25 percent, although 1 percent of that is distributed to local
governments.  California Governor Jerry Brown has proposed extending a
temporary 1 percent increase in the state’s sales tax rate for
five years to help close a $25.4 billion deficit, according to a
 summary  of his plan.  Arizona and Kansas each had 1 percent increases in their
sales taxes last year, Padgitt said in a telephone interview.  “As states hurt for revenue it will put pressure on
localities to raise taxes as well,” he said.  While Tennessee taxes income on dividends and capital
gains, it doesn’t tax wages, Padgitt said.  Tennessee is ranked 45th in terms of net tax-supported debt
per capita, according to Moody’s Investors Service’s 2010 State
Debt Medians Report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  