-- Merck 2011 Forecast Misses; Posts Net Loss on Drug
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2011-02-03T14:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/merck-fourth-quarter-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-2011-forecast-misses.html
Merck & Co., the second largest U.S.
drugmaker, forecast 2011 earnings that missed analyst estimates
and posted a fourth-quarter loss after taking a $1.7 billion
charge to write down its experimental blood thinner.  Merck forecast 2011 profit, excluding certain items, to be
$3.64 to $3.76 a share, missing the $3.81 a share estimate of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The fourth quarter net loss was
$531 million, or 17 cents a share, the  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based company said. The company withdrew its long-term
profit forecast of high single-digit growth through 2013.  Merck’s Kenneth Frazier, who took over as chief executive
officer on Jan. 1, said meeting the company’s 2013 profit
forecast would have required deep cost cuts that limit
investment in research and deals, during a conference call
today. Earlier this month, a study of Merck’s most promising
drug from its 2009 Schering-Plough Corp. purchase, vorapaxar,
was halted after patients suffered strokes.  “Investors are looking for clarification on what
happened,” said  Les Funtleyder , a  fund manager  at Miller Tabak
& Co. in New York. “Revenues and bottom line are fairly
consistent; everybody is watching the pipeline.”  Excluding the vorapaxar charge and other one-time items,
profit was 88 cents a share, beating by 5 cents the average
estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales jumped 20
percent to $12.1 billion from $10.1 billion after the $49
billion acquisition of Schering-Plough in November 2009, led by
sales of diabetes drugs Januvia and Janumet, Singulair for
allergies, and the Isentress AIDS pill.  Shares Fall  Shares of Merck fell $1.25, or 3.7 percent, to $32.57 at
9:33 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has lost 14 percent in the 12 months before today.  Merck is trimming expenses and adding products through
acquisitions and research to replace revenue from drugs facing
competition from generic copies. The company said it’s moving
forward with its plan to cut 15,000 jobs and close facilities to
save $3.5 billion annually by 2012.  “I am not blind to what investors want us to do,” Frazier
said today during a conference call with analysts and investors.
“They want us to invest in prudent ways, in ways that actually
drive return on investment and productivity. But as a company we
believe that the only sustainable strategy in the healthcare
environment that we’re in is real innovation that makes a
difference to patients and payers.”  This is the first quarterly earnings reported by Frazier.
His predecessor, Richard Clark, remains chairman.  Merck Pipeline  Frazier takes over Merck with one of the most promising
arsenals of experimental drugs in the industry, said  Tony Butler , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York, in a Jan. 24
note to clients. Frazier also faces immediate challenges from
the failed blood-thinner trial and an arbitration dispute with
Johnson & Johnson over the Remicade arthritis drug, Merck’s
second-best selling product.  “The key swing factor in 2011, in our view, remains the
arbitration with J&J,” Butler said. “We see 2011 as a
significant pipeline newsflow year for Merck.”  Merck’s forecasts released today anticipate keeping the
company’s full share of rights to Remicade. J&J and Schering-
Plough split proceeds from the drug. J&J has argued that Merck’s
acquisition violated a provision in the Schering-Plough
agreement that would allow J&J to keep all of the drug’s
revenue. Remicade fourth-quarter sales were $710 million.  Vorapaxar Study  Vorapaxar researchers stopped a study of 13,000 patients
who began taking the drug at the onset of a heart attack or
chest pain after a safety board found an increased risk of
bleeding in the brain. A second study, of 26,500 patients who
previously had  heart disease , was stopped for the 25 percent
with a history of stroke, who were determined to also be at
risk.  Merck lost exclusive rights last year to blood-pressure
drugs, Cozaar and Hyzaar, with combined 2009 sales of $3.6
billion. Sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar declined 57 percent to $415
million. That compares with the $410 million average estimate of
two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  In the past quarter, Merck’s hepatitis C drug, boceprevir,
won expedited reviews by regulators in the U.S. and European
Union. A decision by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is
also expected this year on an extended version of the Janumet
diabetes pill, which combines Merck’s Januvia with a generic
drug called metformin.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:  Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 