-- Merck, Pfizer Research Strategies Diverge on Spending
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2011-02-03T21:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/merck-pfizer-strategies-diverge-on-the-value-of-spending-on-drug-research.html
New chief executive officers at Merck
& Co. and  Pfizer Inc ., torn between profit demands of investors
and the long-term funding needs of drug innovation, have chosen
opposing strategies for future investment in research.  Pfizer CEO Ian Read said this week he will cut the
drugmaker’s research budget by a third to $6.5 billion to $7
billion over two years. Merck CEO Kenneth Frazier today
projected spending this year of $8.1 billion to $8.5 billion and
withdrew the company’s long-term profit forecast to prop up
research.  Merck and Pfizer both face generic competition over the
next two years to products with billions in annual sales.
Investors responded on Feb. 1 to Pfizer’s plan by driving up the
stock the most in six months, while U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday called the cuts “depressing.” Merck shares
fell as much as 3.9 percent today.  “I am not blind to what investors want us to do,” Merck’s
Frazier said during a conference call with analysts and
investors today. “They want us to invest in prudent ways, in
ways that actually drive return on investment and productivity.
But as a company we believe that the only sustainable strategy
in the health-care environment that we’re in is real innovation
that makes a difference to patients and payers.”  Cutting Costs  Pfizer, based in New York, and Merck, of  Whitehouse
Station ,  New Jersey , are eliminating thousands of jobs and
closing plants to reduce costs after acquisitions completed in
2009. That’s when Pfizer bought Wyeth for $68 billion and Merck
acquired Schering-Plough Corp. for $49 billion.  Merck, with $46 billion in sales last year, is spending a
higher proportion of its revenue on research than Pfizer, which
generated $67.8 billion in 2010.  “Merck is offering investors a fundamentally different
approach than Pfizer, asking investors to pay for a
substantially higher R&D budget,” said  Marc Goodman , an analyst
with UBS Securities LLC, in a note to clients. “The removal of
the 2013 targets is a key negative for large-cap investors and
we would expect the stock to be off a few percentage points
reflecting more uncertainty.”  Merck fell 92 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $32.90 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has lost 15
percent in the past 12 months. Pfizer rose 21 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $19.17. The stock rose 5.5 percent on Feb. 1, after
the company reported its research plans.  Withdrawing Forecast  “We have to fix our innovative core, and that’s what this
R&D change is about,” Pfizer’s Read told reporters at company
headquarters on Feb. 1. The reductions are part of a plan to
overhaul the company’s research operation to focus on the most-
profitable programs, he said.  “At some point your shareholders and stakeholders demand
you have a return on investment in research,” Read said.
“We’re looking at areas where we think it’s not a competitive
advantage.”  Pfizer’s cholesterol pill Lipitor, the world’s best-selling
drug with $11.4 billion in sales in 2009, began to lose patent
protection against generic copies last year. Merck lost
exclusivity for blood-thinners Cozaar and Hyzaar, with $3.56
billion in sales.  Merck didn’t give any earnings projection beyond 2011.
The company previously anticipated high single-digit profit
growth through 2013.  Pfizer’s Plans  Pfizer plans to spend $8 billion to $8.5 billion this year
and reduced its 2012 research target range by $1.5 billion.  Read also said Pfizer will increasingly outsource business.
The company will close its research hub in the U.K. seacoast
town of Sandwich,  England , where Pfizer developed five of its 20
top drugs, including Viagra, before the purchase of Wyeth.
Pfizer will also shift resources to its facilities in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , from Groton,  Connecticut .  “It is bad news,” U.K. Prime Minister Cameron told
lawmakers during his weekly question-and-answer session in
Parliament in  London  yesterday. “I’ve spoken to them again this
morning. The company has decided to exit some areas of endeavor
altogether, like allergies and some diseases.”  Merck today also took a $1.7 billion charge to write down
an experimental blood thinner called vorapaxar. Earlier this
month, a study of the drug, the most-promising compound from the
Schering-Plough purchase, was halted after patients suffered
strokes. The charge contributed to a fourth-quarter loss of $531
million, or 17 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 