-- EU Law on Stolen CO2 ‘Technically Possible,’ Allen & Overy Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2011-02-03T13:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/eu-law-on-stolen-co2-technically-possible-allen-overy-says.html
A European Union-wide law to deal
with stolen emissions permits is “technically possible”
although unlikely, according to Owen Lomas, a London-based
consultant at Allen & Overy LLP’s global climate change
practice. He was speaking by telephone on Feb. 1.  Transfers of emissions permits may resume tomorrow after
halting on Jan. 19 amid reports of theft and fraud. National
registries are obliged to meet minimum security requirements
before re-opening.  On EU law:  It would be “technically possible” to have European-wide
legislation on dealing with stolen permits “but it’s almost
certainly not going to be a runner.”  “It would mean treating emissions permits in a different
way to other types of property and member states wouldn’t want
that interference in their property laws. The problem is that
the EU has never bothered to define what these permits are.
We’ve never been certain what type of property or ‘thing’ they
are and the fact they haven’t been defined has added to
uncertainty on the issue of entitlement.”  On security of permits:  “My guess is that security will improve, but with that
there will probably continue to be thefts as the hackers get
more sophisticated. Even if the level of security in the
emissions market becomes consistent with other financial
sectors, such as online banking, it’s not that those systems are
perfect, they may be at industry standard but things do still go
wrong. At some point security at registries will be enough to
allow transactions to resume.”  On ownership of stolen permits:  “It’s difficult to predict how long litigation might take
as there may have been a series of transactions that have gone
through several jurisdictions, with potentially conflicting
laws. Effectively the traders holding the stolen allowances when
the music stopped are stuck with something they can’t really
use. Each party is unlikely to settle without a fight because
they’re not going to want to be left out of pocket without first
recovering from the other party with whom they traded. Companies
through which the allowances were bought and sold will sit on
their hands and do nothing unless challenged.”  On registries liability:  “Whether a registry is liable to an account holder for
allowances stolen will depend on the registry rules or terms and
conditions of participation and the nature of any duty of care
owed to by the registry to its account holders. In any event,
the registry may not be at fault if a company was negligent in
not keeping its account details and passwords secure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  