-- Europol Probes Estonian Registry Members for CO2 Fraud
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2011-02-03T13:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/europol-investigating-estonian-suspects-in-theft-of-co2-permits.html
Europol is investigating members of
the Estonian carbon registry as suspects in the disappearance of
emissions permits from Czech account, a senior government
official said.  The police are talking to “more than one and less than
10” private individuals with accounts in the Estonian registry,
and the nation hopes to open its carbon registry at the
beginning of next week after getting permission tomorrow from
the European Union regulator, Allan Gromov, a deputy secretary
general at  Estonia ’s environment ministry, said in a phone
interview from Tallinn today. The opening of the registry is not
linked to the investigation of fraud, he said.  OTE AS, operator of the registry that tracks ownership of
Czech allowances, said 20 million euros ($28 million) of permits
were found in Estonia, Germany and the U.K. The European
Commission, which suspended all 30 registries in the world’s
biggest emissions-trading system on Jan. 19 after a series of
hacking attacks, said registries in  Germany ,  France , Britain,
the Netherland and Slovakia will open tomorrow.  EU member states and Europol are cooperating on
investigating the possible role of organized crime in the theft
of carbon permits, a senior official said Jan. 28.  The suspect accounts in Estonia belong to a Czech and a
Hungarian national, the  Baltic News Service  reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  “Europol has asked us certain questions that we have
answered,” Gromov said. “We know the accounts of private
individuals” that hold the missing permits, he added. He
declined to give further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  