-- Merkel, Cameron, Sarkozy Urge Quick Transition to Broader Egypt Government
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2011-02-03T10:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/european-leaders-demand-immediate-regime-change-amid-violence-in-egypt.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  urged rapid progress in forming a broadly based
government in Egypt, echoing a call by President Barack Obama.  “Only a quick and orderly transition to a broad-based
government will make it possible to overcome the challenges
Egypt is now facing,” the three leaders said in a joint
statement released today that was also signed by Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi and  Spain ’s Jose Luis Zapatero. “That transition
process must start now.”  The European leaders issued their statement as opponents of
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  faced down a drive by backers
of the 30-year regime to push them out of Tahrir Square after a
night of gunfire in central Cairo. The square has been the focal
point of anti-government protests since Jan. 25. Mubarak said
two days ago he won’t run for re-election in September.  Obama’s press secretary,  Robert Gibbs , said yesterday it is
“imperative” that Egyptians see a government transition begin
without delay. This is “not some process that starts a week, a
month or several months from now,” he said.  Six people have been killed and more than 800 injured in
the clashes in central Cairo, the government said, with Al
Jazeera television showing footage of bodies being pulled
through the street.  ‘Peaceful Assembly’  “We are watching with utmost concern the deteriorating
situation in Egypt,” the five European leaders said in their
statement. “The Egyptian people must be able to exercise freely
their right to peaceful assembly, and enjoy the full protection
of the security forces.”  Mubarak loyalists rode horses and camels into Tahrir Square
yesterday, swinging whips and clubs. The two sides hurled rocks,
bottles and concrete chunks, and some pro-government marchers
carried machetes. Egyptian soldiers didn’t intervene except to
extinguish fires, and no uniformed police were present.  “We condemn all those who use or encourage violence, which
will only aggravate the political crisis in  Egypt ,” the
European leaders said.  The joint statement follows calls for a rapid transition to
a new Egyptian government made separately by European leaders in
recent days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  