-- Most European Stocks Retreat; Shell Slumps as TeliaSonera Soars
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2011-02-03T17:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/european-stock-index-futures-slide-before-ecb-rate-deutsche-bank-may-move.html
Most European stocks dropped as
gunfire was heard on the streets of Cairo for a second night and
crowds of men loyal to President  Hosni Mubarak  resumed clashes
with protesters who want him to step down immediately.    Royal Dutch Shell Plc  sank 3 percent after saying earnings
from its refining division remained “under pressure” last
quarter.  Total SA  lost 1 percent as its Yemen LNG venture said
that production continued at full capacity even as protesters
held a “Day of Rage” against the country’s president.  TeliaSonera AB  jumped 3 percent after posting fourth-quarter net
income that climbed as demand increased.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was little changed, gaining 0.1
percent to 285 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . More than five
stocks dropped for every four stocks that increased. Most
European stocks fell yesterday as companies from Electrolux AB
to Scania AB announced results that disappointed investors.  “We’re in a consolidation mood,” said Andreas Lipkow, an
equity trader at MWB Fairtrade Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in
Frankfurt. “One problem is  Egypt  as investors thought tensions
were going to be solved quickly, but they’re actually worsening.
There’s speculation it might spread to other regions. Shell
earnings were a bit of a shock for investors.”  The  European Central Bank  kept  interest rates  at a record
low as policy makers weighed the risk of faster inflation
against the danger that higher borrowing costs could worsen the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The ECB’s Governing Council set
the benchmark rate at 1 percent for a 22nd month, as predicted
by all 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Egypt Protests  Stocks declined as Egypt’s largest opposition group and the
former United Nations nuclear chief Mohamed ElBaradei ruled out
talks with President Hosni Mubarak after at least six protesters
were killed in Tahrir Square overnight.  “After yesterday’s events, we refuse to negotiate with
this regime,” Mohamed El-Beltagy, a senior leader of the Muslim
Brotherhood, said in a phone interview in Cairo. The Muslim
Brotherhood vowed to continue demonstrating until Mubarak quits
the presidency.  In the U.S., a report showed the number of Americans filing
first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  fell last week.
Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 42,000 to 415,000
in the week ended Jan. 29, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists forecast claims would fall to 420,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Services  Another report showed that  service industries  in the U.S.
kept growing in January. The Institute for Supply Management’s
non-manufacturing gauge rose to 59.4 from December’s 57.1,
beating the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for 57.2.
Readings greater than 50 mean that the index, which covers about
90 percent of the economy, expanded.  A purchasing managers index report today showed  Europe ’s
service and manufacturing industries expanded at a faster pace
than initially estimated in January, led by surging output
growth in  Germany  and France.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 59.4 from 55.5 in December,
London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s greater than
the initial estimate of 56.3. A reading above 50 means growth.  European stocks have climbed this year as 36 of the 65
companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported results since Jan.
10 posted per-share earnings that topped analysts’ estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes fell in 13 out of the 18 western
European markets today. Germany’s DAX Index added 0.1 percent,
while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid 0.3 percent. France’s CAC
40 Index sank 0.7 percent.  Shell slumped 3 percent to 2,200 pence, its largest drop in
seven months. Europe’s biggest oil company posted fourth-quarter
profit, excluding one-off items and inventory changes, of $4.1
billion. That missed the $4.7 billion mean estimate of 16
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Total slid 1 percent to 43.55 euros even as Yemen LNG, a
liquefied natural gas venture that includes Total, said that
production remained at full capacity despite a day of protests
calling for President Ali Abdullah Saleh to stand down.  Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA slumped 9.6
percent to 33.78 euros, the largest drop since 1997, after its
largest shareholder sold a 5 percent stake in the Spanish
construction company at a discount. Corporacion Financiera Alba
sold the holding at 34 euros a share.  Kesko, Rautaruukki    Kesko Oyj  sank 7.5 percent to 32.74 euros, the biggest
decline in almost a year. Finland’s largest retailer reported
fourth-quarter net income of 59 million euros ($80.6 million),
missing the 61.4 million-euro mean estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.    Rautaruukki Oyj  slid 4.3 percent to 17.50 euros. Finland’s
largest producer of carbon steel reported a fourth-quarter net
loss of 30 million euros, compared with the average estimate of
a 19.4 million-euro profit from eight analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  TeliaSonera jumped 3 percent to 54.75 kronor after saying
fourth-quarter net income rose to 5.31 billion kronor ($820.7
million) from 4.9 billion kronor a year earlier because of
growth in the Nordic region and  Spain . Analysts had predicted a
profit of 5.21 billion kronor, according to a survey compiled by
Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank, Glaxo    Deutsche Bank AG  climbed 1.5 percent to 45.10 euros as
Germany’s biggest bank said higher revenue from fixed-income and
equities trading lifted fourth-quarter earnings at its
investment bank. Pretax profit at the division rose to 625
million euros from 398 million euros in the year-earlier period,
according to a statement today. Revenue from sales and trading
climbed 30 percent to 2.44 billion euros, helped by a rebound in
asset values, the company said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc jumped 3.6 percent to 1,168 pence after
announcing that it will repurchase as much as 2 billion pounds
($3.2 billion) in stock this year, the drugmaker’s first buyback
since 2008.  BT Group Plc surged 3.6 percent to 184.9 pence as the
U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company posted third-quarter
adjusted operating profit of 1.48 billion pounds. Analysts had
estimated profit of 1.45 billion pounds.    Konecranes Oyj  soared 9.1 percent to 32.85 euros, the
biggest gain in a year. The world’s biggest supplier of
industrial cranes said fourth-quarter net income of 31.9 million
euros beat the 26.9 million-euro mean estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.    Salzgitter AG  rallied 1.9 percent to 60.65 euros as
Germany’s second-biggest steelmaker was upgraded to
“outperform” from “underperform” at Cheuvreux SA, which said
“long steel is poised to halve its losses and flat steel to
remain solid” and “2012 should see a more pronounced
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 