-- European Rescue Bonds Represent an `Attractive' Buy, Norway Oil Fund Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2011-02-03T16:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/european-rescue-bonds-represent-an-attractive-buy-norway-oil-fund-says.html
  Norway ’s $545 billion oil fund said  Europe ’s rescue bonds, designed to help support its most
indebted nations, represent an attractive buying opportunity as
the securities are safer than regular sovereign debt.  “We are positive to this initiative,” Trond Grande,
deputy chief executive officer at the world’s second-largest
sovereign wealth fund, said today in an interview in Oslo. “It
is a good construct and I can reveal that we did participate
significantly in that issue that took place, that gives a clue
to how we view this construct.”  The European Financial Stability Facility last week
received bids worth almost nine times the 5 billion euros ($6.9
billion) of AAA rated five-year notes on offer, with Asian
investors taking 38 percent of the securities. The fund will use
the proceeds of the sale to help pay for Ireland’s emergency
loan. The facility may issue 10-year bonds next quarter after
its first sale went “really well,” said Carl Heinz Daube, head
of  Germany ’s Federal Finance Agency, in an interview yesterday.  “We thought it was an attractive issue,” said Grande, 40,
who was formerly the fund’s chief risk officer. “There is more
power behind it” than with regular sovereign debt, he said.  “That is the problem with the sovereign debt -- you don’t
have explicit collateral to back it so it is the wealth creation
of the nations and the growth and the structural balances in
those nations that will determine whether or not it is a good
credit risk and by construct, having more countries backing such
a construction as the EFSF, it would be a lower risk,” he said.  Deemed Risky  The securities, backed by euro-region government
guarantees, priced at a yield of 2.89 percent, or 57 basis
points more than similar-maturity German yields. Yields on the
five-year EFSF note fell 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage
points, to 2.88 percent, according to HSBC Plc prices on the
Bloomberg.  Denmark’s biggest pension investor, the $76 billion ATP
fund, deems the EFSF bonds too risky to invest in, its Chief
Investment Officer Henrik Gade Jepsen said in an interview
yesterday.  “We didn’t participate” in last week’s inaugural sale of
the bonds by the EFSF, Jepsen said. “We really want the safest
bonds in our portfolio. It’s very important for us that our  government bonds  are really safe.”  The euro slipped 1.2 percent against the dollar to trade at
1.3640 at 3:28 p.m. in  London  today.  Persuade Investors  European leaders are trying to persuade investors their
efforts to reduce borrowing costs for the region’s most indebted
nations won’t dilute credit markets in the euro area’s top-rated
members. Germany yesterday ruled out allowing the EFSF to fund
bond buybacks from debt-strapped governments.  The Government Pension Fund Global, the oil fund’s official
name, rekindled its interest in Greek, Spanish, Portuguese and
Italian government debt going into the third quarter, betting on
a rebound following the bailout of  Greece  in May. At the end of
September, Spanish debt was the fund’s seventh-biggest bond
holding.  “The long-term investment horizon enables us to take on
more and somewhat different risks than others,” said Grande.
“What we see is that in times of large uncertainty, stressful
times of fear amongst investors, the price of risk tends to go
up and the prices go down.” Grande says the fund “can exploit
the time-varying risk premia.”  Fund’s Investments  The oil fund, Europe’s largest equity investor had a 26
percent return in 2009, recouping most of a record loss of 633
billion kroner ($108 billion) in 2008. It gained 199 billion
kroner, or 7.2 percent, in the third quarter following a 5.4
percent drop in the previous three months, as record-low
borrowing costs in the U.S. and Europe fueled gains in stocks
and bonds.  Norway, the world’s second-largest natural gas exporter and
seventh-biggest oil exporter, generates money for the fund from
taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum fields and
dividends from its 67 percent stake in Statoil ASA, the
country’s largest energy company. It is managed by the central
bank according to guidelines set by the  Finance Ministry . It
invests abroad to avoid stoking inflation in the domestic
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  