-- Euro Drops as ECB Says Inflation Risk Balanced; Dollar Gains on Services
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-02-03T22:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/euro-drops-most-in-10-weeks-as-ecb-s-trichet-says-inflation-risk-balanced.html
The euro fell the most against the
dollar since November as European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said inflation risks are “broadly balanced,”
dimming the prospect of an increase in interest rates.  The dollar gained as U.S. services industries grew at the
fastest pace since 2005. The Australian dollar rose versus all
of its major counterparts as reports on trade and building
permits added to signs of economic resilience.  South Africa ’s
rand fell to a five-month low versus the dollar as violent
protests in Egypt damped demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The market got too bulled up on ECB hawkishness, and
Trichet today was very clear that there is still downside
risk,” said  Win Thin , head of emerging-market strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “As the Egypt situation
continues, you’re going to see some more risk-off trading.”  The euro fell as much as 1.5 percent to $1.3609 in the
biggest intraday drop since Nov. 23, before trading at $1.3634
at 5 p.m. in New York, compared with $1.3811 yesterday. The 17-
nation currency decreased 1.2 percent to 111.29 yen, from
112.63. The dollar traded at 81.63 yen, compared with 81.55.  Euribor futures rose, pushing the yield on the contract
expiring in December 2011 down 0.11 percentage point to 1.83
percent. The ECB left its benchmark interest rate at a record
low 1 percent today, as forecast by all 58 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Trichet on Inflation  At a press conference in  Frankfurt , Trichet said inflation
has been prompted “mainly” by rising energy and commodity
costs. Those factors have “not so far affected our assessment
that price developments will remain in line with  price stability 
over the policy-relevant horizon,” Trichet said.  The euro rallied 2.3 percent against the greenback in
January as investors bet the ECB will raise borrowing costs
before the  Federal Reserve .  “The reality is that the ECB, however uncomfortable it is
with inflation above its 2 percent target, is not really in a
position to begin lifting lending rates anytime soon,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst at Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc. in Washington.  South Africa’s rand was the worst performer against the
dollar among major currencies, depreciated as much as 1.9
percent to 7.3007 per dollar, the weakest since Sept. 2.  “The political unrest in Egypt is causing great
uncertainty in the markets,”  Michael Keenan , a currency
strategist at  Standard Bank  in Johannesburg, wrote in a note to
clients. “The risk lies in extended rand weakness.”  Egyptian Turmoil  Egypt’s largest opposition group, the  Muslim Brotherhood ,
rejected talks with President  Hosni Mubarak  after at least six
protesters were killed in Cairo’s Tahrir Square overnight. They
vowed to stay at the scene of the fighting until he steps down.  The pound climbed to a two-week high against the euro after
a report showed U.K. services companies returned to growth in
January after the coldest December in a century. A gauge of U.K.
services jumped to 54.5 last month, from 49.7. Readings above 50
indicate growth.  Sterling appreciated as much as 1.1 percent to 84.39 pence
per euro, the strongest level since Jan. 20. The pound dropped
0.4 percent to $1.6136 after rising 0.5 percent to $1.6279, the
highest level since Nov. 5.  “If you can get cable above the November highs, we could
be talking $1.64 plus,” said  Andrew Chaveriat , a New York-based
technical analyst at BNP Paribas SA. “It looks like we have a
split jury for the pound and the Aussie today. They don’t look
quite as threatened against the  U.S. dollar  because it’s a
fundamental ECB trade.”  Gain in Aussie  The Australian dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to 82.88 yen
and gained 0.5 percent to $1.0153 as reports on the trade
surplus and building permits beat forecasts.  The currency will strengthen to a record against the U.S.
currency this year, boosted by trade links with  China  and rising
commodity prices, according to Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.,
the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion
in assets under administration.  “The Aussie is seen as a bit of a China proxy,” said  Neil Mellor , a London-based currency strategist at BNY Mellon. The
Australian currency touched $1.0256 on Dec. 31, the highest
level since the currency was freely floated in 1983.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, gained 0.8 percent to 77.781.  U.S. Services  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose in January to 59.4, the highest level since August
2005, from December’s 57.1.  Nonfarm payrolls climbed by 146,000 jobs in January after a
103,000 gain in the previous month, according to the median
forecast of 85 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
tomorrow’s report from the Labor Department. The jobless rate
may have risen to 9.5 percent from 9.4 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today in a speech in  Washington  that the U.S. needs to see faster job growth for a
sufficient time before policy makers can be assured the economic
recovery has taken hold.  Dallas Fed President said on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays  that he isn’t inclined to support
further quantitative easing after the central bank completes its
purchase of $600 billion in Treasuries in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  