-- European Services Grow More Than Estimated, Retail Sales Fall
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2011-02-03T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/european-services-manufacturing-expansion-accelerate-more-than-estimated.html
  Europe ’s services and manufacturing
industries expanded at a faster pace than initially estimated,
led by surging output growth in Germany and  France , while retail
sales declined.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 57 in January from 55.5 in
December, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s above
an initial estimate of 56.3. A reading above 50 indicates
growth. A separate report showed retail sales unexpectedly fell
for a second month in December.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, has powered the euro
area’s expansion over the past year as companies stepped up
output and hiring to meet export demand. Still, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast that the region’s growth
will weaken more than initially projected this year as
governments step up budget cuts.  “The data signal the best start to a year for three years,
consistent with gross-domestic-product growth accelerating to a
quarterly pace of 0.7 percent to 0.8 percent,” said Markit
Chief Economist Chris Williamson. “However, growth remains
disturbingly biased toward  Germany  and, to a lesser extent,
France.”  The euro declined against the dollar and was down 0.2
percent at $1.3783 as of 10:47 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  France, Germany  The euro-area services indicator rose to 55.9 from 54.2 in
December, also above an initial estimate Markit said. The
manufacturing gauge increased to 57.3 from 57.1. A measure of
new business at both industries rose to the highest in more than
three years. Estonia this year became the 17th nation to join
the euro-region economy.  In France, the services indicator rose to 57.8 from 54.9,
Markit said. Germany’s gauge increased to 60.3 from 59.2, while
Italy’s dropped to 49.9 from 50.2.  With budget cuts from  Spain  to Ireland eroding consumer
demand, the IMF forecast on Jan. 25 that the euro-region economy
will expand 1.5 percent this year instead of a previously
projected 1.6 percent. By comparison, the  U.S. economy , the
world’s largest, may grow 3 percent, while U.K. gross domestic
product will rise 2 percent, the Washington-based fund said.  European retail sales slipped 0.6 percent in December from
November, when they dropped 0.3 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
forecast a 0.5 percent increase. From a year earlier, sales
dropped 0.9 percent.  Export Demand  Still, manufacturers have benefited from reviving global
demand.  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company based
in Munich, said on Jan. 25 that orders and revenue grew for a
third straight quarter, led by emerging markets such as  China .
German investor confidence surged to a record in January and
unemployment dropped to an 18-year low.  The Markit report also showed that average input costs rose
at the sharpest rate since August 2008, led by a record increase
in manufacturing purchase prices. Germany, France, Italy, Spain
and Ireland all reported overall input prices rise at the
fastest pace since the second half of 2008, Markit said.  While European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
has signaled concern about price developments, Markit said today
that the extent that companies are passing on higher costs to
customers “remained only moderate” in January.  There’s “evidence of short-term upward pressure,” Trichet
said on Jan. 13. The Frankfurt-based central bank today may keep
its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  