-- F&C Chairman Ousted as Investors Back Rebel Sherborne
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2011-02-03T14:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/f-c-chairman-ousted-as-activist-investor-sherborne-wins-shareholder-vote.html
F&C Asset Management Plc Chairman
Nick MacAndrew was ousted after losing an eight-week battle
against activist shareholder Sherborne Investors LLC.  Edward Bramson, Sherborne’s founder, was elected chairman
of the  fund manager  at an emergency shareholder meeting in
London today. Sherborne nominees Ian Brindle and Derham O’Neill
will also join the board, replacing Brian Larcombe.  F&C, which takes its name from the 143-year-old Foreign &
Colonial fund, has climbed 64 percent since Sherborne first
bought a stake in August as investors speculated Bramson would
take control of the firm. Sherborne, the fund manager’s biggest
shareholder with an 18 percent stake, last month criticized
F&C’s “flawed” strategy and pledged to work with the
management to develop an alternative plan once investors
approved the board changes.  “This is good news in the short term for people looking to
lock in gains, which would have almost certainly been lost if
Sherborne hadn’t won the vote,” said Danielle James, a
Liverpool-based analyst at Shore Capital Plc with a “hold”
rating on the stock. “In the long term, Sherborne needs to be a
bit more vocal about what they plan to do with the business.”  The shares increased 4.4 percent to 89.3 pence as of 1:55
p.m. in  London  trading. The stock has risen 18 percent since
Bramson called the investor meeting on Dec. 16.  Vote Totals  Investors voted 65 percent to 35 percent in favor of
removing MacAndrew from the board and 70 percent to 30 percent
in favor of installing Bramson. Sherborne needed 51 percent
support to succeed. O’Neill is a former senior partner at
Clifford Chance LLP and Brindle is an ex-U.K. chairman of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “It is time for putting differences of opinion and
judgment aside, for building bridges and most particularly for
remembering that what matters most are the best interests of
F&C,” MacAndrew said after announcing the vote.  MacAndrew, 63, and F&C’s management, including Chief
Executive Officer Alain Grisay, urged investors to reject
Sherborne’s proposals, saying they would destabilize the
business. The proposed directors didn’t have enough fund
management experience to be appointed to the board and Sherborne
failed to suggest an alternative strategy, MacAndrew said last
month.  ‘Expensive Borrowings’  Bramson founded Sherborne in the 1970s and made investments
in U.K. firms including Spirent Communications Plc and U.S.
companies such as Nautilus Inc. Spirent has climbed 166 percent
since Bramson was appointed to the board in 2006 while Nautilus
has dropped 51 percent since he was elected chairman.  Bramson criticized F&C’s board for its “expensive
borrowings to pay for high-priced acquisitions” such as Thames
River Capital LLC last year. He also said he would pursue
“conservative financial policies in the future” after the
firm’s net debt doubled from 2006 to 2010.  Asked about his future strategy by shareholders at the
meeting today, the 59-year-old declined to comment, referring
investors to his letter published last month. Bramson said he
has no views on whether the company needs a share sale.  “The board will take that option if it’s necessary at the
appropriate time,” he said. “We don’t have a position on that
today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   evans3@bloomberg.net  