-- Fed Ignores Inflation With ‘Uber’ Stimulus, Pond Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-02-03T16:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/fed-ignores-risk-of-inflation-with-uber-stimulus-pond-says-tom-keene.html
The  Federal Reserve  is ignoring the
risk of inflation even as rising commodity prices make investors
wary, according to Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate
strategy at Barclays Plc.  “The Fed is looking at inflation trending down -- the rest
of the markets are looking at inflation starting to pick up a
bit,” said Pond, whose firm is one of 20 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed, in a Bloomberg Radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “We think that core
CPI has now bottomed.”  The U.S. consumer price index excluding the cost of fuel
and energy rose 0.8 percent in 2010, the Commerce Department
reported Jan. 14. The central bank’s preferred price index,
which is tied to spending patterns and excludes food and fuel,
increased 0.7, the department said Jan. 31. It was the smallest
rise since records began in 1959, allowing the Fed to maintain a
$600 billion Treasuries-purchase plan to spur economic growth.  New York-based Pond said surging commodities and record
food prices may lead to “super-normal” inflation rates of 5
percent to 6 percent as the Fed buys bonds and keeps a pledge to
hold the benchmark interest rate near zero.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities rose today as much as 0.7 percent to 5,159.5, the
highest since November 2008. Copper gained to $10,000 per metric
ton for the first time. Global food prices  rose 28.3 percent in
January from a year earlier, according to the UN Food and
Agriculture Organization based in  Rome .  ‘Feed In’  “Those increases are likely to feed in through core in the
coming year or so, despite the fact that there’s still plenty of
slack in the economy,” Pond said.  The U.S. unemployment rate has remained above 9 percent
since April 2009 as the world’s largest economy has failed to
grow fast enough to bring it lower. The rate likely increased to
9.5 percent last month from 9.4 percent in December, according
to the median estimate of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the Labor Department reports the data tomorrow.  “That’s why they are much more likely to leave this policy
in place, this uber stimulative policy in place, too long,
rather than risk a double dip” recession, Pond said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during an interview
broadcast Dec. 5 on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program he was
“100 percent” confident the Fed can control inflation and
reverse its accommodative monetary policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  