-- BlueNext Resumes Carbon Trading as Legal Questions Slow Volume
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a ,   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2011-02-04T20:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/five-carbon-registries-get-eu-approval-to-open-tomorrow-after-2-week-halt.html
BlueNext SA, the Paris-based exchange
for spot emission allowances, emerged from a 15-day suspension
with one-third normal volume as legal questions about stolen
permits kept traders at bay.  Most of the 30 national registries that keep track of
European Union pollution permits are still blocked after hacking
attacks left an estimated 2 million permits missing from
accounts in  Austria ,  Greece ,  Italy  and the Czech Republic.
BlueNext, which opened at 8 a.m. in Paris, handled 55,000 metric
tons today, compared with an average 134,000 tons in the 20 days
before the halt started on Jan. 19, according to exchange data.  “Nobody trusts the  spot market  yet,” said Alessandro Vitelli, director of strategy at IDEAcarbon in  London .  Five national registries managed to reopen today, and
investors continue to trade carbon in the futures market. Still,
the world’s largest emissions market is confounded by what to do
when missing permits from one country show up in another. In
Estonia, police said the carbon registry has frozen foreign
accounts suspected in the disappearance of permits from the  Czech Republic . In  Germany , emissions officials said they can’t
interfere without “advice from police or justice authorities.”  Investors are worried about “ the continuing lack of
clarity on the legal and criminal implications of the thefts,”
the Geneva-based International Emissions Trading Association
said in a statement. “Member states should develop a set of
common protocols and mitigation measures to protect a market
participant from suffering financial loss if he has exercised
all prudent measures to prevent the theft.”  On the List  Carbon permits pared earlier gains on BlueNext, closing
today at 14.35 euros ($19.50). That is still 15 cents higher
than the price of a permit on Jan. 19.  The spot market owned by  NYSE Euronext  said it got lists
from national registries identifying serial numbers of
allegedly stolen permits from  Romania , Greece, Italy and the
Czech Republic, allowing them to be placed in isolation.  “Our members can be absolutely confident that no known
permit under question can be traded on our market,” BlueNext
Chief Executive Officer Francois-Xavier Saint Macary said
yesterday in a statement.  Some European utilities said they welcomed a return of the
market. “We are very happy to see BlueNext moving forward to
rebuild confidence in the spot,” José Luis Pastor, a head
trader at Endesa SA, and Paolo Fabiano, a head trader at Enel
SpA, said in a joint statement sent by BlueNext.  World’s Biggest  EU permits for December delivery closed 0.1 percent higher
at 14.71 euros on ICE, the world’s biggest carbon exchange. The
London-based exchange handled a record 19.1 million tons
yesterday of December 2011 contract, the market’s current
benchmark contract, according to data from the exchange.  The EU emissions system, started in 2005 as  Europe ’s main
tool for reducing the  greenhouse gases  linked to global warming,
was valued at 80 billion euros ($109 billion) last year,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Given the fact that the EU emissions trading system is the
most important instrument for curbing European  carbon emissions ,
restoring trust in carbon markets is of paramount importance for
Europe as a whole,” said Hans-Bernd Menzel, chief executive
officer of the  European Energy Exchange . While the Leipzig,
Germany-based platform wasn’t affected by the hacking attacks,
“We share the deep concerns for the level of confidence in the
European carbon market,” Menzel said in a statement.  Rightful Owners  Officials in countries raided by hackers managed to track
down some of the missing permits. Still, the Czech registry
administrator OTE AS said the complexity of regulations
and differences in national laws makes return of allowances a
long and difficult process.  It could take “a long time, possibly years,” to resolve
who are rightful owners of any stolen EU allowances, Owen Lomas,
a London-based consultant at Allen & Overy LLP’s global climate
change practice, said Jan. 20 by telephone. “It’s difficult to
predict how long litigation might take as there may have been a
series of transactions that have gone through several
jurisdictions, with potentially conflicting laws.”  The Czech registry called on the EU to reconsider today’s
plan to open registries to prevent the allowances from re-
entering the market. The Czech registry said this week that 1.36
million permits stolen from its accounts were illegally
transferred to Germany, the U.K. and  Estonia .  Valuable Certificates  In Germany, the law allows permits to trade freely unless
there is legal action, said Julie Steinen, spokeswoman for the
German emissions-trading authority DEHSt. She declined to say
whether permits reported missing from the Czech registry were
found in Germany.  “No certificates in the German registry have been
frozen,” she said. “The account holder to whom certificates
are registered can sell them or use them for compliance. Those
are valuable certificates.”  The Berlin-based national registry, which keeps tabs on
emission allowances, reopened today after a 15-day halt imposed
by the European Union.  In Estonia, officials are still waiting for EU approval to
open their carbon registry. Meanwhile, they have frozen
accounts tied to Czech and Hungarian nationals that are
suspected in the disappearance.  Access to accounts where missing permits were found will be
frozen for 30 days, police spokeswoman Tuuli Annama said in a
phone interview from Tallinn today. She declined to provide
further details.  Weeding Out  The EU has said the recovery of any allowances transferred
illegally has not been harmonized in the 27-nation bloc and is a
matter for national law and local enforcement authorities.  Prompt trading on the ICE Futures Europe and The  Green
Exchange  in London are still frozen as officials try to weed out
allegedly stolen permits.  David Peniket, president and chief operating officer at
ICE, said the London-based exchange will give at least 36 hours
notice before it resumes the next-day contract.  The Green Exchange, a group including Chicago-based  CME
Group Inc . and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., is also waiting to
resume spot trading of carbon.  “Until we feel confident we can deliver allowances that are
beyond question, we will remain shut,” Henrik Hasselknippe, a
managing director at Green Exchange, said today by phone.
“There’s no rush. It’s better to be safe than sorry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  