-- Forint's Appreciation May Be Checked by `Loose' Rates Policy, Erste Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-02-03T14:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/forint-gains-may-be-checked-by-loose-rate-policy-erste-says.html
The forint’s gains against the euro
may be limited as the government’s pledge to cut spending gives
the central bank room to shift to a “loose” monetary policy,
according to Erste Group Bank AG.  The forint may trade at between 262 and 290 per euro, with
the band centered around 270-280, in the “medium to long
term”, Erste analysts in Budapest wrote in a note to clients
today. The Hungarian currency appreciated to as strong as 268.1
per euro, before trading down 0.3 percent to 269.99 as of 3:18
p.m. in Budapest.  The central bank raised its benchmark two-week deposit rate
to 6 percent on Jan. 24, the highest in 11 months, from 5.75
percent, saying future moves would depend on inflation. The
increase came after the bank said the government’s approach to
narrowing the  budget deficit  was unsustainable without further
measures. Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said Jan. 27 the
Cabinet was drawing up plans for budget savings that will reach
as much as 650 billion forint ($3.3 billion) a year in 2013.  The fiscal measures may allow a “loose monetary policy
which will weaken the forint,” Erste said. Forint investors
have been lured by the rising borrowing costs, Erste said.  The forint has gained 1.8 percent against the euro since
the Jan. 24 rate increase, the strongest appreciation of more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Looser Policy  Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor said the central
bank’s latest rates decision didn’t mean more moves were in the
pipeline. The central bank may stop raising  interest rates  as
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  gets ready to appoint board members
more likely to support looser policy, economists at RBC Capital,
Citigroup Inc. and  Capital Economics  said last week.  “Many people ask how long the forint rally can last,
whether the  exchange rate  can reach 250 or 240 again,” Erste
said. “We don’t think it’s likely.”  The forint will tend to underperform other currencies in
the region “in a medium-term horizon” because of  Hungary ’s
“weaker macroeconomic and policy environment,” said Ilan Solot, an emerging-market strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman
in  London .  The “verbal credibility shock” of Orban’s pledges to cut
spending, including his statement yesterday declaring debt as
Hungary’s “enemy number one,” have contributed to the rally,
Solot said.  “The communication policy track record of Orban and
members of the ruling Fidesz party are not exactly inspiring of
credibility, but this time we suspect they are more serious,”
Solot said. The forint may strengthen further in the “short
term” toward 261.3 per euro, Solot said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  