-- Franco-German Divide May Mark European Debt Crisis Summit Seeking Solution
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2011-02-04T10:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/franco-german-divide-on-debt-crisis-may-mark-european-summit.html
Germany and  France  carried a quarrel
over the euro rescue fund and a revamp of economic management
into today’s European summit intended to sketch a path out of
the debt crisis.  The euro region’s two leading economic powers are at odds
over possible bond buybacks and a “competitiveness pact” that
is German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s condition for strengthening
the safety net for debt-strapped countries, according to three
European officials involved in the talks who declined to be
identified because the deliberations remain private.  Signs of discord snuffed out a three-day rally in European
bond markets yesterday and knocked the euro off a three-month
high, as investors questioned when Europe will come up with an
anti-crisis formula.  “We have made great progress on necessary reforms to keep
the euro stable,” Merkel told reporters as the Brussels summit
got under way. “It’s about improving our competitiveness and at
the same time making clear that we have the political will to
grow together.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3634 at 10:45 a.m. in
Brussels after dropping 1.3 percent yesterday, the sharpest
decline in a month. European bond markets were mixed today.  Portugal ’s 10-year yield spread over German bonds narrowed 4
basis points to 373 basis points.  ‘Comprehensive’ Package  Originally called to discuss energy and innovation
policies, the summit that began at 10 a.m. and is scheduled to
end at 5:30 p.m. will also focus on ways to reinforce the
bailout fund, reduce rates on emergency aid, set up a permanent
rescue mechanism and enact new rules against budgetary bungling.  EU leaders aim to sign off on what they’ve called a
“comprehensive” package -- including stiffening sanctions
against budget deficits higher than 3 percent of gross domestic
product -- at the next summit, on March 24-25.  The cost of protecting the region’s sovereign bonds from
default using credit-default swaps has plunged 53.25 basis
points since Jan. 7 to 166.25, the biggest four-week drop since
the gauge was created in October 2009, according to CMA. The
extra yield investors demand to own senior bank debt instead of
benchmark  government securities  fell the most since July in the
past three weeks, Barclays Capital index data show.  “A lot of the rally is positioning, some of it’s
comforting words,” said Ben Bennett, a credit strategist at
London-based Legal & General Investment Management, which
oversees about $500 billion. “So far politicians have proven
themselves unable to get ahead of the market. I don’t think
anything over the past few weeks has changed that.”  ‘Force, Flexibility’  France favors maximum flexibility for the rescue fund, such
as using it to enable high-debt countries to buy their own bonds
at a discount on the market, a French official told reporters in
Paris yesterday on condition of anonymity.  The fund “needs force and flexibility,” French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  said at a separate briefing
yesterday. “That doesn’t necessarily mean increasing it. It
needs to be efficient.”  German opposition to buybacks, which would pare the debt
burden of countries like  Greece , reflects an unwillingness to
pump more cash into the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion) bailout
fund, known as the  European Financial Stability Facility .  Instead, the focus is on mobilizing the full potential of
the fund, now able to lend only about 250 billion euros due to
collateral rules that underpin its AAA credit rating.  ECB Purchases  The  European Central Bank , which has propped up markets by
buying 76.5 billion euros of struggling countries’ bonds, is
looking to hand over that job to governments as it pivots to its
main mission of combating inflation.  The rescue fund must “be as flexible as possible and also
to be as effective as possible in terms of magnitude,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday.  While direct purchases of distressed countries’ bonds in
the primary market are likely to be part of the EFSF’s upgraded
toolkit, other pieces -- such as Ireland’s plea for lower  interest rates  on aid -- have yet to fall into place.  “The challenge is for  Europe  to deal with some of the
systemic problems of the euro zone,” said Prime Minister George Papandreou of Greece, the origin of the debt tumult. “There is
a realization, and I believe more optimism, about our will and
our capability to do so.”    Retirement Age   Germany, the biggest of the 17 euro nations, is tying its
approval of a stepped-up rescue effort to a toughening of
controls on budget shortfalls that have gone unenforced since
the euro’s birth in 1999.  Merkel’s competitiveness proposal includes calls for debt-
limitation rules in national constitutions, a revival of EU
plans to harmonize the corporate-tax base, the abolition of wage
indexation and the linking of pension systems to demographics.
She has yet to share it with the EU.  “Frankly speaking, nobody knows” what’s in the German
package, Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas said today.  While  Germany  and  Spain  have lifted the retirement age to
67 to lessen the costs of an ageing population, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  -- facing elections in 14 months -- isn’t
planning to go beyond 62.  Merkel also floated the idea of a more coordinated value-
added tax, a European  sales tax  with standard rates between 15
percent and 25 percent.  Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said the retirement age
and wage bargaining have to remain in national hands, showing
the limits of Germany’s coordination plea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  