-- France Pushes for Buybacks to Stem Financial Crisis in Split With Germany
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2011-02-03T14:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/france-pushes-for-buybacks-to-stem-financial-crisis-in-split-with-germany.html
  France  called for the use of bond
buybacks to stem the European debt crisis, splitting with
Germany on the eve of a summit meant to project a unified stance
on quelling market turmoil.  France favors maximum flexibility for  Europe ’s 440 billion-
euro ($606 billion) rescue fund, such as using it to enable
debt-strapped countries to buy their own bonds at a discount, a
French official told reporters in Paris today on condition of
anonymity.  The fund “needs force and flexibility,” French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  said at a separate briefing. “That
doesn’t necessarily mean increasing it. It needs to be
efficient.”  German opposition to buybacks, which would pare the debt
burden of countries like  Greece , reflects the differences
between the euro region’s two principal economic powers over how
to stamp out the year-old fiscal crisis and put the euro on a
sounder footing.  European leaders will review the crisis-fighting strategy
at a summit tomorrow in Brussels, recommitting to a March 25
target to strengthen the bailout fund, set up a permanent rescue
mechanism and enact new rules against budgetary bungling.  The euro and Spanish and Portuguese bonds slipped after  Spain  sold 3.5 billion euros of debt, below the maximum target
set for the auction. The French-German tensions damped investor
confidence that Europe is closing in on an anti-crisis formula.  ‘Starting to Wonder’  “Markets have been betting very heavily on a resolution of
the debt crisis in March,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-
income strategist at Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “People
are starting to wonder whether these expectations are warranted,
or whether there might be scope for negative surprise that the
EU does not deliver a straightforward solution.”    Germany , the biggest of the 17 euro nations, is tying its
approval of a strengthened safety net to a toughening of
controls on budget deficits that have gone unenforced since the
euro’s debut in 1999.  While direct purchases of distressed countries’ bonds in
the primary market will be part of the upgraded toolkit, other
pieces -- such as Ireland’s plea for lower  interest rates  on aid
-- have yet to fall into place.  Bond buying is “not a stupid idea,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters in Brussels. “These
are issues which are under discussion and debate and which have
not been settled.”  EFSF Potential  France and Germany agree on the goal of extracting the full
potential from the  European Financial Stability Facility , who
actual lending is limited by collateral rules to about 250
billion euros.  The  European Central Bank , which has propped up markets by
buying 76.5 billion euros of struggling countries’ bonds, is
looking to hand over that job to governments as it pivots to its
main mission of combating inflation.  Speaking in  Frankfurt  after the ECB left interest rates at
a record low 1 percent, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the
fund must “be as flexible as possible and also to be as
effective as possible in terms of magnitude.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  