-- Gap, Limited Surge as Monthly Sales Beat Projections
-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d
-- 2011-02-03T21:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/gap-aeropostale-overcome-snow-to-surpass-january-retail-sales-estimates.html
  Gap Inc ., Limited Brands Inc. and
other retail stocks climbed after their sales surpassed
analysts’ projections last month, with shoppers braving
snowstorms to return to stores.  Gap’s same-store sales rose 1 percent, compared with the 3
percent drop projected from analysts’ estimates compiled by
Retail Metrics Inc. Sales at Limited, owner of the Victoria’s
Secret chain, climbed 24 percent, compared with an estimated
gain of 6.9 percent. Both stocks surged more than 4 percent.  Retailers last month used promotions and clearance items to
draw shoppers to stores, said David Bassuk, head of the global
retail practice at consultant AlixPartners in New York. Most of
the sales came early in January and made up for a drop in the
last two weeks as snowy weather slowed shopping, he said.  “This was heavily driven by an early January pop from
grabbing up promotions,” Bassuk said. The discounting may hurt
profit margins as “we’ve only seen half the story at this
point,” he said.  Overall, comparable-store sales at the more than 30 chains
tracked by Retail Metrics surpassed estimates last month, rising
4.4 percent for a 17th straight gain from September 2009. That
compared with a prediction of 2.6 percent.  Gap, based in  San Francisco , advanced 80 cents, or 4.2
percent, to $19.83 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading, the most in three months. Limited, based in
Columbus, Ohio, surged $2.16, or 7.4 percent to $31.29 for the
largest gain since May 10. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing
Index rose 1.3 percent.  Key Indicator  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. This kind of revenue is a key
indicator of a retailer’s growth because new and closed sites
are excluded.  Gap rebounded from a decline of 3 percent in December as
its Banana Republic stores in  North America  advanced 4 percent.
The Gap brand’s North American sales were little changed after
an 8 percent drop in December.  Victoria’s Secret fueled the gains at the Limited with an
increase of 35 percent in same-store sales. The move of a sale
into that month from December last year fueled those gains, the
company said on a recorded call. Shifting focus to Valentine’s
day in the middle of the month also helped sales, the chain
said.  Department-store chain  Macy’s Inc ., sportswear retailer  Zumiez Inc . and  American Eagle Outfitters Inc . also surpassed
estimates. American Eagle and fellow teen retailers Abercrombie
& Fitch Co. and  Aeropostale Inc . will stop reporting monthly
sales after today.  “We’ve seen modest improvements in the economy and maybe
consumers are feeling more comfortable about their spending,”
said  Ken Perkins , president of Swampscott, Massachusetts-based
Retail Metrics. If retailers “can continue this momentum
through February it will be very encouraging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  