-- Geithner Says Toomey Debt Proposal Would Be ‘Harmful’
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2011-02-04T01:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/geithner-calls-toomey-proposal-on-national-debt-payments-quite-harmful-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said it would be “quite harmful” if Congress moved
forward with proposed debt-limit legislation from U.S. Senator  Pat Toomey , a Republican from  Pennsylvania .  Geithner repeated his department’s view it’s “unworkable”
to give priority to payments on the national debt to avoid a
collision with the $14.29 trillion debt ceiling. Toomey’s plan
wouldn’t protect military salaries, pay for government workers
or take care of other contractual U.S. payments, he said. It’s
“factually incorrect” to say the U.S. has given priority to
certain types of payments in the past, he also said.  “If payment of these obligations were abruptly stopped,
the world would recognize it as a first-ever failure by the  United States  to meet its commitments,” Geithner said in
today’s letter. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
separately in  Washington  today that lawmakers shouldn’t use the
debt limit as a “bargaining chip” in debates over fiscal policy.  Republican lawmakers are stepping up calls for budget cuts
as they debate how and when to raise the debt limit, while the
Obama administration has sought to keep the focus on longer-term
budget consolidation. The U.S. has racked up deficits of more
than $1 trillion for each of the past two years, and bond
dealers predicted deficits of $1.363 trillion in fiscal 2011 and
$1.107 trillion in 2012 in a survey provided to the Treasury.  Projected Timeline  Geithner’s department said yesterday it expects the debt
ceiling to be reached between April 5 and May 31, compared with
the range of March 31 to May 16 it predicted early last month.
The department will update its forecast again in the first week
of March, and it said a range of technical measures could
provide up to eight weeks of additional time if necessary.  Toomey’s proposal would require that in the event the
government reaches its legal debt limit, the Treasury Department
first reimburse the holders of  U.S. debt  before meeting other
obligations. The approach is designed to avert a U.S. government
default, essentially giving opponents of raising the debt limit
more time and leverage to press for cuts in federal spending as
a condition of supporting the boost.  “Failing to raise the debt ceiling is not a desirable
situation and would be disruptive, but the worst thing we can do
is simply continue the irresponsible deficit spending that
jeopardizes our economic future,” Toomey, who won his seat in
November with support from the Tea Party movement, said in a
statement on his measure.  Daley’s Take  Geithner’s letter today follows a Jan. 21 phone call to
Toomey on the same topics, and Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin issued a statement that day calling the plan
“unworkable.” White House Chief of Staff  William Daley 
yesterday cautioned that a failure by lawmakers to raise the
debt limit “would have enormous potential negative impacts” on
the financial system.  “To sort of play this typical Washington game of
threatening and trying to leverage off the debt would be very
dangerous for the markets,” he said at the Bloomberg Breakfast
in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  