-- Glasses-Free 3-D TV Sales Miss Expectations in Initial Month, Toshiba Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 2011-02-03T05:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/glasses-free-3-d-tv-sales-miss-expectations-in-initial-month-toshiba-says.html
  Toshiba Corp ., the first maker of 3-D
televisions that don’t require viewers to wear special glasses,
sold fewer than half the sets it targeted in the initial month
of sales.  Toshiba, which began offering  the TVs  late in December,
sold 500 of the 20-inch model at about 240,000 yen ($2,940)
each, and even fewer of the cheaper 12-inch set, Masaaki Osumi,
president of Toshiba’s Visual Products Company, said in an
interview yesterday. The Tokyo-based company, second in Japan in
TV sales, had planned to sell 1,000 units of each model a month.  The slower-than-anticipated debut indicates the company
needs to offer larger sets to appeal to consumers, Osumi said.
Toshiba joins Samsung Electronics Co. and  Sony Corp ., which
began selling their own 3-D models last year, in saying demand
has lagged behind expectations, damping optimism consumers will
embrace the technology and help TV makers revive profits.  “What the numbers say to me is that if you offer bigger
sets, you get a better, more positive reaction,” said the 56-
year old executive.  Sony Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato said in October
that sales of 3-D sets, projected to account for 10 percent of
the company’s 25 million annual TV sales target, were trailing
previous expectations. Samsung, the world’s largest TV maker,
said last month that demand for displays used in 3-D sets were
“relatively weak.”  Overcoming ‘Mountain’  Engineers at Toshiba, which displayed 56-inch and 65-inch
prototypes at last month’s International Consumer Electronics
Show in  Las Vegas , are racing to overcome a “mountain” of
technical problems to market large-screen models to consumers in
the second half of the year, Osumi said.  While the 3-D TVs from Samsung, Sony, and  Panasonic Corp .
use electronic glasses that flicker between the left and right
eyes to create the illusion of depth, Toshiba’s technology uses
a sheet on the TV screen to angle pictures so that each eye sees
a different image. Engineers are having difficulty making the
effect work on bigger screens, especially when viewed from the
side, Osumi said.  “It’s possible to do this on small screens but when it
gets bigger you have to either give up on quality or go with
glasses,” said Atul Goyal, a senior analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets in  Singapore . “Samsung and others, they don’t
want to push it because they know the technology is not ready.”  Cheaper Models  Shares of Toshiba were unchanged at 514 yen as of 2:20 p.m.
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Osumi aims to double the company’s TV sales to 30 million
units in the next three years, he said. Toshiba’s TV business
will account for about 11 percent of the overall 6.6 trillion
yen in sales this year, according to  David Rubenstein , a Tokyo-
based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd.  Toshiba isn’t betting its TV business entirely on the
success of 3-D. The maker of Regza-brand sets is also launching
cheaper, flat-screen models aimed at consumers in  developing
countries  including  China ,  India , and  Russia .  Toshiba plans to start production of TVs in India with a
local partner this summer, Osumi said. Lower-end sets sold to
customers in emerging markets will probably account for half of
the TVs Toshiba sells by the year ending March 2014, up from
about 15 percent now, he said.  “The price points are lower in those markets, but the
margins are three times as high,” said Osumi, who spent eight
years as general manager for consumer electronics in Singapore.  Glasses-free 3-D TVs will go on sale in Japan,  North
America  and  Europe  and the company aims to raise sales to 50,000
units a month after the launch of larger-screen models, Osumi
said, declining to specify when the sets would be introduced or
how much they would cost.  “There are a lot hurdles ahead,” Osumi. “But make no
mistake, we think we can sell these things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 Mshiraki1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 