-- Glaxo Plans First Stock Buyback Since 2008, Raises Payout Amid Legal Costs
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2011-02-03T16:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/glaxo-plans-first-stock-buyback-since-2008-raises-payout-amid-legal-costs.html
  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  plans to buy back
shares for the first time since 2008 as the drugmaker seeks to
reassure investors that expenses for investigations and lawsuits
are under control.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest pharmaceutical company, will
repurchase 1 billion pounds to 2 billion pounds ($3.2 billion)
of stock this year, the London-based company said in a statement
today. Glaxo today posted its second loss in the past three
quarters because of legal costs tied to a U.S. investigation
into sales practices, as well as product-liability cases related
to the Avandia diabetes medicine.  With its stock down over the past 12 months, the company is
rewarding shareholders with the long-term buyback program and a
higher dividend. Glaxo increased its fourth-quarter payout to 19
pence a share from 16 pence in the previous quarter. Glaxo said
it will sell some of its consumer brands and use the proceeds to
increase returns to investors.  “These are clear signals,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said on a conference call with reporters. “We’re
determined this company will be a winner in the sector. We’re
determined our shareholders get returns.”  Glaxo lost 690 million pounds in the fourth quarter,
compared with a profit of 1.67 billion pounds a year earlier.
Analysts predicted a loss of 386.5 million pounds, based on the
average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Glaxo said Jan.
17 it would take a 2.2 billion-pound charge to pay costs for the
investigation and lawsuits.  Sales Fall  The loss excluding restructuring costs totaled 7.5 pence a
share. Analysts on average predicted a loss of 5.5 pence on that
basis, according to Bloomberg data. Sales fell 11 percent to 7.2
billion pounds, beating the average analyst estimate of 7.16
billion pounds.  Glaxo rose 40.5 pence, or 3.6 percent, to 1,168 pence at
the close of trading in London. Before today, the stock had
fallen 2.9 percent in the past year including reinvested
dividends, compared with a 6.5 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  The legal charge concerns an investigation begun in 2004 by
federal prosecutors in  Colorado  that is now nationwide. They’re
looking into whether Glaxo promoted drugs for unapproved uses,
and into ways Glaxo potentially influenced doctors, including
through travel and entertainment, the company said in 2009. The
probe concerns nine of its largest-selling products from 1997 to
2004, Glaxo said.  Avandia’s Decline  The charge also will help cover for the “substantial”
number of new claims filed in the U.S. regarding Avandia, Glaxo
said in a  statement  last month. Regulators said last year the
treatment would be withdrawn from the market in Europe and sales
would be limited in the U.S. because of an increased risk of
heart attacks. Sales of Avandia, once the world’s best-selling
diabetes drug, slumped 74 percent to 49 million pounds in the
fourth quarter.  “The new share buyback in 2011 should drive earnings
momentum and accelerate growth to a double-digit rate in 2012
and beyond,” wrote Jeffrey Holford, an analyst with Jefferies
International Ltd. in London who rates the shares a “buy,” in a
note to investors today.  Glaxo’s sales of  prescription drugs  and vaccines slumped 14
percent in the quarter to 5.93 billion pounds, while consumer-
health sales increased 7.6 percent to 1.27 billion pounds.  Flu Shots  Sales of influenza vaccine plunged 81 percent to 161
million pounds in the fourth quarter after the flu pandemic
ended. Revenue from the Relenza antiviral drug sank 96 percent
to 11 million pounds. The Valtrex antiviral drug, which has
faced competition from generic versions since November 2009, had
a 57 percent drop in sales to 96 million pounds.  Glaxo will focus its consumer health-care unit on a group
of “priority” brands such as Sensodyne toothpaste, as well as
on emerging markets. Products that account for about 500 million
pounds, or 10 percent, of the unit’s sales will be divested by
the end of the year, depending on interest from potential
buyers, the company said. Most of those brands are sold in the
U.S. and  Europe . Witty declined to name the brands.  Glaxo this week sold its stake in Quest Diagnostics Inc.,
generating after-tax proceeds of about $1.1 billion.  In the second quarter, Glaxo recorded 1.57 billion pounds
in legal charges for cases related to Avandia and other matters,
contributing to a loss for the period. Glaxo also took a 278
million-pound charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 for costs
relating to the Colorado  investigation .  Using Cash  Glaxo will use its cash to increase the dividend, buy back
shares or, “where returns are more attractive, invest in bolt-
on acquisitions,” Witty said in the statement today.
Acquisitions typically will range from hundreds of millions of
dollars in value to the mid-single-digit billions of dollars, he
said in October. Glaxo may “unusually” do a deal in the upper-
single-digit billions of dollars, he said.  Witty said it’s becoming harder to find acquisitions that
make “financial sense.” The company is seeking purchases in
emerging markets, vaccines and consumer health, he said at a
news conference in  London  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ; 