-- GM's $3 Million Ads a Bargain If Super Bowl Meets Record Audience Forecast
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2011-02-03T22:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/gm-s-3-million-ads-a-bargain-if-super-bowl-audience-is-record.html
Super Bowl advertisers  Audi AG  and  General Motors Co . may end up getting a bargain for 30-second
spots costing a record $3 million or more, if the audience for
the Fox telecast reaches new highs as forecast.  The Feb. 6 National Football League championship between
the Green Bay Packers and Pittsburgh Steelers may top the record
106.5 million viewers who watched last year’s game on CBS,
according to New York advertising executives Peter Gardiner of
Deutsch Inc. and Andy Donchin of Carat  North America .  By buying up all the ads from News Corp.’s Fox in October,
advertisers avoided paying higher prices closer to the game,
when the cost can soar for the few spots that typically remain.
Advertisers didn’t want to risk waiting because recent Super
Bowls surpassed forecasts for viewers, said Scott Keogh, chief
marketing officer of Audi of America.  “This is something we view as a very smart investment,”
Keogh said in an interview. “This is our fourth Super Bowl, and
every year has over-delivered.”  The cost of a 30-second Super Bowl spot peaked two years
ago, when the Steelers, led by quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger ,
defeated the  Arizona Cardinals , 27-23. Advertisers paid an
average $3 million that year, according to Jon Swallen, senior
vice president of research for Kantar Media in  New York . The
price slipped to about $2.97 million for last year’s matchup
between the  New Orleans Saints  and the  Indianapolis Colts .  For this year’s game, Fox may have commanded more than $3
million, according to  Laura Martin , an analyst with Needham &
Co. in  Pasadena ,  California . Swallen estimated the price at
about $3 million.  Fox Record  “Sunday, Feb. 6, 2011, will be the single highest-revenue
generating day in the history of Fox,” Lou D’Ermilio, a
spokesman for Fox Sports in New York, said in an e-mail. He said
the network doesn’t comment on advertising rates. Keogh declined
to specify rates paid by Audi.  Martin estimates a 3.5-hour to 4-hour Super Bowl will
generate $288 million to $300 million in advertising sales,
exceeding the $213 million record set in the 2009 Super Bowl,
according to figures provided by Kantar Media, owned by  WPP Plc .  This year’s Super Bowl in  Dallas  stands to attract the
biggest audience ever after NFL regular-season and postseason
viewing reached records, said Gardiner, chief media officer of
Deutsch Inc., part of Interpublic Group of Cos.  “If the regular season and playoffs are any indication,
you have an American populace salivating for NFL football,”
Gardiner said in an interview. “Football is on a roll.”  NFL Ratings  “NBC Sunday Night Football” led prime-time television
ratings in the first half of the TV season, averaging 21.6
million viewers, 11 percent more than a year earlier and the
most since the program started in 2006. CBS’s American Football
Conference playoff games scored their highest viewer average in
23 years, New York-based  CBS Corp . said last week.  The Super Bowl’s audience has grown for each of the past
five years, according to Nielsen Co. data. In 2009, advertisers
reached 98.7 million viewers on average with a 30-second spot.  The Super Bowl is sold at a flat rate, unlike per-viewer
prices advertisers pay for most other programs -- typically $25
per 1,000 prime-time viewers, Martin said. When deciding whether
to buy time, marketers usually assume the game will attract a
similar-size audience to the prior year, she said.  “Despite the high prices, there’s a steady march of
advertisers to replace those that drop out or reduce their
buys,” Swallen said. “That gives a certain level of price
support. It also helps make the Super Bowl one of the most
coveted spots on television.”  ‘Traffic Jam’    News Corp . yesterday reported second-quarter profit more
than doubled to $642 million, or 24 cents a share, on sales of
$8.76 billion, little changed from a year earlier. The Class A
shares added 97 cents to $16.96 at 4:30 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  New models and the auto industry’s rebound from the
recession have led to a record six carmakers pitching as many as
nine auto brands during the game, according to Swallen. Viewers
may experience a “traffic jam” of competing ads, according to
a Jan. 18 report from Kantar.    Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz is advertising for the first
time. Detroit-based GM bought its first Super Bowl spots since
2008, prior to its bankruptcy, and BMW will run an ad for the
first time in 15 years, according to Kantar Media.  To make sure its spot stood out this year, Audi considered
six to eight variations and had test audiences vote on two
finalists, Keogh said.  ‘Cinematic Moment’  “You need to entertain and have some humor,” Keogh said.
“You also need to tell a story. It’s a cinematic moment.”  Audi is using its Super Bowl spot to showcase a redesigned
A8 luxury sedan, listed at the company’s website with a
recommended base price of $78,050. The ad pokes fun at
“robotic” luxury-car buying decisions, Keogh said. The A8
competes with the Mercedes S-Class and BMW 7-Series, he said.  In past years, Audi has seen foot-traffic spike at its
dealerships and web-traffic spike on its sites after Super Bowl
spots aired, Keogh said.  “Four years ago Audi wasn’t on the shopping list of tier-
one luxury car shoppers,” Keogh said. “The Super Bowl has
helped us tell our story and now Audi is among the top of that
list. It’s not just a coincidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  