-- Grizzly Bears Are Vanishing From North Cascades National Park
-- B y   A m y   L e i n b a c h   M a r q u i s
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/grizzly-bears-are-vanishing-from-washington-s-north-cascades-national-park.html
  Washington ’s  North Cascades National
Park  lies at the center of some of the most protected, well-
connected wildlife habitat in the Lower 48.  Wolves have started making their way back into the
landscape, wandering on their own accord across the Canadian
border, just a stone’s throw to the north. Fishers are on a
promising road to recovery. Wolverines, lynx and black bear
populations are thriving.  It’s a near-perfect cast of characters, except for one
gaping void: grizzly bears.  In 1993, a report by a coalition of land and wildlife
management agencies estimated that fewer than 20 bears were
using the North Cascades; the last confirmed sighting of a
grizzly bear in the region was 15 years ago. One individual was
photographed by a camera trap in 2009, but on  Canada ’s side.  “As more time goes by, you have to wonder what’s happening
to the few bears we have left,” says Bill Gaines, a wildlife
biologist with the  U.S. Forest Service  and member of the  North
Cascades Interagency Grizzly Bear Subcommittee , a group of
federal agencies that developed a recovery plan for grizzly
bears in the Northwest.  “There’s no geographical connection to more robust
populations, aside from a very small number of bears in Canada -
- but that population is very much in trouble like ours. The
more time goes by, the fewer options we’ll have for bear
recovery here. And they probably won’t make it without human
assistance.”  Management Plan  Biologists believe the Greater North Cascades ecosystem can
support anywhere from 200 to 400 grizzly bears. A general
management plan created for Ross Lake National Recreation Area
(the park unit adjacent to North Cascades) showed that as much
as 92 percent of the landscape qualifies as a “core habitat
area” for grizzlies. In comparison, only 70 percent of
Yellowstone can be classified as core habitat.  In 2009, Gaines was able to capture a sliver of funding to
initiate a three-year survey that would use remote cameras and
hair-snagging devices to estimate the number of grizzly bears
living in the region today.  But money for all three years hasn’t been secured --
project biologists will have to compete for additional funds for
next year. And that’s hard money to come by, when most funds are
still funneled into recovery efforts in and around  Yellowstone 
and  Glacier  national parks.  ‘Priority List’  “We just don’t seem to pop up on the priority list,”
Gaines says. “The delisting of grizzlies in the Greater
Yellowstone ecosystem is a hot-button issue, politically and
biologically, because they’re trying to show good success for
recovery efforts, so it’s a priority. And the idea of starting
something new in the northwest without additional money is
really difficult.”  Until biologists can get a handle on the population here,
detailed recovery actions remain on hold.  Augmentation -- or trapping grizzly bears from healthy
populations in northern Canada and transporting them to the
North Cascades -- is one option. But it presumes there are
already enough bears in the region to mate with any new ones. If
only a few individuals remain, reintroduction would be the
better route, but it’s expensive, and would require more
research and political sway.  “We already saw how controversial wolf reintroduction was
in Yellowstone,” says David Graves, regional program manager in
the  National Parks Conservation Association’s  Northwest regional
office. “Reintroduction is a much bigger, much more complex
process than augmentation.”  Either way, disappearing grizzlies in the North Cascades
are likely to affect bears in the Rockies, too.  Mixing Populations  “If the Northwest population is resilient and strong,”
says Graves, “we hope they would mix with the Selkirk Mountains
population, which would in turn mix with the Rockies population,
and then the entire population in the Lower 48 would be
geographically and genetically resilient, because no single
group would be isolated. And with the help of wildlife
corridors, grizzly bears across the country would have the
ability to move and adapt as  climate change  occurs.”  Graves has been working closely with a coalition of
conservation groups to push those messages and lobby for support
in Congress. Public outreach, he says, is critical, too.  ‘Fear of the Unknown’  “There is always fear of the unknown, and the augmentation
of grizzly bears will frighten some people,” Graves says. “But
if we can teach them about the importance of grizzlies in the
ecosystem, and help them understand how grizzlies really act in
the landscape, we’re hoping we can damp some of that opposition
and possibly grow support.”  “Grizzly bears symbolize our heritage, our history, where
our country has come from, and the health of our ecosystems
today,” says Chip Jenkins, North Cascades’ superintendent.
“Ensuring a sustainable grizzly population in the North
Cascades is not just a win for the bears, but a win for the
American people, because it demonstrates our ability to act to
bring the best of our heritage into the future.”  (Amy Leinbach Marquis is associate editor of National Parks
magazine, where this article originally ran. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amy Leinbach Marquis in Colorado at  amarquis@npca.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 