-- Mubarak Opponents Face Down Loyalists in Cairo After Gunfire
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-02-03T09:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/gunfire-erupts-in-cairo-as-mubarak-supporters-battle-egyptian-protesters.html
Opponents of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  faced down a drive by supporters of the 30-year regime
to push them out of Tahrir Square after a night of gunfire in
central Cairo.  Six people were killed and more than 800 injured in the
clashes, the government said, with Al Jazeera television showing
footage of bodies being pulled through the street. While debris-
strewn Tahrir Square was relatively calm this morning, the  Associated Press  said the army was taking up positions between
supporters.  The political turmoil that has engulfed the Middle East
continued to spread today, with thousands of pro- and anti-
government protestors gathering in the Yemeni capital of Sana’a.
Opposition groups vowed to go ahead with a “Day of Rage” after
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh said yesterday he will step
down when his term ends in 2013.  European Union leaders called for a “quick and orderly
transition” after Mubarak said two days ago he won’t bow to
pressure to step down immediately, according to a statement
signed by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and the leaders of the
other five largest western European countries. It echoed a
similar call by U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Mubarak loyalists yesterday rode horses and camels into
Tahrir Square, the epicenter of anti-government protests since
Jan. 25, swinging whips and clubs. The two sides hurled rocks,
bottles and concrete chunks, and some pro-government marchers
carried machetes. Egyptian soldiers didn’t intervene except to
extinguish fires and there were no uniformed police present.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at  mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 