-- Feinstein Moves Memorabilia to $160 Million Center
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2011-02-03T16:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/michael-feinstein-moves-astaire-shoes-to-160-million-indiana-arts-center.html
Fred Astaire’s dancing shoes and  Frank Sinatra ’s cufflinks have found a home in suburban
Indianapolis.  The items belong to singer and composer  Michael Feinstein ,
who for years has collected memorabilia connected to U.S.
popular music -- what is sometimes called the Great American
Songbook.  Feinstein has been moving his collection into the $160
million Center for the Performing Arts in  Carmel, Indiana , where
he serves as chief programmer and artistic director.  An opening-night show last Saturday in the center’s 1,600-
seat  Palladium  had Feinstein emceeing and performing in a
concert that also included singers  Neil Sedaka  and Dionne Warwick and former Sting sideman and trumpeter  Chris Botti .  The center’s other venues are a 200-seat black-box theater
that will open in March and the Tarkington, a 500-seat
proscenium theater that opens in August.  “The performing-arts center is certainly one of the finest
in the country,” said Feinstein, a native of Columbus,  Ohio , in
a phone interview. The community wanted “to create something
that would present the arts in a way that is unique to that part
of the country.”  The facility will serve as the headquarters of the  Michael
Feinstein Foundation . He started the organization in 2007 to
educate students about the Great American Songbook.  A 3,500-square-foot museum space under construction will
house the  Great American Songbook Archive & Museum , where a
portion of his huge collection will be displayed. Among his most
cherished items is one of the first signed copies of  George
Gershwin ’s “Rhapsody in Blue.”  Like ‘La Rotonda’  The domed concert hall, inspired by 16th-century architect
 Andrea Palladio ’s “La Rotonda,” was financed by the Carmel
Redevelopment Commission. The project, the centerpiece of the
88-acre Carmel City Center, was conceived by  James Brainard , the
city’s mayor since 1996.  The Washington-based  David M. Schwarz Architects Inc .
collaborated with  CSO Architects Inc . of Indianapolis to create
the concert hall’s design.  Performers for the inaugural half-season ending in June
include the Vienna Boys Choir, the St. Petersburg Philharmonic
and the Cleveland Orchestra; jazz vocalists Dianne Reeves,  Jane
Monheit  and 16-year old Canada-born prodigy  Nikki Yanofsky ; and
country singer Clint Black.  “We will present the finest artists in the world,” said
Steven Libman, the center’s president and chief executive
officer and former managing director of the La Jolla Playhouse
near  San Diego . “We can accommodate any Broadway show.”  One of the Palladium’s allures for artists, Feinstein said,
is its state-of-the-art acoustics designed by Artec Consultants
Inc., which has done concert halls  around the world .  “The reason we feel that the center will be successful is
that no detail as far as we can determine has been neglected,”
Feinstein said.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 