-- Microsoft May Use Debt Sale to Reward Shareholders
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-02-03T19:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/microsoft-may-use-benchmark-debt-sale-for-buybacks-acquisitions.html
  Microsoft Corp ., the world’s largest
software maker, plans to sell $2.25 billion of debt as soon as
today as investment-grade companies tap the corporate  bond
market  to reward shareholders.  Proceeds may be used for working capital, stock buybacks
and acquisitions, the Redmond, Washington-based company said
today in a regulatory filing. Microsoft is offering 5-, 10- and
30-year senior unsecured debt, according to a person familiar
with the transaction.  2011 is “going to be more the year of the shareholder than
the year of the bondholder,” said  Tom Murphy , a money manager
who helps oversee about $23 billion of investment-grade credit
at Columbia Management in  Minneapolis . “Some companies are
going to be taking that treasure trove of cash they have and
rewarding shareholders, whether it’s through share buybacks,
dividends, or doing strategic M&A transactions.”  Credit quality will weaken among investment-grade issuers
this year as companies facing “limited” business
opportunities, take advantage of relatively low  interest rates 
to repurchase stock, according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.
Bonds issued by Microsoft in its last U.S. offering in September
have tumbled, while the company’s shares have climbed 14.4
percent.  In today’s offering, a $750 million portion of 5-year notes
may pay 38 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
$500 million of 10-year debt may pay 48 basis points more than
benchmarks and $1 billion of 30-year bonds may pay a spread of
68 basis points, said the person familiar with the offering, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Lowest Coupons  The extra yield investors demand to own industrial
investment-grade debt instead of Treasuries fell to 137 basis
points on Jan. 24, the tightest spread since May, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The spread was 138
basis points yesterday.  Microsoft, one of four non-financial U.S. companies with
AAA ratings, issued $4.75 billion of debt in September,
including 3- and 5-year notes that set records for the lowest
coupons for those maturities.  The offering included $1 billion of 3 percent, 10-year
notes that priced at 99.14 cents on the dollar to yield 55 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The notes have dropped to 93.1 cents as
of yesterday to yield 3.86 percent, or a spread of 36.5 basis
points, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Windows, Xbox  The company’s 10-year notes lost 5.8 percent since their
first full day of trading on Sept. 23, compared with the 1.73
percent loss on its $1.75 billion of 1.625 percent, 5-year
notes, Bloomberg data show. Bonds rated AAA have lost 2.82
percent since then while overall investment-grade bonds have
declined 1.4 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  The maker of Windows and Xbox repurchased $5 billion of
shares and declared $1.3 billion of dividends in the quarter
ended Dec. 31, the company said in a Jan. 27 earnings call.  The Microsoft bonds fell because the extra yield the debt
pays relative to Treasuries offers little protection as a
“shock absorber” to rising interest rates, said  William Larkin , a fixed income portfolio manager in Salem,  Massachusetts , at Cabot Money Management, which manages $500
million.  ‘Super Expensive’  “I would look at this as super expensive,” Larkin said in
a telephone interview. “As inflation expectations shift and as
Treasuries sell off, basically Microsoft bonds will lose
value.”  Bank of America Corp. and Credit Suisse Group AG are
managing today’s offering, said the person familiar with the
issue. Today’s filing didn’t include the size or maturities of
the sale.  “Investment-grade issuers are beginning to re-leverage
their balance sheets after cutting debt in 2008 through early
2010,” Guy LeBas, strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery
Scott wrote in the broker-dealer’s 2011 outlook on Dec. 20.  Corporate cash balances are at record highs, close to 7
percent of total assets,  Barclays Capital  said in its global
credit outlook report for 2011.  “I don’t necessarily think it’s such a terrible thing for
us, because we’re starting from such a position of strength from
a balance sheet perspective,” Columbia Management’s Murphy said
of bond sales fueling buybacks and acquisitions.  AAA Rating  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service also rank
Exxon Mobil Corp., Johnson & Johnson and Automatic Data
Processing Inc. as AAA, or an equivalent Aaa, the same level
they assign to  U.S. government debt .    Kimberly-Clark Corp ., the maker of Huggies Diapers and Viva
paper towels, sold $700 million of bonds on Jan. 27 that may be
used to buy back common stock, fund the company’s pension plans,
and redeem outstanding commercial paper, according to a
statement from the Dallas-based company.  Moody’s assigned an Aaa to the Microsoft offering, the
ratings company said today in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  