-- India’s State Bank to Help End Gridlock Over Iran Oil Payments
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2011-02-03T22:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/india-creates-new-method-to-pay-for-oil-purchases-from-iran.html
India arranged for  State Bank of
India , the nation’s biggest lender, to help in making payments
for crude oil purchases from  Iran , ending a five-week gridlock
that threatened $9.5 billion of annual bilateral oil trade.    State Bank  will make the payments in euros through
 Europaeisch-Iranische Handelsbank AG , a government official told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday, asking not to be identified
because he’s not authorized to speak to the media. The new
system is effective immediately, he said.  The mechanism will avert the possible disruption of sales
from India’s second-largest supplier of crude oil. Refiners
including Indian Oil Corp. and Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd., the biggest Indian buyer of Iranian crude,
haven’t been able to pay the Persian Gulf state since the  Reserve Bank  of  India  on Dec. 27 dismantled a mechanism used to
settle oil trades in euros and dollars.  “If the issue wasn’t resolved, Indian refiners would have
had to go to the expensive spot market for crude,” said Jagdish Meghnani, a Mumbai-based analyst at Alchemy Share & Stock
Brokers. “This would have put pressure on oil prices in the
region. It would have also hit their refining margins.”  State Bank Chief Financial Officer Hemant Contractor wasn’t
immediately available when contacted by telephone at his office.
U.K. Basu, managing director of Mangalore Refinery, declined to
comment.    Brent crude  for March settlement crossed $100 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  on Dec 31. Prices fell
for the first time in five days yesterday, after touching a 28-
month intraday high of $103.37.  U.S. Sanctions  The U.S. sanctioned Hamburg-based Europaeisch-Iranische
Handelsbank in September last year, accusing it of being a
“lifeline” for Iran as the regime develops nuclear and missile
programs.  EIH said the allegations directed at it by the Department
of the Treasury are “defamatory” and “without substance.”
The bank’s website describes its business in trade finance and
lists offices in Tehran and Kish, Iran.  Iran says it is enriching uranium for power generation.  Iran may halt oil shipments to India in two weeks if the
payment impasse isn’t resolved, Mehdi Fakheri, vice president of
international affairs at the  Iran Chamber of Commerce,
Industries and Mines , said Jan. 27. Indian refiners have $2
billion in pending payments for oil bought from Iran, the Indian
government official said yesterday.  India imports about 21 million tons of crude from Iran
annually, Oil Secretary S. Sundareshan said on Dec. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at   crussell@bloomberg.net . 