-- India's Food Inflation Quickens to One-Month High, Adding to Rate Pressure
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2011-02-03T06:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/india-s-services-industry-expansion-accelerates-increasing-rate-pressure.html
  India ’s food inflation accelerated to
a one-month high and services growth quickened, bolstering the
case for more interest-rate increases.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products rose 17.05 percent in the week ended Jan. 22, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 58.1 in January from 57.7 in
December, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics . A
reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Asian economies from South Korea to  China  and India are
facing inflation pressures, prompting the International Monetary
Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn to say this week
that central banks in the region need to raise borrowing costs
further. The  Reserve Bank  of India on Jan. 25 boosted rates for
the seventh time in a year and signaled more increases.  “Demand pressures are growing in India,” Jay Shankar,
chief economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai, said
before the release. “Food costs are also feeding into
inflation.” He expects the central bank to increase rates by at
least 100 basis points by December.  Eleven-year  government bonds  in January posted their first
monthly loss since October on investor concern inflation in
India will erode returns on the securities. The yield on the
8.13 percent bond due in September 2022 gained two basis points
to 8.19 percent at 12:01 p.m. in Mumbai, after increasing 14
basis points in January.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index jumped 1.5
percent as of 12:01 p.m.  Onion Prices  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation index advanced
8.43 percent in December, led by higher food costs.  Onion prices, a staple in the local cuisine, surged 130
percent in the week ended Jan. 22, while eggs and meat rose 15
percent, today’s statement showed.  The government on Jan. 13 blamed the late arrival of rains
for disrupting supplies of fruits and vegetables including
onions. It said prices of milk, eggs, meat and fish have gained
because of consumer demand, strengthened by rising incomes
generated by economic expansion.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government is importing
onions from  Pakistan  and has banned exports of lentils and
edible oils.  Growth in India’s $1.3 trillion economy is being spurred by
services such as telecommunications and banking, which make up
almost three-fifths of the nation’s gross domestic product.  Phone Customers  Indian mobile-phone operators including Bharti Airtel Ltd.
added 22.88 million new customers in November, a 3.24 percent
increase from a month earlier. That’s the biggest gain since
June and signals strong consumer demand in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao last month increased
the key repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to
6.5 percent and raised the inflation forecast to 7 percent by
March 31 from the earlier prediction of 5.5 percent.  In  South Korea , consumer-price gains breached the central
bank’s 4 percent ceiling in January, the government said Feb. 1.
Indonesian inflation quickened and input prices rose in China,
separate reports showed this week.    Thailand  and South Korea increased rates last month and
China’s central bank has moved twice since mid-October and also
pushed banks’ reserve requirements to the highest in more than
two decades.  Bank Indonesia  has kept its policy rate at 6.5
percent since August 2009, delaying an increase to avoid
attracting more capital inflows.  Indonesia  is scheduled to
announce its next rate decision tomorrow.  Asian economies led a global recovery last year that’s been
restrained by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a U.S. job
market where unemployment has exceeded 9 percent since May 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 