-- International Paper Profit Rises on Higher Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2011-02-03T21:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/international-paper-earnings-beat-estimates-on-rising-demand-for-packaging.html
  International Paper Co ., the world’s
largest paper and pulp maker, reported a fourth-quarter profit
after a year-earlier loss as a recovering global economy spurred
demand for cardboard packaging.  Net income was $316 million, or 73 cents a share, compared
with a net loss of $101 million, or 24 cents, a year earlier,
the Memphis, Tennessee-based company said today in a statement.
Profit excluding an income-tax adjustment gain and other one-
time items was 68 cents a share, the company said, topping the
65-cent average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Increased demand for containerboard, the corrugated paper
used to make shipping boxes, allowed the company to raise prices
last year. International Paper’s sales of industrial packaging
rose 2.7 percent in the quarter to 3.58 million short tons from
3.49 million a year earlier.  “It’s essentially in line with expectations, given the
company had a lower effective  tax rate  in the fourth quarter,”
Paul Quinn, a Vancouver-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets ,
said in a telephone interview.  International Paper fell 11 cents to $29.26 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. International Paper’s
shares have gained 29 percent in the past 12 months.  International Paper’s worldwide sales in the quarter
increased 9.3 percent to $6.53 billion from a year earlier, more
than the $6.36 billion expected by eight analysts in the survey.  Packaging Profit  The company’s full-year profit from continuing operations
increased to $890 million, or $2.05 a share, from $378 million,
or 88 cents, a year earlier, the company said in the statement.
At year-end, the company had $2.07 billion of cash and temporary
investments.  “We have pretty good fundamentals coming through from the
second half of the last year and I don’t see any change in
that,” Chief Financial Officer Tim Nicholls said today in a
telephone interview. “We see the world as stable at the moment,
with momentum started around economic activity last year that we
expect to continue.”  Operating profit in the industrial-packaging unit more than
tripled to $274 million in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, the company said.  Price Increases  “Containerboard-pricing increases have held and demand has
continued to grow,” Joshua Zaret, a New York-based analyst at
Longbow Research, said in an interview before the results were
released. “Sooner or later we’re going to see another price
increase.”  Profit from its printing-papers unit rose 70 percent to
$236 million, more than the $226 million expected by Zaret, who
rates the company’s shares a “buy” and has a 12-month price
target of $32 a share.  International Paper is North America’s second-largest
producer of office paper after Montreal-based  Domtar Corp .  The company’s effective tax rate fell to 28 percent in the
fourth quarter from 31 percent in the previous three months
related in part to the passage of U.S. legislation that extended
research and development tax credits, International Paper said
in the statement.  “International Paper performed well during 2010, a year of
transition from recession to global economic growth,” Chief
Executive Officer John Faraci said in the statement. “We expect
to further build on our strong earnings and free cash flow
momentum in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 