-- IPad Makes Space in Japan's Tiny Homes by Removing Bookshelves
-- B y   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 2011-02-03T15:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/ipad-makes-space-in-japan-s-tiny-homes-by-removing-bookshelves.html
Yusuke Ohki’s 2,000 books were
crowding out his Tokyo apartment, so he scanned them all into
an  Apple Inc . iPad. Six months later the 28-year-old is running
a 120-person start-up doing the same thing for customers.  Japan’s cramped living conditions and the arrival of the
iPad in May have spawned as many as 60 companies offering to
turn paper books into e-books as publishers have been slow to
provide content for new electronic readers. Japan has lagged
the U.S. in introducing e-books because of a rigid pricing
system, uncertainty over copyrights and early problems
reproducing Japanese characters on screens, said Toshihiro
Takagi, an analyst at market researcher Impress R&D in Tokyo.  “People are taking matters in their own hands because the
publishers are not meeting the market’s needs,” said Takagi.  Japan’s $24 billion market for paper books and magazines,
the world’s largest, may see an explosion in e-books as Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab tablet computer and readers by
Sharp Corp. and  Sony Corp . take on the iPad. Sales of
electronic books in the country will probably more than double
in the next three years to 153 billion yen ($1.9 billion),
according to Tokyo-based Yano Research Institute Ltd.  Ohki and rivals including Denshika.com and Scan Honpo are
tapping that demand. Ohki founded  Bookscan  with childhood
friend Shinya Iwamatsu in April, converting books into PDF
files that can be read on the iPad, iPhone,  Amazon.com Inc .’s
Kindle and  Barnes & Noble Inc. ’s Nook. The company charges 100
yen per book for a service called “jisui,” or “cooking for
oneself.”  Copyright Question  “The home-made e-book market will continue to exist as
long as the copyright situation isn’t dealt with and people
cannot find books they want in electronic format,” said
Masashi Ueno, a researcher at Yano Research Institute. “In
Japan, copyright agreements vary depending on the author,
meaning a publisher could serialize a comic book but may or may
not have the rights to publish it as a separate book.”  Japan’s copyright laws permit users to digitize protected
works for personal and family use, according to Seichi Higuchi,
the secretary general of Japan Book Publishers Association.
Reproduction of a purchased work by a third party requires
publisher’s permission, Higuchi said. Bookscan requires
customers to tick a box to say they have this permission.  “There are more than 30 or 40 scanning companies and huge
amount of books are scanned every day, so I can hardly believe
all the scanning is legal,” Higuchi said in an interview in
Tokyo last month.  ‘Latent Demand’  “The pressure is building on the publishing industry to
meet consumer needs before these home-made contents begin to
circulate illegally,” said  Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in Tokyo. “This is a sign of
latent demand.”  Japanese will buy 67 billion yen worth of e-books in the
fiscal year ending March 31, most of it comics for mobile
phones, Yano Research Institute’s Ueno said. Content for tablet
computers and e-readers will account for more than half of e-
book sales in the year to March 2015, compared with about 3
percent now, Ueno said.  Electronic books were equivalent to 8.7 percent of the $4
billion market for paper print in the U.S. in the first 10
months of 2010,  Association of American Publishers  said in
December. Sales of e-books in the country are set to almost
triple to $2.8 billion by 2015, according to Forrester Research
Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  iPad Factor  Sales of iPads and web-based document storage services
such as Evernote and Dropbox have helped spur the cottage
industry.  “The iPad’s release is the biggest factor in making this
business possible,” Ohki said. The Tokyo-based company in July
bought industrial scanners to reduce the four-month wait faced
by its more than 12,000 customers, he said.  Sales of consumer scanners at PFU Ltd. rose 80 percent in
June and more than doubled the following month because of the
iPad’s release, according to Tadashi Oura, the head of
marketing for imaging products at the company. The Tokyo-based
subsidiary of  Fujitsu Ltd . chartered flights to rush the
devices from its factories in  China  to meet the spike in demand,
Oura said.  Japanese buyers of Amazon’s Kindle reader are redirected
to the company’s U.S. site since no Japanese-language titles
are available. Lack of content and low demand forced Tokyo-
based Sony to stop selling e-readers in its home market in 2007.
Osaka-based  Panasonic Corp . gave up in 2008.  Sony, which resumed Japan sales of its e-readers in
December, formed a venture last year with mobile-phone operator  KDDI Corp ., Asahi Shimbun Publishing Corp. and Toppan Printing
Co. to provide electronic publications. The group will take on
an e-book alliance of  NTT DoCoMo Inc ., Japan’s largest wireless
carrier, and Dai Nippon Printing Co.  ‘Year Zero’  “We are at year zero for e-books in Japan,” Toshihiro
Konno, who heads the venture between Sony, KDDI, Asahi and
Toppan, said at a briefing in December. Konno estimates
Japanese will buy about 780,000 e-readers and 85 billion yen
worth of content in the year to March 31.  Meanwhile, customers are turning to scanners to make room
in a country where average living space per person is about 37
square meters (398-square feet), or almost half that in the
U.S., according to real estate service provider Mitsui Fudosan
Co.  Satoshi Tagomori, 28, who works for a pharmaceutical
company in Kyushu, southwestern Japan, had his books scanned to
make room for his newborn child, cutting the space occupied by
books in his 50-square meter apartment by about 75 percent.  “There was just no more room for books when my son was
born,” Satoshi said in a phone interview. “Plus, I was
worried about the shelves falling over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 