-- IRS Misfired on Plug-in Tax Credit Claims, U.S. Government Audit Discovers
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2011-02-03T23:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/irs-misfired-on-plug-in-tax-credit-claims-audit-finds-update1-.html
About 20 percent of U.S. tax credits
for plug-in electric vehicles and alternative-fuel vehicles were
filed in error, according to a government audit.  The credits are important to companies such as  General
Motors Co . and Nissan Motor Co., which have entered the plug-in
market with the $41,000 Chevrolet Volt and the $32,780 Nissan
Leaf, respectively. Buyers of those vehicles can claim up to
$7,500 from the federal government, and the companies are
relying on the credits to be competitive on price with gasoline-
based models.  Most of the erroneous credits, according to the audit, went
to taxpayers who sought benefits for vehicles such as  Hyundai
Motor Co .’s Sonata and GM’s Buick Enclave that didn’t qualify
for tax breaks. Prisoners and IRS employees were among those who
erroneously claimed credits.  The 20 percent error rate means that about $33 million in
credits were claimed in the first seven months of 2010 by
taxpayers who shouldn’t have received the money from the  Internal Revenue Service , according to the  Treasury Inspector
General for Tax Administration , which released the report.  “While IRS management did take corrective actions to
reduce erroneous claims when TIGTA brought these process
weaknesses to its attention, more clearly needs to be done,”
said J. Russell George, the inspector general.  Automatic Rejection  In particular, the IRS disagreed with auditors’
recommendations to automatically reject credit claims for
ineligible vehicles.  Agency officials said such a step would reduce the number
of tax returns that could be handled per hour and would be best
managed after returns were processed, according to the audit.  IRS spokesman Grant Williams said the agency’s approach to
tax incentives from the 2009 stimulus law seeks to balance quick
processing with accuracy.  “The IRS took immediate action to put additional
protections in place to stop improper vehicle payments,” he
said in a statement today. “We are also taking steps to
recapture the credits people erroneously claimed.”  The tax credits are part of the Obama administration’s
efforts to have 1 million advanced-technology vehicles on the
road by 2015. Obama isn’t likely to achieve that goal, according
to a study by the Indiana University School of Public and
Environmental Affairs.  Michigan Representative Sander Levin, the top Democrat on
the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, has introduced a
bill that would expand the per-manufacturer cap on the $7,500
plug-in credit from 200,000 to 500,000.  In addition to the credits for plug-in cars, tax credits
were available through 2010 for alternative-fuel vehicles such
as the version of Honda Motor Co.’s Civic that is powered by
natural gas and natural gas truck engines made by Cummins
Westport Inc., a joint venture of  Cummins Inc . and  Westport
Innovations Inc .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  