-- It’s Bonus (and Bono) as Usual as Davos Glitters: Mark Gilbert
-- B y   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 2011-02-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/it-s-bonus-and-bono-as-usual-as-davos-shines-commentary-by-mark-gilbert.html
“The mood of Davos is always a
counter-indicator,” says Harvard University historian  Niall Ferguson . “It’s a consensus not to be believed in. The more
complacency there is, the more I’m worried.”  So what did we glean during five days at the  World Economic
Forum’s annual meeting  in Davos last week? Well, everyone agrees
that China and  India  are Really Important, though no one seems
to have a clue whether to rejoice or despair as economic power
shifts to the East.  Investment bankers would like us to pretend the credit
crunch never happened so they can go back to bonus as usual. And
for the clever people able to look past the middle of next week,
worrying about the outlook for food and water security is enough
to keep them awake at night.  Frankly, though, we knew all of that before the threat of
global warming was exacerbated by transporting thousands of
executives and associated gawkers to Davos. (Though we did learn
that when you trap the great and the good in a small Swiss ski
town, the Audi taxi drivers -- and they were almost invariably
driving Audis -- can charge $2 per minute and more to get you
from under-nourishing conference center to your overpriced
restaurant or accommodation.)  More compelling were the flashes of heat revealing the
tensions that lurked beneath the surface. An attempt led by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  and
Barclays Plc CEO  Robert Diamond  to lower the curtain on the
financial crisis backfired. Dimon’s warning about the risk of
“bad policies” prompted a lecture on “moral values” from
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  ‘Start Lending’  And when Diamond expressed “very heartfelt thanks” for
government bailouts of his industry, French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  retorted that “the best way to say thank you
is to start lending, keep compensation reasonable, and improve
your capital levels.” (The previous day, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. had announced a $12.6 million stock bonus for CEO Lloyd Blankfein in 2010, and raised his base salary to $2 million this
year, from $600,000.)  The jobless recovery might just be the spur that
politicians need to finally get tough with the banking
community. “There is a high level of public anger,” said
Robert J. Shiller, an economics professor at  Yale University .
“There’s a sense the good guys are coming last. Those who had a
job and bought a house are now losing that job and being
foreclosed on. That’s why people’s animal spirits are so down.”  Bond-Backed Bailout    Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is reaching its endgame,
judging by the mood music emanating from the private lunches and
off-the-record briefings at Davos. Spain and Greece are earning
plaudits for belatedly tackling their swollen deficits. That’s
giving German politicians the ammunition they need to hustle a
bond-backed bailout past their taxpayers and the courage to
bankroll a shock-and-awe solution.  As evidence of the newfound optimism that default can be
averted, the yield premium that investors demand to lend to  Greece  rather than  Germany  has slipped to its lowest level in
about three months.  The corners and coffee bars of the conference center
illustrated how the mobile-technology wars were panning out.
Apple Inc.’s iPad has obliterated the laptop among note-takers
and Web surfers, while the iPhone is the favored confidante of
the chattering classes. Research in Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry,
though, is still the e-mail device of choice.  IPad Versus Playbook  “The iPad is the gizmo of the year,” said  Joe Saddi ,
chairman of global consulting firm Booz & Co. “I have a
Blackberry, iPhone and iPad. They all have different uses.” Jim Balsillie, Research in Motion’s co-CEO, displayed his BlackBerry
Playbook tablet prototype slated for release later in the year.
He kept mum, however, on his battle plan for engaging with
Apple.    Bill Clinton  stole the Davos show. The 64-year-old former
president wowed the crowd with the revelation that his wife,
Hillary, wants a grandchild more than she wants to be president.
No pressure on Chelsea there, then.  My personal highlight was listening to Bono of U2 and Peter Gabriel debating with Daniel Ek, co-founder of the Spotify music
service, about whether musicians will ever get paid a fair price
for digital distribution of their songs.  Trekking halfway up a mountain to get to a party was made
worthwhile after persuading Bono to serenade us with an up-
close-and-personal rendition of “Two Shots of Happy, One Shot
of Sad,” a song he co-wrote with U2 guitarist, The Edge, hoping
that  Frank Sinatra  would record it -- and one that seems to sum
up Davos quite well.    Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is a Bloomberg
News columnist. A version of this column will appear in
Bloomberg Businessweek’s Feb. 7 issue. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  