-- Italy's `Old Lady' of Soccer Strives to Return to Past Glory With Stadium
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/italian-soccer-s-old-lady-seeks-return-to-glory-with-stadium.html
The “Old Lady” of Italian soccer is
betting a facelift will return her to past glories.  Juventus, winner of a record 27 domestic league titles,
moves into a new 41,000-seat stadium next season built to boost
revenue and renew the drive for European honors. The Turin team,
known as La Vecchia Signora, or Old Lady, hasn’t won a trophy
since a 2006 corruption scandal led to it being stripped of its
last two championships.  “Every club understands that it needs to build higher
revenues because this will be the key to being competitive in
the future, being able to pay high salaries and therefore
attract the best players,” Juventus Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Claude Blanc said in an interview.  With European clubs’ losses doubling to more than 1.2
billion euros ($1.6 billion) in 2009, the continent’s soccer
governing body  UEFA  has warned teams they face bans from the
elite Champions League in 2014 unless they rein in spending to
match revenue.  The privately financed 105 million-euro stadium is on the
northwest outskirts of Turin on the site of the old Stadio delle
Alpi, where Juventus formerly played. It’s the first built by an
Italian team in more than 20 years and will give Juventus the
advantage of being the only Serie A team to own its stadium. The
facility is expected to boost revenue by as much as 40 million
euros, according to Giorgio Brambilla, sales and marketing
director for Germany-based research company Sport+Markt.  Del Piero  Juventus fans will have to change their viewing habits for
the club to reach its target. The two-time European champion
claims to be  Italy ’s most popular team with 12 million
supporters, yet the club’s average attendance at its current
home, the 28,000-capacity Stadio Olimpico in the south of the
city, is 21,000. That’s about 30,000 fewer than Italian and
European champion Inter Milan and ranks 11th among Serie A’s 20
teams.  Unlike the Stadio delle Alpi, the new structure is purpose-
built for soccer. It won’t have a running track, a feature that
die-hard fans disliked for reducing the atmosphere at games. The
former ground rarely filled its almost-70,000 capacity. The
Guardian reported that just 237 fans witnessed an Italian Cup
match with Sampdoria there in the 2001-02 season.  Performances on the field must improve if Juventus is to
fill the new stadium, said Alan Switzer, a director at London-
based accountant Deloitte LLP’s Sports Business Group. The team
captained by Alessandro Del Piero failed to make the Champions
League after finishing seventh in Serie A last year, and is in
eighth place after 23 games this season. It lost 2-1 at Palermo
two days ago.  Agnelli Family  “You get a new stadium effect in the short term but if the
performance doesn’t get better you see a waning off,” Switzer
said.  Securing an additional 40 million euros would be equivalent
to what Juventus, already the biggest earner in Italy, would
make for reaching the final of the Champions League. Fueled by
some of the highest television revenues in the league, Juventus
generated 240 million euros of sales in the year ended June
2010, 11 percent more than Inter Milan, whose 69 million-euro
loss was about seven times Juventus’s deficit. With a share
price of 88 euro cents, Juventus has a market value of 177.4
million euros.  Juventus, controlled by the Agnelli family, the majority
investor in carmaker Fiat SpA, generates 8 percent of income
from its stadium. Higher sales may bring it closer to teams in  England ’s Premier League. Arsenal’s income from the 60,000-seat
Emirates Stadium, which opened in  London  in 2006, was 93.9
million pounds ($152 million) last season.  Revenue Gain  Revenue has been boosted further thanks to a 12-year, 75
million-euro deal that Blanc secured two years ago with
SportFive, allowing the Geneva-based  marketing company  to sell
naming rights to the new stadium. Talks with Asian and European
companies over a 6 million-euro to 7 million-euro per season
deal have yet to yield an agreement. About 70 percent of the new
stadium’s 4,000 premium seats have been presold, Blanc added.  The 47-year-old came to Juventus following a boardroom
shakeup in the wake of the corruption scandal that led to the
team’s demotion to the second tier for the first time in its
113-year history. The team returned to Serie A after a season,
and finished third and second in its first two campaigns back in
the top league.  Blanc revamped Juventus’s marketing operation by asking a
reduced number of sponsors to pay more for exclusivity.
Brambilla said Juventus has about 12 core partners, fewer than
half the number that adorn LED advertising boards around the
stadiums of Serie A rivals.  “Blanc’s done very well even if the team hasn’t performed
so well,” Brambilla said.  Reorganization  The recent on-field struggles led to another reorganization
in May. Blanc lost his role as chairman to Andrea Agnelli and
Juventus hired Giuseppe Marotta from Sampdoria to oversee
personnel moves following the failure of expensive acquisitions
such as Brazilian-born duo Diego and Amauri. Supporters
criticized Blanc, who previously organized tennis’s French Open
and cycling’s Tour de  France , for his lack of experience in
soccer.  Blanc said he’s unsure he’ll remain with the team when his
five-year contract expires later this year.  “With the delivery of the new stadium, a lot will have
been accomplished in the last few years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 