-- Mitsubishi UFJ Third-Quarter Profit Doubles as Cost of Bad Loans Declines
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2011-02-03T07:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/mitsubishi-ufj-third-quarter-profit-doubles-as-cost-of-bad-loans-declines.html
  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc .,
Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank, posted third-quarter
profit that more than doubled as bad-loan costs fell.  Net income climbed to 195.1 billion yen ($2.4 billion) in
the three months ended Dec. 31, from 76.1 billion yen a year
earlier. Quarterly earnings were calculated by subtracting
first-half profit from nine-month figures reported in a
statement filed to the Tokyo Stock Exchange today.  Mitsubishi UFJ joins  Mizuho Financial Group Inc . in
recording higher earnings for the period. Profit at Japan’s
biggest banks has hinged on bond trading and cost cutting this
fiscal year as a 13-month slump in lending constrains interest
income. Analysts including Takehito Yamanaka say demand for
credit will likely bottom out in the year starting April as the
economy gains momentum.  “We’re going to see a recovery of lending demand, probably
later in the next fiscal year,” Yamanaka, an analyst at MF
Global FXA Securities Ltd. in Tokyo, said before today’s
announcement. “The pace of the pickup depends on the strength of
the economic recovery.”    Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc ., the country’s second-
biggest lender, last month posted a 21 percent decline in third-
quarter net income, contrasting with profit at Mizuho that
doubled as bad-loan costs evaporated.  Japan’s economy is beginning to pick up, with industrial
production increasing the most in 11 months in December as
export growth accelerated. Gross domestic product is expected to
quicken in every quarter this year, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Recovery Signs  “We may see signs of a recovery in domestic lending demand
sometime in the second half of the next fiscal year,” Nana Otsuki, a Tokyo-based analyst at UBS AG, said before today’s
result. “On top of that, Japanese banks want to reap profits
from overseas businesses that they have invested in to
supplement their bottom-line growth.”  With domestic prospects hampered by deflation and a
declining population, Mitsubishi UFJ and its rivals have stepped
up acquisitions of overseas lenders and loan assets and formed
alliances with banks in  Asia . In December, Mitsubishi UFJ signed
a deal to buy about 3.9 billion pounds ($6.3 billion) of project
finance assets from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s shares dropped 1.8 percent to 436 yen at
the close of Tokyo trading today before the earnings
announcement. The benchmark Topix index slipped 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 