-- Japan's `OO7' Volcano on Kyushu Erupts for Ninth Time in a Week, JMA Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2011-02-03T07:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/japan-s-oo7-volcano-erupts-for-ninth-time-after-52-year-dormancy.html
Shinmoedake, a volcano on Japan’s
southern island of Kyushu that was featured in the James Bond
movie ‘You Only Live Twice,’ erupted for the second time today
and ninth time in a week, Japan’s Meteorological Agency said.  The 1,421-meter (4,660 feet) volcano in the Kirishima range
erupted at 12:17 p.m. local time, spewing a cloud of smoke and
ash as high as 2,500 meters that drifted east-northeast toward
Miyazaki Prefecture’s Pacific coastline, a branch division of
the agency said in a  statement  today. The eruption followed an
earlier one at 3 a.m., the agency said.  Japan Airlines Corp., All Nippon Airways Co. and Skymark
Airlines Inc., Japan’s biggest discount carrier, said flights to
the region may be delayed or diverted because of the ash plume.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd . is no longer warning about delays
between  Hong Kong  and Osaka, Nagoya and Tokyo.  Shinmoedake erupted for the first time in 52 years on Jan.
27, according to the JMA. The agency  said  yesterday a lava dome
in the crater has grown to about 600 meters across from 10
meters when the eruptions started, and may spill out, creating a  lava flow . Authorities are maintaining a restricted zone of 4
kilometers (2.5 miles) around the volcano.  There have been no reports of injuries since Feb. 1, when
an eruption smashed more than 180 window panes in hospitals and
schools about six kilometers from the crater, injuring a 92
year-old woman, NHK reported at the time. The eruption was the
strongest as of yesterday, according to the JMA.  The weather agency maintained a  level 3 alert  for
Shinmoedake and Sakurajima volcano, 45 kilometers (28 miles) to
the southwest, indicating an eruption “may seriously affect
places near residential areas.” Evacuations are carried out
when the alert reaches the maximum 5.  Shinmoedake was the setting for villain Ernst Blofeld’s
 volcano headquarters  in the 1967 Bond movie featuring  Sean Connery  in the title role, according to the  Internet Movie
Database .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 