-- JPMorgan Accused by Madoff Trustee Picard of Aiding Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/jpmorgan-suspected-bernard-madoff-s-fraud-trustee-picard-says-in-lawsuit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. sought to
protect only its own investments even as it suspected  Bernard Madoff  of perpetrating a fraud, said the trustee liquidating the
convicted conman’s financial-advisory firm.  JPMorgan had a “decades-long role” as Madoff’s primary
banker “aiding and abetting” the fraud, according to a
statement yesterday by trustee  Irving Picard . The lawsuit
against JPMorgan, filed last year, seeks to recover almost
$1 billion in profits and $5.4 billion in damages.  The complaint includes internal e-mails at the bank and
details supporting allegations that JPMorgan “knew or should
have known” that Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC,
or BLMIS, was likely engaging in fraud, Picard said.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March 2009 to charges that
his wealth-management business was a massive Ponzi scheme, after
being arrested in December 2008. He is serving a 150-year
sentence at a federal prison in  North Carolina . Statements for
Madoff customers in November 2008 falsely indicated they had
almost $65 billion in total investments.  “Incredibly, the bank’s top executives were warned in
blunt terms about speculation that Madoff was running a Ponzi
scheme, yet the bank appears to have been concerned only with
protecting its own investments in BLMIS feeder funds,” said
Deborah Renner, an attorney for Picard, in a statement.  $500 Million  JPMorgan, based in New York, earned at least $500 million
in fees and profits “off the backs” of Madoff’s victims,
according to the complaint.  “As we allege in the complaint, JPMC had a palpable
concern that Madoff was a fraud for years, but it was not until
October 2008 that it reported Madoff to government officials,”
Renner said. “Even then, JPMC executives did not restrict the
BLMIS bank account, even though it was being used to launder
money from the  Ponzi scheme .”  JPMorgan “ignored its anti-money laundering obligations
and repeatedly allowed suspicious transactions for high dollar
amounts to occur in the BLMIS account,” David Sheehan, another
lawyer for Picard, said in the statement.  “The complaint further alleges that, as the BLMIS banker,
JPMC had financial reports in its possession that clearly
evidenced fraud,” Sheehan said. “The same reports led a
prominent  fund manager  to conclude that fraudulent activity was
highly likely.”  All funds recovered by Picard will be distributed to Madoff
customers who have valid claims, the trustee said. Investors
lost almost $17.1 billion in principal by the time the Ponzi
scheme was exposed, according to the complaint.  JPMorgan Response    Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, said the
bank will fight the lawsuit. It was initially filed under seal
on Dec. 2 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  “JPMorgan did not know about or in any way become a party
to the fraud orchestrated by Bernard Madoff,” Zuccarelli said
in an e-mailed statement. She called the suit “meritless.”  The amended complaint filed yesterday includes this excerpt
from a purported e-mail from a JPMorgan employee in June 2007:
“For whatever it’s worth, I am sitting at lunch with (JPMC
employee, name redacted) who just told me that there is a well-
known cloud over the head of Madoff and that his returns are
speculated to be part of a Ponzi scheme.”  Laundering Concern  According to the trustee’s complaint, JPMorgan reported
Madoff in late 2008 to European authorities only after concern
that his accounts may have been used to launder money from
Colombian drug traffickers.  Madoff’s investment method beginning in the 1990s was a so-
called split-strike conversion strategy, according to the
complaint. He was to invest customer money in a basket of stocks
of the 100 largest publicly traded companies, then hedge those
purchases by buying and selling options contracts based on the
stocks. There is no evidence Madoff ever bought the equities or
options, the trustee said.  JPMorgan by early 2007 was devising products for clients to
make leveraged bets on Madoff feeder funds such as Fairfield
Sigma, Picard said. Developed by the bank’s “equity exotics”
group, the products offered investors ways of staking three
times their money on feeders by using a loan from JPMorgan.  “Mr. Madoff will not allow us to conduct any due diligence
on him directly,” one JPMorgan employee wrote another as the
bank was proposing to step up its creation of leveraged bets on
feeders, according to Picard’s complaint.  The project foundered the next year when JPMorgan bought
Bear Stearns Cos. and cut its exposure to hedge funds, Picard
said.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New
York (Manhattan). The adversary case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase
& Co., 10-AP-4932, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York federal court at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  