-- Julius Baer Data Given to WikiLeaks Puts Spotlight on Swiss Bank Secrecy
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2011-02-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/julius-baer-data-used-by-wikileaks-for-assault-on-swiss-banking-secrecy.html
A former  Julius Baer Group Ltd .
employee’s effort to discredit the 121-year-old bank by handing
stolen client data to WikiLeaks has put Swiss banking secrecy
back in the spotlight.  Rudolf Elmer, who worked for Zurich-based Baer’s Cayman
Islands unit until December 2002, says he wants to expose  tax
evasion  through the use of offshore accounts. He was detained by
Swiss prosecutors after handing over data on about 2,000 cross-
border accounts to WikiLeaks’ founder Julian Assange on Jan. 17.  “WikiLeaks is changing the dynamic because it’s a platform
with a worldwide audience,” said Teodoro Cocca, professor of  wealth management  at Johannes Kepler University in Linz,  Austria . “The reputational damage for Swiss banking could be
much broader than someone selling data to a tax authority.”  The questions surrounding Baer follow attacks on secrecy in
Swiss banking by U.S., French and German officials. As clients
reassess the benefits of cross-border accounts, Baer must decide
whether to build branch networks in  Europe  and  Asia  to compete
with larger rivals such as  UBS AG  and Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We have no reason to believe that Elmer has anything
new,” according to Baer spokesman Jan Vonder Muehll. Boris Collardi, who became chief executive officer in May 2009, told
Handelszeitung in September that since his arrival, “our motto
is that we only accept taxed money.”  Elmer, who is in a Zurich prison while the city’s
prosecutors investigate whether he broke banking secrecy laws,
can’t comment, according to his lawyer Ganden Tethong Blattner.  Earnings Outlook  Baer is scheduled to report results on Feb. 7. Full-year
net income probably rose to 454 million Swiss francs ($479
million) from 389 million francs in 2009, according to the mean
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company’s plan to double the number of employees in
Asia within five years is costly and raises questions about the
profitability of such an expansion, said  Peter Thorne , a London-
based analyst at Helvea.  The involvement of WikiLeaks, after informants helped
authorities pursue tax-evasion cases involving UBS, HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Geneva private bank and Liechtenstein’s LGT
Group, is an escalation of the stolen data issue, according to
Konrad Hummler, managing partner of Wegelin & Co., Switzerland’s
oldest private bank.  Bernhard Bauhofer, founder of Sparring Partners GmbH, which
advises financial companies on managing their reputations, said
Baer has contained the threat posed by Elmer.  “The industry is starting to get used to this problem” of  data theft , said Bauhofer. “Any damage from WikiLeaks seems to
be under control as they managed it properly.”  Whistleblower  Elmer, who worked for Baer for 15 years, was found guilty
in a separate case on Jan. 19 of making a death threat against a
bank employee and of breaking Switzerland’s client-secrecy laws.  Elmer “is a whistleblower and he has important things to
say,” Assange told reporters in  London  on Jan. 17. He said the
data will take at least two weeks to check and disseminate.  WikiLeaks was not immediately available for comment after
being e-mailed by Bloomberg News.  WikiLeaks drew condemnation from the U.S. government for
posting thousands of classified diplomatic communications and
military documents on its website, including a video of a July
2007 helicopter attack in  Iraq  that killed a Reuters television
cameraman and his driver.  Analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expect client inflows
to reach the top of Baer’s 4 percent to 6 percent target range.
The New York-based firm has increased its price target for Baer
shares to 54 francs. The stock gained 25 percent in the past 12
months, closing yesterday at 43.15 francs.  Returning Capital  “We no longer factor in an adverse scenario related to
taxation issues” as negotiations between  Switzerland  and
governments in the U.K. and  Germany  will provide greater
clarity, the Goldman Sachs analysts, including Jean-Francois Neuez, Monica Kalia and Jacqueline Cheung, wrote in a Feb. 2
note to clients.  With excess capital equating to about 16 percent of Baer’s
8.9 billion-franc market value, Goldman Sachs expects Baer to
return money to shareholders. Dividends and share buybacks from
Baer, which has about 4,500 works of contemporary Swiss art
adorning the walls of its branches worldwide, may exceed 1
billion francs in the next two years, Morgan Stanley estimates.  Baer, the fifth-biggest Swiss wealth manager, may struggle
to compete with larger rivals for customers who no longer see an
advantage from depositing their money in cross-border accounts,
said Mathias Bueeler, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets SA in
Zurich, who has a “reduce” rating on the stock.  Onshore Costs  “The strategy isn’t to go onshore because it’s not
something they can afford, especially as the two big banks scale
up in those markets,” Bueeler said.  UBS client assets are more than nine times bigger than
Baer’s end-of-October total of 175 billion francs. The franc’s
strength may have reduced Baer’s assets under management to
169.5 billion francs at the end of December, according to the
median estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Warren Giles in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  