-- Kinder Morgan Plans Largest U.S. Energy IPO Since 1998
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2011-02-03T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/kinder-morgan-sets-ipo-price-of-26-to-29-per-share-update1-.html
  Kinder Morgan  Inc., the pipeline
company taken private in 2007, is proposing to sell shares for
as much as $29 in what would be the largest initial public
offering by a U.S. oil and natural-gas company since 1998.  The offering would raise as much as $2.3 billion by selling
80 million shares, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission today. The share sale will be
the biggest by a U.S. oil and gas company since Conoco Inc.
raised $4.4 billion in 1998, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  At the midpoint of its offer range, the sale values
Houston-based Kinder Morgan at $19.4 billion, according to
Bloomberg calculations. The offering is for as much as 13
percent of the parent company if underwriters exercise options
to buy 12 million additional shares.  Given that Kinder’s largest asset is its stake in  Kinder
Morgan Energy Partners LP , a $22 billion pipeline partnership,
the total valuation “does seem a tad high,” Andy DeVries, an
analyst with New York-based CreditSights Inc., said in an e-
mail.  “It could be they’re just trying to price aggressively and
create buzz,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer with
Harris  Private Bank  of  Chicago , which oversees $55 billion. This
is an "ideal" time to bring such an IPO, because the market has
been receptive this year, he said.  Goldman’s Stake  The stake in Kinder is being sold by the four companies
that helped take the company private in 2007,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc ., Highstar Capital LP, Carlyle Group and Riverstone
Holdings LLC, own about 64 percent of the stock and will retain
ownership of about half the company.  Their original investment was worth $7.8 billion, DeVries
said.  At the midpoint of the $26 to $29 share range, Goldman
Sachs’ 25 percent stake before the offering is worth $4.9
billion. Highstar’s 16 percent stake is worth $3.1 billion, and
the 11 percent stakes owned by Carlyle and Riverstone are each
worth $2.2 billion.  Goldman’s stake may drop as low as 20 percent if the
offering’s underwriters exercise an option to buy the additional
shares, according to the filing. Highstar Capital’s stake would
then drop to about 13 percent.  Carlyle Group ’s and Riverstone
Holdings’ stake would fall to about 9 percent each.  Kinder’s Shares  Goldman and Barclays Plc are acting as joint book-running
managers for the offering. Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Wells Fargo & Co., Madison Williams & Co., Morgan Keegan
Inc., Raymond James Financial Inc., RBC Capital Markets and
Simmons & Co. International are acting as co-managers for the
offering.  Kinder Morgan’s Chief Executive Officer, Houston
billionaire  Richard Kinder , will keep 31 percent of the stock.
No member of the company’s management is selling shares.  Based on nine-month net earnings data from the filing,
Kinder Morgan earned $177 million in profit last year. At the
midpoint price, that would mean a price-to-earnings ratio of 25.  Enterprise Products Partners LP , the biggest U.S. pipeline
company, traded at 21.56 times earnings yesterday, according to
Bloomberg data.  Plains All American Pipeline LP  traded at 28.09
times earnings and Energy Transfer Partners LP traded at 33.09.  The company will pay its first dividend of about 29 cents a
share in May, Kinder Morgan said in a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing on Jan. 26. Total dividends this year are
expected to be $820 million, according to that filing.  Kinder Morgan is the second-biggest U.S. pipeline operator
by volume, with 37,000 miles (60,000 kilometers) of pipelines
and about 180 terminals.  Kinder Morgan is currently controlled by parent Kinder
Morgan Holdco. After the public offering, Kinder Morgan Holdco
will be converted to a corporation from a limited liability
company, according to last week’s filing.  It will be renamed Kinder Morgan Inc. and the unitholders
of Kinder Morgan Holdco will become stockholders in the new
company. The company currently named Kinder Morgan Inc., which
is registered in Kansas, will change its name to Kinder Morgan
Kansas Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 Mlee326@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 