-- Natural Gas Futures Gain on Speculation of Inventory Deficit
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2011-02-03T15:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/natural-gas-futures-gain-in-new-york-on-speculation-of-inventory-deficit.html
Natural gas futures advanced for a
second day in  New York  on speculation that a larger-than-normal
reduction in gas stockpiles may leave a deficit of the fuel in
storage compared with the five-year average for the first time
in a year.  Gas climbed as much as 1.4 percent as the Energy Department
today may report a withdrawal from  inventories  of 187 billion
cubic feet for the week ended Jan. 28. The five-year average
drop is 165 billion. The decline would need to exceed 194
billion to leave stockpiles below average for the week, based on
department data.  “Like last week, we’re seeing prices rally ahead of the
storage number,” said  Matt Smith , an analyst with Summit Energy
in Louisville,  Kentucky . “The number may shift us into a
deficit over the five-year average.”  Natural gas for March delivery rose 3.5 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $4.464 per million British thermal units at 9:54
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures have
declined 18 percent from a year ago.  Gas inventories totaled 2.542 trillion cubic feet for the
week ended Jan. 21, 1.2 percent above the five-year average and
0.4 percent above year-earlier levels, according to the Energy
Department. Stockpiles dropped below the average in the week
ended Jan. 15, 2010, before rising above the average the
following week.  Cold Weather  Colder-than-normal weather is likely in the central and
eastern U.S. from Feb. 8 through Feb. 12, according to Commodity
Weather Group in Bethesda,  Maryland . Temperatures may be about 8
degrees below normal, Commodity Weather Group said.  “After this week’s impressive arctic surge, we are still
monitoring a significant round two next week that could
potentially deliver an equivalent intensity of above-normal
heating demand,” Commodity Weather Group meteorologists said in
a note to clients today.  The low temperature in New York on Feb. 12 may be 18
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 8 Celsius), 9 degrees below normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.
The low in  Chicago  may be 9 degrees Fahrenheit, 11 degrees below
normal.  U.S. heating demand may be 43 percent above normal from
Feb. 9 through Feb. 13, according to Weather Derivatives in
Belton,  Missouri .  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  