-- New York, New England May Get Another Snowstorm This Weekend
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2011-02-03T18:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/new-york-new-england-may-get-snow-this-weekend-as-south-grapples-with-ice.html
Another winter storm is aiming for  New York  and the U.S. Northeast, while  Texas  and the South still
grapple with icy weather from this week’s storm.  New York will probably receive about an inch of snow from
the system that will bring mostly sleet and rain to the city the
day after tomorrow, said David Stark, a National Weather Service
meteorologist in  Upton, New York . Areas north and west of the
city may receive 2 to 5 inches (5 to 12.7 centimeters), he said.  “We’re kind of on the edge of the transition area,” Stark
said. “All of this hinges on the track of the storm.”  New York,  Boston  and other parts of the U.S. Northeast have
been coping with above-normal snowfalls this season. Central
Park has received 57.7 inches since Dec. 1, or 46 more than
normal, making this the  sixth-snowiest season  on record.  The snowiest season in New York was 1995-96 with 75.6
inches. Records go back to 1869, according to the weather
service.  At Boston’s Logan International Airport, 70.5 inches of
snow have fallen since Dec. 1, or 49.5  more than normal ,
according to the weather service. The snowiest season on record
in Boston was also 1995-96, when 107.6 inches fell.  Earlier this week, a giant winter storm moved across the
northern U.S., grounding about 13,000 flights and sending wind
gusts of 70 miles per hour (113 kilometers per hour) and heavy
snow to  Chicago .  Power Outages  At least 47,000 customers were still without power in
central Ohio, American Electric Power  Ohio ’s website reported at
1 p.m. local time.  Winter storms are the third-largest cause of catastrophic
loss, according to the  Insurance Information Institute  in New
York. From 1990 to 2009, winter storms accounted for $25 billion
in insured losses, with only hurricanes and tornados causing
more damage.  At least 1,900 flights were canceled today as the central
U.S. tries to get back to normal, according to Houston-based
 FlightAware . Chicago’s O’Hare International and Houston’s George
Bush Intercontinental airports had the most cancellations.  Continental Airlines Inc. said on its website the carrier
would suspend most operations in Houston from 6 p.m. local time
today until noon tomorrow.  US Airways Group Inc . planned to
grounds its flights at Houston from 3:40 p.m. until 9 a.m., the
airport said on its website.  Winter storm warnings and advisories stretch from  Alabama 
through eastern Texas, including Houston, to the Mexican border,
according to the weather service.  Houston Snowfall  Houston may receive 1 to 3 inches of sleet and snow
overnight, the weather service said.  “Down in Texas, it is cold,” said Tim Bowden, a senior
meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn,  Pennsylvania .  Cold weather yesterday caused the  Electric Reliability
Council of Texas , which operates the state’s grid, to order
rotating outages after at least 50 generating units producing
7,000 megawatts were knocked offline.  Bowden said Texas will warm up before this weekend’s
National Football League Super Bowl, scheduled to be played in
Arlington on Feb. 6 between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the
Green Bay Packers.  The U.S.  Hydrometeorological Prediction Center  gives a 40
percent chance that as much as 4 inches of snow will fall this
weekend from coastal  Maine  through western  Massachusetts  to just
north of  New York City .  Boston could receive 3 to 6 inches if the storm stays well
offshore, said  Alan Dunham , a weather service meteorologist in
 Taunton, Massachusetts .  “The good news is it will be a fast-moving storm,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  