-- Bloomberg Proposes Pension Cuts for Future NYC Workers
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-02-03T21:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/new-york-city-pensions-would-change-for-future-workers-under-mayor-s-plan.html
Future New York City workers wouldn’t
receive full retirement benefits until age 65 and couldn’t count
overtime in calculating retirement pay under proposals by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  Bloomberg offered the plan at a meeting yesterday with the
Municipal Labor Committee, composed of the unions representing
the city’s 300,000 workers, his press office said in an e-mail.
The changes, some of which the mayor has suggested in the past,
have been opposed by union leaders. While the proposal would
need state lawmakers to create a “new tier” of pensions
applicable to future workers, current employees would keep their
benefits.  Pension costs will amount to about 12 percent of New York
City’s $67.5 billion budget for the year beginning July 1,
according to the  spending plan . Annual costs, now about $7.5
billion, are expected to increase to about $9 billion by 2016,
from $1.4 billion in 2002, the mayor has said.  “It’s clearly a sign that the mayor doesn’t care whether
he has a relationship with the city workforce,” said Michael Mulgrew, president of the  United Federation of Teachers , which
represents more than 100,000 school employees. “He’s changed
his tone and it’s completely disrespectful.”  Union’s Agreement  Mulgrew said that in 2009 the union agreed to save the city
$100 million a year with future members getting reduced pension
benefits and longer service requirements before retiree
eligibility for health care.  “He always leaves out the fact that this problem was
caused by Wall Street’s meltdown, not anything the workers
did,” Mulgrew said. He vowed to persuade the Legislature in  Albany  to reject Bloomberg’s proposals.  “We won’t even discuss it with the mayor,” Mulgrew said.  Sisa Moyo, a spokeswoman for Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, didn’t return requests for
comment. Senate Majority Leader  Dean Skelos , a Republican from  Rockville Centre ,  Long Island , told the  Association for a Better
New York  last week he would favor pension-benefit reductions for
future employees.  City Comptroller  John Liu  said he would support the mayor’s
request that the Legislature grant the city power to negotiate
with city unions over pensions. At the same time, he rejected
any “proposal that breaks a promise,” particularly to police
and firefighters.  Pension Gaps  Cities, counties and states across the U.S. face a $3.6
trillion gap between pension assets and promises made to
retirees, according to a study by Robert Novy-Marx of the
University of Rochester and  Joshua Rauh  at  Northwestern
University .  While the total is more than three times the $1 trillion
deficit projected a year ago for states alone by the Pew Center
on the States, Novy-Marx and Rauh say governments understate
their liabilities because of over-optimistic assumed investment
returns.  In  New York , the nation’s most-populous city, most employee
benefits vest after five years and workers may retire at 57.
Teachers with 27 years of service are eligible at 55. The new
rules would require all new workers to reach 65 to collect full
benefits, the mayor’s office said.  Civilians would also have to contribute 5 percent of their
pay. Current employees pay 4.85 percent for 10 years, then 1.85
percent for the next 20. Teachers now contribute 4.85 percent
for 27 years, and 1.85 percent thereafter.  Workers Sue  “This is not just an attack on the city workers,” said
Municipal Labor Committee Chairman Harry Nespoli, who is also
president of the sanitation workers union. “It’s an attack on
the middle class.”  The mayor should negotiate with individual unions, he said.  “With the proper attitude he might find unions willing to
make an adjustment,” he said.  Public workers in Colorado,  South Dakota  and  Minnesota  are
already suing their states, which are among 18 trying to reduce
pension costs by increasing employee contributions, raising the  retirement age  or curbing cost-of-living increases.  Governor Andrew Cuomo’s administration is reviewing the
mayor’s proposal, said Joshua Vlasto, Cuomo’s spokesman.  “As the governor has said since the beginning of his
campaign, he is committed to reforming the pension system in
order to reduce costs,” Vlasto said in an e-mail.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York City  Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 