-- Newmont to Buy Fronteer Gold for $2.33 Billion, Gain Turkey, Nevada Mines
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2011-02-03T22:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/newmont-to-buy-fronteer-gold-for-2-33-billion-gain-turkey-nevada-mines.html
  Newmont Mining Corp ., the largest
U.S. gold producer, agreed to buy  Fronteer Gold Inc . for C$2.3
billion ($2.32 billion) to gain exploration and development
projects in Nevada.  Newmont is paying C$14 a share, 37 percent more than the
target company’s closing price in Toronto yesterday,  Greenwood
Village , Colorado-based Newmont said today in a statement.
Newmont is buying Fronteer for three Nevada properties and will
spin off the acquired company’s remaining 11 projects into a new
company, Pilot Gold. Fronteer investors will get one Pilot share
for each Fronteer share as part of the takeover.  “I’m supportive of the deal,”  Jorge Beristain , a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG who
rates Newmont as “buy,” said today in a telephone interview.
“It’s one of the best uses of cash for Newmont in the near term
and is very complimentary to Newmont’s focus on  Nevada .”  Fronteer gives Newmont control of the Long Canyon,
Northumberland and Sandman projects in Nevada, which drilling
and testing show may contain 4.2 million ounces of gold. Newmont
said Long Canyon’s proximity to its existing assets in the state
presents “significant” potential cost savings.  Newmont rose $1.68, or 3 percent, to $57.33 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Fronteer climbed
C$4.07, or 40 percent, to C$14.32 on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Gold Rally  Gold for immediate delivery has increased 22 percent over
the past year in London trading. The metal traded at a record
$1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7.  Newmont is paying a 41 percent premium based on Fronteer’s
average share price over the 20 days prior to the deal,
according to Bloomberg data. There have been 321 gold-mining
takeovers in the past 12 months with an average premium of 36
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BMO Capital Markets, Goodmans LLP and Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz advised Newmont.  RBC Capital Markets  and Davies
Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP advised Fronteer.  Pilot, which will hold assets including Peruvian and
Turkish mining properties, will be 80 percent-owned by Fronteer
shareholders. The new company will be run by Fronteer’s existing
management, Omar Jabara, a spokesman for Newmont, said in a
telephone interview.  Fronteer’s 6.7 percent stake in  Paladin Energy Ltd ., an
Australia-based uranium miner, will be held by Newmont, Jabara
said. Newmont is bound to own the Paladin shares for at least
four months under an agreement between Fronteer and Paladin, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  