-- Japanese Steel Takeover Driven by ‘Radical’ Shift
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2011-02-04T08:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/nippon-steel-sumitomo-metal-plan-merger-to-cut-rising-raw-material-costs.html
  Nippon Steel Corp . and  Sumitomo Metal
Industries Ltd .’s plan to create the world’s second-largest
steelmaker is aimed at gaining leverage over raw-material
purchases and metal pricing as costs soar. Shares in both
companies surged the most in more than two years today.  Based on Sumitomo’s market value and net debt, the deal
would be worth more than 2 trillion yen ($24.5 billion),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yesterday’s
announcement of the accord, which may be Japan’s biggest non-
bank takeover, said it would be completed by October 2012.  Steelmakers in Japan, the world’s second-biggest producer
of the alloy, are seeing profits squeezed while market-leader  China  encourages consolidation to create globally competitive
companies. Rising costs for  iron ore  and coking coal used to
make steel forced Nippon Steel to cut its full-year earnings
forecast last week. Sumitomo Metal did the same today.  “The purpose of this merger is to fend off competition
from rivals in China, South Korea and  India ,” said Takashi Murata, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. in
Tokyo. A bigger company has more clout to negotiate raw-material
costs and set steel prices for buyers including automakers, he
said.  Share Reaction  Sumitomo Metal Industries rose 16 percent to 224 yen at the
close of trading in Tokyo for the biggest advance since Oct. 30,
2008. Nippon Steel ended at 313 yen, up 9.1 percent, after
rising as much as 14.3 percent, the most since Oct. 28, 2008.  Before today, Nippon Steel shares had fallen 16 percent in
the past year, compared with a 3.2 percent decline for
Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal and a 17 percent drop for  South
Korea ’s Posco, the world’s third-biggest producer. Sumitomo
Metal had fallen 26 percent in the year before today.  The proposed merger between Sumitomo Metal Industries and
Nippon Steel will create synergies for both companies as well as
benefit “the wider  steel industry  by helping to increase
pricing and margins,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Rajeev Das and Nana Hasegawa said in a report today.  The merger is positive for Nippon Steel because of benefits
arising from the combined size of the two companies, Standard &
Poor’s said today in a statement.  ‘Radical Change’  A combination of the two producers, which haven’t outlined
terms of the transaction, would form the world’s second-largest
steelmaker, based on output of 47.8 million metric tons in 2010,
Sumitomo Metal Industries President Hiroshi Tomono said at a
press briefing yesterday.  ArcelorMittal  is the biggest producer.  “We see a radical change in the business environment
surrounding the Japanese steel industry,” Muneoka told
reporters at the briefing.  Nippon Steel, formerly the world’s second-largest
steelmaker by production, lost that rank in 2009 after being
overtaken by five Chinese mills, according to the American
Institute for International Steel.  Meantime, rivals are expanding, with South Korea’s Posco on
Jan. 31 winning approval for a $12 billion steel plant in India,
the biggest single foreign investment in the country.  “It’s very important Japanese steelmakers be globally
competitive,” said Japanese Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  today.
The planned merger of Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Industries
is “welcomed” he said.  Steel Demand  Steel consumption may rise 5.3 percent this year to a
record, according to  World Steel Association  forecasts. Iron ore
prices rose last year after Rio Tinto Group, BHP Billiton Ltd.
and  Vale SA , the biggest suppliers, shifted away from annual
pricing to quarterly agreements.  The price of iron ore will be 21 percent higher on average
this year, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a Jan. 7 report. The
spot price of ore delivered to China including freight will
average $178 a ton, the report forecast. That compares with $147
in 2010, according to The Steel Index.  Floods in  Australia ’s Queensland state closed mines and
further pushed up coking-coal prices. Free-on-board prices may
surge to $400 a ton for the three-month contract starting April
1, from $225 this quarter, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said
last month.  “It’s all about lowering costs and enhancing margins,”  Gavin Wendt , a senior resources analyst at Mine Life Pty in
Sydney, said by phone. “While demand for steel is quite strong,
one of the problems for steelmakers around the world is rising
costs. It may give them more leverage when it comes to dealing
with the miners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 