-- Oakmark’s Herro Says Unloved Japan Stocks a ‘Steal’
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2011-02-04T06:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/oakmark-s-david-herro-says-unloved-japanese-stocks-a-steal-.html
Japan’s stock market is more than 70
percent off its 1989 record high and last month the country’s
debt was downgraded for the first time in nine years. Time to
buy Japanese equities, says David Herro.  “At these prices Japanese stocks are a steal,” said Herro,
50, manager of the $6.9 billion Oakmark International
Fund, which is almost a quarter invested in Japan.  Already comparatively cheap, Japanese stocks should become
even more attractive as exporters increase trade with  China  and
companies start returning cash to shareholders, said Herro,
Morningstar’s international manager of the decade.  Herro and others bullish on Japan, including strategists at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Deutsche Bank AG , are bucking a
wave of skepticism spawned by a generation of dismal stock
market and economic results. In a January Bloomberg global
investor poll, 23 percent of respondents named Japan as the
market that would perform the worst in 2011. Only the European
Union was less popular.  “They have too much debt and they’ve suffered from bouts
of deflation,” Michael Mullaney said in a telephone interview,
explaining why he holds fewer Japanese stocks than the  MSCI EAFE 
Index, a common international benchmark. Mullaney helps oversee
$9.5 billion as a portfolio manager at Boston-based Fiduciary
Trust Co.  Political Gridlock  Japan’s credit rating was cut for the first time since 2002
last week by Standard & Poor’s as persistent deflation and
political gridlock undermine efforts to reduce an $11 trillion
debt. The government’s ratio of debt to gross domestic product
will peak in the mid-2020s, the S&P report said.  Twenty-four percent of Herro’s equity holdings are Japanese
companies, compared with the 16 percent average for
international funds, according to Chicago-based Morningstar. His
Oakmark colleague, Clyde McGregor, whose $2.4 billion Oakmark
Global Fund beat 99 percent of rivals over the past decade, has
21 percent of his equity assets in Japan. The $12.2 billion
First Eagle Overseas Fund, which beat 89 percent of peers over
the same stretch, has a 42 percent allocation, Morningstar data
show.  “People hate Japan,” Herro said in a telephone interview
from  Chicago . That attitude has caused investors to overlook the
market’s strengths, including low prices, said Herro, who
outperformed 97 percent of peers over the last decade.  Piles of Cash  The Topix, also known as the Tokyo Stock Price Index,
trades at a price-to-book value of 1.1, about half the level it
reached in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
comparable ratio for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is 2.3.
Price-to-book value is a measure of a company’s price compared
with the worth of its assets.  Companies in Japan look even cheaper when cash on balance
sheets is considered, Herro said. One of Herro’s holdings, Rohm
Co., a Kyoto-based chipmaker, has cash and long-term investments
equal to more than 50 percent of the stock’s market value,
Robert Taylor, co-manager on two of Oakmark’s international
funds, said in a telephone interview.  Corporate profits in Japan this year will approach 2007
highs, adding to record levels of cash, New York-based Goldman
Sachs said in a Dec. 1 report. The firm predicted the Nikkei 225
Index could reach 12,000 this year, up from 10,543.52 at the
close today. In a January report, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
said Japanese stocks could produce returns of more than 20
percent in the first half of 2011.  China Exports  In a December letter to shareholders, Matthew McLennan and
Abhay Deshpande, portfolio managers of New York-based First
Eagle, wrote that many of their Japanese holdings were doing
well, including Fanuc Ltd., the world’s largest producer of
controls that run  machine tools . The Yamanashi-based firm is
positioned to take advantage of expanding globalization, they
said.  “We think for China and  India  to go through high-end
industrialization they will need the equipment Fanuc makes,”
McLennan said in a September interview with Bloomberg television.  McLennan declined to comment on Japan, according to an e-
mail from Tom Pinto, a First Eagle spokesman.  Fanuc’s founder, Seiuemon Inaba, said in a January
interview with Bloomberg that the firm wanted to capitalize on
China’s automation boom. “Everything comes down to China,” he
said. “That’s where the growth is.”  China passed the U.S. as Japan’s largest export market for
the first time in 2009, according to the Japanese Ministry of
Finance.  Stock Buybacks  Charles de Vaulx, who joined New York-based International
Value Advisers LLC in 2008 after 20 years at First Eagle, said
Japanese firms historically have kept too much cash, refusing to
give it back to investors in the form of dividends or buybacks.  “Over time, investors have grown sick and tired of the
fact that companies in Japan aren’t managed for shareholders,”
said de Vaulx, who co-manages the $1.8 billion IVA International
Fund, which has 40 percent of its equity assets in Japan,
Morningstar data show.  That is starting to change, de Vaulx said.  One of the stocks he owns,  KDDI Corp ., Japan’s second-
largest mobile-phone operator, rose the most in almost two years
in Tokyo trading after the company said in October it will spend
as much as $1.2 billion buying back shares.    Canon Inc ., the world’s largest camera maker, rose 5.6
percent Sept. 10 when the firm said it would buy back as much as
1.2 percent of its shares. Herro owns shares in the Tokyo-based
company.  Debt Burden  The change isn’t happening quickly enough for some
investors. In June 2009, Rohm shareholders defeated a proposal
by Brandes Investment Partners LP to buy back more stock after
the San Diego-based firm argued that Rohm’s cash position was
excessive.  Rohm management is still committed to buybacks and
dividends, Oakmark’s Taylor said in an e-mail.  The Nikkei 225 Index has fallen 73 percent since it peaked
at almost 39,000 in December 1989. In the 25 years ended Dec. 31,
the index lost 1 percent a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Japanese economy grew an average of 1 percent a year in
the 20 years through 2009, according to IHS Global Insight, a
Lexington, Massachusetts-based consulting firm. The U.S.
averaged 2.5 percent a year growth in the same period.  Weakening Yen  “Japan has frustrated investors for years,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris  Private
Bank , where he helps oversee $55 billion.  When Japanese stocks do rise, Ablin said, the gains for
outside investors are often wiped out by declines in the yen.
Forecasters surveyed by Bloomberg expect the yen to weaken
against the dollar in 2011.  Even fans of Japanese stocks like Herro have suffered as
some bets failed to pay off. Shares of  Daiwa Securities Group
Inc ., a Tokyo-based investment bank and Herro’s largest holding,
fell 19 percent annually in the five years ended Dec. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Herro, who has owned Daiwa since 2001, said investors don’t
fully appreciate the firm’s strengths, including its asset-
management business. “I will continue to wait it out,” he said.  ‘Lack of Exuberance’  Investors in Japan need to look past the gloomy
macroeconomic picture, Taylor said. “We are not saying we love
falling birth rates, deflation or the fact that they have had so
many different prime ministers in the past few years,” he said,
referring to the June election of  Naoto Kan , the fifth Japanese
leader in four years.  Japan’s stock market has rallied repeatedly over the past
25 years, de Vaulx said, even as the economy has plodded along.
Many individual stocks have thrived, especially in periods when
the yen weakened against the dollar, a plus for Japanese
exporters.  “Japan is a market that suffers from an irrational lack of
exuberance,” de Vaulx said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertelt . 