-- Obama Looks to Congress and Vice Versa to Kick Off U.S. Tax Code Overhaul
-- B y   P e t e r   C o h n
-- 2011-02-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/obama-looks-to-congress-and-vice-versa-to-kick-off-u-s-tax-code-overhaul.html
President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders haven’t determined a clear path to an
overhaul of the U.S.  tax code , in part because no one wants to
be the first to propose taking away popular tax breaks.  This reticence, say veterans of the last major rewrite of
the tax code in 1986, stems from worries about how this issue
may play out in the 2012 election.  Given that, there must be some “shame factor” in failing
to act on a tax code overhaul, or it is unlikely to occur in
this election cycle, Eugene Steuerle, co-director of the
nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in Washington, said yesterday.  “It’s got to be the pain of not going to the dentist at
some point being greater than the pain of going to the
dentist,” said Steuerle, who helped advance the 1986 tax
overhaul as economic coordinator at the Treasury Department
under President  Ronald Reagan . “And they’re all scared of going
to the dentist.”  So far Obama has focused his remarks on corporate taxes. In
his Jan. 25 State of the Union address he said the corporate tax
code has become riddled with “loopholes” because of the
influence of a “parade of lobbyists.”  Behind the Scenes  Obama hasn’t offered details for an overhaul of the tax
system. Behind the scenes Vice President  Joseph Biden  and
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  recently have discussed the
tax code with members of Congress, business leaders and
academics, a process administration officials say is continuing.  Details may emerge in Obama’s speech to the U.S.  Chamber of
Commerce  on Feb. 7, or in his fiscal 2012 budget submission on
Feb. 14. Administration officials haven’t tipped their hand.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat and member
of the tax-writing Finance Committee, said his panel has begun
the overhaul process by holding a series of hearings. He said
leadership from the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue would speed
up the process.  “It would be helpful to get some directives from the White
House on what they’re thinking,” Menendez said.  Further complicating a tax-code rewrite is how to deal with
marginal tax rates for an estimated 30 million business owners
organized as “pass-through” entities that pay taxes as
individuals rather than as corporations.  For this reason, House Ways and Means Chairman David Camp, a
Michigan Republican, and Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the senior
Republican on the Finance Committee, want to cut taxes for
corporations and individuals at the same time.  Popular Tax Breaks  Reducing tax breaks on the individual side of the tax code,
such as those for home-mortgage interest and charitable
donations, would be politically unpopular.  “Doing corporate  tax reform  is easier,” said John Chapoton, who was assistant Treasury Secretary for  tax policy  in
Reagan’s administration.  Hatch said he and Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat, may craft legislation to overhaul the tax
code. Hatch said that isn’t an ideal approach and he would
prefer that White House officials make a specific proposal,
unlike during the health-care debate when the administration
outlined general principles and left the details up to Congress.  “The White House hasn’t been very good at providing
specifics on health care and a whole raft of stuff,” he said.  Camp spokesman Sage Eastman said discussions on a tax
overhaul have continued between the two chambers and with the
White House, and the Ways and Means panel is planning more
hearings.  “Are we in the early stages? Yes. But make no mistake, the
ball is rolling,” Eastman said, adding it will take a
combination of House action and “continued presidential
leadership” for an overhaul to move forward.  Reagan’s Strategy  Another approach is one favored by President Ronald
Reagan, Chapoton said. After pledging to overhaul the tax code
during his 1984 re-election campaign, Reagan directed the
Treasury Department to develop a proposal, which was unveiled in
December after the election. The proposal drew opposition and
was refined before being submitted to Congress in May 1985.  “The problem there was that the report was in excruciating
detail, so everybody could see who was hurt,” said Chapoton,
now a partner with Brown Advisory, a wealth-management firm in  Washington . “But it certainly ended up staying alive.”  Meanwhile, Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat, maintains that taxes and spending cuts
should be considered simultaneously, as recommended by members
of Obama’s fiscal commission in December.  “We really ought to have a whole package,” Conrad said.
“It’s the only way it can make any sense.”  Democratic Senator Ron Wyden of  Oregon , the only sitting
member of Congress to introduce a detailed tax-code overhaul
measure, said a bipartisan tax deal can occur in an election
cycle.  “In ‘86, both sides won,” Wyden said. He points to
government data that 6.3 million total non-farm jobs were
created in the two years after enactment of the 1986 tax law,
compared with 3 million during President  George W. Bush ’s two
terms in office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Cohn in Washington at 
 pcohn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  