-- Oil Spills in Most Imperiled U.S. Coastal Wetland Escape Fines
-- B y   K e n   W e l l s ,   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/oil-spills-in-most-imperiled-u-s-coastal-wetland-escape-fines.html
In the months since the April 20
blowout in the  Gulf of Mexico , Louisiana regulators moved to
fine  BP Plc  and two of its contractors as much as $1 million for
each of the 86 days the runaway well gushed oil.  The state attorney general also hired outside counsel to
help pursue legal claims that may reach hundreds of millions of
dollars. The goal is to restore the oil-stained coast “to what
it was pre-spill,” said Republican Governor Bobby Jindal.  In hundreds of smaller, less noteworthy cases, Louisiana
gave oil spillers a pass, a review of five years of regulatory
data shows. Since 2007, the U.S. Coast Guard has reported
fielding more complaints of oil and chemical spills from the
thousands of wells and thousands of miles of pipelines in  Louisiana  than in any other state, exceeding 4,000 a year.  In 2009, Louisiana punished oil companies for fewer than
one in 100 spills, the data show. Fines are measured in
thousands of dollars, not millions. They take years to collect
and are seldom levied against even repeat spillers. A small gas
station operator was penalized for faulty paperwork while the
state’s biggest oil producer paid no fines in more than a dozen
spills since 2002, according to state records.  “Lax enforcement leads to lax behavior,” says Paul
Templet, who led the  Louisiana Department of Environmental
Quality  from 1988 to 1992 under Republican Governor Buddy
Roemer. “You let the little things go, and you set yourself up
for something big to happen.”  No Enforcement Crisis  Louisiana doesn’t have a spill-enforcement crisis,
according to Jindal and officials of the DEQ, the state’s main
pollution enforcement agency. The number of DEQ fines is
influenced by cooperation with other authorities, Jindal said in
a statement.  “It’s important to note that in many cases, if another
agency like the Coast Guard, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or state police has issued a penalty, then DEQ will not
issue a penalty,” Jindal said. The DEQ has an agreement with
the EPA and won’t seek fines if federal regulators are
conducting a criminal probe, he said.  “Per square mile, we produce more oil than any other
state,” said Chris Piehler, administrator of the DEQ’s
inspection division. Most of the spills are small and “aren’t
intentional.”  Even small oil spills have lethal consequences, said
William J. Sydeman, a marine biologist and president of the
 Farallon Institute , a Petaluma, California-based nonprofit
marine research center.  460 Dead Pelicans  “When you spill any amount of oil in a marine system,
organisms die,” Sydeman said. The effects of chronic low-level
spills like those in Louisiana are “a huge problem and far more
damaging than most people suspect.”  In June 2005, a discharge estimated at 12 barrels (500
gallons, 1,900 liters) killed at least 460 brown pelicans,
Amerada  Hess Corp . said at the time. The leak was from a
platform about 60 miles (100 kilometers) southwest of  New
Orleans .  Now, more than five years later, a damage assessment is
“near completion” and state and federal agencies are
“exploring restoration alternatives,” said Louisiana State
Police Lieutenant Doug Cain, a spokesman for the Louisiana Oil
Spill Coordinator’s Office. Losco works with oil companies to
mitigate spill damages.  “We continue to work with the state of Louisiana on this
issue,” Maripat Sexton, a spokeswoman for Hess, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Another company avoided paying a penalty for 18 years, then
settled at half the original amount.  Daily Spills  On any day in Louisiana, there is likely to be more than
one spill, the data show. In 2009, the state endured about 1,600
discharges of crude oil or a crude oil equivalent called
condensate, including incidents in federal waters off the coast,
state records show. About 540 leaks occurred onshore or in state
waters, releasing almost 3,000 barrels of oil, the DEQ says.  Since the beginning of 2006, the agency opened or completed
46 spill enforcement actions against  oil companies , about nine
cases a year, according to state data. Those actions resulted in
28 penalties, a total that includes six settlements of incidents
that occurred as early as 1990. The average of the 28 penalties
was $10,496.  By comparison, federal regulators reported levying civil
penalties in 29 cases against corporate oil spillers in
Louisiana during the same years. The average federal fine was
$148,335.  The U.S., which shares spill jurisdiction in the state,
also undertook two criminal prosecutions, one resulting in a $13
million fine. The DEQ, which has jurisdiction that extends three
miles out from Louisiana’s marshy coast and the shores of any
state-claimed barrier islands, initiated none.  Citgo Fine  Louisiana says one reason for its lack of prosecutions is
that few companies willfully spill crude oil. “Oil is a
valuable product,” said Rodney Mallett, DEQ press secretary.
“Rarely will someone knowingly or deliberately discharge oil.”  Spills can also include oilfield wastes and “produced
water,” ancient seawater that comes to the surface with oil and
gas as a toxic, concentrated brine carrying heavy metals and
traces of radioactive material. Dumping it is illegal.  In the largest federal criminal case, Citgo Petroleum Corp.
was fined $13 million after pleading guilty in September 2008 to
a misdemeanor violation of the federal  Clean Water Act . Storm
water tanks at the company’s refinery in Sulphur, Louisiana,
overflowed during a rainstorm in June 2006, spilling about
53,000 barrels of oil into two rivers, the  U.S. Department of
Justice  said in a news release.  Civil Suit  The state joined the federal government in 2008 in an
ongoing suit seeking civil penalties against the company over
the same spill. Fernando Garay, a spokesman for Citgo, declined
to comment.  In Louisiana, most discharges occur in the coastal zone,
which serves as a globally important migratory bird stopover and
provides the spawning grounds that sustain a $2.4 billion-a-year
commercial fishing industry. The state has lost more than 1,800
square miles of these marshes to erosion since the 1930s, a
third of the original total. On an annual basis, Louisiana
accounts for 80 percent of the nation’s coastal wetlands losses,
according to a task force of state and federal agencies that
includes the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers and the EPA.  Over the past decade, Louisiana ranked second behind  Texas 
with 223 “significant” pipeline spills -- those that damaged
property or the environment or killed wildlife or people --
according to a 2010 study by the Arlington, Virginia-based
National Wildlife Federation. The  report , published after the BP
explosion, listed Louisiana among the nation’s “sacrifice
zones” that have suffered heavy pollution as a tradeoff for
energy development.  Deadly Blowout  The blowout that led the state to pursue millions of
dollars in fines and damages against BP, Transocean Ltd. and
Triton Asset Leasing killed 11 workers and resulted in the
dumping of 4.9 million barrels of oil. The spill soiled 337
miles of Louisiana coastline, shutting down commercial fishing
in places. It dwarfed the estimated 190,000 barrels discharged
in 2005 as a result of  Hurricane Katrina  and the 260,000 spilled
in the 1989 wreck of the Exxon Valdez tanker in  Alaska .  Daren Beaudo, a spokesman for BP America in Houston,
declined to comment. Lou Colasuonno, a New York-based spokesman
for Triton and Transocean, also declined to comment.  Agency’s Mission  Policing spills from the state’s oil production and
pipeline system, which transports almost 40 percent of America’s
energy supplies, is only part of the DEQ’s mission. The agency,
which spent $153 million in 2010, brings hundreds of cases a
year against leaky underground storage tanks. It also shuts
illegal waste dumps and fines air polluters, including oil and
gas refineries.  Losco , which works on spill mitigation, has no authority to
assess penalties. It prefers a “cooperative approach,” said
David Gisclair, director of the agency’s technical assistance
program. The agency said it has completed 10 of 23 cases it has
undertaken since 1991.  “Big fines don’t work,” Gisclair said. “The oil
companies just fight them in court and tie you up for years.”  Thirteen spills were reported since 2002 at various
facilities of Hilcorp Energy Co., Louisiana’s largest oil
producer in 2009. Eleven of them came from small pipes known as
flowlines, according to DEQ data. The state agency hasn’t
imposed a spill fine that stuck against the Houston-based
independent  oil company , the data show.  ‘Dead Zone’  The largest incident, in December 2002, totaled 1,000
barrels. It created what state enforcement documents called a
“dead zone” in 7 acres of cypress forest in the  Atchafalaya
Basin  about 130 miles west of New Orleans.  While Hilcorp faced a penalty of as much as $32,500, it
wasn’t fined, the records show. The company spent $2 million
cleaning up the spill, reimbursed Louisiana $75,000 for the cost
of assessing the environmental damage and last year agreed to
restore a nearby section of swamp, according to Losco. Hilcorp
also promised “a new aggressive flowline management program to
prevent future flowline leaks,” according to a 2003 company
letter to state regulators.  The 12 other spills included three in an 11-day stretch in
March 2006. Two of them involved less than a barrel and none
exceeded 50 barrels. The DEQ moved to fine the company $1,000
for a September 2003 spill and $1,000 for another in September
2004, both of them for “unauthorized discharge of oilfield
wastes,” DEQ documents say. The state rescinded both penalties
in 2010.  Don’t Fine Twice  In the 2003 case, the DEQ ruled that a Hilcorp contractor
had caused the spill. In the 2004 incident, the Louisiana State
Police had also fined Hilcorp $1,000 for failing to promptly
report a spill of hazardous material.  “It’s our policy not to fine companies twice,” said
Celena Cage, the DEQ’s administrator for enforcement.  Hilcorp didn’t respond to more than a half-dozen phone
messages left at the office of Michael Schoch, whom the company
identified as its regulatory, environmental and safety manager
in a 2006 letter to the state. In 2009, the company produced 7.9
million barrels of oil in Louisiana, state data show, worth $490
million at the year’s average crude price of $61.99 a barrel.  Oil and gas companies’ political influence undermines
regulatory efforts, said Foster Campbell, a former Democratic
state senator who tried unsuccessfully to pass an oil transfer
tax to replace the state’s 1920s-era severance tax. The industry
employs 50,000 people. The state general fund’s receipts from
oil and gas severance taxes, royalties and fees totaled $1.3
billion last year, about 15 percent of revenue. That’s down from
a peak of $1.6 billion in 1982, when oil and gas receipts
accounted for 42 percent of the state’s revenue.  Dismal Regulation  “Our record of regulating oil and gas is dismal,” says
Campbell, now a member of the Louisiana Public Service
Commission. “Down here, nobody wants to punish anybody.”  From 1982 to 1997, Kerry St. Pe recommended fines in
“hundreds and hundreds of cases” as a DEQ inspector in
southeastern Louisiana, he says.  “But in terms of actual penalties that were levied based
on my investigations, I can count them on one hand,” said St.
Pe, 60, a marine biologist who now heads the Barataria-
Terrebonne National Estuary Program in southeastern Louisiana.
He said the main reason was “political pressure to the
contrary,” which he described as a sense that vigorous
enforcement in the field was being discouraged in  Baton Rouge ,
the state capital.  ‘Culture of Noncompliance’  “When oil companies see it’s cheaper to pollute than to
prevent spills, it creates a culture of noncompliance,” St. Pe
said. The DEQ won’t respond to St. Pe’s comments, said Tim Beckstrom, a spokesman for the agency.  The regulator’s field agents today have no more effect in
imposing fines than St. Pe did, according to a person with long,
direct knowledge of the current DEQ inspection system who
declined to be identified because his employer didn’t authorize
the comments. Spill cases sent to DEQ headquarters can languish
for years without action, the person said.  State field agents, frustrated by inaction from their
supervisors, sometimes tip off federal regulators about
incidents, the person said.  Decisions about fines are governed by a DEQ “matrix” that
takes into account size and impact of the spill, the company’s
culpability, how quickly the discharge was cleaned up and how
cooperative the company was in addressing issues, the DEQ’s Cage
says.  Pledging Leak Prevention  The agency declined to discuss how this system applied to
Hilcorp, the company with 13 spills and no fines. In a letter
resisting penalties for four of the spills in 2006, the company
reminded the DEQ of its 2002 pledge to manage its flowlines to
prevent leaks. The company also noted its more than 60 oil and
gas sites in Louisiana.  “It’s imperative that Hilcorp and all regulatory agencies
continue to have a strong working relationship,” the company
said in the letter.  Getting firm numbers for Louisiana’s spills and the
penalties assessed for them is complicated by flaws in the DEQ’s
own database. The agency supplied it to Bloomberg with an
unsigned note saying, “The more current the document the more
accurate the information.”  Fines are levied, then rescinded years later, the records
show. Some spills are missing entirely from the online quarterly
enforcement reports that the DEQ publishes because the federal
government took the lead in an investigation while the state
played a supporting role.  Limited Database  In addition, the online database doesn’t permit simple
computer searches -- say, for “oil spills” -- aimed at finding
information on origins, size, responsible parties or causes.  Bloomberg examined spill data from January 2006 through the
third quarter of 2010, the most recent timeframe available. The
tally focused on actual spill-related enforcement. The DEQ also
fined eight companies an average of $825 during the period for
failing to have spill containment reports on file. These weren’t
tied to specific spills.  State regulators’ largest penalty was a $153,177, levied
against Murphy Oil USA Inc., a unit of  Murphy Oil Corp ., which
is based in El Dorado,  Arkansas . That 2010 settlement covered a
series of mostly chemical spills and record-keeping violations
beginning in 2001. Another penalty, $55,000, resulted from the
2009 settlement of a case that began in 1991. Leaving those
cases aside, the average penalty for oil spillers since 2006 was
$3,297.  Storage Tank Violations  By contrast, in June, regulators fined Dam Nguyen, the
owner of the West Gate Quick Shop gasoline and food mart in
Opelousas, $8,885.29 for underground storage tank violations.
Even though his three tanks weren’t leaking, Nguyen persistently
failed to monitor them for possible leaks, the agency found.  Nguyen appealed the fine, characterizing himself as an
overworked small business owner and saying that the employee who
kept the monitoring records quit and took them with her. Based
on that appeal, the state in November reduced the fine to $550,
which Nguyen says he paid. He has enrolled in a DEQ class to
help prevent future run-ins with the agency, he said.  In all, the agency cited 74 underground storage tank
violations in the first nine months of last year, at an average
fine of $1,202, state data show.  One form of DEQ enforcement actions, administrative
settlements, can take years to resolve, based on state data.  In 1991, the DEQ proposed a $110,000 penalty for Opal Oil
Inc. Among other things, the agency cited oil spills on land and
into nearby streams in 1990 at facilities in the Ora Oil Field.
In one case, a broken pipeline spilled into a creek and the
company “failed to report the release,” state records show.  ‘Unrealistic and Unfair’  An administrative law judge reduced the penalty to $103,100
in 1992. Still, Opal Oil paid nothing until 18 years after the
first proposed penalty, when the company agreed to pay $55,000
in 18 monthly installments, DEQ records show.  Louisiana is “probably one of the strictest states” with
regard to regulating oil drillers, said Bob Walker, a partner in
Opal Oil. He said the initial fine was “unrealistic and
unfair” and more than the company, which has four employees and
operates only in Northern Louisiana, made at the time.  High-impact spills that kill wildlife or soil public
beaches or marshes are handled by Losco, the separate agency,
under a federally authorized process called a natural resources
damage assessment, or NRDA. The DEQ doesn’t seek penalties in
these cases, which can take years to complete.  Spill From 2001  In September, the state announced a $1.8 million damage and
restoration assessment with Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Co., a
unit of Tulsa-based Williams Partners LP. The NRDA resolved a
2001 spill of as much as 3,000 barrels of natural gas condensate
in Mosquito Bay in Terrebonne Parish. Williams Partners didn’t
respond to a request for comment with the company’s press
office.  NRDAs take so long because they involve complicated
negotiations among the spiller and as many as a half-dozen state
and federal agencies, Losco’s Gisclair says.  The lag time between spills and state decisions to levy
fines or seek restitution can be years, Bloomberg’s review of
DEQ records found. An “expedited penalty agreement” in
February 2010 with Texas Petroleum Investments Co., an
independent Houston-based oil company, was for spills in May and
June of 2006 and December 2007, according to DEQ data. The
spills totaled 24 barrels of crude and at least 4 barrels of
produced water at the company’s Delta Farms Field near Larose.  More Frequent Inspections  The DEQ collected $3,000 and a pledge from the company to
“conduct more frequent visual inspections of transfer lines to
prevent a reoccurrence,” according to state documents. The
agency’s reports on the December 2007 incident cited pump
malfunctions.  William Crawford, a co-owner of the company, declined to
comment. Closely held Texas Petroleum was Louisiana’s eighth
largest oil producer in 2009, pumping 1.7 million barrels of oil
with a spot market value of $105 million.  The EPA can investigate spills independently and take the
lead in federal waters within state boundaries or on spills that
cross state boundaries, according to Stacy Kika, an EPA
spokeswoman. The agency sometimes shares fines it collects with
the states.  The EPA announced in August that  Plains All American
Pipeline LP , a publicly traded, Houston-based company, had
agreed to pay a $3.25 million penalty for a series of discharges
from 2004 to 2007. A total of 6,510 barrels of oil spilled into
navigable waters of four states. Pat Diamond, a spokesman for
the company, declined to comment. In 2006, the agency fined  Stone Energy Corp ., a Lafayette company, $150,722 and $28,875
for two flowline spills.  Stone Energy paid its fines, which were for onshore spills,
said Flo Ziegler, a company spokeswoman.  ‘Man of Marsh’  St. Pe says he learned early in his DEQ career that it’s
hard to alter a culture of noncompliance. A self-described “man
of the marsh,” he grew up hunting and fishing the wetlands of
Plaquemines Parish, the narrow neck of delta that ushers the
Mississippi River on the final leg of its journey to the Gulf.
It’s prime oil and gas country.  In 1980, St. Pe was investigating a tip that there were
“acres and acres of dead swamp” near an oil and gas tank
installation about 20 miles southwest of New Orleans, he says.  “I knew immediately they were discharging produced water
in a fresh-water area,” he says. That’s illegal; drillers are
required to pump the toxic brine back underground after
separating it from the oil and gas.  As he began gathering samples, an employee of the oil
company pulled up in a boat.  Grinning Polluter  “Excuse me sir, can you tell me what you’re doing here?”
St. Pe says he asked the man. “He looked at me and actually
grinned. He said, ‘Well, I guess you can tell what we’re doing
 -- we’re getting rid of our produced water.’”  The man then explained that the company would flout
environmental laws because he knew the state wasn’t going to do
anything meaningful to punish it.  “’OK, you’ll write me up and you’re going to request
penalties,’” St. Pe says the man told him. “’And let’s just
say they’ll actually fine us -- what? $5,000 or $10,000? Do you
know what it would cost to inject this produced water down a
well? Millions of dollars.’”  Other oilfield workers over the years have blown the
whistle when their employers broke pollution laws, St. Pe said.
He doesn’t blame the companies, he says.  “Corporations are like children,” he says. “If you allow
your kids to have all the candy they want, you’ll get them fat
and all keyed up on sugar. And when you then try to discipline
them, you wonder why they won’t listen. It’s the same with these
corporations. In Louisiana, they virtually get everything they
ask for, so why should they behave?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ken Wells in  New York  at 
 kwells8@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Charles R. Babcock in  Washington  at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 