-- Toothless Arkansans Pack Up Detroit, Machine by Machine: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2011-02-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/toothless-arkansans-pack-up-detroit-machine-by-machine-books.html
The Arkansan in the green hood called
his job “moving furniture.” The locution said more about his
quiet competence than it did about the task his crew was
undertaking in Detroit.  Hollow-cheeked and short on teeth, he was working in the
cold of an unheated auto factory in the dead of winter. The
Arkansas Boys, as they were known, had come to  Michigan  to
dismantle monster presses that had recently bashed steel into
body parts including roofs for Ford Rangers, writes Paul Clemens
in his gritty new book, “ Punching Out .”  Most of the plant’s power was out, pipes were bursting and
the riggers -- workers hired to pull the presses apart with
gantries and cranes -- warmed themselves at fires in oil
barrels. The Great Recession had begun, adding yet another
insult to Detroit’s decades of injuries.  “The plant looked like a Hooverville,” Clemens says in
this blackly comic journal of what often happens after a U.S.
factory shuts down: Its equipment is auctioned off and shipped
to countries where labor is cheaper.  The Budd  Detroit  Automotive Plant once employed almost
10,000 people, Clemens says. During World War II, the factory
fed the Arsenal of Democracy. When peace came, it built bodies
for  Ford Motor Co .’s two-seater Thunderbird sports car. By the
time the plant’s closing was announced in 2006, it was down to
some 350 employees and owned by  ThyssenKrupp AG .    Mexico ,  Brazil   Clemens observed the sale, dismemberment and exit of the
plant’s equipment from early June 2007 to late April 2008.
Truckers hauled Budd’s largest press line about 1,800 miles
(2,900 kilometers) to a plant owned by Spanish auto supplier
 Gestamp  in Mexico, where line workers earned some 3,500 pesos,
or $290, a month to stamp out parts for, well, a Dodge, he says.
Other presses migrated to Brazil,  India  and, he surmises,  China .  “I felt as if I’d witnessed an execution,” he says.  Clemens, whose father worked for auto subcontractors, knows
Motor City well. His 2005 memoir, “Made in Detroit,” turned a
coming-of-age story into a portrait of a city on the skids. This
time around, he turns his months inside Budd into a disturbing
look at the decline of America’s working class. It’s the story
of a “reverse life cycle,” he says.  “Rather than observe the coming into being of a
butterfly,” he says, “I wanted to document the recreation of a
chrysalis, cracked and shorn of its caterpillar.”  Ravaged Cocoon  The ravaged cocoon, in this case, was massive -- some 2
million square feet spread over an 86-acre site on Detroit’s
East Side. (That’s about  185,800 square meters  on 35 hectares).
Yet it was only four miles from Clemens’s front door and blocks
from where family members once lived. By 2007, the neighborhood
was half abandoned; from Budd’s roof, it looked “like a
crackhead’s mouth,” one rigger said.  Through a union rep, Clemens got to know Eddie Ray
Stanford, a former Budd worker who was providing security for
the company that was dismantling the presses. Mustached, more
than six feet tall and steeped in the southern charm of his
native  Tennessee , he gave Clemens access to the factory.  Eddie becomes the soul of the book, an embodiment of
Detroit sensibility. When the Arkansas Boys grow homesick, it’s
Eddie who explains why.  “They’re not used to Michigan women,” he says. What made
Michigan women unsettling? “They got teeth,” Eddie says.  “The older Arkansas Boys did not,” Clemens says. “Dave
and Terry senior had dental outcomes consistent with the 19th-
century English Midlands.”  Better Pay  Rotting bicuspids aside, the Arkansas Boys fared better
than many working-class Americans as the U.S. unemployment rate
began climbing toward 10 percent. Across the country, 1,200 to
1,500 manufacturing plants were shutting down every year,
Clemens says, citing newsletter  Plant Closing News . Riggers at
Budd started at $16 an hour, with a jump to $20 an hour after 30
days, he says -- “better than a new hire would get at Ford.”  Clemens’s prose blends memoir with precise reporting, a
smattering of literary criticism and a taste for lists. We get
inventories of shuttered plants, lost jobs and factory equipment
sold at auctions. Though Clemens strives to keep an open mind,
he remains passionate about his home town and gets impatient
with how outsiders perceive it.  “Creative destruction,” observes a Canadian academic as
Clemens drives him into Detroit from the airport.  “Destruction, anyway,” Clemens responds.  Detroit was already veering toward a dystopia when I last
worked there in 1990. Judging from Clemens’s “journal of the
plague year,” things have gotten much worse. As I closed this
admirable and original piece of reporting, I felt numb.  “Punching Out: One Year in a Closing Auto Plant” is from
 Doubleday . (271 pages, $25.95). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 