-- Morgan Stanley Urges New York Judge to Dismiss Singapore Investors' Suit
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2011-02-03T05:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/morgan-stanley-urges-new-york-judge-to-dismiss-singapore-investors-suit.html
  Morgan Stanley , accused by a group of  Singapore  investors of fraudulently wiping out their $154.7
million investment, urged a  Manhattan  judge to dismiss the
lawsuit, arguing New York isn’t an appropriate place for trial.  The investors had agreed that any dispute relating to their
purchase of securities would be resolved in Singapore, Morgan
Stanley said in a filing in federal court in Manhattan
yesterday.  “This court should honor the contractual obligation,”
Morgan Stanley said. In addition, “this case has no nexus to
the United States,” the bank said  The complaint by 18 Singapore investors, who seek a judge’s
permission to sue on behalf of all purchasers of Morgan
Stanley’s  Pinnacle Notes , alleged the bank created a “classic
bait and switch scheme secretly designed to benefit Morgan
Stanley” at the customers’ expense.  Morgan Stanley, based in  New York , fraudulently induced the
investors into buying the notes, which the bank “intentionally
and materially misrepresented” as safe and conservative,
according to the lawsuit filed on Oct. 25.  Several Morgan Stanley units created the scheme to redirect
funds into the bank’s own coffers, the investors including the
 Singapore Government Staff Credit Cooperative Society Ltd . said
in the complaint. There may be, at minimum, thousands of class
members, the investors said.  Morgan Stanley created collateralized debt obligations, a
debt security that’s usually backed by bonds, or corporate
loans, and failed to inform the investors that it was a counter-
party to the agreements, the investors claimed. For each dollar
the investors lost, the bank gained a dollar, the investors
said.  “Morgan Stanley entities stood on both sides” of the
agreements, the investors claimed.  Morgan Stanley said the suit should also be thrown out
because the Monetary Authority of Singapore investigated the
sale of structured financial products and created a resolution
system.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in July agreed to pay $550 million
to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over
claims it misled investors in CDOs linked to subprime mortgages.
The bank, which said it made a “mistake” and marketing
materials for the instruments had “incomplete information,”
didn’t admit to any wrongdoing as part of the settlement.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore banned banks from
selling the structured investments in 2009 following claims by
investors that they were misled on products. The authority
 lifted the ban  on 10 financial institutions last year after they
boosted internal procedures of their advisory services across
all investment products.  The case is Dandong et al v. Pinnacle Performance Ltd. et
al, 10-08086, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Foley Square). 