-- Hubris Greatest Risk to Financial System, Toronto-Dominion CEO Clark Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2011-02-03T22:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/toronto-dominion-s-clark-calls-hubris-greatest-risk-to-financial-system.html
  Toronto-Dominion Bank  Chief Executive
Officer Edmund Clark came to  Wall Street  this week with a simple
recipe for bankers trying to avert another financial crisis:
more transparency and less arrogance.  “Hubris is the biggest risk in the banking system,” Clark
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .
“It is the most dangerous emotion to run a financial
institution.”  Clark is in a position to dispense advice. As head of  Canada ’s second-largest bank, he averted most of the writedowns
and credit losses that led to the financial crisis in 2008. The
bank is one of five lenders rated Aaa at Moody’s Investors
Service and its stock gained 24 percent in the past three years,
compared with a 40 percent drop in the KBW Bank Index.  Toronto-Dominion exited a structured products business in
2005, which included collateralized debt obligations, after
Clark said he didn’t understand the risks associated with it. As
a result, the lender recorded less than C$1 billion ($1 billion)
in debt-related writedowns during the financial crisis, compared
with the $1.49 trillion recorded by banks and brokers worldwide.  Canada’s banks received no government bailouts during the
crisis and has been ranked the world’s soundest for three
straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .  Clark warned against Canadian lenders resting on their
laurels after weathering the crisis better than many U.S. or
European competitors.  Transparency  “The risk in Canada is we get too comfortable with how
well we did,” Clark said.  Clark, 63, says he’s tried to foster transparency and
openness at his Toronto-based company so that employees and
executives aren’t afraid to speak up when they think the bank is
heading in the wrong direction.  “You’ve got to build cultures of transparency; comfort
where people say ‘Ed, I don’t agree with this. It’s a really
stupid idea,’” Clark said.  He cites an example of a bank teller who posted a comment
on the company’s internal message board complaining about
Clark’s compensation package, which totaled C$10.4 million last
year.  “This teller in one of the branches writes ‘Ed, I love you
to death, but this is ridiculous how much you get paid.’ Someone
sees that, then they say ‘maybe it’s alright for me to push back
here.’”  Don’t Be Too Serious  He warned against banks believing “their own propaganda”
and creating a culture where people don’t push back.  “I always tell my people, take the business totally
seriously but don’t take yourself too seriously,” Clark said.  Clark , who holds a Doctorate in economics from  Harvard
University , has no plans to extend his term beyond 2013, when he
will retire. He was appointed CEO in 2002.  “I look at myself as being lucky to get a chance, for 10
years or whatever, to run a 155-year-old institution in Canada,
have a shot at making it better for my successor to do the
same,” he said. “To go and blow up those institutions, is a
terrible, terrible thing to have done, just by letting your ego
get out of control.”  Clark said the lack of hubris applies to his investment-
banking unit TD Securities, which last year trailed  RBC Capital
Markets  and BMO Capital Markets in Bloomberg rankings for stock
issuance and merger advice.  About 21 percent of Toronto-Dominion’s C$4.6 billion in
profit last year came from wholesale banking, compared with 32
percent at domestic rival  Royal Bank of Canada . Clark said he
doesn’t want TD Securities to make risky bets on capital
markets.  Different Strategy  “It’s a totally different strategy,” to what other
investment banks have done in Canada, said Clark, who spoke
yesterday at an investor conference in New York sponsored by
Morgan Stanley. “I’ve always said ‘I don’t care what percentage
you are; I care what you do’.”  The  investment bank  will continue to earn about C$800
million to C$1 billion a year working on large Canadian
transactions and assisting clients in the U.S. and abroad.  “The trick is not to let them drift and say, ‘why don’t I
take on Goldman, or why don’t I take on Morgan Stanley?’” Clark
said. “Because I don’t think it’s a space we can occupy.”  Toronto-Dominion will focus expansion mostly in  North
America  instead of markets such as  China , Clark said.  Asian Strategy  “Trying to figure out an Asian strategy would be one of
our harder tasks,” said Clark. “If I would go head to head
with a competitor, why am I going to get more, on average?
What’s my competitive edge?”  Toronto-Dominion rose C$1.45, or 1.9 percent, to C$77.63 at
4:28 p.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have climbed
4.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  