-- Patriots' Bill Belichick Is Voted NFL's Coach of the Year for Third Time
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2011-02-03T11:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/patriots-bill-belichick-chosen-nfl-coach-of-the-year-for-third-time.html
New England Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  was selected as the  National Football League ’s coach
of the year for a third time, a day after the team’s quarterback
Tom Brady was voted the best offensive player.  Belichick, 58, coached the Patriots to a league-best 14-2
regular-season record before his team lost 28-21 to the  New York
Jets  in the playoffs. He received 30 of the 50 votes cast by
media members to beat Tampa Bay coach Raheem Morris, who had
11.5 votes. Balloting was compiled by the  Associated Press .  “It’s an honor to receive this award on behalf of our
performance in the regular season,” Belichick said last night
during a televised interview. “Unfortunately, we couldn’t carry
it over to the postseason.”  The Patriots have won three Super Bowls -- after the 2001,
2003 and 2004 seasons -- since Belichick was hired on Jan. 27,
2000. The team also has claimed four conference and eight
division titles, and recorded 14 playoff victories since his
arrival.  Belichick also won the award following the 2003 and 2007
seasons, leaving him one shy of the record held by Miami
Dolphins coach Don Shula.  Belichick is the only coach to have won at least 14
regular-season games in four NFL seasons, passing  San
Francisco ’s George Seifert, who had three.  The Patriots finished first in the league in scoring in the
past season, with 518 points. The team also set NFL records for
the fewest turnovers in a 16-game season with 10; seven straight
games without a turnover, and seven straight games of 30 points
and no turnovers.  The Patriots also tied an NFL record with eight straight
games of 30 points or more, and another for fewest interceptions
in a season with five.  The voting only covers the regular season. The Patriots
lost to the Cleveland Browns and the Jets, whose coach  Rex Ryan 
failed to get any votes.  Kansas City Chiefs coach Todd Haley received 4.5 votes,
while Atlanta Falcons’ Mike Smith, Andy Reid of the  Philadelphia
Eagles , Lovie Smith of the Chicago Bears and Steve Spagnuolo of
the St. Louis Rams each got one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  