-- Phone Mergers May Slow as Money Moves to Mobile Data at Home
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/phone-mergers-may-slow-as-money-moves-to-mobile-data-at-home.html
Phone companies, which announced $116
billion in emerging markets acquisitions last year, may spend
their money at home in 2011 to meet surging mobile-data demand.  Thanks to devices such as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and handsets
based on Google Inc.’s Android software, demand for high-priced
data plans is exploding, prompting operators to focus on their
domestic markets and cut back on emerging market deals,
according to a report from  PRTM , a management consulting firm.
Telecommunications deals almost doubled last year from 2009.  “We see a real shift in the balance of power from
developing to developed markets,” Ameet Shah, a partner at PRTM
in  London , said in an interview. “For a long time, capital has
fled  Europe , for example, to be invested elsewhere. We’re seeing
that rebalancing.”  The emerging markets push left some countries with too many
operators and sliding call rates;  India , with more than 10
competitors, saw call rates fall to less than a penny a minute.
At the same time, demand for data-hungry devices such as the
iPhone, iPad and Android phones is surging, with the number of
mobile-data connections in Europe set to rise by an average of
15 percent a year to 270 million in 2014, according to market
researcher IDC.  “We are not anymore in the idea of creating a pan-African
telecoms group,”  Vivendi SA  head of strategy Regis Turrini said
at a conference in London on Jan. 15. The owner of SFR, France’s
second-largest mobile operator, is focused on building its
domestic business by buying out  Vodafone Group Plc ’s minority
stake in the French operator, he said.  Welcome Pause  Vodafone, the largest mobile operator by revenue, also
tempered its emerging-market ambitions. Last year it sold a $6.5
billion stake in China Mobile Ltd. and may also unload its 24
percent holding in  Poland ’s Polkomtel SA.  The rebalancing won’t mean the end of mergers and
acquisitions. Operators including  France Telecom SA  are still
making selective acquisitions in new markets, with the Paris-
based company targeting  Iraq ,  Algeria , and  Cambodia .  The push for leadership in home markets may also drive a
consolidation in the U.K., where Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s 3 unit
lags behinds its competitors in market share.  Deutsche Telekom
AG ’s T-Mobile is in a similar situation in the U.S.  Investors are likely to welcome a pause in large-scale
empire-building by phone operators, said  Boris Boehm , who helps
manage about 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) at Aramea Asset
Management in Hamburg.  “The experiments many telecom companies tried in emerging
markets were not very fruitful,” he said. “It shows the
importance of local knowledge; it’s much easier to make money in
your home market.”  ‘Bread and Butter’  Focusing on domestic markets brings its own set of issues.
Operators in countries like  France  and the U.K. are looking for
ways to monetize increased data use, and to manage the network
spending needed to support the boom.  While forecaster Gartner Inc. expects global revenue from
mobile applications to almost triple to $15.1 billion this year,
most of that revenue goes to the programs’ developers. Yet
demand for services like Google’s YouTube and streaming TV shows
will push annual European spending on network gear by 28 percent
from now to $3.7 billion in 2014, according to figures from
researcher Canalys.  The spread of mobile data use was “so quick and so
explosive” it took mobile operators by surprise, said John Tysoe, the founder of London-based  The Mobile World , an advisory
firm that helped prepare the PRTM report.  Operators are seeing volumes much greater than they’d
planned for, “so all of a sudden, it’s ‘put all our resources
back in our bread and butter domestic market,’” he said.  ‘Tipping Point’  Operators may seek new pricing strategies to boost revenue
from clients. France Telecom has pledged to join the U.S.’s AT&T
Inc. in moving toward so-called tiered pricing, which could mean
the end of unlimited data packages for mobile customers.  Tiered pricing would represent a look back to the future
for operators, who began the online age by offering fixed-line
Internet packages with usage caps that quickly became unpopular
once technological advances made unlimited access practical.  Capping data use on mobile devices may be “untenable,”
with customers likely to complain, according to PRTM’s Shah.
Still, finding ways to lead their home markets’ increased data
use is operators’ most critical challenge, he said.  “The impending saturation of the developing world and the
acceleration in data have really put us past the tipping
point,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 