-- Pity the Hedge-Fund Cops Who Can’t Carry Guns: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2011-02-03T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/pity-the-hedge-fund-cops-who-can-t-carry-guns-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
The initial one-sentence dispatch
that Bloomberg News published two days ago, about the latest
courtroom twist in the Galleon Management  insider-trading  saga,
was as strange as it was intriguing.  In its entirety, it read: “Raj Rajaratnam and his co-
defendant Danielle Chiesi were ordered by a federal judge in New
York to turn over wiretaps the government made of their
conversations to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.”  Naturally my first reaction was incredulity. There must be
an error in the story, I thought. Maybe the reporter switched
around the names of who was ordered to turn over what to whom?
My gut instinct was wrong. The article was correct.  Here we have two defendants: Rajaratnam, the former Galleon
hedge fund chief whose criminal trial is scheduled to begin Feb.
28, and Chiesi, who pleaded guilty last month to three counts of
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  after fighting the
government’s charges for more than a year.  The SEC is  suing  both in a separate civil  proceeding . The
Justice Department and SEC are cooperating with each other. And
you mean to tell me that the only way the SEC could lay its
hands on the government’s wiretaps was to get them from the
defendants? The prosecutors couldn’t give the SEC copies?  It’s sad but true, as I confirmed when I read the court
papers in the SEC’s case. I then realized that, up until that
moment, I had no idea just how weak the SEC really is. If these
are the handcuffs the SEC has to deal with on a big case like
this, then it’s no wonder its enforcement division’s performance
over the years has been so feeble.  No Sharing  It turns out the  1968 statute  that authorized the
government’s wiretaps doesn’t allow the government to share them
with the SEC. Or at least that’s the position taken by
prosecutors in the criminal case. So, to get around this, the  Justice Department  first had to turn the wiretaps over to the
defendants. That way, the SEC could get them later on during
discovery for its own lawsuit.  After the SEC requested the evidence from Rajaratnam and
Chiesi, their lawyers complained that giving the wiretaps to the
commission’s attorneys would violate the defendants’ privacy.
The judge presiding over the SEC’s suit, Jed Rakoff, rejected
that argument this week and ordered the defendants to produce
all the relevant communications in their possession. So it looks
as if the SEC finally will get hold of the same information the
FBI has had since 2008.  It’s anyone’s guess how much money had to be spent paying
government lawyers so that one twig of the executive branch
could hand information over to another one. These are your tax
dollars at work, as the saying goes.  Lack of Money  The SEC, which last year had a budget of about $1 billion,
has complained for ages that it’s underfunded. As this episode
shows, though, its problems aren’t just about money.  Often it has lacked the will or competence necessary to
fulfill its basic duties, like investigating the many early
warnings it received about  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme. The
fines it can impose tend to be meager. Somehow it hasn’t been
able to find anyone at Lehman Brothers,  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac
or AIG who committed any wrongdoing during the financial crisis,
as if those companies’ claims of solvency and robust financial
health were all true.  Yet we probably can’t expect much better, as long as the
U.S. vests the primary authority to enforce its securities laws
and regulate capital markets with an agency that lacks the power
to conduct criminal investigations.  Eliot Spitzer , during his
tenure as New York’s attorney general, brought more landmark
cases on the SEC’s turf than the commission did, with a much
smaller staff. He probably couldn’t have, were it not for his
office’s power to threaten defendants with criminal charges
under the 1921  Martin Act ,  New York ’s state securities-fraud
statute.  Little Appetite  The Justice Department has shown little appetite for
investigating securities and accounting fraud by executives at
the country’s most important banks. (Targeting hedge-fund
managers for insider trading seems a higher priority at the
moment.) Even if the Justice Department were inclined to probe
the conduct of senior officers at too-big-to-fail financial
institutions, it might not always be able to share the evidence
it gathers with the SEC directly, as the Galleon case shows.  So here’s an idea for Congress to consider the next time
the SEC comes begging for a budget increase. Don’t just throw
money at it. Give it more power. Or even disband it -- dozens of
SEC staffers and contractors were  caught  last year watching porn
on their work computers, after all -- and start fresh by
creating a new agency with teeth to replace it.  We already entrust the  Environmental Protection Agency  and
the  Food and Drug Administration , for example, with criminal
authority. EPA and FDA  special agents  are sworn federal law
enforcement  officers  empowered to conduct investigations, carry
firearms, make arrests, and execute and serve warrants.
Prosecutions still must be carried out by Justice Department
lawyers, such as local U.S. attorneys’ offices. At least the EPA
and FDA have a full arsenal of investigative tools, though. The
SEC (or its successor) should, too.  The alternative is the SEC we have now: A toothless terrier
that’s weak by design. Perhaps it would do better if we gave it
the means to try.    Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at   jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  