-- Polish Finance Ministry's Message on Interest-Rate Swaps Spurs Bond Demand
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2011-02-03T13:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/polish-finance-ministry-s-message-on-interest-rate-swaps-spurs-bond-demand.html
Poland’s message to banks that it may
pay floating  interest rates  in return for fixed rates in
derivatives trades is spurring demand for longer-term bonds and
putting swap rates on course for the biggest weekly drop since
August.  The cost of 10-year interest-rate swaps, contracts used to
guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs, dropped 20 basis
points to 5.62 percent this week. A close at that level would
make for the biggest weekly decline since Aug. 20. Ten-year
swaps climbed to 5.82 percent last week, the highest level in 27
months. The yield on bonds maturing in October 2020 have
decreased 12 basis points to 6.25 percent this week.  The Finance Ministry may enter into interest-rate swaps for
benchmark five-year and 10-year bonds to manage costs of
servicing the public debt and stabilize the domestic fixed-
income market, Piotr Marczak, who heads its public debt
department, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News yesterday. The ministry has contacted banks to
determine their interest, he said.  “We treat information about the potential  Finance Ministry 
activity on the  debt market  as verbal intervention” because it
indicates which side of the trade it may take,  Piotr Kalisz ,
chief economist for Citigroup Inc.’s Bank Handlowy SA unit in
Warsaw, wrote in a note to customers. “We have our doubts about
its long-term effectiveness because fundamentals and rising
political uncertainty argue for long-term yields to stay
elevated.”  The Finance Ministry swapped 1.6 billion zloty ($564
million) of five-year bonds for debt maturing in May and July
this year at yesterday’s auction. Investors’ demand reached 5.36
billion zloty, according to the statement.  ‘Odd’  In an interest-rate swap, two parties agree to exchange
payments over a period of time. Typically, one agrees to pay a
fixed rate, while the other pays a rate that fluctuates with a
benchmark index or formula defined in the contract. In the case
of  Poland ’s five-year and 10-year swaps, this index is a six-
month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate.  Yields on Polish bonds have climbed this year as the
central bank raised its main interest rate from a record-low 3.5
percent and signaled it may tighten monetary policy further to
bring inflation back to its 2.5 percent target.  Fitch Ratings 
said on Jan. 26 the trend in the country’s finances is
“unsustainable” after the  budget deficit  increased almost
four-fold from 2007 through 2009. Poland holds general elections
this year.  The ministry’s statement that it may enter into the swap
transactions “is very ‘odd,’” as “short-end rates are
expected to move higher in line with the tightening cycle
initiated by” by the central bank,”  Gyula Toth , UniCredit
SpA’s Vienna-based head of fixed-income and currency strategy
for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , wrote in a
note. “Although the move clearly boosted demand at yesterday’s
switch auction we would use this opportunity to reduce
duration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  