-- Portman Boyfriend, Hirst’s Flies, Rebecca Hall: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2011-02-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/portman-boyfriend-hirst-s-flies-rebecca-hall-london-weekend.html
Actress  Natalie Portman ’s fiance --
who had a minor role in   Black Swan ” and masterminded her
moves -- shows off his best work at  Sadler’s Wells .  Benjamin Millepied’s choreography is a highlight of the
 American Ballet Theater ’s mixed bill on Friday night. A parade
of guys in loose waistcoats and girls in Grecian tunics twitch
and toss in a seamless blend of ballet and athletics. Shame
about the screechy live music.  Information:  http://www.sadlerswells.org.uk  or
+844-412-4300.  Saturday  The flies are feasting on an artwork by  Damien Hirst .  Trapped in a giant vitrine, they suck at the leftovers of a
barbecue: roast fowl, red meat slabs, chunky fries, dollops of
ketchup and a cow’s head bleeding under the picnic table.  “Let’s Eat Outdoors Today” (1990-91) is the showstopper
in the  Royal Academy of Art ’s Modern British Sculpture
exhibition, a sleekly laid out though sparse selection with
glaring omissions (Antony Gormley, Anish Kapoor).  Don’t miss Anthony Caro’s bright-red contraption and
Barbara Hepworth’s memorial with a hole at the top: A version of
it stands outside  New York ’s United Nations building.  The show ends on April 7. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk  or +44-20-7300-8000.  The new Restaurant at the  Royal Academy  offers all-day
dining with waiter service. By restaurateur Oliver Peyton, who
brought fine food to London’s National Gallery and the Wallace
Collection, it serves wild-sea-bass ceviche, with pink pepper,
as well as pheasant with sherry sauce. Information:
+44-20-7300-5608 or  http://bit.ly/f7uLS7 .  Saturday Night  Hotly tipped rock acts are taking part in HMV’s Next Big
Thing concerts across eight London venues through Feb. 13.
Saturday night’s shows include Gaggle, a 22-member female choir
that will crowd the stage at the  Borderline .  The festival also includes Caitlin Rose, Funeral for a
Friend, Yoav, Sunday Girl and  James Blake .  Information:
 http://hmv.com/hmvweb/navigate.do?pPageID=4771 .  Over at the  National Theatre ,  Rebecca Hall  -- the uptight
Vicky in Woody Allen’s film “Vicky Cristina Barcelona” --
headlines a staging of Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night” by her
dad, director  Peter Hall .  She plays a girl who passes herself off as a boy and sparks
a flurry of erotic misunderstandings. Her gender-bending outfit:
a snugly fitted dark-red doublet and breeches.  The elder Hall, meanwhile, has a barebones directing style
that sometimes slows down the production.  “Twelfth Night” ends March 2. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000.  Nearby Skylon is a good place to eat light, fresh dishes
created by Finnish chef Helena Puolakka -- a protegee of
culinary masters Pierre Gagnaire and Pierre Koffmann. Pre- and
post-theater menus start at 26.75 pounds ($43.29). Information:
+44-20-7654-7800 or  http://bit.ly/hXck8z .  Sunday    Charles Dickens  was also an actor.  Find out more by joining a  London  walk that starts every
Sunday at 2 p.m. at Covent Garden Tube station and winds up at
the  Charles Dickens Museum . Call before you go.  Information: +44-7913-253-242.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 