-- Portugal's Towns Crumble as Century-Old Rent Controls Strangle Investment
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   J i m   S i l v e r
-- 2011-02-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/portugal-crumbles-as-century-old-rent-controls-choke-property-investment.html
Isabel Palma has been trying to sell
a seven-story building in Lisbon’s business district for six
years. It doesn’t help that the property isn’t generating enough
income to pay for maintenance and she can’t raise rents.  The six remaining tenants, including law firms and a
hostel, have had their rents frozen for years or simply don’t
pay anymore because they don’t fear eviction, according to the
landlady, whose family has owned the 1,610 square-meter (17,330
square-foot) property since 1909. She gets a total of 1,100
euros ($1,490) a month in rent.  “I’ve spent six years in court and thousands of euros on
lawyers trying to terminate leases with tenants who pay little
or nothing,”  Palma, 78, said in an interview. “No one wants
to buy into a problem like that.”  Century-old controls on rents and evictions are stifling
investment in Portuguese real estate and leaving the country
with crumbling city centers as rental income fails to keep pace
with maintenance costs, according to landlords and property
industry groups. The government has pledged to introduce
measures in March to streamline rules on rental properties as it
seeks to jumpstart an economy that’s had one of  Europe ’s weakest
growth rates over the last decade.  While legislation in 1981 lifted rent controls on new
contracts and a 1990 law allowed landlords to set expiry dates
on leases, more than half of Portugal’s rentals are subject to
the older restrictions. That means most owners are still coping
with contracts that never expire and rates that are frozen or
limited to inflation adjustments, said Miguel Marques dos
Santos, an attorney specializing in real estate at the Lisbon
office of Garrigues. Even death isn’t always enough to break a
lease because tenants can pass on a contract to their children,
spouses or parents.  Legal Bottleneck  A 2006 law gave landlords more power to negotiate prices.
However, they can only raise rents if municipal authorities
certify that the buildings are in good shape. In four years,
just 2,600 of the country’s 430,000 rent-controlled properties
have seen an increase, said Manuel Reis Campos, president of the
 Portuguese Construction and Real Estate Confederation .  Portuguese housing needs about 74 billion euros of
renovation work that could generate construction revenue of 535
million euros a year, according to an estimate by  Portugal ’s
 Association for Public Works and Construction , known as Aecops.
Repairs on all types of structures could attract about 200
billion euros of investment, the group said.  Government Steps  The new laws will aim to simplify eviction procedures as
well as the licensing process for renovation work and the
mechanism for certifying that buildings are in good enough shape
to justify a rent increase. The government is still on course to
introduce the measures by the end of March, according to a
spokesman for the Environment and Territorial Planning Ministry.  The legislation is part of a package aimed at boosting
economic growth. The country faces a 1.3 percent contraction in
gross domestic product this year, according to a Bank of
Portugal forecast.  “What’s needed is legislation that penalizes those who
don’t meet their obligations, whether it’s the tenants or the
landlords,” said Romao Lavadinho, president of the Association
of Lisbon Tenants. “If they’re legal, we think evictions should
be dealt with rapidly.”  Lavadinho said his group supports the right to raise rents
following building improvements.  “The problem is that the landlords didn’t do the
improvements and they still wanted to raise rents.”  Restrictive Laws  The country had the third-most restrictive laws on eviction
in 2009 among the 30 countries in the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development , trailing only Sweden and  Greece ,
the OECD said in a report published this year. It had the ninth-
toughest rent-control restrictions.  The government is raising taxes and cutting state wages to
narrow a deficit that was the fourth largest as a percentage of
GDP among countries sharing the euro in 2009. Portugal may
become the third European Union country to receive a financial
rescue package, after the Greek debt crisis caused borrowing
costs to surge for indebted nations.  The difference in yield between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, reached a euro-era record
of 484 basis points on Nov. 11. The spread was at 360 basis
points today.  “The question now is not whether Portugal will be rescued
in some form or other, but rather how it will fund economic
recovery going forward,” Fernando Paes Afonso, general director
of Aecops, said in an interview at his Lisbon office.
“Rehabilitation and removing obstacles to investment in the  property market  are obvious ways to boost the economy.”  Construction Boost  Steps to increase renovation could revive half of the
190,000 jobs lost in the building industry since 2002, according
to Reis Campos of the Construction and Real Estate
Confederation.  New development still attracts the vast majority of
construction investment in Portugal, with only 6.2 percent going
to renovation in 2009, according to Aecops. Only  Romania  spends
less on renovations among the 14 European countries for which
data was available, the European Construction Industry
Federation said. The average is 23 percent.  Owners of rent-controlled properties don’t get enough
income to support their upkeep, leaving Lisbon and other cities
pockmarked with crumbling structures, Aecops said. It estimates
that about 36 percent of the country’s residential buildings are
in need of repair.  “Some of these contracts date back to the 60s and pay as
little as 5 euros per month for a four-bedroom apartment in the
capital,” Luis Menezes Leitao, president of Portugal’s
Association of Landlords, said in an interview.  Forced to Buy  The lack of incentives to invest in renovation has caused a
chronic shortage of rental accommodation, which now represents
less than 20 percent of Portugal’s total housing stock, Menezes
Leitao said. That has forced people to buy property instead,
boosting debt and pushing up  home prices .  “They couldn’t rent, so they bought and borrowed too much
money,” he said. “It’s a contributing factor in the current
crisis.”  Household liabilities surged to 143 percent of disposable
income in 2007 from 29 percent in 1990, Bank of Portugal data
shows.  House prices  have more than doubled since 1990, according
to an index prepared by  Confidencial Imobiliario , an independent
Portuguese property consultant.  Helga Ribeiro, a lawyer at Rosa Amaral & Asociados in
Lisbon who represents landlords and property funds, says she
doesn’t hold out much hope for change.  “The government has used landlords to subsidize low-cost
housing for a century,” she said during an interview at her
office in Lisbon. “It simply doesn’t have the money to shoulder
the financial burden if it stops, and it will have too much on
its plate with other reforms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net . or
Jim Silver in Lisbon at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 