-- U.K. Pound Appreciates to Two-Week Record Versus Euro After ECB Holds Rate
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2011-02-03T17:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/pound-near-3-month-high-versus-dollar-as-data-may-show-expanding-services.html
The pound climbed to a two-week high
versus the euro after the  European Central Bank  left its main
interest rate at a record low, damping bets the common
currency’s yield advantage over the U.K. will widen.  Sterling appreciated against most of the 16 most actively
traded currencies monitored by Bloomberg today, reaching a
three-month high against the dollar. The ECB left the benchmark
rate at 1 percent for a 22nd month while President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who last month announced he would do what’s necessary
to contain inflation, said rates are “appropriate” for now as
price pressures remain balanced.  “The market was expecting a step up in the hawkishness
from Trichet and that never happened, which is why the euro is
coming off,” said Audrey Childe-Freeman, a head of European
currency strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s private bank in  London . “With the more encouraging economic data coming out of
the U.K. the expectations for a U.K. rate hike could move
forward and that’s providing sterling with some upside,
especially against the euro.”  The pound appreciated 1.1 percent to 84.38 pence per euro,
the strongest intraday level since Jan. 20, before trading at
84.45 as of 5:07 p.m. in London. Britain’s currency was
0.3 percent weaker at $1.6152 after earlier gaining 0.5 percent
to $1.6279, the strongest since Nov. 5.  Euro-area inflation is already in breach of the ECB’s
2 percent limit, accelerating to 2.4 percent in January, the
fastest in more than two years. Inflation expectations remain
“firmly anchored,” Trichet said today.  Services Expanded  A separate report showed U.K. services expanded more than
estimated in January with an index of activity in the sector
jumping to 54.5 from 49.7 the previous month, Markit Economics
Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said.
That was higher than the 51.3 median estimate of economists
polled by Bloomberg, stoking speculation the  Bank of England 
will have room to raise borrowing costs this year.  “The risks to the data were always to the upside, and
obviously that has happened and therefore the pound has gone
up,” said  Steve Barrow , head of research for Group of 10
currencies at Standard Bank Plc in London. “If you look at the
market, it seems to be saying that this sort of data could add
to the case for higher interest rates.”  Speculation has intensified that the central bank will be
forced to raise rates this year to quell inflation that has
exceeded its 2 percent limit for more than a year, reaching an
eight-month high of 3.7 percent in December. Monetary Policy
Committee member  Martin Weale  joined colleague  Andrew Sentance 
in voting for a rate increase at the group’s Jan. 13 meeting on
concern that inflation may become entrenched.  Year-End Focus  Short-sterling futures rose, lowering the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December by three basis points to
1.64 percent. The yield on the contract had earlier climbed to
1.72 percent, the highest level since July.  A rise in the yield, which is used to gauge central bank
rate expectations, indicates investors are adding to bets that
monetary policy makers will lift borrowing costs by year-end.  U.K. two-year government bonds rose, with the yield on the
4.5 percent security due March 2013 dropping six basis points to
1.44 percent. The note rose 0.115, or 1.15 pounds per 1,000-
pound ($1,613) face amount, to 106.27. Ten-year yields rose two
basis points to 3.78 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  