-- Premier League Exclusive TV Deals Breach EU Rules
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-02-03T17:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/premier-league-may-lose-bid-to-limit-pubs-showing-english-soccer-matches.html
The Premier League’s exclusive
contracts with broadcasters such as  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc  to televise its soccer matches aren’t lawful, an
adviser to the European Union’s highest court said.  “Territorial exclusivity agreements relating to the
transmission of football matches are contrary to” EU law,
Advocate General Juliane Kokott of the  European Court of Justice 
said in a non-binding opinion today. The Luxembourg-based EU
court that she advises follows such opinions in most cases.  A ruling upholding Kokott’s opinion would allow pub owners
to use decoders to access TV broadcasts of English soccer from
abroad. The court adviser said EU law “does not make it
possible to prohibit” live transmission of Premier League
matches via such cards in pubs.  The Premier League is home to some of  Europe ’s most
successful clubs including Manchester United, Chelsea and
Liverpool. The league started a three-year 1.78 billion-pound
($2.9 billion) U.K. television contract in August, and receives
a further 1 billion pounds from the sale of international
broadcast rights.  Even before the court’s expected ruling, sometime in the
next few months, broadcasters will start to look at how they can
stabilize the market and the pricing, said Graham Shear, a
commercial lawyer in  London  with Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP.  Broadcasters “will have to anticipate what is likely to be
the future and start to organize accordingly now,” Shear said.  Pounds from Pubs  The ruling could reduce the 250 million pounds of revenue
BSkyB gets from pubs, an analyst at  Nomura Holdings Inc . wrote
in a note to clients.  “The case could see foreign broadcasters allowed to supply
Premier League to U.K. pubs at cheaper prices than BSkyB,”
Nomura said. “This is not the final ruling which will occur in
a few months time from the ECJ judges, but is a hit to
sentiment.”  BSkyB shares fell as much as 6.5 pence, or 0.9 percent, to
761.5 pence following the ruling, before recovering to close at
767.5 pence, down 0.5 pence, in London trading.  Karen Murphy, the owner of the  Red, White and Blue Pub  in
Southsea, close to Portsmouth,  England , is the defendant in one
of the cases. She faces a criminal lawsuit in the U.K. after
buying a decoder card that allows her to show Premier League
games from Greek television. BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV
operator, said the cards are “illicit” because they’re being
used outside their specified area.  ‘Relieved’  “She’s relieved. She’s been worried and nervous over the
past few weeks and days,”  Paul Dixon , the lawyer representing
Murphy, said of his client in a telephone interview. “The
language of today’s opinion is pretty forthright. Now it’s an
anxious wait to see whether the court upholds the opinion.”  If that happens “it will completely change the way that
broadcasting rights and services are sold across the EU,” said
Dixon, a partner at law firm  Molesworths Bright Clegg .  Murphy wasn’t available to comment today, Dixon said,
because, besides the pub, she also has a day job “to make ends
meet.”  Premier League broadcasters promise to protect the
territorial exclusivity of their rights by preventing
transmissions from being received outside the permitted area.  ‘Clear Preference’  Today’s opinion doesn’t mesh with existing EU law, the
Premier League said in an e-mailed statement. It added that if
the court follows the advice, it would hurt broadcasters “whose
clear preference is to acquire, and pay for, exclusive rights
within their own territory only and to use those rights to
create services which satisfy the cultural preferences of their
viewers.”  The opinion creates uncertainty for those who bought TV
viewing rights from various sports leagues, said Berwin
Leighton’s Shear.  Broadcasters are “now uncertain as to whether they can
rely upon their territorial licenses and sell those rights or
license them on with their decoder cards at a set premium,”
said Shear, or whether they will now be “open to competition
from other countries with cheaper decoders.”  Stephen Gaynor, a spokesman for BSkyB, declined to comment
on the ruling.  New York-based  News Corp . wants to avoid a full-blown
antitrust review of its proposed 7.8 billion-pound acquisition
of the 61 percent of BSkyB it doesn’t already own. U.K. Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is considering whether the deal may reduce
media plurality.  BSkyB and ESPN, a unit of  Walt Disney Co ., have exclusive
contract to broadcast Premier League matches throughout the U.K.  The cases are C-403/08, Football Association Premier League
Ltd, v QC Leisure and C-429/08, Karen Murphy v Media Protection
Services Limited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  