-- Prepaid Debit Cards May Be Next Focus of U.S. Consumer Agency
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2011-02-03T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/prepaid-debit-cards-may-be-next-focus-of-u-s-consumer-agency.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau may call for public comments on how to improve fee
disclosure by issuers of prepaid debit cards, the fastest-
growing segment of the payment-card industry, according to a
Treasury Department official.  Rules could squeeze the $1.4 billion in fee revenue that
firms such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .,  Green Dot Corp . and  NetSpend
Holdings Inc . will collect by 2014, said Gwenn Bezard, research
director of the Boston-based research firm Aite Group. Americans
will more than triple the amount they put on the cards each year
to $104 billion by then, Aite has calculated.  The bureau may issue a notice calling for comments on
possible rules on prepaid debit in the spring, said the Treasury
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
decision isn’t final. The agency is focusing on disclosure and
isn’t aiming to put limits on fees, the official said.  The initiative would be the first indication of what
regulations the agency could pursue outside of mortgages and
credit cards, the two areas most cited by  Elizabeth Warren , the
special Treasury adviser charged with setting up the bureau.  Warren addressed the topic in a Nov. 30 letter to Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat who had introduced an
unsuccessful bill to impose oversight on prepaid cards.  “We need prudent regulation to stimulate a transparent and
competitive marketplace in which consumers are able to
understand the product, figure out the costs, and comparison
shop for the products that best meet their needs,” Warren said
in the letter.  Gathering Information  The consumer bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul and operating initially under Treasury’s auspices, may
use so-called advanced notices of proposed rulemaking to gather
information before its scheduled official start date of July 21,
the inspectors general of Treasury and the  Federal Reserve  have
said.  David Silberman, who heads the card markets unit at the
bureau, has been consulting people in the prepaid industry
through one-on-one meetings, the Treasury official said.  Prepaid debit cards, which often are sold from racks in
supermarkets or small shops, aren’t linked to bank accounts.
Because they can be loaded and reloaded with cash payments and
aren’t limited to a specific retailer like gift cards, they have
emerged as a key tool for people who don’t have bank accounts.  The cards, sometimes associated with celebrities, have
largely escaped federal regulatory scrutiny. During the Dodd-
Frank debate, Congress considered making prepaid cards subject
to rules on “swipe” fees that retailers pay to debit card
issuers. Hip-hop impresario Russell Simmons, who issues the
prepaid RushCard, helped lobby to exempt the products.  ‘Tool’ for Underserved  Simmons said in an interview that more regulation of
disclosure should not interfere with RushCard’s ability to
become a “financial well-being service” that might eventually
offer loans, he said.  “This is a tool for people who are underserved, and as
technology evolves, our prices go down,” Simmons said.  Kim, Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian, the sisters famous for
their TV reality show, withdrew their own prepaid card from the
market in November after  Consumers Union , publisher of Consumer
Reports magazine, publicized its various fees for checking a
balance or speaking to  customer service .  “That controversy produced an audible groan in the entire
industry,” Judith E. Rinearson, regulatory counsel for the
Montvale, New Jersey-based National Branded Prepaid Card
Association, said in an interview.  ‘Truth in Pricing’  Gail Hillebrand, financial services campaign manager for
Consumers Union, said the consumer agency needs to consider
limiting the number or types of permissible fees so that issuers
don’t shift the costs around in response to regulation.  “It’s about truth in pricing, not setting prices,” she
said.  Companies including NetSpend and Green Dot are the major
players in the business, though processors including San
Francisco-based  Visa Inc . and Purchase, New York-based  MasterCard Inc . make some money on it, Bezard of Aite Group
said. Each prepaid card almost always has a bank behind it,
though the business is very small compared with bank credit card
issuance.  Brad Russell, a spokesman for Austin, Texas-based NetSpend,
said that the bureau’s “new look” will “provide clarity” to
the business.  Teeth-Gnashing  “It is not being met with wringing of hands and gnashing
of teeth,” Russell said in an interview. “We want to work with
them.”  Monrovia, California-based Green Dot, in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for the third quarter of
2010, cited the consumer bureau and possible disclosure rules
and fee limits as risks to revenue and costs.  Rinearson said he worries that the new consumer bureau
might not fully comprehend how the business works. “It is a
very scary thing to be regulated by an agency that does not
understand your industry,” he said.  Bezard said the passage of time may challenge both the
industry and regulators, as new firms emerge and older ones
improve their business models.  Already, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart “sent shock
waves” through the business when it reduced fees in early 2009
on a prepaid card it markets with Green Dot, Bezard said. And
the RushCard also reduced fees early this year.  “I wonder if regulation can change the fact that you
already have serious price competition,” Bezard said. 