-- Obama to Back Tax Incentives, Funds to Encourage Energy-Efficient Building
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2011-02-03T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/president-obama-to-back-new-steps-encouraging-energy-efficient-buildings.html
President  Barack Obama  will back new
tax incentives and government financing to make buildings more
energy efficient as a way to cut energy costs and encourage job
growth, according to an administration statement.  Obama wants Congress to revamp an existing tax deduction
for commercial building upgrades to create a credit that would
be more attractive for owners and real estate investment trusts
to “retrofit” properties, according to a White House fact
sheet. The plan also calls for the  Small Business Administration 
to work with lenders to take advantage of higher loan limits to
promote energy efficient upgrades by businesses.  The administration says building and business owners would
save a total of about $40 billion a year by making their
structures more efficient.  Later today at  Pennsylvania State University  in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania , Obama will visit labs working on
technology to make buildings more energy efficient, and he plans
to talk about how that work will help ensure U.S. economic
competitiveness.  The trip is part of the president’s effort to promote the
themes and agenda he laid out in his annual State of the Union
address Jan. 25. Last week, Obama went to  Wisconsin  where he
toured companies that make  wind turbines , aluminum products, and
energy-efficient lights, and said the U.S. needs to “step up
our game” to fend of economic challenges from abroad.    Energy Efficiency  Goal  In Pennsylvania today, Obama will call for commercial
buildings in the U.S. to become 20 percent more energy efficient
by 2020.  The administration didn’t disclose the cost of the tax
incentive in a fact sheet it distributed ahead of Obama’s event.
Details of the proposals will be included in administration’s
budget to be released on Feb. 14.  The Department of Energy has created three energy research
centers to explore solar energy creation, nuclear reactor
design, and how to make buildings more energy efficient.  The center run by  Pennsylvania State University , which will
receive  $130 million in government funding  over five years,
focuses on building energy efficiency.  In his State of the Union, Obama outlined energy goals
aimed at reducing the use of oil, while generating 80 percent of
the nation’s electricity from clean energy sources by 2035.  In 2009, about 45 of U.S. electricity came from coal, 23
percent from natural gas and 20 percent from nuclear, according
to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  