-- Primary Global Manager Indicted, Faces SEC Suit With Five Others
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/primary-global-s-fleishman-indicted-six-sued-by-sec-over-insider-trading.html
James Fleishman, a former Primary
Global Research LLC sales manager, was indicted on  insider
trading  charges and also accused in a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit along with five other people of
tipping investors including hedge funds.  Prosecutors in  New York  yesterday released an indictment
charging Fleishman, 41, with one count each of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud  and conspiracy to commit wire fraud.
Both charges carry a maximum punishment of five years in prison.
Fleishman was arrested and released on $700,000 bond Dec. 16.  The charges are related to a federal investigation into
hedge-fund insider trading that began with New York-based
Galleon Group LLC. As part of the investigation, the SEC
yesterday sued Fleishman and five others connected to Primary
Global, an expert consulting firm.  “Company executives and other insiders moonlighting as
consultants to hedge funds cannot blatantly peddle their
company’s confidential information for personal gain,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, said in
a statement. “These PGR consultants and employees schemed to
facilitate widespread and repeated insider trading by several  hedge funds  and other investment professionals.”  Fleishman’s co-defendants in the SEC case, Mark A. Longoria, Daniel L. DeVore, Bob Nguyen, Winifred Jiau and Walter Shimoon, were previously charged as part of a criminal
investigation of insider trading involving hedge funds, banks
and technology companies, as well as consulting firms such as  Mountain View , California-based Primary Global. Their tips
allegedly helped investors reap $6 million in illegal profits,
the SEC said.  Primary Global  Primary Global connects investors with industry specialists
who provide them with insight into their specific markets.
Prosecutors have alleged that company insiders were paid to
provide material nonpublic information to investors.  More than 30 people have been charged in overlapping
conspiracies tied to the Galleon case.  The federal insider-trading probe became public in 2009
with the arrest of Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.
Rajaratnam, 53, who denies wrongdoing in the case, is scheduled
to go on trial Feb. 28 in  Manhattan .  Longoria, 44, who worked for  Advanced Micro Devices Inc .,
DeVore, 46, a former global supply manager for  Dell Inc .,
Shimoon, 39, a former  Flextronics International Ltd . vice
president and Jiau, 43, all worked as paid consultants for
Primary Global without their employers’ knowledge, the SEC said.  The regulator described Jiau as having worked for “various
technology companies in Northern California.”  Inside Information  The four consultants are alleged to have passed inside
information to hedge funds while working for Primary Global.  Nguyen, 32, and Fleishman were both employees of Primary
Global. The SEC claims Nguyen and Fleishman helped pass
information from the consultants to the hedge funds and
investors that were Primary Global’s customers.  Susan Cassell, a lawyer for Nguyen, who pleaded guilty Jan.
11 to conspiracy and fraud charges, said yesterday she hadn’t
seen the complaint.  “I am completely in the dark,” Cassell said.  Jonathan Marks, a lawyer for Longoria, and Johnny Sutton,
who represents DeVore, declined to comment. DeVore pleaded
guilty Dec. 10 to conspiracy and  wire fraud  charges.  Henry Mazurek, a lawyer for Shimoon, Frederick Hafetz, who
represents Jiau, and Fleishman’s attorney, Benjamin Lee Coleman,
didn’t immediately return phone messages seeking comment on the
SEC complaint.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Longoria,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 