-- ProLogis Earnings Before Items Rise as Vacancies Drop
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2011-02-03T12:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/prologis-earnings-before-items-rise-as-demand-for-industrial-space-climbs.html
ProLogis, the warehouse owner that
agreed to merge with smaller rival  AMB Property Corp . this week,
said fourth-quarter earnings excluding items climbed as demand
for industrial space increases.  Fourth-quarter funds from core operations, excluding
certain items, rose to $99.4 million, or 18 cents a share, from
$74 million, or 16 cents, a year  earlier , the Denver-based
company said today in a statement.  The vacancy rate for industrial property is falling,
indicating rising demand for warehouse space, commercial real
estate broker Grubb & Ellis Co. said Jan. 26. The fourth-quarter
U.S. industrial vacancy rate was 10.4 percent, down from a high
of 10.9 percent in the first quarter of 2010, according to  Santa
Ana , California-based Grubb & Ellis.  “Fundamentals are getting better,” Dave Rodgers, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Solon,  Ohio , said in an
interview before the report. The AMB deal “creates a very
competitive company,” he said.  The combination of  ProLogis  and AMB, the two biggest U.S.
industrial real estate investment trusts, will form a company
that will own or manage $46 billion in assets. The REITs
estimate $80 million in annual cost savings from the merger,
according to the Jan. 31 statement announcing the deal.  ProLogis’s FFO before items exclude costs including
writedowns and charges from debt purchases. The company’s net
loss for the quarter was $1.17 billion, or $2.17 a share,
compared with a loss of $408.5 million, or 86 cents, a year
earlier.  Funds from operations exclude depreciation and other items.
The cash-flow measure, used by real estate investment trusts,
doesn’t conform to generally accepted accounting principles.  The fourth-quarter results were released before the start
of regular U.S. trading. ProLogis fell 0.4 percent to $14.78
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares rose 11 in the past year, trailing a 19 percent increase
in the Bloomberg REIT Industrial/Warehouse Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 