-- QBE Pays Bank of America $700 Million in Insurance Deal; 2010 Profit Drops
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2011-02-04T05:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/qbe-pays-bank-of-america-700-million-in-insurance-deal-2010-profit-drops.html
     Feb. 4 (Bloomberg) --  QBE Insurance Group Ltd . agreed to
buy  Bank of America Corp .’s business insuring foreclosed homes
as Chief Executive Officer Frank O’Halloran raises his bet U.S.
premium growth will help reverse three years of profit declines.  Australia’s largest insurer will pay Bank of America about
$700 million and unspecified future payments for Balboa
Insurance Co.’s business, and assume $1.2 billion of insurance
liabilities, Bank of America said. QBE stock soared the most
since 2008 in Sydney after saying the new business is more
profitable than its own and it won’t sell shares to fund the
deal.  O’Halloran -- who has made $3.5 billion worth of takeovers
since 2006 in the U.S., QBE’s biggest market -- is adding a
business that makes money from the U.S. housing slump as lenders
take out policies on foreclosed homes. Sydney-based QBE today
said profit in 2010 declined 17 percent as investment income
fell and it faces rising claims from natural disasters such as
flooding and cyclones that battered Queensland in recent months.  “Having been acquisitive historically, growing by three or
four acquisitions a year, they’re sort of locked into this
pattern,” said TS Lim, an analyst at Southern Cross Equities
Ltd. in Sydney who doesn’t rate QBE shares. “It’s probably the
only way for them to perpetuate earnings growth.”  QBE shares, which have declined for three straight years,
jumped 7.4 percent to A$18.20 as of the 4:10 p.m. close in
Sydney, the biggest gain since Jan. 24, 2008. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 rose 0.9 percent.  Pricier Insurance  The Balboa purchase accompanied an agreement for QBE to
distribute a range of Bank of America policies, including home-
contents and motor cover, as well as lender-placed insurance,
for 10 years. The distribution agreement with BofA will generate
annualized gross premium and net earned premium of about $1.5
billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, for QBE, it said; last
year, QBE’s net earned premium was $11.4 billion.  Balboa competes with  Munich Re , QBE and Assurant, the No. 1
seller in the U.S. of forced-placed insurance, a form of
coverage that costs more than homeowner policies because the
properties are more prone to neglect. Banks require mortgage
investors to purchase insurance protecting seized houses against
vandalism and storm damage.  The number of homes receiving a foreclosure filing in the
U.S., the world’s largest economy, will climb about 20 percent
in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing crisis, said RealtyTrac
Inc., an Irvine, California-based data seller. About 2.5 million
homes have been repossessed since 2005 and another 6.5 million
mortgages are in foreclosure or may be soon, Morgan Stanley said
in October.  Acquisition Strategy  Balboa’s business is counter-cyclical and grows faster in a
weakening economy, QBE said.  “Our strategy for profitable growth from acquisitions and
market-leading results remain unchanged,” O’Halloran said in a
statement. “Over the past six years we have increased premium
income by an average of 15 percent per annum.”  The pretax insurance profit margin from today’s pact may be
between 15 percent and 20 percent, QBE said. That’s higher than
QBE’s 2010 margin worldwide of 15 percent, which missed QBE’s
forecast of 16 percent to 18 percent.  QBE has paid an average premium of 31 percent in 44
takeovers worth a combined $7 billion since 1996, according to
Bloomberg data. The U.S. has been its favored destination, the
data show.  QBE, founded in the northeast  Australia  state of Queensland
in 1886 by two Scots, has grown to operations in 49 countries
and 13,500 employees through more than 125 acquisitions in the
past three decades, according to its  website .  ‘No Reason’  Bank of America, bailed out by the U.S. government during
the financial crisis, said the transaction will help its Tier-1
capital. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank is selling
assets to focus on retail customers, commercial borrowers and  investment banking .  Balboa, obtained by Bank of America with the 2008 purchase
of Countrywide Financial Corp., is one of the largest providers
of coverage on foreclosed homes and properties occupied by
distressed buyers.  Bank of America “really have no reason to be in this
business,” Jonathan Hatcher, a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst in  New York , said before the announcement.  The takeover follows a further decline in earnings at QBE
amid higher-than-expected catastrophe claims and low interest
yields in the U.S. and  Europe . Net income dropped to about $1.28
billion. Investment income fell 41 percent to $518 million.  Catastrophe Costs  The estimated cost to QBE from flooding in Queensland in
late 2010 is $45 million, QBE said. Further inundation in
Queensland, New South  Wales  and Victoria in January will add
another $100 million to the bill, it said. A “very preliminary
estimate” of claims for damages caused by Tropical Cyclone Yasi,
which battered Queensland early yesterday, will be around $100
million.  Following the weather events, the cost of reinsurance is
likely to climb by a “significant” amount, O’Halloran told
analysts.  “QBE faces an extremely difficult operating environment,”
Richard Coles, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Sydney, said in a Feb. 3 report. Alongside an increase in
natural disasters such as Australia’s floods and storms in  North
America , QBE’s investment income will probably “remain under
pressure, driven by continued low global cash rates in both the
U.S. and Europe,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  