-- Raiffeisen Investment Sees M&A Volume Doubling on Russia, Turkey, Serbia
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2011-02-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/raiffeisen-investment-sees-m-a-volume-doubling-on-russia-turkey-serbia.html
  Raiffeisen Bank International AG ’s
mergers and acquisitions unit expects the value of its
transactions to double this year as more deals get done in  Russia ,  Turkey ,  Serbia  and the Ukraine.  A “dramatic” decrease in eastern European M&A during the
global financial crisis led competitors to pull out of the
region and increased Raiffeisen’s market share, said Wolfgang Putschek, a member of the  Raiffeisen Investment unit ’s executive
board.  “The challenge now is to turn that market share into
projects and transactions,” Putschek said in a Feb. 2 interview
in Vienna. Raiffeisen Investment, owned by eastern Europe’s
third-largest lender, is “very optimistic” for 2011 and its
deal volume is expected to double to about 26 billion euros ($36
billion), he said.  Deal volumes in eastern  Europe  and Turkey more than doubled
to $113.5 billion last year after plunging to a five-year low in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Russian
telecommunications provider VimpelCom Ltd.’s $22 billion
acquisition of Wind Telecom SpA assets announced in October was
the largest deal in the region last year.  Raiffeisen Investment, based in Vienna, employs 70
investment bankers in Austria, Turkey and nine eastern European
countries including Russia, Ukraine and  Poland . It advised Dabur
India Ltd. on its acquisition of Hobi Kozmetik Group in Turkey
last year and Luigi Lavazza SpA on its purchase of  Bulgaria ’s
Onda Coffee Break. It also advised with Lazard Ltd. on the
merger of Groupe Danone SA’s Russian dairy-product unit with OAO
Unimilk.  Raiffeisen has been cooperating with Lazard since 2007 and
has just renewed the partnership for another 18 months, said
Martin Schwedler, who is Putschek’s co-head.  ‘Very Fruitful’  “The cooperation is very fruitful” said Schwedler.
“We’ve completed 33 projects together in the three and a half
years we’ve been working together.”  In addition to advising Telekom  Austria  AG on the potential
acquisition of Telekom Srbija AD, Raiffeisen is advising on
several asset sales in Serbia in the consumer products,
pharmaceuticals and infrastructure industries, Putschek said.  Serbia is the “surprise of the year” after the global
economic recovery kick-started a number of M&A deals that had
been delayed, Putschek said.  In Serbia “we have almost 100 percent market share,”
Schwedler said. “Five big projects are currently in the works
there and we are advising in all five.”  State Assets  Raiffeisen is among 23 investment banks that are eligible
to advise Russia on its planned $59 billion state asset sale
program over the next five years. Lazard isn’t on the list and
the two banks will pitch to work on the deal together, Schwedler
said.  Putschek, 46, and Schwedler, 42, have been the two sole
board members at Raiffeisen since the beginning of the year when
Heinz Sernetz, a director at Raiffeisen since it was  founded  in
1993, left the unit to advise Raiffeisen Bank International’s
Karl Sevelda, head of corporate customers, group products and
corporate sales management and development.  Putschek oversees the M&A unit’s work in Ukraine, the  Czech
Republic , Slovakia, the western Balkans, Bulgaria and Slovenia,
while Schwedler is responsible for Russia, Poland, Romania,
Hungary, Turkey and Austria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  