-- Reliance Power Coal Plant May Earn $439 Million in CO2 Credits
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-02-03T17:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/reliance-power-coal-plant-may-earn-439-million-in-co2-credits-ceo-says.html
A plant being built by Indian
billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Power Ltd . that will burn 15
million tons of coal a year may earn more than $400 million
worth of tradable credits for helping reduce emissions.  The  United Nations  registered Reliance Power’s Sasan power
project late yesterday to earn as many as 22.5 million credits
over the next 10 years, Chief Executive Officer J.P. Chalasani
said in a telephone interview.  Reliance Power expects to earn 20 billion rupees ($439
million) from selling those credits based on an average price of
15 euros each, Chalasani said.  The UN Clean Development Mechanism, the world’s second-
biggest greenhouse gas market, issues tradable credits to
emission-busting projects in  developing countries . CDM Watch, an
environmental group, has criticized the system for subsidizing
projects whose environmental benefits it says are dubious.  The 4,000-megawatt Sasan project is eligible to earn
credits because it has used advanced technology to lower the
plant’s coal consumption by 1 million tons a year, according to
a  document  submitted to the UN to justify the project’s
admission to the CDM. Those fuel savings will keep 2.24 million
tons of CO2 from entering the atmosphere every year, it said.  “A country like  India  will be majorly dependent on coal
for some time,” Chalasani said from Mumbai. “This is the best
one could do. We’re committed to the environment by bringing in
the latest technology even though it’s more expensive.”  Pollution Offsets  UN credits, known as Certified Emission Reductions, can be
sold to countries and companies whose emissions are legally
capped and need to offset their own pollution. A CER for
delivery in December 2011 was trading at 11.42 euros ($15.60) a
metric ton today on the ICE Futures Europe Exchange in  London .  Permitting coal-fired plants to earn emission credits
“risks increasing emissions in developing countries by
artificially improving the financial returns to the most carbon-
intensive form of electricity production in the world -- coal-
based power,” Bonn, Germany-based CDM Watch said in a September
report.  The Sasan project should be rejected because it doesn’t
comply with a UN rule that only allows projects that can prove
they need emission credits to be profitable, CDM said. The rule
is designed to weed out projects that would have been built
anyway without help from the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 