-- Trichet Fights to Curb Pay Pressures as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2011-02-03T11:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/trichet-fights-to-curb-pay-pressures-as-euro-region-s-inflation-quickens.html
Three weeks after  Jean-Claude Trichet 
jolted financial markets with a threat to raise interest rates,
the European Central Bank President has even more reason to talk
tough on inflation.  The euro-area rate rose to 2.4 percent in January, the
highest in more than two years, workers are demanding bigger pay
increases in  Germany , where import-price inflation is running at
the fastest pace in 29 years, and political tensions in  Egypt 
are stoking oil prices. The risk for Trichet is that his
inflation-fighting rhetoric convinces investors the ECB will
raise borrowing costs before  Europe  overcomes its debt crisis.  “It is a balancing act,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior
European economist at Nomura International Plc in London. “He’s
trying to speak to the unions, but not spook the markets.
There’s a careful fine-tuning of expectations going on.”  The euro surged and bonds fell after Trichet on Jan. 13
pledged to do what’s necessary to keep a rein on inflation,
signaling a shift in focus for the ECB. While several policy
makers subsequently tried to damp expectations for higher rates,
Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi reignited the debate
last week with a warning that imported inflation can no longer
be ignored.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will keep its benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 1 percent today, according to
all 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The announcement
is due at 1:45 p.m. and Trichet will hold a press conference 45
minutes later. The euro fell 0.3 percent against the dollar to
$1.3764 as of 12:44 p.m. today before the decision.  ‘Policy Mistake’  Trichet said last month that while the jump inflation is
“temporary,” risks to the price outlook “could move to the
upside.” That prompted investors to bring forward expectations
for an ECB rate increase to as soon as the third quarter, Eonia
forward contracts show.  Economists expect a move in the fourth quarter, before the  Federal Reserve , which is forecast to raise rates in the first
quarter of 2012, according to Bloomberg surveys.  “Many investors are concerned with the risk that the ECB
makes a policy mistake and raises rates too soon,” said  David Owen , managing director at Jefferies International Ltd. in
London. “A key issue for the ECB should remain the likely pace
of activity. The weaker the economic recovery, the more likely
the pickup we are seeing in inflation proves temporary.”  ECB Exit  Europe’s debt crisis may damp growth as governments across
the region cut spending to rein in deficits. While retail sales
in the 17-nations currency bloc unexpectedly fell in December,
euro-area services and manufacturing industries expanded at a
faster pace than initially estimated in January, led by surging
output growth in Germany and  France , London-based Markit
Economics said today.  European leaders meet in Brussels tomorrow to discuss
bolstering their response to the crisis, including a proposal to
allow the European Financial Stability Facility to purchase  government bonds .  Such a step may allow the ECB to call a halt to its own
bond-buying program and proceed with an exit from the emergency
measures it’s been forced to implement.  ‘Rumbling’ Crisis  “If the sovereign debt crisis can be laid to rest, the ECB
will probably want to reduce its accommodative measures,” said  James Nixon , co-chief European economist at Societe Generale SA
in  London . “But it would be tough for the ECB to raise rates if
the crisis is still rumbling along in the background.”  While policy makers have stressed the ECB’s key rate
remains “appropriate,” signaling they don’t intend to raise it
soon, Bini Smaghi said last week that the bank can’t ignore the
impact on inflation of “a permanent and repeated increase in
the prices of imported products.”  German import-price inflation accelerated to 12 percent in
December, driven by soaring costs for commodities such as
energy. ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said on Jan. 26
that the bank will “act” if needed to counter so-called
second-round effects, when workers demand pay increases to
compensate for higher living costs.  German chemical workers are seeking up to 7 percent more
pay, and the country’s  IG Metall  union has asked for a 6 percent
increase for workers at companies including Volkswagen AG.  Some economists expect the ECB to raise its 2011 inflation
forecast next month to more than 2 percent -- its definition of  price stability  -- as energy and food prices continue to rise.  ‘Difficult’ Number  “That’s a difficult number to deal with, especially when
you have interest rates as low as the ECB has,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London.  The ECB last raised interest rates in July 2008, just as
the global financial crisis was brewing, in a warning to unions
and households not to seek recompense for faster inflation.  While it was forced to cut rates aggressively just three
months later, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
threw the world economy into its deepest slump since World War
II, the ECB nevertheless proved its resolve.  “The inflation monster is looking in through the window
again,” said  Juergen Michels , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
London. “The ECB has shown it is prepared to act to keep it
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  