-- Trichet Signals No Rush to Raise Rates Even as Inflation Tops ECB's Limit
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2011-02-03T16:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/trichet-says-inflation-risks-in-euro-zone-warrant-very-close-monitoring-.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet signaled no immediate plans to raise  interest
rates  even though the bank expects inflation to stay above its 2
percent limit for longer than it predicted just three weeks ago.  Trichet said the ECB’s benchmark rate, which it left at a
record low of 1 percent today, remains “appropriate” and
despite “short-term upward pressure,” inflation risks are
balanced. The euro fell more than a cent against the dollar as
investors pared expectations for an increase in borrowing costs.  “For now they are prepared to look through the inflation
hump,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays
Capital  in London. “Unless inflation expectations move up
abruptly, the ECB will probably maintain its accommodative
stance to help Europe to patch itself together again.”  With  Europe  still struggling to contain its sovereign debt
crisis, Trichet may be trying to temper investor expectations
for higher ECB rates after his change in tone on inflation last
month caused a five-cent surge in the euro. He said on Jan. 13
that the ECB will raise borrowing costs if needed to contain
inflation, which has accelerated to 2.4 percent, the fastest in
more than two years.  The euro fell 1.3 percent to $1.3628 at 5 p.m. in  Frankfurt 
today and Eonia forward contracts fell across the curve,
indicating investors are pushing back expectations for higher
ECB rates.  ‘Right’ Interpretation  “The market has rightly interpreted Trichet’s comments as
a sign that the prospect of a near-term rate hike is still
premature,” said Frederik Ducrozet, an economist at Credit
Agricole SA in Paris. “That said, it is very likely, in our
opinion, that the ECB staff of economists will revise growth and
inflation projections upward next month.”  Political tensions in  Egypt  are stoking oil prices, and in  Germany , where the economy is booming and import-price inflation
is running at the fastest pace in 29 years, workers are
demanding bigger pay increases.  In his official policy statement today, Trichet changed the
wording on the inflation outlook.  “Inflation rates could temporarily increase further and
are likely to stay slightly above 2 percent for most of 2011,
before moderating again around the turn of the year,” he said.
Last month, Trichet said inflation would moderate “towards the
end of the year.”  Still, he reiterated today that “this has not so far
affected our assessment that price developments will remain in
line with  price stability  over the policy-relevant horizon.”  ‘Rate-Hike Expectations’  “Financial markets had built in significant rate-hike
expectations in the days leading up to the meeting,”  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic research at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam, said in a note to clients. “We saw a pullback during
the press conference, reflecting that President Jean-Claude
Trichet did not further step up his hawkish rhetoric.”  Economists expect the ECB to raise rates in the fourth
quarter, before the  Federal Reserve , which is forecast to raise
rates in the first quarter of 2012, according to Bloomberg
surveys.  The ECB last raised interest rates in July 2008, just as
the global financial crisis was brewing, in a warning to unions
and households not to seek recompense for faster inflation.  German chemical workers are seeking up to 7 percent more
pay, and the country’s  IG Metall  union has asked for a 6 percent
increase for workers at companies including Volkswagen AG.  Trichet repeated today that inflation risks “could move to
the upside.” It’s only a matter of time before they do, said
Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London .  “The tone from the press conference today suggests to us
that next month, the ECB will announce that the balance of risks
surrounding the inflation outlook has shifted to the upside,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  