-- ECB Keeps Rate at 1% as Trichet Fights to Curb Inflation Risks
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2011-02-03T12:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/trichet-keeps-rate-on-hold-balances-inflation-concern-against-debt-crisis.html
The  European Central Bank  kept
interest rates at a record low today as policy makers weigh the
risk of faster inflation against the danger that higher
borrowing costs could worsen the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The ECB’s Governing Council set the benchmark rate at 1
percent for a 22nd month, as predicted by all 58 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who jolted
financial markets last month with a pledge to do what’s needed
to contain inflation, holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in
Frankfurt.  “Trichet’s strategy will be to sound tough on inflation,”
said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit SpA in
Milan. “But they are still conscious that starting the
tightening cycle now would do more harm than good.”  The euro surged and bonds fell after Trichet on Jan. 13
said the ECB will raise borrowing costs if needed to ensure  price stability , signaling a shift in focus for the central
bank. While several ECB officials subsequently tried to damp
expectations for higher rates, Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi reignited the debate last week with a warning that
imported inflation can no longer be ignored.  ‘Temporary’ Jump  Political tensions in  Egypt  are stoking oil prices and in  Germany , where import-price inflation is running at the fastest
pace in 29 years, workers are demanding bigger pay increases.
Euro-area inflation is already in breach of the ECB’s 2 percent
limit, accelerating to 2.4 percent in January, the fastest in
more than two years.  Trichet said last month that while the jump inflation is
“temporary,” risks to the price outlook “could move to the
upside.”  That prompted investors to bring forward expectations for
an ECB rate increase to as soon as the third quarter, Eonia
forward contracts show. Economists expect a move in the fourth
quarter, before the  Federal Reserve , which is forecast to raise
rates in the first quarter of 2012, according to Bloomberg
surveys.  “Many investors are concerned with the risk that the ECB
makes a policy mistake and raises rates too soon,” said  David Owen , managing director at Jefferies International Ltd in  London . “A key issue for the ECB should remain the likely pace
of activity. The weaker the economic recovery, the more likely
the pickup we are seeing in inflation proves temporary.”  Leaders’ Summit    Europe ’s debt crisis may damp growth as governments across
the region cut spending to rein in budget deficits.  European leaders meet in Brussels tomorrow to discuss
bolstering their response to the crisis, including a proposal to
allow the European Financial Stability Facility to purchase  government bonds .  Such a step may allow the ECB to call a halt to its own
bond-buying program and proceed with an exit from the emergency
measures it’s been forced to implement.  “If the sovereign debt crisis can be laid to rest, the ECB
will probably want to reduce its accommodative measures,” said  James Nixon , co-chief European economist at Societe Generale SA
in London. “But it would be tough for the ECB to raise rates if
the crisis is still rumbling along in the background.”  While policy makers have stressed the ECB’s key rate
remains “appropriate,” signaling they don’t intend to raise it
soon, Bini Smaghi said last week that the bank can’t ignore the
impact on inflation of “a permanent and repeated increase in
the prices of imported products.”  Second-Round Effects  German import-price inflation accelerated to 12 percent in
December, driven by soaring costs for commodities such as
energy. ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said on Jan. 26
that the bank will “act” if needed to counter so-called
second-round effects, when workers demand pay increases to
compensate for higher living costs.  German chemical workers are seeking up to 7 percent more
pay, and the country’s  IG Metall  union has asked for a 6 percent
increase for workers at companies including Volkswagen AG.  Some economists expect the ECB to raise its 2011 inflation
forecast next month to more than 2 percent -- its definition of
price stability -- as energy and food prices continue to rise.  “That’s a difficult number to deal with, especially when
you have  interest rates  as low as the ECB has,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London.  The ECB last raised interest rates in July 2008, just as
the global financial crisis was brewing, in a warning to unions
and households not to seek recompense for faster inflation.  While it was forced to cut rates aggressively just three
months later, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
threw the world economy into its deepest slump since World War
II, the ECB nevertheless proved its resolve.  “The inflation monster is looking in through the window
again,” said  Juergen Michels , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
London. “The ECB has shown it is prepared to act to keep it
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  