-- Roach Says U.S. Faces Dollar Decline as China Becomes Importer
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2011-02-03T10:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/roach-says-u-s-faces-dollar-decline-as-china-relies-less-on-its-exports.html
China will curb its reliance on
exports sooner than the U.S. can cut its budget and external
deficits, removing a support from the dollar that will unsettle  currency markets , Morgan Stanley’s  Stephen Roach  said.  “In the next three or five years China will move
aggressively to increase its private consumption and reduce its
surplus saving,” Roach, who is non-executive chairman of Morgan
Stanley Asia Ltd., said in an interview in Oslo yesterday. “The
U.S. talks the talk, but there is actually no shred of evidence
whatsoever that America is going to reduce its  budget deficit 
over that same period.”  China may post a trade deficit as early as this quarter as
imports outpace sales abroad, the government said last month.
The country’s reliance on trade to fuel economic growth close to
10 percent is now fading as its consumers grow wealthier,
removing a key incentive for  China  to support the dollar. At the
same time, the world’s largest economy estimates its budget
deficit will swell to a record $1.5 trillion this year, as
President Barack Obama channels stimulus to revive growth.  “If we don’t move to address our deficit before China
addresses its surplus then we are going to be facing some pretty
significant external funding constraints,” Roach said. “That
would lead to a significant downward pressure on the dollar
and/or higher long-term U.S. interest rates.”  China aims to reduce its  trade surplus  to less than 4
percent of gross domestic product in three to five years,
central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said last year. Roach said
the risk that China will cut its reliance on exports before the
U.S. weans itself off external funding is greater than 30
percent.  ‘Significant Risk’  “Nothing is inevitable, but I think there is significant
risk in that direction,” he said.  The dollar has lost 13.5 percent against the euro since a
June 7 high and is down 14 percent against the yen since an
April 2 high. China pegs the yuan to the dollar.  The world’s second-largest economy is under pressure to
allow the yuan to appreciate as inflation gains steam. Consumer
prices rose an annual 4.6 percent in December, the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics said on Jan. 20.  China will need to allow the yuan to appreciate as much as
8 percent to avoid further inflation, according to  Barton Biggs ,
who runs the New York-based hedge fund Traxis Partners LP.  China, the world’s biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries, saw its portfolio of the securities fall by $11.2
billion to $895.6 billion in November.  Consequences  “If they were to engineer a major reduction in their
dollar-based holdings there would be consequences for the
currency that would lead to a sharp appreciation and that would
impair their export competitiveness,” Roach said. “They are
not prepared to take that risk.”  Still, China will gradually cut its holdings of U.S. assets
as its consumers purchase more and save less, he said.  “The world in general -- the U.S. in particular -- can
expect sort of a natural, organic reduction of China’s buying of
dollar-denominated assets,” Roach said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Josiane Kremer at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  