-- Roethlisberger Loses to Rodgers in Endorsements Even if He Wins Super Bowl
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/roethlisberger-loses-to-rodgers-in-endorsements-even-if-he-wins-super-bowl.html
Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger  may not beat his  Green Bay  Packers counterpart  Aaron Rodgers  in endorsements, earning potential and popularity
even if his team wins the Super Bowl.  Roethlisberger’s past -- he started the season with a four-
game suspension for violating the  National Football League ’s
personal conduct policy after two sexual assault allegations --
overshadows his on-field performance, according to firms who
match celebrities with endorsements.  Rodgers, who won his first playoff game this season, leads
Roethlisberger in appeal, trust and endorsement potential,
according to the  Davie Brown Index , which helps advertisers
track the marketability of celebrities. The Packers and Steelers
play Feb. 6 for the NFL title in Arlington,  Texas .  “There’s about a 30 percent spread between him and Rodgers
on trust alone,” said Bill Glenn, senior vice president at
Dallas-based  The Marketing Arm , which compiles the index.
“Consumer marketing is all about trust. And if athletes don’t,
on and off the field, create a degree of trust, it’s going to be
a very hard road for them.”  Brady, Favre Lead  Roethlisberger, 28, who has been on two Super Bowl-winning
teams, scored higher than Rodgers on the index overall because
of name recognition. He trails three-time Super Bowl winning
quarterback  Tom Brady  of the  New England Patriots ;  Brett Favre ,
Rodgers’s predecessor with Green Bay who announced he was
retiring for the third time last month; and Hall of Fame
quarterbacks Joe Namath, Roger Staubach, John Elway and Troy Aikman. The top-ranked quarterbacks are Joe Montana, who won
four Super Bowls with the  San Francisco 49ers , and Terry Bradshaw, who led the Steelers to four titles in the 1970s.
Bradshaw last played in 1983;  Montana  in 1994.  Rodgers, 27, has the most to gain from a Super Bowl
victory, said David Schwab, who manages Octagon’s First Call
division connecting celebrities with Fortune 500 companies.
Favre, the third-ranked quarterback in the index, led the
Packers to the championship after the 1996 season and started
every game for Green Bay from the 1993 through the 2007 seasons.  Reaching the championship game will help place Rodgers’s
name on short lists for marketing and sponsorship opportunities,
Schwab said, similar to the way New Orleans Saints quarterback
Drew Brees landed commercials for companies including  Verizon
Communications Inc .,  Unilever NV ’s Dove brand and Procter &
Gamble Co.’s Vicks Nyquil after winning the Super Bowl’s most-
valuable player award a year ago.  Overshadowed  “Aaron has been overshadowed by the ghost of Brett Favre
and the team never had the real attention with him as a
quarterback,” Schwab said. “Now they do. I think Aaron is set
up for NFL-themed marketing campaigns beginning next year, like
what happened to Drew Brees.”  Even with a victory, Roethlisberger may not achieve Brees’s
success, said Ty Ballou, chief executive officer of  PLB Sports .
The Pittsburgh food-products marketing company dropped  “Big
Ben’s Beef Jerky”  last year after prosecutors said they
wouldn’t charge the quarterback for an alleged sexual assault on
a 20-year-old college student in a Milledgeville, Georgia, bar.
The authorities said “significant questions” remained about
what took place, and the company said in a statement that
Roethlisberger was “falling short” of its standards.  Roethlisberger Suspension  Roethlisberger, who led the Steelers to Super Bowl
victories after the 2005 and 2008 seasons, was also sued by a
woman who said he raped her in  Lake Tahoe ,  Nevada , in 2008,
according to the  Associated Press . NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell suspended Roethlisberger for the first six games of this
season for violating the league’s personal-conduct policy and
required a “comprehensive behavioral evaluation” before
reducing the suspension to four games. The Steelers went 3-1
during Roethlisberger’s absence.  Roethlisberger has denied both allegations and declined to
comment on the cases or his image in a news conference Jan. 31.  His agent, Bruce Tollner, didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment. Rodgers’s agent, David L. Dunn, didn’t return a
telephone message.  In 2009, Sports Illustrated ranked Roethlisberger 47th on
its “ Fortunate 50 ” list of top-earning athletes, saying he
earned $2.5 million in endorsements. Neither he nor Rodgers
appeared on this year’s list. Rodgers’s official fan website,
where athletes often list corporate partners, says it is
“coming soon.”  “Ben will get other endorsement deals,” Ballou said. “It
may be a roll of the dice. If he wins, it’s the third ring in
six years and it’s all about how he markets himself now.”  Pittsburgh First  A third Super Bowl win may increase Roethlisberger’s
marketability in Pittsburgh faster than in the rest of the U.S.,
Glenn said. Since his last title, in which Roethlisberger threw
the winning touchdown pass to  Santonio Holmes  with less than a
minute remaining, his off-field issues have caused his scores
for attributes related to marketability to fall about 20
percent.  “His performance on the field is not going to make up for
bad behavior off the field,” Glenn said. “There’s two things
that are going to repair Ben’s marketability, and those are time
and good behavior.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 