-- Sasol, Shenhua Delay Further Work on Planned China Coal-to-Fuel Project
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-02-03T16:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/sasol-shenhua-delay-further-work-on-planned-china-coal-to-fuel-project.html
  Sasol Ltd . halted development of a
$10 billion coal-to-fuel plant in  China , the biggest single
foreign direct investment in the country, with local partner
Shenhua Ningxia Coal Industry Group Ltd. pending state approval.  The project, set to become China’s largest coal-to-fuel
facility, needs approval from the National Development and
Reform Commission, the nation’s highest economic planning body.  “The project has reached a key decision point and the
partners have decided to delay initiation of any further project
activities until the outcome of the NDRC decision is known,”
Johannesburg-based Sasol said in an e-mailed statement today.  Sasol and Shenhua submitted an application to the NDRC in
2009 to build a 94,000 barrel-a-day plant to convert coal into
motor fuels in the Ningxia Hui autonomous region. The company
had expected a review to be completed on Aug. 24 and said that
month the commission was poised to make its recommendations to
the nation’s energy administrator by the end of 2010.  In 2008, Sasol aborted a plan to build another facility in
Shaanxi province as China curbed investment in industries that
consume the most energy and raw materials.  Sasol said last month it would stop investing in new coal
projects as gas-to-fuels operations offer greater opportunities.  The company operates the world’s largest coal-to-fuels
plant at Secunda in  South Africa , where it converts more than 40
million metric tons of the raw material annually.  Sasol rose 2.4 percent to 360.95 rand by the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg, valuing it at 231 billion rand ($32 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 