-- Saxony Pays Former Royal Family $6 Million for Lost Porcelain
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2011-02-03T14:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/saxony-pays-former-royal-family-6-million-for-porcelain-seized-after-war.html
The German state of Saxony agreed to
pay 4.2 million euros ($5.8 million) to compensate its former
royal family for porcelain lost after World War II.  Under the terms of the settlement, the House of Wettin, a
dynasty of counts, dukes, prince-electors and kings,
relinquishes its claim to porcelain in Saxony’s museums,
according to a  statement  published on the regional  Finance
Ministry ’s website.  The compensation sum was set in discussions with experts
from  Sotheby’s , Christie’s International Plc and independent
valuers. The contract was also signed by porcelain manufacturer
 Meissen GmbH , the statement said.  “This means that the Dresden porcelain collection can
secure its reputation as the most wide-ranging and important
specialist ceramic collection in the world,” Martin Roth, the
director of  Dresden’s museums , said in the statement.  The Wettin family was expropriated in Soviet-occupied
eastern Germany after the war and its porcelain seized from its
palaces. Family members fled eastern  Germany  and scattered
around the world.  Following a claim filed by the Wettins in 2006, Dresden
carried out provenance research on 20,000 objects in its
porcelain collection to determine which may have belonged to the
Wettins in 1945. The valuation included a total of 300 objects
that were either known or suspected to have been seized from the
family, Stephan Adam, the spokesman for Dresden’s State Art
Collections, said by telephone.  Saxony and the Wettins in 2008 agreed to set a compensation
value for the porcelain and other items by Dec. 2012. They are
still negotiating on the value of books, furniture and paintings
that were in the family’s possession at the end of World War II.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 