-- Scene Last Night: Nixons Meet Operatic Kin at ‘Nixon’ Opening
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-02-03T16:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/scene-last-night-tricia-nixon-hugs-her-fake-mom-dad-at-nixon-premiere.html
Real Nixons met their operatic kin
backstage at the  Metropolitan Opera  last night during the
premiere of “Nixon in  China .”  The president’s daughter Tricia and her son, Christopher,
visited the stage Nixons during the first intermission of  John Adams ’s epic comedy drama, which was inspired by Richard M. Nixon’s history-changing trip to China one snowy winter in 1972.  “It’s overwhelming to think that 30 or 40 years ago the
doors to China weren’t open,” said Christopher Nixon Cox, 31,
adding that he goes to Beijing a couple of times a year to raise
money from sovereign funds on behalf of his company  OC Global
Partners LLC .  “To see a country growing up is an exciting thing,” he
said.  Tricia Nixon Cox said her parents called her from China on
her birthday and brought back two cloisonne vases she still has.  Her husband, Edward Cox, the New York State Republican
chairman, said of the birthday call: “We were in  Boston  at
Locke-Ober. The restaurant was surprised when they got a call
from the president.”  Edward Cox said Nixon’s yen to visit China dated from his
days as a traveling businessman, years before becoming
president.  Tricia Cox posed for a photo with her stage parents, James
Maddalena and Janis Kelly.  “Let’s lock arms,” she said. “We used to do this in our
family.”  The opera, first heard in Houston in 1987, is generally
polite to the dead president, though there is some reference to
extreme sweating in the last act, which went on so long that one
wished to rest in one of the several beds arrayed on the stage
for the singers who spend their time dreaming or dying.  The audience, which dwindled over the hours, clapped and
cheered when the curtain dropped not long before midnight.  Chanel Party  Also last night: Jill Kargman celebrated her new book of
essays, “Sometimes I Feel Like a Nut,” with a party at the
Chanel boutique on 57th Street. Being the daughter of the vice
chairman of Chanel Inc., Arie L. Kopelman, she got to wear
Chanel: a black-leather dress with laser-cut camellias from the
Paris-Shanghai collection, which her husband, Harry Kargman,
described as “Coco meets Trent Reznor.”  “It’s going back tomorrow,” said Jill. “No one wants to
see a 36-year-old in a tight dress.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 