-- Primary Global Workers Sued by SEC in Insider Probe
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-02-03T21:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/sec-sues-six-linked-to-primary-global-expert-network-over-insider-tips.html
Six former employees and consultants
at Primary Global Research LLC, a so-called expert-networking
firm tied to a nationwide insider trading probe, were sued by
the Securities and Exchange Commission for tipping investors
including  hedge funds .  Mark A. Longoria, Daniel L. DeVore, James Fleishman, Bob Nguyen, Winifred Jiau and Walter Shimoon already face charges as
part of a criminal investigation of hedge fund insider trading
that began with New York-based Galleon Group LLC. The probe
expanded to other hedge funds, banks and technology companies,
as well as consulting firms such as  Mountain View , California-
based Primary Global. Their tips allegedly helped investors reap
$6 million in illegal profits, the SEC said.  “Company executives and other insiders moonlighting as
consultants to hedge funds cannot blatantly peddle their
company’s confidential information for personal gain,” said  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement,
in a statement. “These PGR consultants and employees schemed to
facilitate widespread and repeated insider trading by several
hedge funds and other investment professionals.”  Primary Global connects investors with industry specialists
who provide them with insight into their specific markets.
Prosecutors have alleged that company insiders were paid to
provide material nonpublic information to investors.  More than 30 people have been charged in overlapping
conspiracies tied to the Galleon case.  Insider Probe  The federal insider-trading probe became public in 2009
with the arrest of Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.
Rajaratnam, 53, who denies wrongdoing in the case, is scheduled
to go on trial Feb. 28 in  Manhattan .  Longoria, 44, who worked for  Advanced Micro Devices Inc .,
DeVore, 46, a former global supply manager for  Dell Inc .,
Shimoon, 39, a former Flextronics International Ltd. vice
president and Jiau, 43, all worked as paid consultants for
Primary Global without their employers’ knowledge, the SEC said.  The regulator described Jiau as having worked for “various
technology companies in Northern California.”  The four consultants are alleged to have passed inside
information to hedge funds while working for Primary Global.  Nguyen, 32, and Fleishman, 41, were both employees of
Primary Global. The SEC claims Nguyen and Fleishman helped pass
information from the consultants to the hedge funds and
investors that were Primary Global’s customers.  Didn’t See Complaint  Susan Cassell, a lawyer for Nguyen, said she hadn’t seen
the complaint.  “I am completely in the dark,” Cassell said.  Jonathan Marks, a lawyer for Longoria, and Johnny Sutton,
who represents DeVore, declined to comment.  Henry Mazurek, a lawyer for Shimoon, Frederick Hafetz, who
represents Jiau, and Fleishman’s attorney, Benjamin Lee Coleman,
didn’t immediately return phone messages seeking comment on the
SEC complaint.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Longoria,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York . (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 