-- Shell Net Income Rises on Higher Oil Prices, Output
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2011-02-03T07:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/shell-fourth-quarter-profit-triples-on-price-of-crude-onstream-production.html
  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, said fourth-quarter profit tripled on
higher oil prices as it starts projects from Qatar to  Brazil .  Net income increased to $6.79 billion from $1.96 billion a
year earlier, The Hague-based company said in a statement today.
Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell missed
analyst estimates.  “Shell is bringing onstream the projects that it has
invested in, and is reaping the benefits in terms of profit
growth,” said Dirk Hoozemans, who helps manage the equivalent
of $21 billion at Rotterdam-based Robeco Group.  Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser is ramping up
production with a $100 billion investment plan. This year, Shell
will start the  Pearl gas-to-liquids  and  Qatargas 4  liquefied
natural-gas ventures in the Middle East, helping to boost output
to the equivalent of 3.5 million barrels of oil a day in 2012.  Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell
earned $4.1 billion. That missed the $4.7 billion mean estimate
of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Close rival  BP Plc  posted adjusted profit of $4.4 billion
earlier this week, missing analysts’ expectations of $5 billion.  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the world’s largest company, reported its
highest quarterly net income in more than two years of $9.25
billion.  Full-year production at Shell rose 5.5 percent to 3.314
million barrels of oil equivalent a day, up from 3.142 million
barrels in the year-earlier period.  Brent oil averaged 16 percent more in the fourth quarter
than the year-earlier period. U.K. natural-gas prices were 88
percent higher.  Reverse Decline  Shell last year has managed to reverse a seven-year drop in
production after starting projects in Brazil,  Nigeria ,  Canada 
and the  Gulf of Mexico . It has been assessing more than 35
projects to maintain output growth until 2020. Shell has
estimated  cash flow  will grow 80 percent in the three years to
2012 with oil averaging $80 a barrel.  “Shell offers a good level of portfolio depth to underpin
longer-term growth aspirations,” Alastair Syme, a London-based
analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report. “Much of this
growth is front-end loaded in the 2011-13 timeframe as the
company starts to enjoy the fruits of what has been a heavy
investment program.”  Of the 36 analysts that cover Shell, 27 recommend buying
the shares, eight have “hold’ ratings and one advises investors
to sell the stock.  BP expects production to fall 11 percent to about 3.4
million barrels a day of oil equivalent this year, partly after
delaying projects in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico following the
worst  oil spill  in U.S. history.  In October, Shell said it expected to book charges in the
fourth quarter arising from disruptions to drilling in the Gulf
of Mexico. Production from the region, which accounts for about
a third of Shell’s total production in the Americas, will be
40,000 barrels less a day than previously expected this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  