-- Shell Earnings Miss Estimates on Weak Oil Refining
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2011-02-03T16:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/shell-fourth-quarter-earnings-miss-estimates-on-weak-refining-shares-drop.html
  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, posted earnings that missed analyst
estimates for the first time in a year on weak refining margins.  Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell
earned $4.1 billion in the fourth quarter. That missed the $4.7
billion mean estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
shares fell the most since July in London.  “Shell’s results have fallen well below expectations,”
said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London.
“We will likely mark down our refining and marketing forecast
for 2011.”  Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser, who is targeting asset
sales of as much as $5 billion this year, said Shell is “on
track” to boost output by 11 percent between 2009 and 2012 with
new projects from  Brazil  to Qatar. Refining profits remained
“under pressure” last quarter because of “increased downtime
at major refining facilities,” Shell said.  Shell’s class-A shares dropped 3 percent to 2,200 pence as
of the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The stock has risen 24 percent
in the past 12 months.  Close rival  BP Plc  posted adjusted profit of $4.4 billion
earlier this week, missing analysts’ expectations of $5 billion.  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the world’s largest company, reported its
highest quarterly net income in more than two years of $9.25
billion.  Oil Prices  Net income increased to $6.79 billion from $1.96 billion a
year earlier, The Hague-based company said in a statement today,
boosted by higher oil prices.  This year’s earnings will be crimped by delays to drilling
in the Gulf of Mexico following last year’s oil spill.  The producer postponed planned exploration in  Alaska  until
next year when it expects to receive all the necessary permits,
and forecast daily output in the Gulf of Mexico will be about
55,000 barrels of oil equivalent lower than originally planned
this year.  Full-year production at Shell rose 5.5 percent to 3.314
million barrels of oil equivalent a day. Output from Shell’s
Nigerian operations rose by about 120,000 barrels a day in the
period, “driven by the ramp-up of new projects and improved
security conditions,” according to Shell. Output this year
output will be “broadly similar” to 2010, Voser said.  Operating Expenses  Increased production taxes and lower trading contributions
weighed on the latest results, Shell said. U.S. earnings were
curbed by higher operating expenses, mainly related to the ramp-
up of the Jack Pine Mine at the Athabasca Oil Sands Project in  Canada . Net capital investment totaled $23.7 billion in 2010,
short of the planned $28 billion announced last February.  “What marks Shell out from the other majors is heavy
capital expenditure and strong cashflow,” said Colin McLean,
chief executive officer of SVM Asset Management Ltd. in
Edinburgh, who oversees about $900 million, including Shell
shares. “It’s starting to reap the benefits of major
projects.”  This year, the company plans to spend between $25 billion
and $27 billion on projects including a $1.6 billion investment
in a biofuels venture in Brazil, Voser said.  Pearl, Qatargas 4  Shell will start the  Pearl gas-to-liquids  and  Qatargas 4 
liquefied natural-gas ventures in the Middle East, helping to
boost output to the equivalent of 3.5 million barrels of oil a
day in 2012. Extraction will further rise to 3.7 million barrels
a day in 2014. It pumped the first offshore gas at the LNG
project in Qatar earlier this year.  The producer cut costs by $2 billion in 2010, pushing total
savings from 2009 up to $4 billion.  Shell participated in two oil and gas discoveries in Brazil
and Brunei last quarter, bringing the total number for the year
to eight. It agreed to expand exploration in  China , Greenland,
Qatar,  Russia ,  Tunisia  and the U.S. last year.  It completed the sales of marketing businesses in
Gibraltar,  Panama ,  Costa Rica  and  Laos .  Brent oil averaged 16 percent more in the fourth quarter
than the year-earlier period. U.K. natural-gas prices were 88
percent higher.  Shell last year managed to reverse a seven-year drop in
production after starting projects in Brazil, Nigeria, Canada
and the Gulf of Mexico. It has been assessing more than 35
projects to maintain output growth until 2020. Shell estimates
cash flow will grow 80 percent in the three years to 2012 with
oil averaging $80 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story at 
3603 or  wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  