-- Simeon Rice Goes From Sack Master to Moviemaker at Super Bowl in Dallas
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-02-03T16:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/simeon-rice-goes-from-sack-master-to-moviemaker-at-super-bowl-in-dallas.html
Simeon Rice said he’s more nervous
about his debut this week as a moviemaker than he was about
playing in the  Super Bowl .  Rice, whose 122 sacks rank 13th in National Football League
history, jumped to Hollywood after his days playing ended,
starting a career as a screenwriter, director and producer.  A 2009 graduate of the  New York Film Academy , Rice, 36,
will premiere his first original film at a red-carpet event in
Dallas tomorrow, two days before the Super Bowl between the
Pittsburgh Steelers and  Green Bay Packers  in nearby Arlington,  Texas . Rice said the preparation and anticipation is far
different than eight years ago, when he had two of the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers’ five sacks in a 27-point Super Bowl win over the  Oakland Raiders .  “When I played in the Super Bowl, I wasn’t so nervous,”
Rice said in a telephone interview. “I was so prepared. I knew
nobody could block me. This is more nervous because I’m
embarking on something new. I don’t know what kind of reaction
I’ll get. I don’t know how to prepare.”  Pro Bowl quarterback  Michael Vick  of the Philadelphia
Eagles and Olympic gold-medal gymnast Nastia Liukin are among
the athletes who will attend the screening of “When I Was
King.” Rice said his 28-minute short film, which cost between
$10,000 and $15,000 to make, is a comedy that lampoons modern
relationships and challenges stereotypes about the opposite sex.  Rice, who was a communications major at the University of  Illinois , started writing screenplays in 1999, four years after
he entered the NFL with the  Arizona Cardinals  as the No. 3 draft
pick.  ‘Fun Process’  “I started thinking, ‘If all of this came to an end, what
would you do? What do you love beyond football?’” Rice said.
“I was coming up with all these different stories and thought,
‘This is a fun process.’”  Throughout a  12-year NFL career , films remained a passion
for Rice. He attended premieres, sat in on movie sets while in  Tampa Bay  and met actor  Bruce Willis  to talk about the industry.
Even so, as a Pro Bowl defensive end, Rice said his interest in
making movies wasn’t always taken seriously.  While on the set of “ Rush Hour 3 ,” a 2007 action movie
starring  Jackie Chan , Rice said director Brett Ratner spent more
time introducing him to girls than sharing moviemaking tips.
Some aspiring moviemakers, knowing Rice as a professional
athlete, would ask him to financially back their films.  When knee injuries ended his playing career following the
2007 season, Rice decided to pursue moviemaking rather than
seek a broadcasting job like some of his peers.  “He came in from day one with a goal in mind,” Josh
Adler, who taught Rice at the New York Film Academy, said in a
telephone interview. “The guy took it so seriously. He was a
really passionate person. He told me there are a lot of people
whose goal is to be a famous athlete, but he’s just a famous
athlete who had a goal to be a film-maker.”  ‘Ability’  As in football, film-makers need to train and practice in
order to “play with the big boys,” said Adler, who’s in his
fourth year as a professor at the New York Film Academy.  “He needs to work at it, but he absolutely has the
ability,” Adler said.  Rice, who counts  Quentin Tarantino ,  Martin Scorsese  and  Ridley Scott  among his favorite film-makers, said he has more
movies planned. Among them are a horror movie, a “consummate
football film” based loosely on his life and a “period piece”
about old-school  Chicago , his hometown.  For this week though, the Super Bowl is providing a new
stage for Rice’s comedy, a film far removed from his days as one
of the top NFL  pass-rushers  in his era.  “I’m the first one making this walk, so it’s a unique
walk,” Rice said. “I’m joining the ranks of something new and
I’m excited about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  