-- SocGen's Egypt Growth Plans May Face Setback as Political Turmoil Drags On
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2011-02-03T23:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/socgen-s-egypt-growth-plans-may-face-setback-as-unrest-drags-on.html
  Societe Generale  SA, owner of Egypt’s
second-largest publicly traded lender with about $10 billion in
assets, may have the most at risk among European banks should
the political unrest there worsen.  “Part of what Mubarak brought for investors, whether in
finance or industry, is stability,” said Ann Wyman, the London-
based head of emerging-markets research for Europe at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “It is difficult to make decisions in the current
environment, but all foreign banks and corporates will be
evaluating any new government that comes once Mubarak leaves,
and thinking about the risks.”  Societe Generale is among French and U.K. banks that
doubled their lending in Egypt since 2006 to gain customers in
the Arab world’s most populous country. The assets at its Cairo-
based unit,  National Societe Generale Bank SAE , amount to almost
as much as those of the Egyptian units of  Italy ’s  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA  and  France ’s  Credit Agricole SA  combined.  While the Egyptian unit makes up about 3 percent of Societe
Generale’s profit, political unrest may drag on its growth in
the country, which helped buoy earnings as the Paris-based bank
recovered from the credit crisis and a record trading loss.  Societe Generale has fallen 3.6 percent in Paris trading
since anti-Mubarak protests started on Jan. 25, compared with a
0.8 percent increase in the 48-company Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index during the period.  ‘Risk Premium’  “It’s a misfortune for banks that have invested in
emerging markets and in Egypt,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who
helps oversee about 300 million euros ($408 million) at Ofi
Patrimoine in Paris and doesn’t own Societe Generale shares.
“Until today, being in emerging markets was seen as a healthy
choice. The risk premium may increase strongly” for foreign
lenders, he said.  Supporters of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , 82, have
been clashing in central Cairo with demonstrators demanding an
end to his 30-year-reign. The  United Nations  said as many as 300
people have died in protests that roiled stock, bond and oil
markets and prompted U.S. President  Barack Obama  to tell Mubarak
on Feb. 1 a transition to democracy must “begin now.”  Mubarak, who said he won’t step down immediately, indicated
on Feb. 1 the government would take steps to try to return the
country to normal. Banks, which have been closed this week, will
reopen on Feb. 6, the central bank said yesterday. The stock
exchange may start trading the following day, the state-run
Middle East News agency reported.  Withdrawal Worries  “From the banks’ perspective what you worry about is a
surge in the demand for cash,” said Wyman at Nomura. “It’s
possible that banks could increase restrictions on withdrawal
amounts” when branches reopen, and “the political backdrop
will be important in determining how aggressive the people will
be in withdrawals,” she said.  Societe Generale said on Feb. 1 that families of foreign
employees in Egypt were leaving the country. It has about 20
expatriate staff there. The company has 3,700 workers overall in  Egypt , about 27 percent more than in June 2008, and has added
about 20 outlets over the same period, according to company
data. Its NSGB unit has 612,000 clients.  Societe Generale had 4.1 billion euros of loans and 6.2
billion euros in deposits in Egypt through its consumer-banking
division at the end of September, up 16 percent and 15 percent
from a year earlier, respectively, according to data on the
bank’s website.  Egypt Expansion  France’s second-largest bank, led by Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea , set a target in June to reach more than
1 million clients in Egypt by 2015 by adding 90 branches. It
currently has 139 outlets in Egypt, its second-largest network
in  Africa .  Acquisitions fueled European banks’ expansion in Egypt in
the last decade. Societe Generale,  Credit Agricole  and Milan-
based Intesa Sanpaolo were among foreign companies buying
Egyptian assets following Mubarak’s 2004 appointment of a free
market-oriented cabinet.  Egypt represents about 1.5 percent of annual net profit for
Credit Agricole, France’s third-largest bank by market value,
and 0.2 percent for  BNP Paribas  SA, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Ltd.’s London-based analyst Jean Pierre Lambert estimated in a
Jan. 28 note to investors.  Protecting Staff  Societe Generale said last week it took “appropriate
measures” to protect the staff and the clients of its Egyptian
unit and that it is following “closely” the evolution of the
situation. A spokeswoman declined to comment on the prospects
for the bank’s growth plans in the country.  French lenders had $17.6 billion of claims on Egyptian
borrowers at the end of September 2010, more than double
compared with four years earlier and the most among
international banks, according to Bank for International
Settlements data.  Societe Generale’s earnings from the “Mediterranean
Basin” region, including seven countries stretching from  Morocco  to  Jordan , represented 46 percent of its international-
retail banking profit in 2010’s third quarter. The Egyptian-
listed unit NSGB, taken alone, earned about as much as Societe
Generale’s global private-banking business in the period.  French banks are facing “anemic” economic growth at home
and Societe Generale is the most exposed to emerging markets,
KBW’s Lambert estimated in a separate note last week. The lender
gets more than a quarter of its sales from emerging markets,
from  Russia  to  Senegal , according to KBW.  Emerging Markets  Societe Generale’s Egyptian unit had about 383 million
euros of cumulative profit between 2007 and 2009, equal to 10.5
percent of the earnings at the French lender, which had billions
of euros of losses from the financial crisis and spooked markets
in January 2008 with a record 4.9 billion-euro trading loss.  “I own a European bank because it can bring me growth from
outside of  Europe ,” said  Simon Maughan , a London-based analyst
at MF Global who recommends selling Societe Generale’s stock.
“The potential of these countries is there in the long term”
if issues such as high youth unemployment are tackled, he said.  The economy in the country of 80 million people probably
grew 6.2 percent in the last quarter of 2010, compared with 5.5
percent in the previous three months.  “The crisis is going to have a negative effect on the
economy, though we don’t yet know how negative,” Nomura’s Wyman
said. Deteriorating economic prospects are going to weigh on
loan quality with non-performing loans, especially to small- and
medium-size companies, probably rising, she said.  Overall loan growth in Egypt this year was expected to be
15 percent to 20 percent, according to Jaap Meijer, who heads
banking research at AlembicHC in Dubai and covers Egyptian banks
including NSGB.  With this unrest, “this has gone out the window,” he
said. Still, “it’s a matter of a year of hiccup and then the
growth story will return and there is tremendous opportunity”
for banks in Egypt, Meijer said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 