-- Sony Profit Beats Estimates After Earnings From PlayStation Games Double
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M i k a k o   N a k a j i m a
-- 2011-02-03T09:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/sony-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-sales-forecast-lowered.html
  Sony Corp ., Japan’s biggest exporter
of consumer electronics, reported third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, after earnings from the PlayStation games
division doubled.  Net income dropped 8.6 percent to 72.3 billion yen ($886
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, from 79.2 billion
yen a year earlier, the Tokyo-based maker of Bravia televisions
said in a statement today. That beat the 65.9 billion yen
average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit from the games division, Sony’s second-biggest
product group, posted earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates
as PlayStation 3 titles such as “Gran Turismo 5” lured
consumers. That cushioned a slump in TV prices, which eroded
earnings at Samsung Electronics Co. and  Panasonic Corp .  “The game unit had a good season thanks to hit game
titles,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , who helps oversee the equivalent
of $8.4 billion as chief executive officer at Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. in Tokyo. “Sony went on the right track to
reduce cost and streamline operations. The efforts have started
to show in the earnings statement.”  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, fell 5.9 percent to 137.5 billion yen,
exceeding the 128 billion yen average analyst estimate.  Revenue fell 1.4 percent to 2.21 trillion yen and the
company trimmed its full-year sales forecast 2.7 percent to 7.2
trillion yen amid falling TV prices.  Game Titles  Sony rose 0.7 percent to 2,867 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo trading before the announcement. The stock gained 9.6
percent last year.  Sony’s Networked Products and Services Group that makes
PlayStation games and Vaio computers reported profit more than
doubled to 45.7 billion yen, helped by cost reductions to make
the PS3 console and increased sales of game titles. Analysts
expected 28.1 billion yen, based on the median estimate.  The world’s No. 2 maker of portable game players introduced
its motion-sensing controller, called Move, in September in the
U.S. and in the following month in Japan. The company plans to
offer a new model of its PSP device and game content on
smartphones and tablet computers equipped with Google Inc.’s
Android operating system by the end of this year.  Sony sold more than 5.5 million copies of the “Gran
Turismo 5” car-racing title in 12 days, the company  said  Dec.
10. Sales of Capcom Co.’s “Monster Hunter Portable 3rd” for
the PlayStation Portable reached 2 million units in Japan during
its first week, the publisher said Dec. 6.  TV Sales  Sony maintained its target to sell 15 million units of PS3
game machines, about 196 million game titles and 8.8 million
personal computers, the company said today.  Operating profit at the main Consumer, Professional and
Devices Group, the division that makes TVs, Cyber-shot cameras
and semiconductors, fell 47 percent to 26.8 billion yen, about a
third less than the median analyst estimate. Revenue gained 4.2
percent to 1.09 trillion yen.  The world’s No. 3 TV maker cut its TV sales target to 23
million units from 25 million projected earlier for the year
ending March 31. Sony has lost about 26 billion yen from TV
operation so far this fiscal year, including 13 billion yen
during the quarter, Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato said.  Samsung, LG  Samsung,  Asia ’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones, last week said net income increased
13 percent to 3.42 trillion won ($3.1 billion), helped by
earnings at the telecommunications business. The company’s
digital-media unit that assembles TVs posted a loss of about 170
billion won.    LG Electronics Inc ., the world’s No. 2 TV maker, reported a
net loss of 256.4 billion won, its first loss in seven quarters.
LG booked a 274.1 billion won operating loss at its mobile
division.  “TV profits are being pressured globally,” said Shiro Mikoshiba, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., before the
announcement. “ The yearend business probably went moderately
well at Sony but was probably not as strong as to clear all the
inventories. Sony’s loss from TV may become bigger in the second
half.”  Sony sold 7.9 million units of TVs during the quarter, up
from 5.4 million a year earlier, the company said. Panasonic,
Sony’s closest domestic rival, sold 6.4 million sets during the
quarter, the company said yesterday.  “The  Social Network ”  Samsung’s shipments of flat panel TVs rose 17 percent to
12.7 million units in the three months ended Dec. 31, the
company  said  Jan. 28. LG’s TV shipments rose 33 percent to 8.7
million units in the quarter, the company  said  Jan. 26.  Profit at the film unit declined 67 percent to 4.7 billion
yen, after a 27 percent decline in sales, the company said. “The
Social  Network,”  which garnered eight Oscar nominations,
generated strong revenue while lower sales of catalog products
and higher marketing expense pressured the division’s profit,
it said.  Sony revised its assumptions for the yen’s exchange rate to
the dollar to 82 yen from 83 yen for the three months to March
31. The company maintained its forecast for the yen’s rate to
the euro at 110 yen.  The yen gained 23 percent against the euro and 15 percent
against the dollar in 2010, the best performer among 17 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. A stronger yen damps the
repatriated value of overseas earnings at Japanese exporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 