-- S. Africa’s Sheep-Guarding Alpacas Face Rift Valley Threat
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2011-02-03T10:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/south-africa-s-sheep-guarding-alpacas-face-rift-valley-fever-threat.html
  South Africa ’s alpaca herd, used to
guard sheep from predators such as jackals and leopards, is
under threat from an outbreak of Rift Valley Fever, a livestock
disease that can infect humans.  The disease, normally found in goats and sheep, has begun
to infect alpacas in the country, an industry association said.
The animals are a South American relative of the llama and have
in some cases replaced sheep dogs in South Africa and are also
reared for their wool, which has a cashmere-quality.  The disease broke out in the Western Cape Province in
January, six months after a previous outbreak that killed 26
people and 8,500 livestock in 2010. While there is no specific
vaccine for the disease designed for alpacas sheep vaccine in
higher doses is being used in South Africa.  “Not all alpacas die when infected with Rift Valley
Fever,” Carmen Mettendorf, a board member of the country’s
Alpaca Breeders’ Association, said in an interview from Paarl in
the Western Cape yesterday. “Some get flu-like symptoms and
recover quickly.”  So far at least 22 alpacas have died, John Grewar, a
government veterinarian in the Western Cape who is studying the
outbreak, said in e-mailed response to questions. Ten died last
year and 12 in the latest outbreak, which began last month, he
said.  “It is impossible to say whether sheep vaccine is
effective in alpacas until trials have been conducted,” he
said.  Rift Valley Fever is caused by a virus that is spread by
mosquitoes and causes miscarriages in sheep, cattle and goats.
It can kill animals and infect humans through contact with the
blood or organs of infected animals, according to the  World
Health Organization .  High-Pitched Squeals  Rift Valley Fever was first identified in 1931 during an
investigation into an epidemic among sheep on a farm in the Rift
Valley of  Kenya , according to WHO.  South Africa’s estimated 3,000-head alpaca herd is spread
across much of the country and large enough to support a
commercial fiber mill in Mooi River in the south eastern
KwaZulu-Natal Province. Animals sell for between 8,000 rand
($1,119) and 40,000 rand depending on gender and age, while a
stud male can sell for over 100,000 rand, said Mettendorf. Sixty
of the animals were introduced to South Africa in 2000.  They are used for sheep herding because they have a natural
herding instinct, so don’t need training, and don’t attack
humans. They approach predators such as jackals and emit high-
pitched squeals, alerting the sheep flock to danger. South
Africa is the world’s second-biggest producer of sheep wool used
in textiles after  Australia .  An alpaca produces about three kilograms (6.6 pounds) of
fiber a year, worth 300 rand a kilogram. The fiber is
hypoallergenic and “finer than mohair,” Mettendorf said.  Peru, which produces about 4,000 tons of alpaca fiber
annually, is the world’s biggest exporter of the product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 