-- Innkeepers, Paulson Resorts, Townsends: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2011-02-03T13:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/southwest-georgia-ethanol-townsends-charlie-browns-bankruptcy.html
Midland Loan Services Inc., the
special servicer for $825 million in fixed-rate mortgages on
property of  Innkeepers USA Trust , filed papers on Feb. 1
objecting to the request by LNR Securities Holdings LLC and
Appaloosa Management LP for the right to oppose the newly
proposed Innkeepers reorganization structure.  LNR and Appaloosa both hold some of the certificates issued
by the trusts for which Midland is servicer. Midland cites
chapter and verse in the governing documents to say certificate
holders granted Midland the exclusive right to appear for them
in bankruptcy cases.  Midland cites other provisions which it says mean that
individual certificate holders can act in a bankruptcy only if
together they hold 25 percent of the issue and agree to
indemnify Midland. Together, Appaloosa and LNR fall “well
short” of the required 25 percent, Midland says.  For a rundown on the preliminary objection by LNR to the
new reorganization structure, click here for the Jan. 27
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. A hearing is yet to be set where
the bankruptcy judge will decide if LNR and Appaloosa have
standing to oppose the Innkeepers reorganization.  If it works out as planned, Lehman Ali Inc. and Five Mile
Capital Partners LLC would share ownership after completion of
the Innkeepers Chapter 11 reorganization. For details on the new
plan structure, click here for the Jan. 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. The bankruptcy court will hold a hearing on March 8-9 to
consider setting up auction procedures and approving agreements
underlying the new proposal.  Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers, a real estate
investment trust, has 72 extended-stay and limited-service
properties with 10,000 rooms in 20 states. For details on the
first Innkeepers plan the bankruptcy judge rejected, click here
for the Aug. 31 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.    Apollo Investment Corp . acquired Innkeepers in July 2007 in
a $1.35 billion transaction. The Innkeepers petition listed
assets of $1.5 billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  New Filing  Southwest  Georgia  Ethanol Producer Files Chapter 11  Southwest Georgia Ethanol LLC , the owner of a 100-million
gallon-a-year ethanol plant in Mitchell County, Georgia, filed a
Chapter 11 petition on Feb. 1 in  Albany , Georgia.  In its petition, the company listed assets of $164.7
million and debt of $134.1 million.  Southwest Georgia Ethanol, or SGE, had revenue of $168.9
million for the fiscal year ended in September. The net loss for
the year was $2.2 million. For three months ended in December,
the net loss was $2 million, the company said.  The company blamed financial problems on the high price of
corn compared with the price for ethanol.  The plant also had operational difficulties, resulting from
construction and design problems, the company said in court
filings.  SGE is owned by First United Ethanol LLC. The parent didn’t
file for bankruptcy.  The Chapter 11 case is to be financed with a $10 million
revolving credit provided by a group of existing lenders in
which WestLB AG, New York Branch, serves as agent. From the
loan, $5 million is to be available on an interim basis. The
loan bears interest at 9 percentage points above the London
interbank borrowed rate. Libor will have a 4 percent floor.  The bank group is owed $92 million dating from construction
of the plant. Production began in October 2008.  Other liabilities include $12.6 million owing on two
subordinated notes. The larger, $8.6 million, is owed to the
Mitchell Development Authority.  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  SGE is asking for the case to be transferred to the branch
of the court in Macon, Georgia. A court filing says participants
in the case will be flying to Atlanta for hearings. Macon is
closer to Atlanta.  The case is In re Southwest Georgia Ethanol LLC, 11-10145,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Georgia (Albany).  Statistics  Accommodating Markets Shrink Maturing Junk-Rated Debt  Liquidity pressures on lower-tier junk-rated companies are
the lowest since mid-2005, according the Moody’s Liquidity-
Stress Index released Feb. 1.  Moody’s said the improvement comes from “high-yield
markets” which “have welcomed even risky credits.”  One year ago, weaker credits in the class had $79 billion
in debt maturing this year. Now, debt maturing in 2011 has been
reduced to $26 billion, Moody’s said.  Although near-term debt maturities have been reduced,
Moody’s said that “total debt levels were not meaningfully
reduced.” Instead, the “companies merely ‘kicked-the-can’”
down the road, Moody’s said.  There is $130 billion of Caa1-or-lower rated debt maturing
in the next five years, Moody’s said in a separate report.
Companies in this category, Moody’s said, “could face
difficulties refinancing their debt if the leveraged finance
market comes under stress.”  Looking ahead, Moody’s said the “biggest liquidity risks
today are the risk that the economic recovery turns south.”  Updates  Paulson Resorts Have Two Financing Offers for Reorganization  Five resorts that Paulson & Co. and  Winthrop Realty Trust 
foreclosed last week have two offers to finance the Chapter 11
reorganization they began Feb. 1 in New York. One is from the
government of  Singapore , a mezzanine lender.  Paulson is offering the other loan together with Five Mile
Capital Partners LLC. When the petition was filed, Paulson said
it would provide a $30 million loan subordinate to existing
mortgages. The resorts will decide in the next month which offer
is the best. For Bloomberg coverage of yesterday’s hearing,
click here.  Paulson put the resorts into Chapter 11 facing Feb. 1
maturity of $1 billion in mortgages and $525 million in
mezzanine loans. Midland Loan Services Inc. is special servicer
for the $1 billion in mortgages.  The Paulson resort case has some of the same cast of
characters as pending reorganization of hotels owned by
Innkeepers USA Trust. Five Mile is one of the prospective
purchasers of Innkeepers, and Midland is special servicer for
$825 million in mortgages on a majority of Innkeepers’
properties.    Morgan Stanley ’s CNL Hotels & Resorts Inc. owned the
resorts before the Jan. 28 foreclosure. Paulson and Winthrop
took control by foreclosing mezzanine loans they owned. The
resorts are Grand Wailea Resort Hotel and Spa in Hawaii; the La
Quinta Resort and Club and the PGA West golf course in La
Quinta, California; the Arizona Biltmore Resort and Spa in
Phoenix; the Doral Golf Resort and Spa in Miami; and the
Claremont Resort & Spa in Berkeley,  California . The resorts have
14 golf courses.  The properties listed assets of $2.2 billion and
liabilities of $1.9 billion. New York-based Morgan Stanley
purchased the five resorts in 2007 for $4 billion. Revenue in
2010 was $465 million.  At the same foreclosure on Jan. 28, three other Morgan
Stanley hotels were taken over by Capital Trust Inc. They are
separately financed and didn’t file in Chapter 11. Those resorts
are the Ritz-Carlton Grande Lakes in Orlando, Florida; the JW
Marriott Grande Lakes in  Orlando ,  Florida ; and the JW Marriott
Desert Ridge Resort in Phoenix.  The case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Green Plains First Bidder on Otter Tail Ethanol Plant  Otter Tail AG Enterprises LLC  will put its 55-million
gallon-a-year ethanol plant in Fergus Falls, Minnesota, up for
auction on Feb. 16. Initial bids are due Feb. 11. A hearing for
approval of the sale is scheduled for Feb. 17.  At auction, the $62.54 million opening bid will come from  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc ., the owner of eight ethanol
plants with a combined capacity of 657 million gallons-a-year.
Green Plains is the fourth-largest ethanol producer in North
America, according to court filings.  The price consists of $55 million in cash and assumed debt,
plus an adjustment for inventories.  Having negotiated a consensual reorganization with most of
its larger creditors, Otter Tail intended to reorganize with a
Chapter 11 plan. When Otter Tail was unable to raise the $12.5
million in required equity, it decided to sell.  The lenders are owed a cumulative $82.8 million, according
to court papers. AgStar Financial Services PCA is owed $34.2
million on a construction loan.  Otter Tail filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in October
in its hometown. The plant began operating in March 2008.  The petition listed assets of $66.4 million and debt of $86
million. Almost all of the debt is secured.  The case is In re Otter Tail AG Enterprises LLC, 09-61250,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Minnesota (Fergus Falls).  HSBC Bank USA Seeks Dismissal of Awal Bank Chapter 11 Case  The Chapter 11 case begun in October by the administrator
for Awal Bank BSC will be dismissed if the bankruptcy judge in
Manhattan agrees with the motion filed yesterday by HSBC Bank
USA NA.  Awal began bankruptcy administration proceedings in Bahrain
in July 2009. It filed a Chapter 15 petition in New York in
September of that year.  Later, the bankruptcy judge recognized Bahrain as home to
the so-called foreign main proceeding.  The Awal administrator later filed the Chapter 11 petition,
evidently because the ability to bring lawsuits is limited in
Chapter 15.  Within days of the commencement of the Chapter 11 case, the
bankruptcy judge rejected a structuring of the reorganization in
which there would be no creditors’ committee and no lists of
assets and debt, with distributions made to creditors by the
court in Bahrain and payment to professionals without bankruptcy
court approval.  Since then, according to HSBC, there has been no
significant activity in the case. The bank said dismissal is
proper.  Awal’s Chapter 11 petition said assets were less than $100
million while debt exceeds $1 billion.  Although domestic banks are precluded from filing any form
of bankruptcy in the U.S., foreign banks like Awal may file for
bankruptcy or reorganization.  The Chapter 11 case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 10-15518, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan). The
Chapter 15 case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 09-15923, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Townsends Loss $2.8 Million in First 12 Days of Chapter 11  Townsends Inc. , a vertically integrated chicken producer,
filed an operating report showing the cost of goods sold was
almost $2 million more than the $15.24 million revenue in the
first 12 days of the Chapter 11 case begun Dec. 19.  The net loss in the period was $2.8 million.  Townsends plans to conduct an auction for the business on
Feb. 15. The order approving financing requires a sale this
month and conversion of the case to liquidation in Chapter 7 if
there is no cash remaining after the sale to pay expenses.  Based in Georgetown, Delaware, family-owned Townsends is
capable of producing 700 million pounds of poultry a year and
1.3 million eggs a week. It has four production facilities in  Arkansas  and  North Carolina .  Townsends listed assets of $131 million and liabilities of
$127 million. Liabilities include $20.7 million owing to secured
lenders on a term loan and $40 million on a revolving credit.
Twelve-month revenue was $504 million. Townsends contracts with
over 300 growers who operate 1,200 chicken houses.  The case is In re Townsends Inc., 10-14092, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Oriental Trading Has $4.7 Million December EBITDA  Oriental Trading Co., the direct marketer of home décor
products, toys, and  novelties  whose Chapter 11 plan was
confirmed in December, reported a $5 million net loss in
December on $39.7 million in net sales.  Gross profit in the month was $24.9 million. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the
month was $4.7 million. Reorganization items totaled $3.1
million.  OTC confirmed a plan given a settlement with first- and
second-lien lenders. The plan gives the new stock plus cash or a
new $200 million second-lien note to senior lenders owed $403
million. For details on the plan and settlement, click here for
the Nov. 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The plan was mostly
negotiated with the first-lien lenders before the Aug. 25
bankruptcy filing.  The Carlyle Group purchased 68 percent of OTC in July 2006
from private-equity investor Brentwood Associates. Brentwood
continued owning some 24 percent of the equity.  Assets of the Omaha, Nebraska-based company were on the
books for $463 million in April. Liabilities totaled $756.6
million. Net sales for the fiscal year were $485.4 million.  The case is In re OTC Holdings Corp., 10-12636, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Point Blank Reports $3.1 Million December Net Loss    Point Blank Solutions Inc ., whose reorganization plan is
scheduled for approval at a Feb. 14 confirmation hearing,
reported a $3.8 million net loss in December on net sales of
$7.3 million.  The operating loss for the month was $1.4 million.
Reorganization expenses in the period totaled $5.2 million.  Point Blank’s plan is sponsored by Lonestar Partners LP,
Privet Fund Management LLC, and Prescott Group Capital
Management. They will supply $25 million in replacement
financing and are backstopping a $15 million to $25 million
equity rights offering. The offering will be available to
specified unsecured creditors and stockholders. For details on
the plan, click here for the Dec. 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Point Blank, based in Pompano Beach, Florida, is a
manufacturer of soft body armor. Revenue in 2009 exceeded $153
million. The former chief executive and chief operating officer
were convicted in September of orchestrating a $185 million
fraud.  The Chapter 11 petition in April listed assets of $64
million and debt of $68.5 million. Debt included a $10.5 million
secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter 11 case.
Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade suppliers.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Tasman Industries Approved to Buy Irving Tanning  Irving Tanning Co. , a producer and seller of leather for
shoes and handbags from Hartland, Maine, was authorized by the
bankruptcy court this week to sell the business to Tasman
Industries Inc.  Tasman will forgive a $1 million debt owing by Irving. In
addition, Tasman will pay $3.3 million in cash and notes to The
Fund of Jupiter LLC, a secured lender.  Irving filed under Chapter 11 in November in Bangor, Maine,
saying assets were less than $10 million while debt exceeded $10
million.  At the outset of the reorganization, Porter Capital Corp.
was owed almost $2 million on a factoring agreement while the
Jupiter fund had a secured claim of $4.2 million. Maine
development authorities were owed more than $1.2 million.
Accounts payable amounted to $2.6 million, court papers say.  Revenue for a year ending in June was more than $28
million.  The case is In re Irving Tanning Co., 10-11757, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Maine (Bangor).  One Charlie Brown’s Steakhouse Liquor License Worth $250,000  The owner of  Charlie Brown’s Steakhouse  is selling another
liquor license. Shack Foods of Dedham LLC is offering $250,000
for a license in Dedman,  Massachusetts .  The company wants the sale approved at a March 9 hearing
without holding an auction.  Forty-Seven locations were closed before the Chapter 11
filing in November. Charlie Brown’s already sold the seven The
Office restaurants. There is to be another motion for the sale
of the remaining 32 locations. In addition to Charlie Brown’s
and The Office, the company operates under the name Bugaboo
Creek. The company is controlled by Trimaran Capital Partners.  At the outset of the Chapter 11 case, the lenders were owed
$70.2 million.  In addition to that secured debt at the beginning of the
case, there is $14 million owed on second-lien senior
subordinated notes and $30 million on a mezzanine loan.  The senior secured lenders are Ableco Finance LLC, Wells
Fargo Capital Finance Inc. and Ally Commercial Finance LLC.  The case is CB Holding Corp., 10-13683, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Bear Island Paper Has $70,000 December Net Loss  Bear Island Paper Co. LLC, a unit of  Canada ’s White Birch
Paper Co., had a $70,000 net loss in December, according to the
operating report filed with the bankruptcy court.  Net sales in the month were $12.86 million. The gross
profit was $1.34 million.  Bear Island was authorized by the bankruptcy judge in early
November to sell the business to a group consisting of Black
Diamond Capital Management LLC,  Credit Suisse Group AG , and
Caspian Capital Advisors LLC. They offered $172.5 million,
comprised of $94.5 million cash and $78 million as a credit
against secured debt. The Black Diamond group estimated that
their offer would generate from $90 million to $94.5 million
cash for assets not representing their collateral. The group
holds 65 percent of the $438 million in first-lien debt.  Based in Nova Scotia, White Birch and U.S. subsidiaries
filed for reorganization simultaneously in the U.S. and Canada
last February. White Birch is the second-largest newsprint maker
in North America.  When the Chapter 11 case began, secured liabilities
included $438 million on a first-lien term loan, $104 million on
a second-lien term loan, $50 million on an asset-backed
revolving credit, and $51.5 million on swap agreements. Trade
suppliers were owed $9.5 million.  The companies had $667 million in sales during 2009, with
$125 million attributable to Bear Island. White Birch had three
pulp and paper mills in the province of Quebec. The Bear Island
plant was in Ashland, Virginia. White Birch is controlled by
Brant Paper Inc.  The case is In re Bear Island Paper Co. LLC, 10-31202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  Downgrade  Coach America ‘May’ Need Restructuring, Moody’s Says  Coach America Holdings, Inc. was downgraded yesterday when
Moody’s Investors Service said the largest charter bus operator
in the U.S. “may” need a restructuring in the “very near
term.”  Moody’s lowered the corporate rating by one notch to Caa1.
Among other ratings adjusted lower, the $55 million second-lien
term loan due 2014 became Caa3.  Revenue in 2010 was $417 million, Moody’s said.  Moody’s said the company has an “onerous debt burden taken
on in 2007” when Fenway Partners bought the business from
Kohlberg & Co. Dallas-based Coach is the country’s second-
largest bus operator.  Daily Podcast  W.R. Grace, Tribune, GM, AmTrust, Evans Oil: Bankruptcy Audio  In today’s bankruptcy podcast, we describe how W.R. Grace &
Co. is nearing the end of a 10-year reorganization. We mention
how only two plans remain in competition for the reorganization
of publisher Tribune Co. and use  AmTrust Financial Corp . as an
example of loopholes in Congress’ attempt to prevent bank
holding companies from using bankruptcy to evade capital
requirements. We close by looking at how old General Motors
Corp. avoided liability for aiding and abetting apartheid and
describe the opportunity to acquire petroleum distributor  Evans
Oil Co. LLC . To listen to the bankruptcy podcast with Bloomberg
Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy columnist and
editor-at-large Bill Rochelle, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  