-- Starwood Net Beats Forecast as Lawsuit Payout Received
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 2011-02-03T21:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/starwood-repors-fourth-quarter-profit-on-recovery-in-high-end-hotel-market.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc., owner of the St. Regis and W brands, reported earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates as luxury hotels led the lodging
recovery and a lawsuit settlement resulted in a cash payment.  Net income for the fourth quarter was $339 million, or
$1.78 a share, compared with a loss of $107 million, or 59 cents
a year earlier, the  White Plains , New York-based company said
today in a statement. Starwood was expected to have a 40-cent
profit, the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12
analysts.  Luxury hotels have shown the biggest increases during the
recovery of the last year, after being hurt more than their
cheaper competitors by the recession. Occupancy at high-end
hotels climbed to 66 percent in 2010 from 61 percent the prior
year, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  That compares with
a 64 percent occupancy rate in 2010 for all hotels in the top 25
U.S. markets.  “We ended 2010 with a strong fourth quarter and momentum
has continued into 2011,” Starwood Chief Executive Officer
Frits van Paasschen said in the statement. “Starwood is well-
positioned to capitalize on the rapid growth in emerging
markets. In developed markets, tight supply should support rate
increases.”  Earnings from continuing operations, excluding some gains
and losses including the lawsuit settlement, were little changed
at 52 cents a share in the fourth quarter, compared with 51
cents a year earlier.  ‘Favorable Settlement’  Special items included a $75 million payment in December
“in connection with a favorable settlement of a lawsuit,”
Starwood said in today’s statement. Cash received by the company
included the reimbursement of legal fees.  Hilton Worldwide Inc. said on Dec. 22 that it agreed to
settle a lawsuit with Starwood involving alleged
misappropriation of  trade secrets . Under the terms of the
settlement, Hilton agreed to an injunction that includes some
business restrictions for two years. Additional terms of the
settlement weren’t disclosed.  Revenue per available room, or revpar, gained 10.2 percent
in  North America  and 10.1 percent worldwide at properties
Starwood has operated for at least a year. Revenue at the third-
largest U.S. lodging company rose 7.5 percent to $1.34 billion.  Starwood shares fell 48 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $60.33 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have climbed 70 percent in the past year.  The hotelier said the wider economic outlook is
“uncertain,” with small increases in lodging supply in
developed markets and growing demand from emerging markets
driving a gain in rates in 2011. Worldwide revpar will probably
rise by 7 percent to 9 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  