-- Sugar Falls 9.3% on ‘Computer Trading’ as Cyclone Concern Ebbs
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   C h r i s   P r e n t i c e
-- 2011-02-03T21:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/sugar-falls-after-tropical-cyclone-yasi-crosses-growing-areas-in-australia.html
Sugar tumbled 9.3 percent as
automatic sales by computer programs exaggerated a slide that
started as concerns eased that Cyclone Yasi will reduce output
in  Australia , traders said.  Crop damage was less than “initially feared” after the
cyclone that pounded the coast of Queensland state was
downgraded from a Category 5 to a Category 2, according to
Commerzbank AG. Prices extended declines as computer orders
triggered more sales, said Jeff Bauml, a senior vice president
at R.J. O’Brien & Associates, a broker in  New York .  “Today’s fall is basically computer trading at its
worst,” Bauml said.  Raw sugar for March delivery fell 3.27 cents to settle at
32.04 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
the biggest drop since Dec. 30. On that date, the price plunged
10 percent, and the slide was attributed to a wave of
computerized “stop losses,” or orders to sell when the price
drops to a specified level.  Last month, ICE said it was delaying a move to change how
pre-arranged buy and sell orders are executed for contracts
including sugar, orange juice and cocoa. The new method, meant
to avoid a “cascading stop effect,” was scheduled to take
effect on Jan. 25.  A “revised implementation” will be announced after
“consultation with market participants,” ICE said on Jan. 18,
without providing a time frame.  ICE Confirms Trades  Today, “trades were executed within reasonability limits
and outside the threshold for trade cancellation,” ICE said in
an e-mail.  Yesterday, the price reached a 30-year high of 36.08 cents
on supply concerns in Australia, the world’s third-biggest
exporter.  “The market built itself up on this mega cyclone,” said  Michael McDougall , a senior vice president at Newedge USA in New
York. “For the sugar harvest, the damage was perhaps not as
great as people anticipated.”  In  London , refined-sugar futures for March delivery fell
$30.30, or 3.6 percent, to $814.20 a ton on NYSE Liffe.
Yesterday, the price reached $857, the highest since at least
January 1989.    Brazil  is the leading exporter, followed by  Thailand .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Prentice in New York at 
 Cprentice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Patrick McKiernan  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 