-- Super Bowl Fans Without Tickets Lavish Their Attention on Cowboys Stadium
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/super-bowl-fans-without-tickets-lavish-their-attention-on-cowboys-stadium.html
The Smith family of Pittsburgh didn’t
come to  Dallas  this week to see their beloved hometown team play
in the  Super Bowl . They came to see Cowboys Stadium.  “It’s very, very nice,” said Johanna Smith, 63, who
arranged the trip after the Steelers clinched their spot Jan. 23
in the  National Football League ’s title game. “Plush.
Ostentatious. Like the Cowboys.”  Though local fans didn’t get their wish of seeing the
Dallas Cowboys play for the championship with the home-field
advantage, the $1.2 billion Cowboys Stadium remains at the
center of hype for the Feb. 6 Super Bowl. Thousands of fans and
tourists are paying $40 apiece this week to explore the site
where the game will be played, a 60 percent increase over the
standard $25 tour price. About 1,400 people a day are taking the
90-minute excursions, which are sold out.  Tour-goers get to test the view from seats in a luxury,
glass-enclosed skybox above the 50-yard line where Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  sits to watch the games. Then the groups descend to
field level for a look at the locker rooms, and stop by one of
the bars where the players pass through on their way to the
sidelines.  On the Sunday before the game, the Smiths took their turn
in groups of 35 leaving every quarter hour from a tent erected
in the parking lot outside the stadium. Lifetime Steeler fans
Johanna and Rich Smith couldn’t afford the $600 to $1,200 price
for tickets to the game. The cheapest ticket available on
StubHub Inc.’s resale website yesterday morning was $2,575.  Steeler Tattoos  So the family converged on Arlington, Texas, the city
between Dallas and Fort Worth where Cowboys Stadium is located,
meeting up with their son and daughter and six grandchildren,
who traveled from Houston and  New Jersey  for a close-up look at
the Super Bowl venue.  “We’re fans,” Rich Smith said of himself and his wife.
“They’re fanatics,” he said of his son and daughter, who both
sport tattoos of the Steelers’ logo.  All wearing black and yellow Steelers’ jerseys, the Smiths
were greeted by the sight of the stadium’s glass walls draped
with giant portraits of Green Bay Packers linebacker Clay Matthews, Pittsburgh Steelers receiver Hines Ward and other
players from the Super Bowl teams. The family listened to tour
guide Dustin Morrison’s Texas-sized patter.  Largest, Biggest Everything  “You are standing inside the world’s largest domed
structure, the world’s largest NFL stadium, the world’s largest
room that is not supported by a column,” Morrison told the
group. “We have the world’s largest freestanding support arch
that holds this building up. We have the world’s largest and the
world’s fastest sliding glass doors at each end zone.”  He also pointed out what he called the world’s largest
high-definition video screen suspended above the playing field,
a 60-foot-by-160-foot video monitor weighing 600 tons.  “That’s the equivalent of an Airbus A380 jumbo jet on the
runway, loaded with fuel, passengers and luggage waiting to take
off,” he said.  The stadium, with its field embellished with the colors and
logos of the two playoff teams, was bustling with criss-crossing
tour groups and crews preparing for the game.  High above the end zones, on platforms usually reserved for
standing-room only crowds, workers were installing steel
bleachers. The risers were some of the about 20,000 temporary
seats Jones is adding for the game to help beat the Super Bowl
attendance record of 103,985, set at the Rose Bowl in  Pasadena ,  California , in 1980.  Squeezing More In  More people will be squeezed into tents outside the
stadium, where they will watch the game from video monitors.
Though with the extra seats and more than 5,000 media
registered, “I think we can get to the NFL record without
counting those outside,” Jones said at a press conference in
Dallas two days ago.  Near the end of their stadium tour, the Smiths cheered when
they entered the Steelers’ locker room. In the Dallas Cowboys
Cheerleaders dressing room, they imitated poses struck by the
cheerleaders in larger-than-life-sized photos hanging above the
lockers. And in the Packers’ quarters, Rich Smith, 65, a
computer consultant, said he put a hex on the rival team.  “I sat where I figured their quarterback would be and
thought about him getting the heebie-jeebies,” he said.  Big Pictures  Local Cowboys fans also took part in the tour, soaking up
the atmosphere of professional football’s biggest event. “This
is as close as I’m going to get with the cost of tickets,” said
David Wilk, 64, who manages an engine parts shop in Dallas.  Leaving the stadium, the Smiths sampled some of the Super
Bowl frenzy taking over the rest of the Dallas  Fort Worth  area.
East of the stadium, in downtown Dallas, the Omni Dallas
Convention Center Hotel is draped with 15-story tall images of
the Packers’  Aaron Rodgers  and the Steelers’ Troy Polamalu.  The Dallas Fire-Rescue Department is monitoring 300
parties, concerts, fundraisers and other events in the city this
week, said Joel Lavender, department spokesman, featuring
celebrities including singers Prince, Willie Nelson, and  Snoop Dogg .  Buildings in Dallas are lit up in blue at night, the color
of the  National Football Conference  in honor of the Packers team
staying in Irving, a Dallas suburb.  West of the stadium in Fort Worth, where the Steelers are
staying, buildings are lit in red, the color of the American
Football Conference.  “Now when we watch the game, we’ll have a better sense of
it, knowing we were here,” Johanna Smith said after the tour.
“It’s a beautiful stadium, but they made sure to tell you how
much everything cost. That was a little strange.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Korosec in Dallas,  Texas ,
at   tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net 
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 