-- Sweden Sells $3 Billion Nordea Stake to Reduce Debt
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2011-02-04T16:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/sweden-to-sell-3-billion-stake-in-nordea-to-reduce-state-debt.html
  Sweden  is selling part of its stake
in  Nordea Bank AB , the Nordic region’s largest lender, in a move
that will reduce state debt by close to $3 billion.  The government sold 255 million shares, or about a third of
its stake including an option to sell 55 million shares, it said
in a statement today. The shares were sold at 74.5 kronor each,
bringing the proceeds to 19 billion kronor ($2.94 billion).
Shares in Nordea closed down 4.05 kronor or 5.2 percent lower to
74.35 kronor at 5:30 p.m. in Stockholm.  The government of Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt ear-
marked Nordea for divestment back in 2006, as part of a broader
strategy to sell off holdings in assets including phone company  TeliaSonera AB  and mortgage lender SBAB. Nordea, created after
Sweden’s 1990s banking crisis through a series of state-
orchestrated mergers, this week posted a 72 percent surge in
fourth-quarter profit to 769 million euros ($1.06 billion).  “We are sellers of Nordea because it has fully recovered
from the crisis and so other banks look more interesting from an
earnings growth perspective,” said  Simon Maughan , co-head of
European equities at MF Global in  London . The timing of the sale
may indicate “somebody at the Ministry of Finance thinks most
of the juice has been squeezed from the fruit.”  Nordea shares rose to 79.60 kronor on Feb. 1, their highest
level since May 2008, according to data available on Bloomberg.
The government now holds 13.5 percent in Nordea, compared with
19.8 percent before the sale, which was conducted through an
accelerated bookbuilding, it said today.  Risky Assets  The government plans to keep reducing its stake until the
next election in 2014, Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman
told reporters today.  “Banking and financial stocks are risky assets,” he said.
“Money intended for welfare shouldn’t be used for that.”  Today’s sale was the government’s biggest since September
2008, when it divested wholly owned real-estate company
Vasakronan AB for 41.1 billion kronor.  Sweden appointed  Nomura Holdings Inc . as global coordinator
and joint bookrunner and  Morgan Stanley  and SEB Enskilda as
joint bookrunners. Danske Bank A/S was co-lead manager in the
sale. Sweden has agreed not to sell any additional shares in
Nordea for 90 days after the completion of the sale.    Sampo Oyj , the biggest shareholder in Nordea, increased its
holding to 21.3 percent. Chief Executive Officer Kari Stadigh
said in a telephone interview Sampo aims to raise its long-term
holding to between 22 percent and 23 percent.  Overhang  “There has been increased noise around a sale in recent
days and hence an announcement is no surprise,” Maughan said.
“What is more surprising is the amount of shares for sale and
the fact that there will be a significant, 13.5 percent overhang
in 90 days time.”  Nordic banks including  Swedbank AB , SEB AB and Nordea were
hurt by bad loans in the Baltic countries in 2009 as Estonia,
Latvia and  Lithuania  had the steepest recessions in the European
Union. All three banks returned to profit in the region in 2010
as the former Soviet economies rebounded. Nordea’s net interest
income, the difference between what the bank makes from lending
and pays for deposits, rose 5.1 percent to 1.37 billion euros in
the fourth quarter, it said on Feb. 2.  Reducing Debt  Sweden, home to four of the Nordic region’s biggest banks,
last year delivered the biggest economic rebound in the European
Union, expanding 5.5 percent, the central bank estimates. The
government will this year also deliver the smallest  budget
deficit  in the 27-member EU, the European Commission estimates.  “Proceeds from the sale will be used to reduce further the
Swedish national debt so as to strengthen the stability of the
Swedish economy,” Norman said in the statement.  Sweden will post a budget surplus of 18 billion kronor this
year and a 78 billion-krona surplus in 2012, the debt office
said Nov. 16. Next year’s estimate includes income of 35 billion
kronor from state asset sales. Sweden’s debt will narrow to 37.5
percent of gross domestic product next year, less than half the
EU average of 83.3 percent, the European Commission estimates.
The debt office expects debt to shrink to 29 percent of GDP at
the end of next year, it said in November.  The Nordea sale is “bullish for Swedish long bonds and we
reiterate our view to stay long Sweden versus  Germany  in 10 year
bonds,” said Lars Martinsson and Martin Tallroth, interest-rate
strategists at Swedbank AB in  Stockholm , in a client note. “In
a country with one of the lowest debt-to-GDP ratios to start
with, this is obviously good news for holders of Swedish bonds.  Funding Plans  Sweden’s debt office said today the share sale won’t impact
its government bond funding plans “at present.” The sale may
result in less short-term funding and in phases the management
of small surpluses as well as a reduction in the size of some
Treasury bill auctions, it said in an e-mailed statement.  The government has said it plans to divest state assets of
about 100 billion kronor by the end of 2014. The opposition,
which can block the plans, has signaled it will stop or limit
any sale of TeliaSonera, utility Vattenfall or SBAB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  