-- Swiss Stocks Fall; Roche, Newron Lead Health-Cares Shares Lower
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2011-02-03T16:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-as-roche-holding-falls-petroplus-rises-in-zurich.html
Stocks in Switzerland dropped as  Roche Holding AG  led health-care companies lower and continuing
anti-government protests in Egypt fueled concern about the
stability of the region.  Roche, which makes up 13 percent of the  Swiss Market Index ,
retreated 1.5 percent after analysts downgraded the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs.  Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA , the
Italian drugmaker developing a Parkinson’s disease treatment
with Merck KGaA, slid 3.9 percent. Petroplus Holding AG surged
to a seven-month high after reporting a profit and  Swatch Group
AG  climbed 1.3 percent as exports of Swiss timepieces increased.  The SMI of the biggest and most actively traded companies
fell 0.1 percent to 6,544.91 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich.
The gauge has still climbed 1.7 percent this year amid
speculation the economic recovery will continue. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also lost 0.1 percent today.  Egypt’s largest opposition group rejected talks with
President  Hosni Mubarak  after at least six protesters were
killed in Tahrir Square overnight, and vowed to stay at the
scene of the fighting until he steps down.  In the U.S., reports showed the number of Americans filing
first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  fell last week and  service industries  expanded in January at the fastest pace since
2005, signaling the world’s largest economy is gathering
strength.  ‘Wasn’t Big Enough’  “The jobless claims report was good, but the positive
surprise wasn’t big enough to trigger an equity rally,” said
Fabrizio Quirighetti, chief economist at SYZ Asset Management SA
in Geneva.  The European Central Bank kept its benchmark interest rate
at a record low of 1 percent for a 22nd month today, after a
unanimous decision, as predicted by all 58 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled no immediate
plans to raise interest rates even though the bank expects
inflation to stay above its 2 percent limit for longer than it
predicted just three weeks ago.  Roche fell 1.5 percent to 141.8 Swiss francs as analysts
cut their recommendations on the stock after yesterday’s results
missed forecasts. Societe Generale SA downgraded the Basel,
Switzerland-based company to “hold” from “buy”. Oddo & Cie.
cut the shares to “add” from “buy.”  Newron lost 3.9 percent to 6.44 francs after saying talks
with Santhera Pharmaceuticals Holding AG have ended. Newron was
in negotiations to sell itself to Santhera, a person with
knowledge of the situation said Jan. 24.  Petroplus, Europe’s largest independent oil refiner, rose
7.2 percent to 17.14 francs, the highest price since June 23.
The company posted an adjusted fourth-quarter profit of $65
million, swinging from a loss of $150 million a year earlier.  Swatch gained 1.3 percent to 387.2 francs as Swiss watch
exports rose 22 percent in 2010.  Timepiece exports advanced to 16.2 billion francs ($17.2
billion), the Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry said. Asia
imported more than half of  Switzerland ’s watches last year, the
federation said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Jordan in  London  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 