-- U.K.’s Rules to Boost Nuclear Power May Stifle Trade
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2011-02-03T15:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/u-k-s-power-market-plans-may-curb-trade-stifle-competition.html
The U.K.’s redraw of  electricity
market rules  to stimulate investment in low-carbon generation
such as nuclear may curb wholesale power trading and reduce
competition, according to some energy companies.  “There’s a risk that some of the measures proposed will
remove liquidity further down the curve,” Darren Braham, chief
financial officer of  First Utility Ltd.  said to lawmakers in
London yesterday. Power contracts for future delivery are
“thinly traded and anything that aggravates that position”
will reduce the ability for independent energy companies to
compete with vertically integrated ones, he said.  The government has proposed a minimum price for emitting
CO2 and setting fixed tariffs for low-carbon generation as the
current market structure doesn’t provide the certainty needed
for utilities to finance new power stations. Smaller power
generators and sellers say the rules favor the country’s six
largest utilities.  “It’s very important that the outworkings of this provide
the right environment to allow independents to invest in the
U.K. rather than other countries,” Steve Riley, executive
director,  Europe , of International Power, said during the same
meeting. “Low liquidity in future wholesale energy market
contracts and a lack of independent generators has a real
bearing on new entrants into the retail market.”  ‘More Honest’  Britain’s electricity market is dominated by six utilities
that have both generation and supply businesses. These are
Electricite de France SA,  Centrica Plc , Scottish & Southern
Energy Plc, Spain-based  Iberdrola SA ’s Scottish Power,  RWE AG 
and  E.ON AG . So-called independent companies have smaller
generation and supply businesses in Britain and include
International Power Plc, Drax Group Plc and Intergen NV. First
Utility is an energy supply side company.  The U.K. government should be “much more honest” about
the need to change the market, SSE Chief Executive Officer Ian Marchant told British lawmakers in a second meeting in London
yesterday. “If we need a subsidy for the first new nuclear
plants, then we should provide that as is done for renewables
and carbon capture and storage, rather than create markets just
to make nuclear happen,”  U.K. power trading volumes are low because there are no
requirements that force utilities to sell power on the open
markets, Dorothy Thompson, Drax’s CEO, said at the meeting.  Seeking Comments    David Cameron ’s government is seeking comments on its
proposals to reassert state control over the market-based system
introduced by his predecessor  Margaret Thatcher  as it seeks to
meet climate change targets and replace aging stations with
lower carbon-dioxide alternatives including nuclear and wind.  “If you are a lover of the market as the means of delivery
then clearly direct control will be a step backward,” Chris
Stubbs, a director at the global environmental consultant WSP
Environment & Energy, said in an e-mail. “If you are more
interested in getting things moving in the right direction with
a high degree of certainty that things will turn out as you want
them to, then direct control is probably a significant step in
the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  