-- U.K. Service Industries Return to ‘Pre-Snow’ Growth
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-03T11:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/u-k-service-industries-return-to-pre-snow-growth-after-winter-slump.html
U.K. service businesses from caterers
to mobile-phone operators returned to growth last month and
price pressures intensified as the industry rebounded from the
coldest December in a century.  A gauge of services based on a survey of companies by
Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply  surged to 54.5 from 49.7 in December, according to an
e-mailed statement today in  London . That’s the highest since
May. Readings above 50 indicate growth. Gauges of costs and
output prices rose to the highest in more than two years and the
pound strengthened against the dollar after the report.  The data adds to evidence that the economy’s slump in the
fourth quarter, when it shrank 0.5 percent, may have been a
temporary setback to the recovery. Reports this week showed
construction also resumed expansion this month and manufacturing
grew at a record pace, while they also pointed to strengthening
inflation pressures in the economy.  “While strong indications of activity will no doubt be
welcome to the Bank of  England , the surge in inflationary
pressure will not be,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in London. “The risks of an earlier increase in
the  bank rate  are rising.”  The services reading in January exceeded the median
estimate of 51.3 from 27 economists in a Bloomberg news survey.
The pound rose for a fourth day, gaining as much as 0.5 percent
to $1.6279, the highest since Nov. 5. It was at $1.6239 as of
10:34 a.m. in London.  Weather Impact  Markit said the increase in the service index last month
was due to business returning to “normal,” as well as
companies receiving additional orders displaced from the weather
disruption. Some of the strongest rebounds were in hotels,
catering, restaurants, transport, and communications, it said.  A gauge of construction rose to 53.7 in January from 49.1
the previous month, Markit said yesterday, while a factory index
on Feb. 1 surged to 62 from 58.7, the highest since the survey
began in 1992. Markit said the combined data point to underlying
quarterly economic growth of about 0.4 percent.    Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, said today that full-year operating profit will come
in at the upper end of its forecast after revenue from
operations including voice, data, messaging and broadband in the
quarter through December rose more than estimated by analysts.  ‘Pre-Snow Growth’    Compass Group Plc , the world’s largest catering company,
said first-quarter sales rose as more companies contracted out
food and support services and business grew in  North America .  “It now seems clear that it really was the weather that
had such a negative impact on the economy in December as we are
now back to ‘pre-snow’ growth,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said in the report. “The government shouldn’t be
cracking open the champagne just yet though as the underlying
trend is still subdued.”  While an indicator of services confidence rose to an eight-
month high, a gauge of employment showed companies continued to
reduce staff levels. The increase in input costs among services
companies was the strongest since August 2008 and led by
transport, storage and communications firms, the report showed.  Today’s data suggest “that weather distortions aside, the
underlying pace of growth is largely on track” with the  Bank of
England ’s projections, said  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “Combined with worse news on inflation,
it is looking increasingly likely that the first rate hike will
arrive sooner rather than later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  