-- U.K. GDP Decline May Hinder Housing Recovery, Barratt CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2011-02-03T12:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/u-k-gdp-decline-may-hinder-housing-recovery-barratt-ceo-says.html
The U.K. economy’s unexpected
contraction may worsen consumer confidence and further delay the
recovery in the housing market, according to the head of
Britain’s largest homebuilder by volume.    Barratt Developments Plc  Chief Executive Officer Mark Clare
said the decline in gross domestic product in the fourth quarter
will add to consumers’ unease about unemployment and interest
rates, discouraging them from making large investments.  “It simply defers the investment,” Clare said in an
interview at the Housing Delivery Conference in London
yesterday. “You need to buy a home, and what we see is a
quarterly drop in sales and then they sort of come back again.”  Britain’s economy shrank the most in more than a year in
the fourth quarter as construction declined and the coldest
December in a century hampered services and retailing. GDP fell
0.5 percent after increasing 0.7 percent in the previous
quarter.  Consumer confidence  plunged the most since 1994 last
month, hurt by higher  sales tax , according to GfK NOP Ltd.  “Consumers are already pretty nervous about the economy;
it’s one of a number of things that they’re concerned about,”
Clare said. “We will have to wait and see whether it has an
effect.”  Recent reports suggest the U.K. housing market has weakened
as the prospect of the biggest government budget squeeze since
World War II and tighter lending conditions hurt demand.  Home prices  fell 0.2 percent in December from the previous
month, the  Land Registry  said Jan 31. That followed a report
from Hometrack Ltd. last week saying values dropped 0.5 percent
in January as demand plunged the most in three years.  Homebuilders struggled in the final months of 2010 as heavy
snowfall left many potential buyers at home, Clare said last
month.  Barratt, based in  London , was little changed at 91.5 pence
as of 11:50 a.m. in local trading, giving it a market value of
883 million pounds ($1.4 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Chris Spillane} in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 