-- U.S. Economy: Service Industries Expand by Most Since 2005
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2011-02-03T18:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/u-s-service-industries-expand-at-faster-pace-as-ism-index-climbs-to-59-4.html
  Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in January at the fastest pace since August 2005,
indicating the economic recovery is broadening.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses rose to 59.4, exceeding the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after December’s 57.1.
Readings above 50 signal expansion in the gauge that covers
about 90 percent of the economy. Orders were the highest in
seven years, while companies showed more confidence to hire.  Faster growth in household spending and the economy may
generate bigger employment gains needed to bring down the
jobless rate. Sales climbed 4.4 percent in January, exceeding
forecasts, as retailers such as Limited Brands Inc. used
promotions to lure shoppers before snowstorms gripped the
nation, Retail Metrics Inc. data showed today.  “The consumer will be a source of strength through this
year,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. in New York. “Everything points to more
hiring as the expansion goes on.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that
the U.S. needs to see faster job growth for a sufficient time
before central bankers can be assured the recovery has taken
hold.  “Until we see a sustained period of stronger  job creation ,
we cannot consider the recovery to be truly established,”
Bernanke said in a speech at the  National Press Club  in  Washington .  Jobless Claims, Orders  Other reports today showed a decline in first-time jobless
claims, a faster pace of productivity and an unexpected increase
in orders placed with U.S. factories.  The figures failed to boost stocks, which fell on concern
unrest in Egypt will spread through the region. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1 percent to 1,302.95 at 1:30 p.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  also declined, raising the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note to 3.52 percent from 3.48 percent
late yesterday.  The median projection of 74 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News for the Tempe, Arizona-based services figure was
57.2. Estimates ranged from 54.5 to 62.  Overall, comparable-store sales at retailers at the more
than 30 chains tracked by Retail Metrics rose in January for a
17th straight month and topped an estimate of 2.6 percent growth
from a year earlier. Seventy percent of retailers beat
expectations, Retail Metrics said in an e-mail.  ‘More Comfortable’  “We’ve seen modest improvements in the economy, and maybe
consumers are feeling more comfortable about their spending,”
said  Ken Perkins , president of Swampscott, Massachusetts-based
Retail Metrics.  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
jobless benefits fell last week, a report from the Labor
Department showed today. Applications for  unemployment insurance 
dropped by 42,000 to 415,000 in the week ended Jan. 29.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected 420,000 claims,
according to the median estimate.  Factory orders rose 0.2 percent in December, led by demand
for business equipment, Commerce Department figures showed.
Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft
increased 1.9 percent.  Automakers are among those benefiting from income gains and
improving credit availability. Car sales in January held at a
12.53 million annual rate, matching December as the best since
the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009,
industry data showed.  General Motors Co ., the largest U.S.
automaker, and smaller rival  Ford Motor Co . both reported gains.  ‘Signs of Progress’  “We do continue to be encouraged by signs of progress in
the economy,”  Don Johnson , Detroit-based GM’s vice president of
U.S. sales operations, said on a conference call on Feb. 1.  The productivity of workers unexpectedly increased at a
faster rate in the fourth quarter, the Labor Department also
said. The measure of employee output per hour rose at a 2.6
percent annual rate, compared with a revised 2.4 percent gain in
the previous three months. Labor expenses declined.  The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance. Today’s
report follows the group’s Feb. 1 figures that showed
manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in January at the fastest
pace since May 2004 as new orders and employment climbed.  The measure of new non-manufacturing orders increased last
month to 64.9, the highest since January 2004. The group’s
employment gauge climbed to the highest since May 2006.  “We’re on the right track here,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman
of the ISM services survey, said in a telephone interview. “It
does appear to be sustainable. As  consumer confidence  has
improved, so has business confidence.”    Consumer Spending   As factories continue to power the expansion, other parts
of the economy are strengthening. The U.S. grew at a 3.2 percent
annual rate in the fourth quarter as consumer spending climbed
by the most in more than four years.    AnnTaylor Stores Corp ., a New-York based women’s clothing
retailer, yesterday raised its fourth-quarter profit forecast,
citing a better-than-expected 11 percent gain in sales at stores
open at least a year.  Americans have more money to spend following President
Barack Obama’s agreement with Congress in December to extend
Bush-era tax cuts. The measure also renewed emergency jobless
benefits for the long-term unemployed and trimmed payroll taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  