-- Governors Get Advice From Obama Administration For Medicaid Cost Savings
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2011-02-03T20:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/u-s-says-states-can-cut-medicaid-benefits-to-balance-budgets.html
The Obama administration is
encouraging U.S. states to reduce health benefits to the poor
instead of trimming eligibility for Medicaid, according to a
letter to governors sent today.  The administration’s message is an attempt to preserve
access to Medicaid, the federal-state health program for the
poor, while balancing states’ financial concerns, according to
the letter sent by Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius .  “I know you are struggling to balance your budget while
still providing critical health care services to those who need
them most,” Sebelius said in a letter to state governors
outlining the changes. Along with cutting benefits and
increasing the share Medicaid patients have to pay to save
costs, Sebelius encourages states to save money on drugs, fight
fraud, and better manage the most expensive patients.  Medicaid is the largest expense on most state’s budgets,
and governors have been seeking cuts to close deficits. The U.S.
government and states fund and administer the program. The
health-care overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed in March
expands Medicaid by 16 million people during a decade at a  cost 
of $434 billion, the Congressional Budget Office estimates.  Reduced Budgets  Led by  Florida , some states have argued that the health law
burdens their budgets unreasonably at a time of economic
difficulty. States have the legal authority to make changes to
their Medicaid programs, though alterations can affect the money
they get from the federal government.  The administration in the letter highlighted $100 billion
in “optional” spending on benefits that states may cut or change
to save money. According to the government, about 40 percent of
Medicaid benefit spending is for optional services and not
required under the rules of the program, the majority of which
goes toward long-term care.  States are forecasting budget shortfalls of $125 billion in
the coming fiscal year, according to the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities .  Republican governors from Florida to  Arizona  say a recent
court decision is grounds to stop implementing the health-care
law. Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a former hospital industry
executive, said he’ll wait for further rulings before preparing
to carry out the law aimed at creating near-universal health
care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 