-- Boston Red Sox Partner's Group in Exclusive Talks to Buy Soccer's AS Roma
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2011-02-04T09:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/u-s-group-in-exclusive-talks-to-buy-as-roma-update1-.html
A group of U.S. investors led by
Thomas DiBenedetto, part owner of the  Boston Red Sox , will hold
exclusive talks to buy three-time Italian soccer champion AS
Roma with the club’s owners,  UniCredit SpA  and the Sensi family.  Julian Movsesian, a member of the bidding group, said in a
telephone interview that the U.S. investors hope to conclude the
deal in about two weeks. He said UniCredit was likely to keep a
minority stake in the club, which was founded in 1927 and last
won the Serie A title in 2001.  “We could be the proud owners in two weeks” after
legalities are finalized, Movsesian, president of Succession
Capital Alliance, said yesterday from  Newport Beach ,  California .
“We are going to work on the details. I’m pretty excited.”  AS Roma shares rose 2.4 percent today to 1.24 euros in
Milan trading, up from 1.21 euros yesterday, giving the company
a market value of about 164 million euros.  DiBenedetto AS Roma LLC, the company led by DiBenedetto, a
partner in the holding company that owns the Red Sox and English
soccer club Liverpool, had “the most competitive offer” of the
five purchase bids AS Roma received, according to Compagnia
Italpetroli SpA, the Sensi family’s holding.  The U.S. investors will “provide further information,” a
process that will take “a few days” and lead to an “exclusive
period” for talks, Italpetroli said in a statement distributed
by the Italian exchange yesterday.  Doubling Revenue  The group is proposing to pay as much as 130 million euros
($177.3 million) for AS Roma and wants a 50 million-euro  credit
line  for the club from Milan-based UniCredit after the purchase,
Italian daily  Il Messaggero  reported Jan. 28. The U.S. investors
aim to more than double Roma’s revenue within five years to 250
million euros and to build a new stadium within eight years, la
Repubblica said today.  All the proceeds of the sale will be used to pay back 277
million euros of debt owed to UniCredit. Italy’s biggest bank
became co-owner of the team after a debt-for-equity swap last
year with the Sensi family. UniCredit owns 49 percent and
Italpetroli 51 percent of Newco Roma, the holding company that
holds 67 percent of As Roma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at  at  elser@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 