-- Republicans Plan $35 Billion in U.S. Spending Cuts From Last Year's Levels
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-02-03T23:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/u-s-republicans-plan-35-billion-in-spending-cuts-from-last-year-s-levels.html
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  announced plans today to cut 2011  government spending  by
$35 billion, setting up the first of a likely series of battles
over the federal budget.  Ryan and other Republican leaders, backing away from
campaign promises of $100 billion in cuts, will instead seek to
pare $43 billion from in non-security discretionary programs,
compared to 2010 levels. The Defense Department would see an $8
billion, or 2 percent, increase under the plan.  The Republicans settled on the smaller overall cut largely
because the government’s fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, is
almost half over.  The plan amounts to a 9 percent cut, compared with last
year’s levels, for the portion of the budget that funds programs
ranging from  NASA  to national parks. The proposal represents a
reversal from spending increases totaling more than 20 percent
approved the last two years by a Democratic-controlled House and
Senate.  Ryan, of  Wisconsin , called the proposed reductions a “down
payment” on his party’s promises to cut the budget. The measure
“marks another step in House Republicans’ continued efforts to
change  Washington ’s pervasive culture of spending,” he said.  The government’s deficit is projected to reach $1.5
trillion this year.  Stopgap Funding  Ryan estimated the cuts totaled $74 billion when compared
to what President  Barack Obama  proposed last year in his 2011
budget request. Congress has since approved a stopgap measure
funding the government that set spending below what Obama had
requested; compared to those levels, were they to be extended
through the fiscal year’s end on Sept. 30, the cuts Ryan
outlined today would be $32 billion.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, expressed opposition to Ryan’s plan, saying
lawmakers should only make “modest” cuts this year because the
economy remains troubled. He said lawmakers instead should focus
on bigger, longer-term reductions that wouldn’t take effect
until the economy is on a surer footing.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
Congress will have to agree to some cuts. “We’re not burying
our heads in the sand. We recognize that we have to do some
things,” he told reporters today.  Subcommittee Instructions  Ryan didn’t stipulate how the cuts will be divided among
the hundreds of government programs, leaving that up to the
House Appropriations Committee to determine. Appropriations
Chairman Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, today released
instructions to his 12 subcommittees on how much in savings each
must produce to meet Ryan’s number, without detailing the
programs that would be targeted.  Rogers called for transportation and housing programs to be
cut by 17 percent, agriculture by 14 percent and energy and
water programs by 10 percent. The panel with jurisdiction over
the Departments of Commerce, Justice and science programs would
have to cut spending by 16 percent compared to last year’s
levels.  Congress’s budget would be cut by 2 percent. Funding for
the State Department and foreign aid programs would be cut by 4
percent, as would labor, health and education programs.  Republicans aim for a vote the week of Feb. 14 on
legislation making the specific cuts. The changes will be
attached to a continuing resolution funding federal agencies
through the rest of this fiscal year. The current stopgap
measure expires March 4, and without action the government would
shut down.  Other Fights  The battle over the Republican plan will be just one of
this year’s fiscal fights, with separate showdowns looming on
raising the national debt limit as well as Obama’s budget
request for the 2012 fiscal year.  Republicans had promised in their “Pledge to America”
issued during last year’s midterm campaign to roll back non-
security discretionary spending to pre-Obama 2008 levels, which
would have saved $100 billion compared to what the
administration proposed in its 2010 budget request. In the Ryan
plan, Republicans instead are setting spending at 2008 rates for
the last seven months of the fiscal year.  The plan amounts to a rejection of calls by the Republican
Study Committee, a bloc of self-described fiscal conservatives,
for much deeper cuts. Representative Jim Jordan, an Ohio
Republican who heads the RSC, will offer amendments to make
additional cuts, said spokesman Brian Straessle.  Ryan’s Authority  Republicans, aiming to mop up last year’s leftover budget
business, adopted a rule last month allowing Ryan to
unilaterally set the overall discretionary spending levels for
the rest of this fiscal year. His plan would peg total
appropriations at $1.055 trillion, compared to last year’s
$1.091 trillion and the $1.128 trillion the administration had
requested. The government’s total budget, including entitlements
such as Medicare and Social Security, is $3.7 trillion.  Democrats who control the Senate today called upon
Republican leaders in both chambers to explicitly rule out any
shutdown of the government as negotiations on the budget
proceed. “That’s playing with fire,” said Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s No. 3 Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story: Brian Faler in Washington
at   bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  