-- U.S. in Contempt Over Gulf Drill Ban, Judge Rules
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-02-03T19:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/u-s-administration-in-contempt-over-gulf-drill-ban-judge-rules.html
The Obama Administration acted in
contempt by continuing its deepwater-drilling moratorium after
the policy was struck down, a  New Orleans  judge ruled.  Interior Department regulators acted with “determined
disregard” by lifting and reinstituting a series of policy
changes that restricted offshore drilling, following the worst
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history, U.S. District Judge,  Martin Feldman  of New Orleans ruled yesterday.  “Each step the government took following the court’s
imposition of a preliminary injunction showcases its defiance,”
Feldman said in the ruling.  “Such dismissive conduct, viewed in tandem with the
re-imposition of a second blanket and substantively identical
moratorium, and in light of the national importance of this
case, provide this court with clear and convincing evidence of
the government’s contempt,” Feldman said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration first halted
offshore exploration in waters deeper than 500 feet in May,
after the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig off the Louisiana coast led to a subsea blowout of
a  BP Plc  well that spewed more than 4.1 million barrels of oil
into the  Gulf of Mexico .  Overly Broad  Feldman overturned the initial ban as overly broad on
June 22, after the offshore-drilling industry and Gulf Coast
political and business leaders challenged it. U.S. Interior
Secretary Kenneth Salazar said later that day that he would
“issue a new order in the coming days that eliminates any doubt
that a moratorium is needed, appropriate, and within our
authorities.”  In July, Salazar instituted a second drilling moratorium
that was also challenged by an industry lawsuit claiming the ban
was harming the Gulf Coast economy, which is heavily dependent
on deepwater drilling activities. That ban was rescinded in
October, before Feldman could rule on its validity.  Feldman later ruled that enhanced drilling safety rules
Salazar imposed to permit companies to resume offshore
exploration violated federal law, and he struck down those as
well. Opponents of those rules complained to Feldman that
regulators were continuing to block the resumption of drilling
after Feldman’s rulings.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, said the
government is reviewing yesterday’s ruling. He declined to
comment further.  Informal Moratorium  The  Offshore Marine Service Association , a group
representing offshore service vessels and shipyards, urged the
president to end what it called an informal moratorium on
offshore drilling.  “President Obama claims to have lifted the Gulf
moratorium, yet not a single deepwater permit has been issued in
nine months,” Jim Adams, the association’s president, said in a
release after the ruling. “As a result, thousands of workers
are out of jobs, Americans are paying more for gasoline and
heating oil, and our nation is becoming even more dependent on
unstable nations for our energy needs.”  Feldman also ordered the government to pay the legal fees
of Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC, which filed the initial
lawsuit. The company had described the fees as “significant.”  Hornbeck “was put to considerable expense, after Judge
Feldman issued the injunction, contending with the government’s
litigation posturing and defiance of the court’s order,” Sam Giberga, the company’s general counsel, said today in an e-mail.  “The government was not at liberty to impose its own will
after the court struck down the policy,” Giberga said. “The
government, like any citizen, had to obey the ruling, even if it
didn’t like it.”  The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 