-- UBS to Delay Informing Employees on Bonuses by a Week
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2011-02-03T18:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/ubs-will-delay-its-2010-employee-bonus-discussions-for-one-week-to-feb-16.html
  UBS AG ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
will inform employees about their bonuses for 2010 a week later
than originally planned, spokeswoman Eveline Mueller- Eichenberger said by telephone today.  Employees worldwide will find out about their bonuses on
Feb. 16, rather than Feb. 9, Mueller-Eichenberger said from
Zurich. That means that bonuses will be paid in the first days
of March to staff in the U.S. and in mid-March in Switzerland.
Bankers in the U.K. will receive them at the end of this month,
she said.  The delay was needed “in light of the reviews we still
have to do, the need to ensure all checks are completed
consistent with regulatory requirements and to ensure high
quality execution of the payment process,” the bank’s human
resources department told staff in a memo this week. UBS
confirmed the contents of the memo.  UBS set aside 167,536 Swiss francs ($177,437) in salaries
and variable compensation for each of more than 64,500 employees
during the first nine months of 2010, compared with 147,371
francs per employee in the same period a year earlier. The bank
reports fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 8.  The bank, which is due to report its first annual profit
since 2006, doesn’t want to pay “a franc too much” in
compensation, Chairman Kaspar Villiger told Neue Zuercher
Zeitung in an interview published Jan. 29, adding that UBS
realizes the market is paying at least the same if not more to
the best people compared with last year. UBS is losing employees
in Switzerland and in  Asia  because it’s not always competitive
on pay, he said.  UBS executives delayed the payments because of concern the
bonus pool was too small to retain top personnel, CNBC’s David Faber reported, without disclosing how he obtained the
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 