-- Munich Re Raises Dividend as Quarterly Profit Falls
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2011-02-03T08:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/munich-re-to-buy-back-further-690-million-of-shares-increases-dividend.html
  Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, plans to pay a higher dividend and said it will
continue with share buybacks after fourth-quarter profit
declined 38 percent.  Net income before minority interests in the three months
through Dec. 31 dropped to 480 million euros ($663 million) from
780 million euros in the year-earlier period, the company said
today in an e-mailed statement, citing preliminary figures. That
missed the 521 million-euro median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The reinsurer proposed raising the
dividend by 50 cents to 6.25 euros a share for 2010.  “The dividend increase is a positive surprise and again
indicates the strong capital position as well as confidence in
the earnings power,” Thorsten Wenzel, an analyst at DZ Bank AG
in Frankfurt, wrote in a note to clients.  Munich Re, led by Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard, 54, is courting shareholders such as billionaire
investor  Warren Buffett  with payouts as low  interest rates  and
falling prices for coverage hurt earnings in the industry. The
Munich-based firm, which plans to buy back as much as 1 billion
euros of its own stock before the annual shareholder meeting in
April, said today that it wants to purchase a further 500
million euros of the shares by the 2012 assembly.  ‘Shareholder-Friendly’  “Share buybacks remain an important component of our
shareholder-friendly, active  capital management ,” Chief
Financial Officer Joerg Schneider said in the statement. By the
end of January, the reinsurer had purchased 752 million euros of
its stock under the current buyback program.  Munich Re shares rose 55 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 117.90
euros as of 9:22 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The company, which is
scheduled to report detailed fourth-quarter and full-year
earnings on March 10, has gained 3.8 percent this year, valuing
the company at about 22 billion euros.  Investment income declined to 1.4 billion euros in the
fourth quarter from 2.1 billion euros a year earlier. Full-year
profit of 2.43 billion euros reached the company’s forecast for
about 2.4 billion euros in net income before minority interests.
For 2011, Munich Re said it expects profit at “around the same
level’ as in 2010.  Natural Catastrophes    Hannover Re , the world’s third-biggest reinsurer, on Feb. 2
confirmed its profit forecast for about 650 million euros this
year after negotiating better-than-expected rates with clients
in the January round of renewals, the most important date for
renegotiations of property and casualty reinsurance contracts.  While the 2010 June-through-November Atlantic hurricane
season didn’t result in costly insured losses, earthquakes in
Haiti and  Chile  as well as winter storms in  Europe  led to an
increase in natural disaster claims by more than two-thirds to
$37 billion, exceeding the annual average of $35 billion over
the preceding 10 years, Munich Re said last month.  The reinsurer’s biggest claim in 2010 was the earthquake
that hit Chile in February. The New Zealand earthquake may cost
Munich Re 340 million euros. It also expects claims of about 270
million euros from the December floods in Queensland,  Australia .
The floods that inundated Brisbane in January may cost ‘‘a
similar amount,” the company said.  “Pressure on prices in most lines of business and regions
is persisting,” Munich Re said, referring to the January round
of renewals, where the company renews about two-thirds of its
property and casualty reinsurance contracts. The company’s price
level rose 0.1 percent, and Munich Re increased the volume of
renewed business by 4.1 percent, it said. The reinsurer reported
a 0.3 percent price decline a year earlier.  ‘Markets Remain Challenging’  “The markets remain challenging,” said management board
member Torsten Jeworrek, who heads Munich Re’s reinsurance
business. “Capacity continues to be available in sufficient
quantities in most lines and regions.”  Global prices for reinsurance coverage declined 7.5 percent
for policies being renewed on Jan. 1 amid high levels of capital
available in the industry, Guy Carpenter &Co., the reinsurance
brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos. said in a December report.  Profit at Munich Re’s primary insurance unit, Ergo
Versicherungsgruppe, more than doubled to 355 million euros in
2010 from 173 million euros a year earlier, the company said.
That compared with target range of 350 million euros to 450
million euros, which Ergo set in its 2009  annual report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  