-- Unilever Quarterly Sales Beat Estimates on Volumes
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2011-02-03T08:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/unilever-quarterly-sales-beat-estimates-on-volumes-update1-.html
Unilever, the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods maker, reported fourth-quarter sales growth that
beat estimates as consumers bought more Magnum ice cream and the
company held prices steady.  So-called underlying sales, which exclude the effect of
acquisitions and currency fluctuations, rose 5.1 percent in the
last three months of 2010, the same pace of growth as in the
amount of goods sold, Unilever said today. The median estimate
of eight analysts was for a 4.1 percent revenue increase.  “Volumes held up much better in the fourth quarter than
expected despite a very challenging comparison,”  Warren Ackerman , an analyst at Evolution Securities with a “buy”
rating on the stock, wrote in a note to clients. “Given all of
the gloom surrounding this quarter, this is not a bad result.”  Volume growth was driven by product innovation, increased
marketing and extension of brands into emerging markets,
Unilever said. About 53 percent of revenue comes from  developing
countries  such as  India ,  Brazil  and  Indonesia . Higher commodity
prices caused the underlying operating margin to narrow by 20
basis points in the fourth quarter and will reduce profitability
on that basis by 400 basis points in 2011, the company said.  Unilever rose as much as 58 cents, or 2.6 percent, to 22.68
euros in Amsterdam trading and was at 22.15 euros at 9:25 a.m.  Cost Savings  Unilever and competitors such as larger rival Procter &
Gamble Co. and  Nestle SA  are struggling with soaring costs of
commodities, including palm oil and wheat. P&G said on Jan. 27
that profit would be held back by about $1 billion this year
because of higher input costs.  An estimated 1 billion euros ($1.38 billion) in savings and
plans to increase the price of Unilever’s goods will help offset
input cost headwinds, Jean-Marc Huet, the company’s chief
financial officer, said today on a conference call.  “We have a lever we haven’t been able to pull in 2010
called pricing,” Huet said. “The second lever we have is
savings. Again here -- be it supply chain, be it overheads and
the like -- we’re in a much better position to drive these.”  Unilever reported “flat” prices this quarter compared
with the same period a year ago, and said it saw “positive in-
quarter pricing.” The last time Unilever reported price
increases was in the second quarter of 2009.  “Our objectives remain: profitable volume growth ahead of
our markets, steady and sustainable underlying operating margin
improvement and strong  cash flow ,” Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said in the statement.  Net income at London- and Rotterdam-based Unilever, the
maker of Dove skincare products and Knorr soups, rose to 955
million euros in the fourth quarter, beating the median analyst
estimate of 883 million euros. Full-year underlying sales rose
4.1 percent, in line with estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  