-- Unilever Sees Increased Commodity Expenses Dragging on 2011 Profitability
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2011-02-03T11:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/unilever-sees-commodity-expenses-dragging-on-2011-profitability.html
Unilever, the world’s second-largest
consumer goods company, said increasing costs of raw materials
including corn and  palm oil  will drag on profitability in 2011.  “We certainly expect input costs to be higher, with
commodity costs accelerating sharply in 2011,” Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Marc Huet said today on a conference call. The
added expense will reduce the underlying operating margin, a
measure of profitability, by 400 basis points, he said.  Consumer-goods companies are facing increases in the price
of goods needed to make their products, from soy beans to oil.
London- and Rotterdam-based Unilever, the maker of Knorr soup
and Axe deodorant, said today that its fourth-quarter margins
narrowed by 20 basis points, mainly due to higher commodity
costs. Rival Procter & Gamble Co. expects profitability to be
cut by $1 billion this year for the same reason.  The  United Nations ’ World Food Index rose to a record in
January. Palm oil, which Unilever uses in products such as
margarines and soaps, is trading at about a three-year high. The
company is one of the largest buyers of palm oil and uses about
3 percent of global volumes, according to its  website . Unilever
spends 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) to 2.5 billion euros a
year on the commodity, Evolution Securities estimates.  Unilever will aim to offset higher input prices in 2011
with an estimated 1 billion euros of cost savings and price
increases, Huet said. Prices at the maker of Dove soap were
unchanged in the fourth quarter, the first time since the second
quarter of 2009 that the company hasn’t cut the price of goods
to stimulate demand in western  Europe  and  North America .  ‘Better Shape’  “Whilst there are commodity price increases, they’re not
yet at the level of 2007 and 2009,” Chief Executive Officer
Paul Polman said today, speaking in an interview for Bloomberg
Television with Linzie Janis. “The world economic situation is
in a better shape.”  Unilever responded to rising commodity costs in 2007 and
2008 by raising prices, peaking at an increase of more than 9
percent in the fourth quarter of 2008.  “Where we stand today is not the same” as during that
period, Huet said on the call. “We are much fitter to compete
today than we were two years ago.”  Raising prices quickly could hurt volume in 2011, Nomura
analysts including  David Hayes  wrote in a Jan. 31 note. Unilever
said today that its objectives were to drive “profitable volume
growth ahead of our markets, steady and sustainable underlying
operating margin improvement, and strong  cash flow .”  Unilever has “some transparency” on commodity prices as
it has hedged the price of some goods over the next three-to-six
months, Polman said today, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 