-- United Coffee Aims to Enlist European Retailers to Challenge Nespresso
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2011-02-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/united-coffee-aims-to-enlist-retailers-to-challenge-nespresso.html
United Coffee , a maker of private-
label coffee and machines, aims to form alliances with retailers
in the next two months to start selling a coffee capsule system
that will compete with  Nestle SA ’s Nespresso.  United Coffee is in talks with “all the big retailers” in  Europe  as it aims to start selling capsules and machines by
September or October, Chief Executive Officer Per Harkjaer said
yesterday in an interview. The Geneva-based company plans to
enter France, the U.K.,  Germany , the Netherlands and  Spain  with
the product, which isn’t compatible with Nespresso, he said.  Retailers, who would stamp the capsules with their own
brands, will tap into market growth of 30 percent a year and
will help determine which of the 10 to 15 Nespresso rivals
succeed, he said.  Sara Lee Corp . and Ethical Coffee Co. last
year started selling capsules that work in Nespresso machines,
offering consumers an alternative java for the first time.  “The retailers have the power to move machines,” Harkjaer
said. “What we’re trying to do is have a system with the same
quality as Nespresso. There will be consumers who prefer being
able to buy their coffee capsules in the supermarket.”  Nestle, the world’s largest food company, said in June that
it had sued Sara Lee in France for alleged patent infringement
after the  Downers Grove , Illinois-based company started selling
capsules compatible with Nespresso machines.  Similar Quality  Nestle also sued Ethical Coffee, another maker of rival
capsules, in a Paris court, Hans-Joachim Richter, a spokesman
for Nespresso, said by phone on Jan. 28. Both Sara Lee and
Ethical Coffee have said they don’t infringe Nestle patents.  Nespresso has almost tripled sales to about 3 billion Swiss
francs ($3.2 billion) since 2006, according to an estimate by
Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  United Coffee’s capsules are of similar quality to
Nespresso, Harkjaer said. United Coffee, which makes coffee
machines for McDonald’s Corp., could currently produce about 1
billion capsules a year, he said.  Nespresso coffee is sold only through Nestle-controlled
shops, the company’s website and concessions. The product costs
as much as 10 times the price of unground coffee in  Switzerland .  United Coffee, which has annual sales of about 400 million
euros ($551 million), will have “done extremely well” if it
achieves a 10 percent to 20 percent share of the European
coffee-capsule market, Harkjaer said. “We don’t have the
marketing muscle that Nestle has,” he said.  United Coffee’s system was developed by Swiss retailer
Migros and the coffee company has a license to sell it in Europe
outside Switzerland and  Austria . Harkjaer said there are no
plans to sell Nespresso-compatible capsules.  Selling Price  “The market is enormous,” the CEO said. “I’d much rather
build our own part of the market. If Nespresso becomes an open
system because of what happens in the legal world, then
obviously we’ll look at it differently.”  United Coffee’s capsules may sell for between 27 and 29
euro cents and the machines for about 100 to 139 euros, Harkjaer
said. Nespresso sells for 33 to 37 cents a capsule in  France .
United Coffee capsules contain more coffee than Nespresso, which
is sold in 5.7 gram portions, he said.  “It has to be slightly cheaper,” the CEO said. “But
we’re trying to be an alternative, not necessarily a cheap
alternative. Our concept is more about availability compared to
Nespresso than price.”  The company increased the amount of coffee it roasted 10
percent to about 65,000 tons last year, Harkjaer said. United
Coffee aims to double its tonnage in four-to-five years.  Wave of Acquisitions  Sara Lee last week said it plans to split into two
companies by early 2012. One of the companies will be focused on
beverages such as coffee.  Private equity and Sara Lee’s planned split may spur a wave
of acquisitions in coffee, Harkjaer said. United Coffee plans
more purchases after spending about 30 million euros last year
to buy 19 smaller rivals, he said.  “It’s growing, it’s stable, it’s generating cash, there
are consolidation opportunities,” he said of the coffee market.  Separately, coffee prices will probably keep rising after
an “unbelievable spike” as pension funds and investors buy
commodities, the executive said. Arabica coffee has risen 85
percent in the past year.  “We have no illusion they’re going to come down,”
Harkjaer said. Investors often invest in a basket of commodities
rather than just coffee, which is making prices interlinked, he
said. “Suddenly a bad harvest on wheat in  Russia  has an
influence on coffee prices.”  United Coffee has been partially owned for three years by
London-based private-equity firm CapVest Ltd., which normally
invests in companies for four-to-seven years, Harkjaer said.  United Coffee wouldn’t consider selling shares to the
public until it had doubled or tripled in size, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 