-- Unmentionables Get Tongues Wagging as Boudoir Chic Hits Runways
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2011-02-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/unmentionables-get-tongues-wagging-as-boudoir-chic-hits-runways.html
Unmentionables may be the talk of the
runways at New York Fashion Week next week.  Lingerie has stolen the spotlight in women’s spring
fashion, with looks like Proenza Schouler’s $1,225 layered silk
slip dress and Herve Leger’s $1,350 corset-inspired sheath at  Saks Inc . and Bloomingdale’s. Club Monaco is selling $89 slips
that peek out under skirts, along with lacy camisoles.  “Lingerie is a great way to project femininity -- it is
about alluding to what is underneath,” said Caroline Belhumeur,
a senior vice president at Club Monaco, owned by New York-based  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp . “As boudoir-inspired styles are having
a major moment, they are our starting point for the layering
trend.”  The new fashion’s exposed bras, negligee-style evening
gowns and fluffy marabou wraps may tempt women ready to revive
their wardrobes now that the recession is over, said Marie Driscoll of Standard & Poor’s in New York. That newness is key
to persuading value-conscious shoppers to spend, potentially
helping vendors make up for surging manufacturing costs this
year, the apparel equities analyst said.  That may give a needed boost to intimate apparel, whose
sales shrank 1 percent to $10.1 billion in 2010, compared with a
0.9 percent gain the previous year, according to NPD Group Inc.
Total women’s apparel sales rose 3 percent to $107.6 billion
last year, after dropping 4.8 percent in 2009, said the market
research firm in  Port Washington ,  New York .  The emphasis on slinkiness may sway shoppers because it’s
such a departure from previous seasons, when more masculine
styles like military designs dominated, said Stephanie Solomon,
fashion director of  Macy’s Inc .’s Bloomingdale’s stores.  New Direction  “We’re going in a complete opposite direction,’ Solomon
said. ‘‘That is the great nature of fashion.”  That feminine influence emerged in the Spring 2009
collection of Phi, the now-defunct brand of Susan Dell, wife of  Dell Inc . founder Michael,said Roseanne Morrison, fashion
director at Doneger Group. The style featured in spring
collections and will likely appear in fall looks during New York
Fashion Week, which starts Feb. 10, said Morrison, whose New
York-based firm forecasts style trends.  Lingerie from different eras is inspiring designers, from
the Marie Antoinette-style corsets of Max Azria’s spring
collection for Herve Leger to the grandmotherly girdles
suggested by  John Galliano ’s designs. Jean Yu, a lingerie
designer who collaborated on Rag & Bone’s spring collection,
produced sporty harness bras with a futuristic feel.  Craze’s Underpinnings  The underpinnings of the undergarments craze: skin-tone
colors, “ditzy” florals and soft, transparent fabrics like
chiffon and organza, Morrison said. Formal dresses feature sheer
panels, like the peach-pink J. Mendel design actress  Natalie Portman  wore on the cover of Vogue’s January edition. Flourishes
include cross-over backs, oversize hook-and-eye fastenings and
grosgrain ribbon trim, Morrison said.  This isn’t the first time lingerie has gone in-your-face.
Pop star Madonna flaunted innerwear as outerwear over the
decades, perhaps most famously with the conical bra designed by
Jean-Paul Gaultier worn during her Blond Ambition Tour.  The "less is more" trend kept attracting eyes as supermodel  Kate Moss  and actor  Mark Wahlberg  bared much for Calvin Klein
ads in the early ’90s. The current trend’s more demure approach
is “more realistic for the consumer,” Morrison said.  Saks
Fifth Avenue ’s women’s fashion director, Colleen Sherin,
suggests pairing delicate garments with casual ones, like a
marabou shrug with jeans.  Still, success depends on knowing how to skirt the line
between sweet and scandalous. Women who have pulled off the
look, including actress Chloe Sevigny, manage to hit the right
balance between the two, said lingerie designer Yu, who has her
own Manhattan boutique.  “Wearing something that is revealing is a provocation that
has a lot more risk involved,” Yu said. “You really have to
summon all your confidence. Without it, it just isn’t going to
work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 