-- UPS Increases Dividend 11%, Projecting Strong 2011 Cash Flow
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2011-02-03T22:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/ups-may-increase-dividend-as-strengthening-global-economy-boosts-shipments.html
  United Parcel Service Inc . raised its
dividend by 11 percent today, predicting strong  cash flow  and
signaling confidence in the economic recovery’s strength.  “We believe that 2011 is going to be a great year for UPS
and we’re committed to significantly increasing distributions to
share owners,” Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis said in a
statement. The company forecast healthy cash flow this year and
has said it may post record earnings per share.  UPS said it will boost quarterly cash payments to
shareholders to 52 cents per share from 47 cents, matching a
Bloomberg projection. The dividend will be payable March 2 to
investors who held shares on Feb. 14, the company said.  Matt Collins, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis  who has a “hold” rating on the stock, said before the
announcement that an increase of more than 10 percent would
indicate the company expects the economic rebound to continue.  “The stronger the economy, the bigger the dividend
increase,” Collins said.  Holiday volumes lifted by demand from online retailers
drove Atlanta-based UPS’s revenue and profit higher than
analysts estimated in the fourth quarter. International volume
grew 4.8 percent as domestic shipments increased 1.7 percent.  UPS resumed its regular dividend increase last year after
leaving the payout unchanged in 2009 amid the recession. The
Atlanta-based company paid $1.8 billion in dividends in 2010.  UPS and  FedEx Corp . are viewed as economic bellwethers
because they deliver items ranging from electronics and clothing
to pharmaceuticals and industrial goods.  “You’ll see a lot of dividend increases this year” as
companies grow more optimistic about the economy, Collins said.  Transportation Companies  J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc. also increased its
quarterly payout today, to 13 cents from 12 cents.  “As the economy strengthens and tax rules have been
clarified, companies will be more likely to increase the
dividend,” Collins said.  Two other companies in the Dow Jones Transportation Average
may boost dividends by May, Bloomberg projections indicate.  CSX
Corp . may increase to 28 cents from 26 cents on Feb. 9, and  Expeditors International of Washington Inc . may increase by 1
cent to 21 cents a share on May 6.  Bloomberg dividend projections are based on seven criteria
including a company’s guidance, dividend history, regression
analysis and put-call parity.  UPS climbed 25 cents to $74.29 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have increased about 26 percent in
the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 Selmquist1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 