-- Turkish Inflation Falls to Four-Decade Low on Central Bank's Unique Policy
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2011-02-03T08:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/turkish-inflation-falls-to-four-decade-low-on-central-bank-s-unique-policy.html
  Turkey ’s inflation rate fell to the
lowest in four decades in January, supporting the central bank’s
“unique” policy mix of interest rate cuts and lending curbs.  Inflation slowed to 4.9 percent from 6.4 percent the month
before, the state statistics agency in Ankara said today on its
website. That was the lowest rate since July 1970 and about half
what it was 11 months earlier. The median estimate of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for inflation of 4.6
percent. Prices rose 0.4 percent in the month.  Four straight months of slowing inflation are supporting
Governor Durmus Yilmaz’s case for a monetary policy that
combines lower rates with higher reserves for banks to prevent a
credit bubble, without fueling short-term capital inflows.
Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said Jan. 26 that the policy
is unique and may serve as a model for other emerging markets
trying to manage “hot money” inflows.  “Food prices didn’t behave quite as expected, but this is
still a good number and it’s also good that the rise in  core
inflation  was limited,” said Haluk Burumcekci, chief economist
at EFG Investment in Istanbul. “It’s exactly what the bank had
forecast and I think we’ll see the slowdown continue through
February with inflation moving closer to 4 percent.”  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds rose after the
figure missed the market’s estimate. Yields were 7 basis points
higher at 8.14 percent as of 10:14 a.m. in Istanbul. The lira
was unchanged at 1.5766 per dollar.  Tax Increases  The government raised taxes on cigarettes and fuel at the
start of 2010 and today’s number benefited from the comparison
from the year earlier, when prices rose 1.9 percent in the
month. Food costs climbed 1.6 percent in the month, while
clothing dropped 7.8 percent.  The measure of core inflation that excludes energy and
grocery prices accelerated to 3.2 percent from 3 percent a month
earlier, still below the bank’s medium-term goal of 5 percent
consumer-price inflation.  “The central bank has no worries about  price stability  and
is much more concerned with financial stability,” Ozan Gaziturk, an economist for lender Sekerbank TAS in Istanbul,
said before the figures were released. “The bank predicted the
slowdown and it means it can remain focused on the current
account and credit growth.”  International Comparison  Rate cuts have damped portfolio inflows, enabling the lira
to weaken 13 percent against the dollar since reaching a high on
Nov. 4, helping local industry to remain competitive. At the
same time, lending restrictions aim to crimp loan growth and
ease pressure on inflation.  The slowdown in Turkish inflation comes after price-growth
in the European Union accelerated to 2.4 percent last month from
2.2 percent in December. Inflation in the U.K. may climb toward
5 percent in the coming months,  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said last week.  Yilmaz has cut the benchmark one-week repo lending rate by
three-quarters of a percentage point to a record low of 6.25
percent in the past two months. He says the cuts are more than
offset by increased  reserve requirements  for banks, meaning the
aggregate impact is a tighter monetary policy.  The cost of goods leaving Turkish factories and mines rose
10.8 percent in the 12 months through January, compared with 8.9
percent the month before, the statistics agency said today.
Producer prices gained 2.4 percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  