-- Uruguay's Government Plans to Develop as Much Wind Energy `as Possible'
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2011-02-03T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/uruguay-s-government-aims-for-as-much-wind-energy-as-possible-.html
  Uruguay ,  South America ’s third-
cleanest country in terms of carbon emissions, plans to develop
as many wind farms as its electricity grid can support to
diversify energy supplies beyond fossil fuel and hydropower.  The country has 500 megawatts of wind projects in the
works, and Ramon Mendez, director of energy at the Ministry of
Industry, Energy and Mining, said Uruguay may generate 25
percent to 28 percent of its power from wind and biomass in
2015. That’s almost double its official goal of 15 percent.  “The idea is to go as high as possible,” Mendez said in a
telephone interview from Montevideo, Uruguay’s capital.  Uruguay has reached the limits of its hydroelectric
resources and is looking to tap low-cost wind power to bolster
its supplies of electricity.  The government invited in December developers to submit
proposals for an auction of 150 megawatts of wind power. The
national power company Usinas Y Transmisiones del Estado has
said it plans to develop 200 megawatts of wind farms. Mendez
said all of those projects may be in operation by 2015.  The country in January named the winners of another auction
for 150 megawatts of wind farms. Three developers including  Spain ’s  Abengoa SA  received contracts to sell wind power at
rates between $81.15 and $86.26 a megawatt-hour.  Those prices are about 40 percent cheaper than the $135 to
$140 it costs to buy electricity generated at fuel oil and
diesel oil thermoelectric plants, Mendez said.  Such plants produced 39 percent of the country’s power,
according to the most recent data from the  International Energy
Agency , a Paris-based intergovernmental research group.  Overproduction Risk  Mendez said the country must be careful not to install too
much capacity and burden the  power grid  with an excess of  wind
energy .  On a blustery summer night, for example, he said the
planned 500 megawatts of wind farms may, at peak moments,
produce as much as 60 percent of the country’s electricity. When
demand is low this surging supply may be a problem.  Overproduction can stress a country’s electricity
infrastructure and lead to blackouts,  James Cox , principal
consultant at Vantaa, Finland-based engineering company  Poyry
Oyj , said in an interview.  “Wind generation is not controllable, you get what you’re
given,” he said.  The risk is higher for small grids that are not well-
connected to neighboring countries, he said. Ireland, for
example, won’t permit wind energy to furnish more than 75
percent of the nation’s power at any time, he said.  Good Investment  Uruguay is considered an appealing investment target for
foreign developers because it’s “low risk,” Mendez said. Loans
for projects, however, can be expensive and carry annual rates
of 10 percent, twice what they cost in Europe, he said, which
can slow development.  Mendez said the wind is strong in Uruguay, which helps make
wind farms exceptionally productive. Capacity factors, which
measure how often turbines are working at full power, can reach
40 percent there, he said.  That’s about twice what some of the best-placed wind farms
in  Europe  achieve, according to Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. It makes wind power less expensive
in Uruguay than in other countries.  Argentina signed contracts for wind farms in a similar
renewable energy auction last year for an average price of $127
a megawatts hour, about 50 percent higher than recent prices in
Uruguay, according to Energia  Argentina  SA, the national energy
company.  Weaned from Oil  Uruguay wants to wean itself off oil completely by 2013 by
converting its existing thermoelectric power plants to liquefied
natural gas and developing its renewable energy resources,
Mendez said.  Hydroelectric facilities provided just over half of
Uruguay’s power in 2008, according to the IEA. “The problem is
we are dependent on the Nino-Nina climate pattern,” a warming
and cooling of the tropical eastern  Pacific Ocean  every five to
eight years that can effect rainfall, he said.  Two years ago there were weeks when the country only had
enough water in its reservoirs to operate 3 percent of its 1.6
gigawatts of hydroelectric plants, he said.  And there’s little chance to expand Uruguay’s
hydroelectricity resources. “We’ve exhausted all our main
rivers,” he said. “There’s no room for anything larger than 10
megawatts.”  Uruguay is the third-cleanest country in South America in
terms of  carbon emissions  per gross domestic product, according
to the  World Resources Institute . Mendez said he wants to
“maintain this label” as a carbon efficient economy, The
country’s 2005 to 2030 energy plan set a goal of generating 15
percent of its electricity from renewable sources.  “After we complete work on this 500 megawatts, we should
have more information on,” how much wind energy the grid can
cope with, Mendez said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 