-- Verizon Restrains Video Downloads as IPhone Debuts
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2011-02-03T21:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/verizon-wireless-will-restrain-full-video-downloading-as-iphone-debuts.html
Verizon Wireless, facing a jump in
data consumption as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone goes on sale, said it
will prevent users from downloading entire videos at once to
help “ease capacity burdens on the network.”  Verizon will also eliminate some colors and other data from
videos that it deems to be “not visible to the human eye,”
according to the policy  disclosed  on its Web site. “The loss of
information from the input file may result in reduced color
accuracy and sharpness.”  The carrier may also limit the download speeds for some
customers, who are among the top 5 percent in data consumption,
in areas where they risk jamming the network, a practice known
as throttling, said Jeffrey Nelson, a spokesman for Verizon.  Customers began preordering the Verizon iPhone today --
ending almost four years of AT&T Inc.’s exclusive U.S. rights to
carry the device. AT&T has said the iPhone contributed to a
sharp rise in data use on its network.  Verizon Wireless , based
in Basking Ridge,  New Jersey , said it will only allow the
beginning of videos to be downloaded initially while the
remainder is sent to a device as it is being watched.  “This is in order to manage the network,” Nelson said. Any
data slowdowns would be for “specific high-traffic locations at
specific high-traffic times of the day, where we are seeing
instances where lots of people are being negatively impacted.”  The limitations would apply only to customers signing up
for new or renewal contracts as of today, he said.  The new policy will spare some users from unnecessary data
usage and will improve download speeds, Verizon said. “This
progressive download achieves significant network savings if the
viewer chooses not to view the entire video.”    Verizon Communications Inc ., based in New York, co-owns
Verizon Wireless with  Vodafone Group Plc . of Newbury,  England .
Verizon rose 22 cents to $36.38 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  