-- Verizon May Buy Back as Many as 100 Million Shares
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2011-02-03T21:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/verizon-plans-to-buy-back-up-to-100-million-shares-valued-at-3-62-billion.html
  Verizon Communications Inc . said its
board authorized a buyback of as many as 100 million shares,
allowing the second-largest U.S. phone carrier to return cash to
investors as smartphone demand boosts its earnings.  A buyback of the full amount would equal about 3.6 percent
of outstanding shares and cost $3.62 billion at yesterday’s
closing price. The authorization is set to end Feb. 28, 2014, or
when Verizon reaches 100 million shares, according to a
statement from the New York-based company today.  Last week, Verizon forecast revenue growth for this year
that topped analysts’ estimates, as it sells more smartphones
and wireless data plans. The company started selling Apple
Inc.’s iPhone today, ending a monopoly AT&T Inc. had on the
device in the U.S. since 2007. Still, Verizon’s acquisition and
debt-service spending may mean that it buys back few, if any,
shares this year, said analysts including Shing Yin.  "We don’t believe that a buyback can be modeled or hoped
for any time soon," said Yin, of Citadel Securities LLC, in a
note to investors today. "In recent years, an authorization does
not necessarily translate in repurchase activity at Verizon."  Verizon must find ways to offset declining revenue from its
landline business and may report negative  cash flow  from that
unit this year, said New York-based Yin. The company also has
committed to paying down debt at  Verizon Wireless  -- which it
co-owns with  Vodafone Group Plc  -- and agreed to buy Terremark
Worldwide Inc. for $1.4 billion, said  Michael Nelson , an analyst
with Mizuho Securities Co. in New York.  Verizon spokesman Bob Varettoni declined to comment on the
timing of repurchases.  IPhone Boost  Sales and profit may jump as much as 8 percent this year if
Verizon sells 11 million iPhones, Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said last week. AT&T said it activated more than 15
million iPhones last year.  Verizon also said it is canceling a previous stock-
repurchase program set to end this month. The company had
approval to buy about 60 million shares remaining under that
authorization.  Verizon rose 22 cents to $36.38 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4 p.m. The company’s shares have gained 33
percent in the past 12 months.  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, said in December its
board authorized it to buy back as many as 300 million shares
with no expiration. That plan would cost the Dallas-based
carrier $8.3 billion at yesterday’s closing price.  U.S. companies are increasing spending on their own shares,
according to data from Birinyi Associates Inc. Businesses
announced $373.4 billion in stock-buyback authorizations in
2010, the fourth-highest annual level, according to the data.  Buyback announcements have fallen from a record $862.9
billion in 2007, when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied to
a record high, the Birinyi data show. Last year’s figure is
exceeded only by 2005, 2006 and 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  