-- Verizon IPhone Lets Users Make, Hold Calls: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2011-02-03T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/verizon-iphone-beats-at-t-at-making-voice-calls-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Yes, you can finally make calls on
it.  That’s the word millions of Americans have been waiting to
hear since  Apple Inc . and  Verizon Wireless  announced that the
iPhone 4 was at last coming to the Verizon network. Would it
provide a better experience than the version that runs on AT&T
Inc.’s rival system?  My early conclusion is, it does. I’ve been using the
 Verizon iPhone , available today for pre-order and in stores on
Feb. 10, for about a week in various locales in Northern
California, and it has yet to drop or fail to connect a call.
That’s a sharp contrast with my AT&T iPhone, which continues to
lose calls regularly.  You have to feel a little sorry for AT&T. When it won
exclusive rights to the first iPhone in 2007, there was no way
to know how popular it would prove to be -- or how much stress
all those bandwidth-munching users would put on its network.  The result has been that many U.S. iPhone buyers have been
torn between delight with their cool gadget and a desire to hurl
it into New York Harbor,  San Francisco Bay  or some other handy
body of water. And AT&T has become a punchline for comedians, as
in  Jon Stewart ’s recent  rant  on  Comedy Central ’s   Daily Show .”  No Slam-Dunk  Still, deciding between Verizon and AT&T isn’t a slam-dunk,
and current AT&T users who are able to switch shouldn’t
automatically do so. The AT&T version is superior in some
important respects, and you may have better service where you
are than I do where I am. It does mean, though, that current and
potential iPhone users in the U.S. finally have a choice. And
that’s a very good thing.  The new iPhone is just that: a new iPhone. AT&T and Verizon
use different technologies, and a phone that runs on one
company’s network can’t run on the other’s. Still, the two
handsets have the same dimensions, display and user interface,
and the physical differences are minimal. The Verizon version
has no SIM-card slot, the black bands in the metal rim that
serve as the antenna are in different places and the mute switch
is slightly lower -- meaning that some existing cases may not
fit right.  The two phones seem comparable in their ability to connect
to the Internet over their respective 3G  data networks . I found
no clear pattern as to which was faster in terms of Google
searches, loading Web pages or running applications that access
the Net. Using  Speedtest.net ’s measurement app, sometimes one
was faster, sometimes the other. Neither phone is capable of
using the new 4G networks that carriers are beginning to roll
out across the nation and that promise much faster data speeds.  Personal Hotspot  The Verizon phone offers one useful new feature called
Personal Hotspot, which for an extra monthly fee allows you to
share the iPhone’s data connection via Wi-Fi with up to five
other devices. It’s simpler and more flexible than the so-called
tethering function on AT&T iPhones, and I found it to work well
with a variety of gadgets, including laptops and an iPad. When
other products are sharing the connection, you’ll see a message
on the iPhone screen; when they are done using the phone to get
online, the Personal Hotspot shuts down to conserve battery
life.  There are two significant drawbacks to the Verizon iPhone.
One is that, unlike the AT&T version, you can’t talk and access
the Internet over the 3G connection at the same time. So you
can’t, for instance, check movie times while you’re on a call
with a friend.  Don’t Blame IPhone  This isn’t the iPhone’s fault -- it’s a characteristic of
the technology Verizon uses, known as CDMA, and it’s the same
story on Verizon 3G phones that run  Google Inc .’s Android
operating system and, later this year,  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows
Phone 7.  The other drawback is that CDMA, which was developed by
Qualcomm Corp., is far less widely used outside the U.S. than is
the standard AT&T uses, which is known as GSM. So if you need to
use your phone internationally, AT&T may make more sense.  The Verizon iPhone will cost $199.99 with a two-year
service contract for a model storing 16 gigabytes of music,
movies and data, and $299.99 for 32 gigabytes, which is
comparable to what AT&T charges. For now, Verizon will continue
to sell an unlimited data plan for the device, but it’s likely
to follow AT&T to tiered pricing later this year.  Hopefully, Verizon executives have learned from observing
AT&T’s travails, and their network is ready for the onslaught of
data-hungry iPhone users. We’ll soon find out. In the meantime,
a word to whoever it was in the Apple PR department who called
my AT&T iPhone while I was writing this column: Sorry about
that. The call failed. Try the Verizon number.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 