-- Viacom Profit Drops on Lower Home-Entertainment Sales
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2011-02-03T21:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/viacom-net-drops-on-lower-home-entertainment-sales-at-paramount-pictures.html
  Viacom Inc ., owner of MTV Networks
and Paramount Pictures, posted a 12 percent decline in first-
quarter profit as a drop in home-entertainment sales lowered
earnings at the  Paramount Pictures  film unit.  Net income fell to $610 million, or $1 a share, from $694
million, or $1.14, a year earlier, New York-based Viacom said
today in a statement. Sales in the period ended Dec. 31 declined
4.8 percent to $3.83 billion, missing the $4.08 billion average
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Film-unit earnings dropped 77 percent, as “How to Train
Your Dragon” and the latest “Shrek” DVD sales failed to match
“Transformers,” “Star Trek” and “GI Joe” titles in the
year-earlier period. Profit rose at cable networks including MTV
and Comedy Central, as shows such as “Jersey Shore” helped
lift ratings at MTV.  “Filmed entertainment results were a bit worse than we
expected despite the strong box office,” Alan Gould, an analyst
at Evercore Partners in  New York  with an “overweight” rating
on the stock, said in a note to clients today. Home
entertainment revenue declined “due to the very difficult
comparisons.”  Viacom, controlled by Chairman Sumner Redstone, fell 42
cents to $43.55 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at
4:02 p.m. The Class B shares jumped 33 percent in 2010, more
than the 13 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.    Jon Stewart  to Hulu  Excluding one-time items, profit was $1.02 a share,
compared with the 99-cent average analyst estimate. The
company’s tax rate was lower than estimated, helping earnings
per share exceed analysts’ estimates, Gould said.  Film-unit sales fell 16 percent, as box-office revenue from
movies including “Jackass 3-D” and Oscar nominee “True Grit”
was offset by the decline in DVD sales. Paramount distributes
the “Shrek” and “Train Your Dragon” movies for DreamWorks
Animation SKG.  “Jersey Shore” has posted record ratings in its third
season, which began last month, and ranked No. 1 in the 18-49
age group advertisers covet, beating broadcast networks,  MTV 
said last week. On Jan. 25, the company ordered a fourth season.  Yesterday, the company reached an agreement with Hulu LLC
that restores Comedy Central’s “The Daily Show With Jon
Stewart” and “The Colbert Report” to the ad-supported
Hulu.com video service.  Viacom pulled the content in March 2010 and said then it
would consider returning. As part of yesterday’s deal, “Jersey
Shore” episodes will be available on the $7.99-a-month Hulu
Plus service that competes with  Netflix Inc . 21 days after the
programs air on MTV.    News Corp ., owner of Fox Broadcasting and the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio, yesterday said quarterly profit more
than doubled, led by its cable networks and broadcast fees.    Time Warner Inc ., owner of Warner Bros.,  CNN  and TNT, said
television advertising gains and a box-office boost from the
latest “Harry Potter” movie helped generate a 22 percent
increase in net income. The New York-based company raised its
dividend by 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  