-- Virginia to Ask U.S. Supreme Court to Expedite Hearing on Health-Care Law
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2011-02-03T18:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/virginia-to-ask-supreme-court-to-hear-health-law-case-update1-.html
  Virginia  will seek expedited U.S.
Supreme Court review of President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul, asking the justices to take the rare step of
considering the case without waiting for an appeals court
decision.  Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli said today he will
urge the high court to uphold a federal trial judge’s conclusion
that Congress overstepped its authority by requiring Americans
to either obtain insurance or pay a penalty.  Supreme Court experts said the court is unlikely to go
along. The  Justice Department  said it would oppose immediate
high court review, reducing the likelihood that the justices
will agree to Virginia’s request.  “The department continues to believe this case should
follow the ordinary course of allowing the court of appeals to
hear it first,” said  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department
spokeswoman.  The  Supreme Court  has taken the step being sought by
Cuccinelli, known as certiorari before judgment, only a handful
of times in the past half century and generally only when the
justices are simultaneously considering a related case that has
cleared the appellate level.  Cuccinelli said the case was worthy of unusual treatment. A
decision by the court to take up the case now would guarantee a
ruling before the 2012 presidential election.  ‘A Prompt Resolution’  “Regardless of whether you believe the law is
constitutional or not, we should all agree that a prompt
resolution of this issue is in everyone’s best interest,”
Cuccinelli said in a statement.  The chances of the court agreeing to hear the case in the
face of government opposition are “zero,” said  Carter
Phillips , a lawyer in Washington at Sidley Austin LLP who has
argued more than 60 Supreme Court cases.  Another top Supreme Court lawyer,  Theodore Olson  of Gibson
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said yesterday those prospects will be
reduced by the opposition of the solicitor general, the Justice
Department lawyer who serves as the government’s advocate at the
Supreme Court.  ‘Considerable Deference’  “If the solicitor general opposes cert before judgment,
the justices of the Supreme Court certainly would accord
considerable deference to his views,” said Olson, who served as
solicitor general under President  George W. Bush .  Olson said the public would be well served by fast-track
consideration by the high court.  The court has granted certiorari before judgment twice in
the last decade. In 2004 the justices agreed to consider the
constitutionality of the federal sentencing guidelines using two
cases, one of which came directly from federal trial court.  Similarly, in 2002 the justices accepted two appeals
challenging race-based admissions policies at the  University of
Michigan . An appeals court had ruled in one of the cases and was
holding off issuing a decision in the second.  The last time the court granted certiorari before judgment
in a standalone case was in 1988 in another fight over the
federal sentencing guidelines. In agreeing to hear that case,
the Supreme Court pointed to “the disarray among the federal
district courts.”  Insurance Mandate  U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson in December ruled that the
insurance mandate was beyond Congress’s power to regulate
interstate commerce. A federal appeals court based in Richmond,
Virginia, is scheduled to hear the Obama administration’s appeal
of that ruling in May -- alongside an appeal of a different
judge’s decision upholding the law.  Separately, a federal judge in  Florida  this week declared
the entire law unconstitutional in a challenge brought by 26
states. That case is on course to be reviewed by a different
federal appeals court in Atlanta, although Utah Attorney General
Mark Shurtleff said he wants to seek direct Supreme Court
review.  A third appeals court, based in Cincinnati, is also poised
to consider the law in the next several months.  The Supreme Court hasn’t directly considered a challenge to
Congress’s power under the Constitution’s commerce clause since  John Roberts  became chief justice in 2005.  ‘Compel an Individual’  Opponents say the health plan is unlike anything the
Supreme Court has ever upheld because the law would require
people to take action: either buy health insurance or pay a
fine. Hudson said no Supreme Court or appeals court ruling
authorizes Congress to “compel an individual to involuntarily
enter the stream of commerce” by buying something.  The Obama administration argues that people who would opt
not to buy insurance without the mandate will affect interstate
commerce eventually -- and potentially impose costs on the
government, insurers and hospitals -- when they seek emergency
room or other medical services.  The administration also contends that the individual
mandate is essential to the law’s goal of increasing health-care
availability and affordability.  The government says that, without such a rule, people could
forgo buying insurance until they became sick, at which point
the new law would require insurers to provide coverage. The
effect would be to eventually drive insurers out of business,
the administration says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 