-- LVMH Stake-Building Has `Revolted' Hermes Family Members, CEO Thomas Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2011-02-03T13:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/lvmh-stake-building-has-revolted-hermes-family-members-ceo-thomas-says.html
  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA 
will struggle to get control of  Hermes International  SCA as the
family is “revolted” and united by the world’s largest luxury
goods maker’s stake-building, its chief executive officer said.  Fifty-two members of Hermes’s founding family won a waiver
last month to set up a new holding company without having to bid
for the rest of the luxury-goods maker after LVMH, run by  Bernard Arnault , built up a 20.2 percent stake in its Paris-
based rival. The structure will have 50.2 percent of Hermes’s
shares and right of first refusal on an additional 12.6 percent.  “One day, Mr. Arnault will realize he can’t get control,”
Hermes CEO Patrick Thomas, 63, said in an interview late
yesterday. “The family is unbelievably united.”  Hermes became a Societe en Commandite par Actions to guard
against a possible takeover, Thomas said. The structure is used
by family owned businesses allowing them to keep control of
decision-making even if they become minority shareholders. While
that offered sufficient protection against LVMH, Thomas said,
the family created the holding company to show unity.  “We wanted to send a message to Mr. Arnault,” Thomas
said. Arnault’s actions united the family to set up the holding
company, which is “devised to last.”  LVMH announced in October it held a 14.2 percent stake in
Hermes and derivative instruments for another 2.9 percent that
it has since exercised. LVMH, which now holds 20.2 percent of
the Birkin bag maker, has said it doesn’t intend to seek a board
seat or control.  ‘Challenge’  To get control of Hermes, Thomas said Arnault would need
two-thirds of Hermes shares plus approval from the Commandite,
which would be “a challenge.”  Hermes today raised its outlook for operating-margin growth
after fourth-quarter sales beat analysts’ estimates and helped
the company surpass its 2010 revenue forecast. Hermes’s
performance is the best means of ensuring shareholder loyalty,
Thomas said in an interview on BFM Radio, after the release of
the numbers.  Revenue may climb between 8 percent and 10 percent at
constant rates of currency exchange in 2011, Lionel Martin- Guinard, Hermes director of financial operations, said on a
conference call. Sales in January are “in line” with the
annual forecast, he said.  Hermes shares climbed as much as 3.80 euros, or 2.5
percent, to 154 euros and traded at 148.25 euros as of 1:53 p.m.
in Paris. The stock has fallen 5.4 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 15.7 billion euros ($21.6 billion).  Successors  Thomas doesn’t anticipate retiring before the “fight”
with LVMH has been won, though he would step down when the
family wanted him to. “I am committed to the family,” Thomas
said. “I’m not going to let them down.”  The executive said he was grooming his successor and was
organizing the company for the moment the board would need to
appoint a replacement. Candidates include family and non-family
members, he said.  “Hermes is full of talent,” Thomas said. “There are lots
of people who can take the top job who are better than me.”  Full-year operating margin will widen by about 3 percentage
points, Hermes said in a statement, lifting a previous forecast
for an increase of as much as 2 percentage points. Pretax profit
will rise by slightly more than 40 percent, the maker of leather
bags and silk scarves said.  Sales for the three months ended Dec. 31 climbed 25 percent
to 736 million euros, from 587.3 million euros, Hermes said. The
average estimate of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg was
709.4 million euros. Excluding currency moves, full-year revenue
advanced 19 percent to 2.4 billion euros, beating a November
forecast of about 15 percent growth.  Hermes will pay a dividend of 1 euro a share on Feb. 10 and
plans to open 10 stores this year, the company said. Net cash
was 830 million euros as of Dec. 31, Hermes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 