-- LVMH Analysts Say Buy Shares on Cheap in Run-Up to Record Earnings Report
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2011-02-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/lvmh-analysts-say-buy-shares-on-cheap-in-run-up-to-record-earnings-report.html
While Louis Vuitton bags never go on
sale, investors may still have a chance to snap up  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ’s shares at a discount before the
company reports earnings tomorrow.  The owner of Moet champagne and Tag Heuer watches may say
2010 net income rose 48 percent to a record 2.61 billion euros
($3.6 billion), according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Investors can benefit by buying the stock, which lost 7.4
percent in January amid a sell-off of luxury shares, according
to Leopold Authie, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  LVMH’s valuation “is very attractive,” said Marc Willaume, an analyst at  Raymond James  in Paris. He lists LVMH as
his top pick and recommends buying it. “So far it is difficult
to see a black hole in their portfolio.”  LVMH may say sales last year advanced 18 percent to 20.1
billion euros as wealthy clients bought more Givenchy handbags
and retailers replenished inventories of Hublot timepieces, the
survey shows. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA,  Bulgari SpA ,  Burberry Group Plc  and  Tod’s SpA  all reported sales increases of
at least 16 percent in the last three months of 2010 as the
industry rebounded from the worst year on record and Asian
shoppers lifted spending.  The Paris-based company trades at 26 times earnings, while
Burberry trades at 46 times and Gucci owner PPR SA at 35.  Hermes
International  SCA, the Kelly bag maker in which LVMH unveiled a
stake last year, trades at 44 times earnings.  Analyst Ratings  Twenty-six of the analysts covering LVMH say investors
should buy the stock while one suggests selling. The stock has
fallen 6.6 percent in Paris trading this year, exceeding the
Bloomberg European Fashion Index’s 5.7 percent slide, after
surging 57 percent in 2010. The index, which also includes
Hermes and Richemont, advanced 60 percent last year.  While January’s dip by European luxury stocks has brought
valuations back to “fair and sustainable” levels, the decline
in LVMH’s share price creates an “interesting” buying
opportunity, according to Davide Vimercati, an analyst at
UniCredit in Milan.  “LVMH will continue to deliver consistent above-average
top-line earnings and growth in the near and medium term, thanks
to its balanced geographical exposure and diversified business
portfolio,” he wrote Jan. 28. He recommends buying the shares.  ‘Bee My Love’  Watches and jewelry may have been the best-performing unit
in 2010. Sales at the division, which includes Chaumet “Bee My
Love” tiaras, probably rose 26 percent, while operating profit
may have almost doubled to 125 million euros, according to
Emmanuel Bruley Des Varannes, a Societe Generale analyst.  Sales growth at the unit will likely slow in 2011, climbing
10 percent after last year’s rebound, estimates  Antoine Belge ,
an analyst at HSBC. The division’s operating margin may widen
2.1 percentage points, despite increases in gold prices and the
value of the Swiss Franc against the euro, more than LVMH’s
other businesses, according to Belge.  “Price increases will play an important role for Swiss
watchmakers and we expect that all the watch companies will
increase prices in euros and U.S. dollars in the course of
2011,” Claudia Lenz, an analyst at Vontobel, wrote in a report
last month.  LVMH’s watch and jewelry operating profit may rise 35
percent this year, compared with 23 percent in champagne and
wine, the next best performer, Bruley Des Varannes estimates.  Craftsmen Shortage  Sales of fashion and leather goods may have risen 21
percent in 2010, Exane BNP’s Authie estimates. The unit, which
accounts for about 40 percent of total revenue, may post growth
of 10 percent this year, according to  Thomas Chauvet , an analyst
at Citigroup in  London .  The only limit to growth may be a shortage of trained
craftsmen at Vuitton, which the company hopes to partly redress
by the end of the second quarter after opening a new factory in  France  in March, according to Belge.  Price increases and new products such as the Monogram
 Empreinte  leather accessories line, which Vuitton introduced in
the fourth quarter, may help drive sales. The collection, which
features tote bags for $2,720, will lift average selling prices
and help margins widen to 34 percent in 2011 from 33.5 percent
in 2010, Authie estimates.  The Vuitton brand has a value of 17.9 times estimated
earnings, “which looks good value versus peers on 19.2 times
and Hermes on 33.5 times consensus,” Chauvet wrote Jan. 28.  LVMH may say wines and spirits sales climbed 19 percent in
2010, while selective retailing rose 18 percent, according to
Raymond James’s Willaume. Revenue at the units may rise 9
percent and 7 percent, respectively, in 2011, Chauvet estimates.  “Although the comparison base will be tough, LVMH’s
general prospects continue to be favorable,” Oddo Securities
analyst Francois-Regis Breuil wrote in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 