-- Vodafone Says It Was Instructed to Send Pro-Mubarak Messages to Customers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2011-02-03T14:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/vodafone-ordered-to-send-egyptian-government-messages-update1-.html
  Vodafone Group Plc  was ordered to
send mobile-phone  text messages  by the Egyptian government,
urging people to confront “traitors and criminals” as
demonstrators demanded the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  The Egyptian authorities can instruct the local mobile
network operators, which also include Etisalat and France
Telecom SA’s Mobinil service, to send messages under emergency
powers provisions, Vodafone said today. The messages were not
written by the mobile-phone operators, it said.  “The Armed Forces urge Egypt’s loyal men to confront the
traitors and the criminals and to protect our families, our
honor and our precious Egypt,” said a Feb. 1 text message sent
on Vodafone’s network and obtained by Bloomberg News.  A Vodafone spokesman declined to comment on the details of
the messages it was ordered to send. Spokespeople for France
Telecom and Emirates Telecommunications Corp., also known as
Etisalat, couldn’t immediately be reached to comment.  Egyptian Internet services were restored yesterday after
protests by demonstrators demanding the ousting of President
Mubarak had led to five days of closure. Mobile-phone voice
services at units of Vodafone and  France Telecom SA  were
restored Jan. 29.  The world’s biggest mobile-phone operator has protested to
the authorities that the current situation is “unacceptable,”
Vodafone said. “We have made clear that all messages should be
transparent and clearly attributable to the originator.”  Egypt’s largest opposition group today rejected talks with
President Mubarak after at least six protesters were killed in
Cairo’s Tahrir Square overnight, and vowed to stay at the scene
of the fighting until he steps down.  Street Fighting  Fighting broke out again today in Tahrir Square, where the
army set up a barrier after more than 800 people were injured in
yesterday’s clashes. Al Arabiya television reported heavy
gunfire from around the square. Mubarak loyalists rode horses
and camels into Tahrir late yesterday, swinging whips and clubs,
and both sides hurled rocks, bottles and concrete chunks.  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said
earlier today that SMS services in  Egypt  had not yet been
restored. “It’s not in our power, it will be restored when we
are authorized to restore it,” Colao said on a conference call
with reporters.  Egypt has one of the most advanced telecommunications
markets in the Middle East and  Africa . About 95 percent of
Egyptians, or 74.9 million subscribers, are clients of a mobile
phone network, according to analysts at Cairo-based AlembicHC.  “This is a country where there is still a curfew and
extraordinary legislation in place,” Colao said today, adding
that antennae had been damaged as part of the protests. “We are
in a continuous dialogue with government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 