-- Vodafone Third-Quarter Service Sales Rise 2.5% on Data Demand
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2011-02-03T07:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/vodafone-service-sales-rise-2-5-as-data-compensates-for-decline-in-voice.html
  Vodafone Group Plc  reported an 2.5
percent increase in fiscal third-quarter service revenue as the
world’s biggest mobile-phone operator focused on bolstering data
services to make up for a drop in traditional voice offerings.  Service sales excluding currency swings and acquisitions
rose to 10.96 billion pounds ($17.8 billion) in the three month
ended Dec. 31, the company said in a statement today. The
average of 11 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey was for an
increase of 2.4 percent.  The company today also said that adjusted operating profit
is predicted to come in at the upper end of its forecast.  Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao is pulling back from
some markets to focus on high-growth data demand from
smartphones such as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone. Analysts including
Sanford C. Bernstein’s Robin Bienenstock have said that data
revenue will be Vodafone’s main driver of sales growth in 2011.  “This is the fifth successive quarter of service revenue
growth improvement, with strong results from  India , Turkey, the
U.K. and Vodacom, Colao said today. “Our performance has been
driven by the effective execution of our strategy to strengthen
our businesses and deliver growth, particularly in data services
and emerging markets.”  The company said today that adjusted operating profit will
be at the upper end of the 11.8 billion pounds to 12.2 billion
pounds range before any impact from its U.S. venture Verizon
Wireless starting to offer Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Service sales include revenue from voice, data, messaging
and broadband offerings and exclude handsets and accessories. In
the previous quarter, organic service sales rose 2.3 percent.
Vodafone returned to growth in the quarter that ended June after
a year and a half of declines.  Generating cash for investment in faster networks, Colao
last year sold holdings in Japanese wireless operator Softbank
Corp. for 3.1 billion pounds and a stake in  China Mobile Ltd .
for $6.5 billion. He is reviewing the company’s 44 percent
holding in French mobile-phone operator SFR, which partner  Vivendi SA  wants to buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 