-- U.K. Complains to Egypt on Ordered Vodafone Messages
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2011-02-04T10:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/vodafone-france-telecom-ordered-to-send-text-messages-in-egypt.html
The U.K. government complained to
Egypt after  Vodafone Group Plc  was ordered to send  text messages 
seen to instigate violence as demonstrators demanded the ouster
of President  Hosni Mubarak .  U.K. Foreign Office Minister Alistair Burt contacted the
Egyptian ambassador in London to discuss the order to Vodafone
after the company reached out to the government, the Foreign
Office said last night. British Foreign Secretary William Hague 
yesterday issued a statement calling the “abuse” of Internet and 
mobile-phone networks “unacceptable and disturbing.”  Egyptian authorities instructed the local mobile-network
operators, which also include Etisalat and  France Telecom SA ’s
Mobinil service, to send messages under emergency powers
provisions. Vodafone, the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
said yesterday that the messages were not written by the mobile-
phone operators.  “The Armed Forces urge Egypt’s loyal men to confront the
traitors and the criminals and to protect our families, our
honor and our precious Egypt,” said a Feb. 1 text message sent
on Vodafone’s network and obtained by Bloomberg News.  A Vodafone spokesman declined to comment on the details of
the messages the U.K.-based company was ordered to send. France
Telecom said Mobinil is being given similar orders.  Vodafone shares rose 0.6 percent to 178.1 pence as of 10:33
a.m. in  London  trading today.  ‘Neutrality Principle’  “Messages with army endorsement concerning national
security and general safety were the only messages processed by
Mobinil,” France Telecom said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “France Telecom strongly disapproves of any message
of a political nature that runs against the neutrality principle
which defines our role as a network operator.”  Representatives for Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,
known as Etisalat, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Egyptian Internet services were restored Feb. 2 after
protests by demonstrators calling for the ouster of President
Mubarak had led to five days of closure. Mobile-phone voice
services at units of Vodafone and Mobinil were restored Jan. 29.  Vodafone has protested to the authorities that the current
situation is “unacceptable,” the company said. “We have made
clear that all messages should be transparent and clearly
attributable to the originator.”    Egypt ’s largest opposition group yesterday rejected talks
with President Mubarak after at least six protesters were killed
in Cairo’s Tahrir Square overnight, and vowed to stay at the
scene of the fighting until he steps down.  Street Fighting  Fighting broke out again yesterday in Tahrir Square, where
the army set up a barrier after more than 800 people were
injured in earlier clashes. Al Arabiya television reported heavy
gunfire from around the square. Mubarak loyalists rode horses
and camels into Tahrir, swinging whips and clubs, and both sides
hurled rocks, bottles and concrete chunks.  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said
yesterday that text-message services in Egypt had not yet been
restored. “It’s not in our power, it will be restored when we
are authorized to restore it,” Colao said on a conference call
with reporters.  Egypt has one of the most advanced telecommunications
markets in the Middle East and  Africa . About 95 percent of
Egyptians, or 74.9 million subscribers, are clients of a mobile
phone network, according to analysts at Cairo-based AlembicHC.  “This is a country where there is still a curfew and
extraordinary legislation in place,” Colao said yesterday,
adding that antennae had been damaged as part of the protests.
“We are in a continuous dialogue with government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 