-- Wells Fargo-Backed Hedge Fund Said to Seek Money as Bank Exits
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-03T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/wells-fargo-backed-hedge-fund-said-to-seek-money-as-bank-withdraws-capital.html
  Wells Fargo & Co . plans to withdraw
the capital from its affiliated hedge-fund firm, Overland
Advisors LLC, as the asset manager seeks new investors, two
people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Wells Fargo, responding to U.S. curbs on risk-taking by
banks, will withdraw about $150 million every quarter through
the first half of 2014, said one of the people, declining to be
identified because the move isn’t public. Overland manages about
$2.1 billion, according to a two-page factsheet provided by
Laura Fay, a bank spokeswoman. The fund is looking to raise $1
billion from outside investors, the people said.  “There is some seed money in there from Wells Fargo,”
Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins said in a Jan. 19
interview without specifying the amount. “Typically what
happens is that seed money comes out after a period of time
after the business grows, so I think of that as primarily a
mechanism for third-party customers.”  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, will still collect
income from fees charged to manage client assets once its
capital is removed, Atkins said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. are among U.S. banks breaking off or
winding down proprietary-trading units to comply with a
provision of 2010’s Dodd-Frank financial legislation that
prohibits lenders from betting capital for their own accounts.  Overland was formed in January 2010 when Wells Fargo
decided to move a proprietary-trading group out of the
Securities Investment Group, run by John Shrewsberry, and into
an asset-management division.  Arm’s Length  “This is keeping them at arm’s length,” said Terry Connelly,  dean  of the Ageno School of Business at Golden Gate
University in San Francisco, and a former managing director at  Salomon Brothers . Wells Fargo is “anticipating this thoroughly
and keeping a relationship that is a good benefit to them.”  Wells Fargo executives have said that proprietary trading
was a smaller contributor to earnings than it has been for
rivals.  “We believe the impact on Wells Fargo overall will be
lower than the impact of our large bank peers, particularly in
areas such as proprietary trading,” Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said on a conference call in July last year,
speaking about financial reform. Two months earlier, at the
company’s investor day in May, he said “diversity in our
business model and our lack of proprietary-trading activity
creates high-quality, less-volatile earnings.”  Atkins said on May 19 that Wells Fargo, in integrating
Wachovia Corp.’s investment-banking division, was “exiting
equity proprietary trading, exiting distressed debt trading and
correlation trading.” He didn’t mention Overland Advisors.  Volcker Rule  The rule against risk-taking by banks is named after former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who proposed it. Bank
holding companies with federally insured deposits are barred
from having hedge-fund and private-equity-fund holdings that
account for more than 3 percent of bank capital or 3 percent of
an individual fund’s capital. The rule, which became law in July
as part of Dodd-Frank, also bans proprietary trading.  Overland is now part of Wells Fargo’s Asset Management
Group, the business run by Michael Niedermeyer, Fay said.  “We are pleased to be able to leverage this internal
investment talent to establish an affiliate focused on providing
accredited investors access to a relative value strategy,”
Niedermeyer said in an e-mailed statement.  Prior to the move, the proprietary-trading group managed
about $4.3 billion of the bank’s capital. By the time the fund
was launched, Wells Fargo’s capital had been reduced to $3.5
billion, one of the people said. The Overland Relative Value
Fund started in March 2010, AR magazine reported in July.  Client Investments  The bank’s capital is held in a separate account from
client assets, according to both people. At the time of last
year’s launch, clients had about $204 million of assets invested,
AR reported.  Uncertainty over passage of the Volcker rule and its impact
on Wells Fargo’s ability to invest in the fund made it difficult
to attract outside capital, said one of the people. Investors
have shown an increased willingness to invest now that the bank
has a plan to withdraw capital, the person said.  Wells Fargo is among banks including JPMorgan and Goldman
Sachs that moved star trading teams into asset-management
divisions as a way of retaining talent and preventing a total
drain on profits, Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC in  New York , said in an interview.  Moving Traders  Traders “had their upside capped and they were itching to
make money, and so said, ‘Either put me in a place where I have
an upside like asset management with a special structure or I’m
going to go to private equity or start up my own fund,’” said
Peabody, who wasn’t referring to Wells Fargo specifically. “You
either have to say, ‘Okay go your own way,’ or you will have to
structure something internally.”  In October, KKR & Co. said it planned to start a unit to
invest in stocks with proprietary traders from Goldman Sachs
after regulations spurred the investment bank to shed a team
that made bets with the firm’s capital.  Overland Advisors is led by Gordy Holterman, 45, and Derek Dunn, 38, and employs about 11 people in the investment team,
and 22 overall, according to the factsheet. The team had helped
run an internal relative-value portfolio for almost a decade at
Wells Fargo, said one of the people.  Holterman joined Wells Fargo in 2001 as head of financial
products, and oversaw the internal portfolio since inception.
Dunn joined Wells Fargo in 2007 and previously worked at D.E.
Shaw & Co. LP and Man Group Plc-backed Marin Capital.  Overland Advisors  Overland Advisors is “involved in capital structure
arbitrage, convertible arbitrage, event-driven, special
situations and distressed strategies,” according to the
LinkedIn page of Darrell Leong, who describes himself as an
analyst. James Gifford, a portfolio manager, said he’s in charge
of “U.S. equity-linked strategies, including convertible
arbitrage & equity volatility,” according to his LinkedIn page.  The firm typically holds 80 to 100 positions “where there
is an expected event catalyst or undervalued optionality,”
according to the factsheet. It uses so-called quantitative
strategies, or mathematical models, to trade securities, said a
third person familiar with the firm.  Wells Fargo holds private-equity investments that may be
subject to the new financial rules. The bank has backed  Norwest
Venture Partners , a venture-capital fund that manages more than
$3.7 billion, and  Norwest Equity Partners , with $4.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  