-- West Ham Moves Off Bottom of Premier League; Liverpool Wins Third Straight
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-02-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/west-ham-moves-off-bottom-of-premier-league-liverpool-wins-third-straight.html
West Ham won 3-1 at Blackpool to
climb off the bottom of the standings in English soccer’s
Premier League, as Liverpool beat Stoke 2-0 for its third
straight win.  Victor Obinna scored two goals last night as West Ham moved
above Wolverhampton and Wigan in the 20-team league.  Robbie Keane  also scored in his first game for the Hammers after moving
from Tottenham.  Birmingham rallied to tie Manchester City 2-2, while
Tottenham, Bolton and Fulham all won 1-0.  West Ham’s second away win of the season moved it closer to
preserving its Premier League status. With West Ham and
Birmingham tied on 24 points, the London team remains in the
relegation zone on goal difference.  Obinna opened the scoring in the 24th minute and Keane
followed with a goal 13 minutes later.  Charlie Adam  pulled
Blackpool within 2-1 in the 42nd minute, before Obinna restored
the two-goal advantage less than two minutes later.  Raul Miereles and new signing  Luis Suarez  scored as
Liverpool extend its winning run.  Miereles gave Liverpool the lead two minutes into the
second half. Suarez, who joined the Reds from Ajax three days
ago, then came off the bench to clinch the victory with 11
minutes left.  The Paraguayan ran onto a ball after getting past the Stoke
defense, went around goalkeeper Asmir Begovic and sent a low
shot toward goal. Defender Andy Wilkinson’s clearing attempt
went off the goalpost and across the line as he slid to keep the
ball out of the open net.  Birmingham Draws  Craig Gardner’s 77th-minute penalty gave Birmingham the
draw, leaving third-place Manchester City eight points behind
leader  Manchester United  and three behind Arsenal, having played
a game more than the top two clubs.    Carlos Tevez  gave City the lead after four minutes and
Nikola Zigic tied the game in the 23rd minute. Aleksandar
Kolarov then put City back in front just before halftime before
Gardner answered late for the home side after Patrick Vieira
fouled Kevin Phillips in the area.    Peter Crouch  had the only goal in the third minute as
Tottenham strengthened its hold on fifth place with the win at
Blackburn.  Damien Duff’s second-half goal lifted Fulham past his old
team Newcastle and Daniel Sturridge marked his recent move to
Bolton from Chelsea with an injury-time winner that dropped
Wolves into last place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 