-- Woodside May Seek CEO From Among Browse Gas Project Partners, Analysts Say
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2011-02-03T05:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/woodside-may-seek-ceo-from-among-browse-gas-project-partners-analysts-say.html
  Woodside Petroleum Ltd . may try to
lure an executive away from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Chevron
Corp .,  BHP Billiton Ltd . or  BP Plc  to run the company after Don Voelte steps down as chief this year, analysts said.  Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer,
likely wants someone who has worked closely with the company
already, David Brennan, an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets in
Melbourne, said by phone today. The four companies are targets
because they are Woodside’s partners in the proposed $30 billion
Browse gas project in Western Australia, he said.  Voelte, 58 and chief executive officer since April 2004,
plans to retire later in 2011 after the A$14 billion ($14.2
billion) Pluto liquefied natural gas venture begins production,
Woodside said last year. Woodside in November said the project
would be delayed, with the start now scheduled for August.  Grant King, managing director at  Origin Energy Ltd ., would
be a “prize” for Woodside if the company were successful in
hiring him away from the electricity and gas retailer, said  Xavier Grunauer , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney.  Woodside is considering King and Ann Pickard, head of
Shell’s Australian operations, as potential successors to
Voelte, the Sydney Morning Herald said today, without citing
anyone.  Laura Hammer, a spokeswoman for Woodside, declined in an e-
mail to comment. Origin spokeswoman Lina Melero in Sydney said
the company wouldn’t comment on “speculation.”  ‘Respected’ CEO  Woodside dropped 0.2 percent to A$42.41 at the 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney, compared with a gain of 0.5 percent for the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. Origin rose 0.6 percent to A$16.42.  Origin’s King “is probably one of the most respected CEOs
in the market,”  Mark Greenwood , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
Sydney, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Woodside
has a lot of uncommercialized gas” at the proposed Browse and
Sunrise ventures “and investors would be confident that Grant
King would pursue all avenues to commercialize that gas.”  Roy Krzywosinski runs the Australian business of  San Ramon ,
California-based Chevron. In August, Paul Waterman was named
president of BP Australasia. J. Michael Yeager, who is based in
the U.S., heads the petroleum division at BHP,  Australia ’s
biggest oil and gas producer.  The Chevron executive and Pickard, of The Hague-based
Shell, “have pretty significant portfolios in their own right”
and as a result are less likely to leave their posts, Greenwood
said.  ‘Political Skills’  Woodside will need a new chief with “political” skills
after Voelte retires, Grunauer and Brennan said. Woodside has
clashed with the government of  East Timor  over how to develop
the Sunrise LNG project and faces opposition to a plan to
process the Browse gas at a site in the Kimberley region.  “They need someone to unlock some gates, to move projects
forward, someone with political savvy,” Grunauer said.  Woodside hired Heidrick & Struggles to search for a new CEO
and hasn’t named potential external replacements or candidates
within the company. Lucio Della Martina runs the Pluto project,
Kevin Gallagher oversees the North West Shelf venture, and Rob
Cole is executive vice president and general counsel.  Claire Wilkinson, a spokeswoman for Shell in Perth,
declined in an e-mail to comment. Amanda Buckley, a spokeswoman
for Melbourne-based BHP, declined to comment when reached by
phone, and Guy Houston, a spokesman for Chevron in Perth, didn’t
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 