-- World Food Prices Rose to Record in January as Commodities Gained, UN Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2011-02-03T10:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/world-food-prices-rose-to-record-in-january-as-commodities-gained-un-says.html
World food prices rose to a record in
January on higher dairy, sugar and cereal costs and probably
will remain elevated, the  United Nations  said.  An index of 55 food commodities climbed 3.4 percent from
December to 231 points, the seventh straight increase, the UN’s
Food and Agriculture Organization said in a report today. Dairy
prices led advances among five food categories, rising 6.2
percent, the Rome-based agency said.  Food commodities extended gains last month after jumping in
2010 as drought and floods damaged crops from  Russia  to  Argentina . Elevated food prices contributed to protests in
Tunisia that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali last month
and demonstrations in  Egypt  that prompted  Hosni Mubarak  to say
this week he won’t seek re-election as president.  “The new figures clearly show that the upward pressure on
world food prices is not abating,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , senior
economist at the FAO, said in a statement. “These high prices
are likely to persist in the months to come.”  Milk futures traded in  Chicago  jumped 26 percent last month
and corn increased 4.8 percent. Wheat added 6.5 percent in Paris
trading and raw sugar gained 5.8 percent in  New York .  Meat Prices  The dairy index climbed to 221 points last month, and a
gauge of oils and fats gained 5.6 percent to 278 points, the FAO
said. The sugar-price index advanced 5.4 percent to 420 points,
a measure of cereal prices increased 3 percent to 245 points,
and a gauge of meat prices remained at 166 points, the report
showed.  Countries probably spent at least $1 trillion on food
imports in 2010, with the poorest paying as much as 20 percent
more than in 2009, the UN has said. Surging food and energy
costs are stoking emerging-market inflation and have the power
to topple governments,  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University
economist who predicted the financial crisis, said on Jan. 26.  “High food prices are of major concern, especially for
low-income food-deficit countries that may face problems in
financing food imports and for poor households, which spend a
large share of their income on food,” Abbassian said.  Rising commodities prices hurt companies such as  General
Mills Inc ., the Minneapolis, Minnesota-based maker of Cheerios
cereal, which reported second-quarter profit on Dec. 16 that
missed analysts’ estimates. The company expects commodity prices
to rise about 5 percent annually on emerging-market demand,
Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell said yesterday.  Credit-default swaps on Campbell Soup Co. debt increased to
a record 70.8 basis points, up from as low as 31.9 basis points
in March, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on
restaurateur Yum! Brands Inc. jumped 13 basis points to 85.2,
the highest since July, and those on General Mills gained 6.2 to
60.7. Rising food prices squeeze earnings, according to Joel Levington, managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield
Investment Management Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  