-- World Energy Can Be 95% Renewable by 2050, Study Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2011-02-03T13:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/world-could-get-95-of-its-energy-from-renewable-sources-by-2050-wwf-says.html
Almost all of the world’s demand for
energy for electricity, transportation and heating could be met
from renewable sources such as wind, solar and geothermal power
by 2050, WWF International said.  The share of oil, coal, gas and nuclear power in the global
energy mix could be whittled down to 5 percent over the next
four decades, WWF said today in an e-mailed report produced with
researchers at Dutch organizations Ecofys and the Office for
Metropolitan Architecture. Energy saving measures can cut total
demand by 15 percent from 2005 levels even as the population,
industrial output, freight and passenger travel rise, they said.  The effort would require $3.5 trillion euros ($4.8
trillion) a year in spending by 2035 on modernizing buildings
and electricity grids and expanding wind farms and solar parks.
It would take until 2040 to pay off.  “This is insurance against the volatility of oil and gas
prices and  climate change ,” Stephan Singer, editor of the study
and director of  energy policy  at  WWF , said from Brussels. “It
can be done using currently available technologies” and ones
due in the market in the next few years.  Ecofys is a Utrecht, Netherlands-based energy consultant,
and WWF, based in Gland,  Switzerland , is known as the World
Wildlife fund in the U.S. The Rotterdam-based Office for
Metropolitan Architecture’s AMO research arm, which studies
architecture and clean energy, also contributed to the study.  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  last year
estimated that $33 trillion of energy infrastructure investment
is needed by 2035 if countries are to meet their international
commitments to limit  greenhouse gases .  Consumer Impact  That figure, which averages out at $1.3 trillion a year,
doesn’t include consumer purchases of goods such as more
efficient cars and refrigerators, which are included in today’s
study, Singer said. Those alone could total another $2 trillion
a year, closing the gap with the IEA research, he said.  Singer said new technologies that aren’t currently close to
commercialization could make it possible to get 100 percent of
the world’s energy needs from renewables by 2050.Inefficient
products should be phased out, and “strong, legally-binding
standards” should be implemented for all energy using products,
Singer said.  Achieving the ramp-up in  energy efficiency  and renewable
power would require behavior changes including eating less meat,
using more public transport, and electrifying cars, he said. New
financing models will be needed to promote investments that
generate long-term gains rather than immediate profits, he said.  “Sufficiency must be part of the solution -- technology is
not the sole provider,” Singer said. “The global middle
classes and the global rich of this world are not a blueprint
model for the poor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 