-- Hypnotized Money Manager Sees Ghost, Redhead Strips in Art Film
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2011-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/hypnotized-money-manager-meets-ghost-redhead-strips-in-new-york-art-video.html
A money manager gets hypnotized to
fix his broken heart. Then, a teenage seductress and a store
clerk face their personal demons.  These troubled souls are characters in a video by  New York 
artist Sue de Beer. “The Ghosts” also stars sexy spirits who
strip and ooze blood. It starts today at the  Park Avenue Armory .  “I’m sure there are plenty of haunted money managers out
there,” De Beer, 37, said in an interview. She shot most of the
30-minute work in 2009 while stock markets were crashing.  Her perfect character was a banker wanting to find the
ghost of a lover who left him. He is played by the malt-voiced
 Jon Spencer  (leader of the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion), who
looks too handsome to be abandoned. His world begins to unravel
as the hypnotist, portrayed by German artist  Jutta Koether ,
counts from 10 to zero.  You might feel a bit queasy too. White faces of ghost women
are superimposed over the hypnotist’s face, flickering madly.
Real-life objects like lamps and partition screens dissolve into
pools of light and kaleidoscopic patterns.  “I wanted to make a film in which you can fall into a
trance and suspend disbelief,” De Beer said. She had a “low
five-figure budget,” writing the script in a windowless studio
in Berlin and shooting footage in Red Hook,  Brooklyn .  Each character visualizes his or her fears, dreams and
desires. The red-haired girl sees a fluffy, white cat. The men,
predictably, dream of naked ladies.  Red Lollypop  The soundtrack includes Leonard Cohen,  John Lennon  and
Simon and Garfunkel. The Cure adds sizzle to a scene in which
the Lolita-like redhead tries to seduce the record-store clerk
by sucking on a red lollypop.  “He is trying not to be picked up,” said De Beer. “He
knows she’s trouble.”  The poetry and humor turn what could have been a bizarre
arty film into a moving meditation on loss, longing and memory.
Not everyone might care for hypnosis or get all the supernatural
references. Still, most viewers will relate to the dread felt by
someone who picks up the phone and hears an unknown voice saying
“I am coming to get you.”  The film is showing at the Armory’s Veterans Room, which
has silver drawings on the ceiling. De Beer has added a silver
rug and metallic bean-bag chairs. The presentation brings to
mind the installation by Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist at the
 Museum of Modern Art  two years ago.  “You can enjoy it on a purely entertainment level,” said
Doreen Remen, co-founder of  Art Production Fund , a nonprofit
organization that produced the event and got Sotheby’s to
sponsor it. “And that’s what opens up the work to the audience
beyond the art world.”  “The Ghosts” runs through Feb. 6 at 643 Park Ave.; +1-
212-744-8180. De Beer’s next show will open at the Marianne
Boesky Gallery on New York on Feb. 18.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 