-- Zimbabwe's MDC Accuses Supporters of President Mugabe, Police of Attacks
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2011-02-03T10:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-03/zimbabwe-s-mdc-accuses-supporters-of-president-mugabe-police-of-attacks.html
Zimbabwe’s  Movement for Democratic
Change  said supporters of President Robert Mugabe have conducted
a wave of attacks in the past two weeks, leaving many of its
members in hospital.  Victims of the assaults have been arrested and denied food
in police cells, while the attackers are “ roaming scot free ,”
the MDC said on its website today.  One party activist was shot in the leg in Budiriro Township
and then attacked by youths from Mugabe’s  Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front , who left him with head injuries,
the MDC said. MDC offices were also assaulted by Zanu-PF
supporters and then the police, it said.  “Dozens of MDC youths have been arrested and charged with
public violence, a sizable number are nursing gun-shot and stab
wounds in hospitals, hundreds are being hounded out of their
homes and MDC property is being destroyed with impunity,”
according to the MDC  statement .  Police spokesman Wayne Bvudzijena denied the police had
acted impartially.  “The Zimbabwe Republic Police is not biased and the
allegations of denying food to prisoners does not deserve a
response,” Bvudzijena said in a phone interview from Harare
today.  Mugabe intends to abandon talks over a new constitution and
call elections in June after deploying troops to intimidate
voters into supporting him, three members of his party’s
decision-making body said last week.  The soldiers have also been told to prevent the opposition
from campaigning while candidates for Zanu-PF will take orders
from the military and intelligence services, the party members
said, declining to be identified because of concern about their
safety.  Zanu-PF and the MDC formed a unity government in 2009 after
disputed elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 