-- ‘Strong Dollar’ Is Lie Told in New Currency War
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-01-21T22:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/-strong-dollar-is-lie-told-in-new-currency-war.html
Jack Lew’s first act once he becomes
U.S. Treasury secretary will be to tell a lie.  On Day One as Timothy Geithner’s successor, Lew is bound to
say “I support a strong dollar” to reassure markets that there
will be no change in long-standing U.S. policy. Nothing could be
further from the truth, though, as the yen trades at 2 1/2-year
lows and the world considers a response to  Japan ’s blitz on
money markets.  Get ready for the Currency Wars 2.0. In a world in which
growth is harder to come by, policy making verges on becoming a
zero-sum game. Officials in the U.S. and China were caught
flatfooted by how quickly Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
turned the tables in currency markets with a few vague pledges
of change. Rest assured that some big responses are on the way.  “Japan has restarted the currency war by its open policy
goal of a weaker yen, which has surprised everyone by its
success,” says Simon Grose-Hodge, head of investment strategy
for South Asia at LGT Group in  Singapore . “No country wants to
be priced out of an already challenging export environment.”  Take  China ’s incoming President Xi Jinping, who is walking
into a positively treacherous situation in Beijing. He must act
fast to rein in corruption, grapple with an unruly local media
and tackle the pollution that obscures the sun and threatens
public health. The last thing Xi needs is a plunge in exports as
exchange rates move against him. The same goes for South Korean
President-elect Park Geun Hye. Expect policy makers throughout
Asia to act, too.  Asia Acts  Benigno Aquino, the president of the  Philippines , says his
government may borrow dollars onshore to temper the peso’s
strength. Thai Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong is getting
an earful from exporters and says he’s reviewing policy changes.
The sense of urgency is rising as Akira Amari, Japan’s economic
minister, joins the Bank of Japan in a campaign to accelerate
the yen’s decline.  European officials are none too happy, as evidenced by
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker calling the euro
“dangerously high.” It’s a reminder of how bizarre the
region’s crisis has been. Although  Europe  has endured a
triumvirate of debacles -- debt, banking and politics -- the
euro hasn’t been a source of trouble. That is, unless you
consider how fallout from the yen might hurt exports. Swiss and
Russian officials also are sounding the alarm.  The U.S. is wary, as well. A key goal for President  Barack Obama ’s second term is to resurrect the nation’s manufacturing
sector. Nothing would help that process more than a weaker
dollar, and the Federal Reserve’s ever-expanding balance sheet
may limit the currency’s gains.  Japan can’t expect to sustain the yen’s decline for long
unless the Group of Seven nations backs it. The strength of the
Japanese currency, after all, was always more about the dollar
and the euro being less appealing in relative terms than the
yen. And now, as optimists seek Japanese assets amid hopes that
Abe will end deflation, you have to figure that a yen rebound is
inevitable.  That’s why traders are looking for a material change in
Japanese policy. Will they get it? Buying more foreign debt
might help, but the purchases would have to be huge to matter.
Japan would need to add significantly to its $1.2 trillion
stockpile of currency reserves, something officials in Tokyo may
be reluctant to do. Abe could try his hand at capital controls,
but that could unnerve markets and boost government-bond yields.  Abe’s Feat  Abe has managed to change the calculus in global markets.
Historians of past currency conflicts probably shouldn’t draw
any lessons from the 15 months before March 2004, when Japan
spent 35.2 trillion yen ($391 billion) -- more than  Taiwan ’s
annual gross domestic product -- in a failed attempt to weaken
the yen. Abe has been more effective without spending a single
yen to intervene in markets. Hence concerns about the huge
currency battles in store for 2013.  Ignore the official line that governments know better. The
idea of mutually assured destruction, once confined to nuclear
annihilation, applies to currency markets too. Just consider
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde,
who last week said the threat of retaliation should forestall
new conflicts over competitive devaluations.  That sure sounds like wishful thinking. Earlier this month,
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso took umbrage at overseas
complaints over the course Japan is steering. Other countries
have “no right to lecture” officials in  Tokyo , he said. One
measure of rising tension: the jump in central-bank chatter
about exchange rates since Japan’s leadership change last month.  The other risk is a surge in volatility. Such beggar-thy-
neighbor  policies  can work when a few economies pursue them. The
year ahead will see everyone simultaneously looking to export
their way out of trouble. At best, this global race to the
bottom will fail; at worst, it will lead to market swings that
sap confidence and stifle growth.  If Lew really is sincere about wanting a strong dollar, he
will surely get it while everyone else heads the other way.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  