-- 49ers Are Super Bowl Favorites for Sixth Time in Six Appearances
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-21T06:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/49ers-are-super-bowl-favorites-for-sixth-time-in-six-appearances.html
The San Francisco 49ers were the
oddsmakers’ pick to win all five of their previous Super Bowl
trips. Back in the National Football League championship game
for the first time in 18 years, the 49ers are favorites again.  Led by a second-year quarterback and coach, the 49ers
are four-point favorites over the Baltimore Ravens in the Feb. 3
Super Bowl in New Orleans, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s
Super Book. It’s the second time in the past 11 years the
National Football Conference champion has been favored over a
team from the American Football Conference in the title game.  “The 49ers have been one of the most heavily supported
teams all season,” LVH Super Book assistant manager Jeff
Sherman said by e-mail. “Even though the Ravens have been the
underdog darling as of late, the 49ers are still considered the
stronger side power-rating wise.”  The Las Vegas’ oddsmakers favorite has won 33 of the
previous 46 Super Bowls, although the  New York  Giants won last
year’s title against the New England Patriots as three-point
underdogs. The New Orleans Saints beat the Indianapolis Colts as
4 1/2-point underdogs in the Super Bowl three years ago.  The Ravens this postseason have become the first team since
the playoffs expanded in 1978 to win in the divisional round and
conference championship round as underdogs of more than a
touchdown in both games. The Ravens were nine-point underdogs
when they pulled off a 38-35 double-overtime win in Denver on
Jan. 12, and yesterday upset the New England Patriots 28-13 on
the road as 7 1/2-point underdogs.  Full Bandwagon  “We knew what we were capable of,” Ravens linebacker
Terrell Suggs told reporters after yesterday’s win in Foxboro,
 Massachusetts . “Unfortunately the bandwagon is full, and we
want you all to come in two weeks and bet against us again.”  Over $10 billion was estimated to have been wagered on last
year’s Super Bowl worldwide, according to Las Vegas-based
handicapping information website Pregame.com, with less than 1
percent of that bet legally at Nevada sports books.  The 49ers were tied as the third favorites to win the Super
Bowl at the start of the season, with 10-1 odds at the LVH Super
Book, meaning a winning $100 bet would yield a $1,000 profit.
The Ravens were the eighth favorites at 14-1.  San Francisco is the first NFC champion favored by more
than a field goal in the Super Bowl since the 2001 St. Louis
Rams, who were 14-point favorites against the Patriots and lost
20-17 in the most recent title game at the Louisiana Superdome.  The 49ers made five Super Bowls from 1982 through 1995 and
won all of them as the oddsmakers’ favorite. Most recently, they
routed the San Diego Chargers 49-26 as record 18 1/2-point
favorites following the 1994 season.  Chasing Pittsburgh  The 49ers are seeking to join the Pittsburgh Steelers as
the only NFL franchises with six Super Bowl titles.  This year’s game is the first Super Bowl matchup to feature
brothers as opposing coaches, with San Francisco’s Jim Harbaugh
facing Baltimore’s John Harbaugh. Jim Harbaugh and Colin Kaepernick are the first coach-quarterback tandem to reach the
Super Bowl within their first two NFL seasons. Kaepernick’s nine
career starts will be the third fewest for any quarterback to
start a Super Bowl.  “He competes like a maniac all the time,” Jim Harbaugh
said of Kaepernick, who replaced Alex Smith as the starter
during the season. “In practice, in games, it stays the same.”  John Harbaugh and his quarterback,  Joe Flacco , are both in
their fifth season in Baltimore. Flacco has outplayed Peyton Manning and Brady the past two weeks in getting the Ravens back
to the Super Bowl for the second time. Their previous appearance
in the NFL’s title game was after the 2000 season, when
Baltimore beat the Giants 34-7 as three-point favorites.  The Ravens are the underdogs this time around, though it’s
a role they’ve gotten accustomed to this postseason.  “Being an underdog, they don’t expect you to do it and we
like to prove them wrong,” Ravens offensive tackle Bryant McKinnie said. “That’s just a challenge for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  