-- 49ers’ Colin Kaepernick Follows Montana and Young to Super Bowl
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-01-21T05:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/49ers-colin-kaepernick-follows-montana-and-young-to-super-bowl.html
Colin Kaepernick traded his label as
a running quarterback to lead the biggest comeback in National
Football Conference championship game history and take the San
Francisco 49ers to the Super Bowl.  A week after setting a National Football League record with
181 yards rushing in San Francisco’s defeat of Green Bay,
Kaepernick yesterday focused on throwing the football or handing
it off as the 49ers advanced to the NFL’s championship game with
a 28-24 win against the Atlanta Falcons.  With the win, Kaepernick, a second-year player from the
University of  Nevada , joined Hall of Famers Joe  Montana  and
Steve Young in guiding San Francisco to the Super Bowl. Montana
led the 49ers to four Super Bowl victories and Young to one more
from 1982-1995.  “He just competes like a maniac all the time,” 49ers
coach Jim Harbaugh told reporters at the Georgia Dome in
Atlanta. “In practice and in games, it’s always the same. When
I look into his facemask, that’s what I see.”  Only two Super Bowl quarterbacks have had less experience
than Kaepernick, 25, who has started nine NFL games including
the two playoff wins. Jeff Hostetler led the  New York  Giants to
a Super Bowl victory after the 1990 season with four regular-
season starts, and Vince Ferragamo had started five games when
St. Louis played in the Super Bowl after the 1979 season.  All-Around Athlete  Born in  Wisconsin , Kaepernick grew up in Turlock,
 California , a two-hour drive east of San Francisco, as the
adopted son of parents who supported the Green Bay Packers. An
all-around athlete, Kaepernick had a 95 mile-per-hour (153
kilometer-per-hour) fastball and turned down a baseball career
to pursue football.  Young retired in 2000 and the 49ers went eight straight
seasons without a playoff appearance from 2003-2010. The
following year, Harbaugh, a former quarterback, was entering his
first season as the team’s coach and suggested drafting
Kaepernick. San Francisco traded up nine spots to select him
with the 36th overall pick, making him the first quarterback
taken in the second round.  Yesterday’s win at Atlanta, in which San Francisco rallied
from a 17-0 deficit, validated the move, 49ers tackle Joe Staley
said.  “He proved it with his play over the entire second half of
the season,” Staley said in the 49ers’ locker room. “He’s
stepped up big for us all season and I’m excited to go into this
next game with him.”  With a victory over the Baltimore Ravens in New Orleans on
Feb. 3, San Francisco would join the Pittsburgh Steelers as the
only team with six Super Bowl wins.  Harbaugh Brothers  Baltimore scored 21 unanswered points in a 28-13 defeat of
the host New England Patriots in the American Football
Conference championship game in Foxboro,  Massachusetts . The
Ravens are coached by John Harbaugh, Jim’s older brother.  Kaepernick, who won five of his seven regular-season starts
after stepping in when Alex Smith suffered a concussion on Nov.
11, set an NFL quarterback record for the most rushing yards,
eclipsing Michael Vick’s 2005 mark by 64 yards, in his first
playoff game.  The performance led the Falcons to focus on trying to stop
him, Jim Harbaugh and Kaepernick said. That opened up chances
for him to throw the ball or hand it to running back Frank Gore,
who ended the game with 90 yards rushing and two touchdowns on
21 carries.  “I’ll just keep giving it to him if he’s going to run like
that,” Kaepernick said.  Kaepernick ran twice for 21 yards and completed 16 of 21
passes for 233 yards and a touchdown.  Controversial Decision  Draped in an oversized white NFC Champions T-shirt,
Kaepernick spoke briefly in a postgame news conference before
Gore joined him at the microphone.  “He leads us,” Gore said, cutting Kaepernick off in mid-
sentence. “If it wasn’t for him, it would’ve been a tough
game.”  The decision to keep Kaepernick as starter after Smith
recovered drew criticism and led Harbaugh to defend the move
almost every week. Smith had been the usual starter since San
Francisco drafted him with the No. 1 pick in 2005.  Asked if reaching the Super Bowl validated his decision,
Harbaugh said he was happy to win another trophy and credited
his entire team for the victory.  While Kaepernick also refused to accept credit for his
team’s turnaround, he did have some appreciative words for his
coach.  “I’m just thankful he made that decision,” Kaepernick
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  