-- Abhisit Defends Thai Army Actions in Fighting Murder Charges
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-01-21T22:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/abhisit-defends-thai-army-actions-in-fighting-murder-charges.html
Former Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said soldiers acted in self-defense when setting up
live-fire zones around a protest site in 2010 as he fights
murder charges over a crackdown that killed more than 90 people.  “It was clear that the military never took aggressive
action,” Abhisit said yesterday in an interview. “We didn’t
even allow them to go in to disperse the protests in the main
protest site. All they were doing was setting up barriers to
cordon off the protests. And these checkpoints were being
attacked, and they were defending themselves.”  Thai authorities last month charged Abhisit and a deputy
for authorizing soldiers to use weapons against protesters
backed by former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  who wanted immediate
elections in May 2010. Yingluck Shinawatra led her party to
victory in a vote 14 months later, the fifth straight win for
allies of her brother Thaksin and the seventh loss in a row for
Abhisit’s Democrat party dating back to 1992.  In the final week of the 2010 demonstrations, Abhisit set
up live-fire zones on the perimeter of the downtown Bangkok
protest site. While the army stated that soldiers could only
shoot militants with weapons in hand or in self-defense as a
last resort,  Human Rights Watch  said that in practice the rules
were ignored and snipers targeted unarmed protesters.  Video footage shows unarmed demonstrators and journalists
under fire in the zones. At least 34 protesters and two soldiers
were killed during that week, New York-based Human Rights Watch
 said  in a 2011 report.  ‘An Accident’  The charges against Abhisit came after a court ruled in
September that soldiers shot and killed a  taxi driver  on May 14,
2010, the same day his government authorized the live-fire
zones. The death appeared “almost like an accident,” and it
remained to be proven whether the other fatalities were caused
by indiscriminate shooting, Abhisit said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Singapore.  Courts have said government forces killed protesters in
four of five cases considered so far, and have yet to decide on
a further 30 cases, according to Tharit Pengdit, head of the
Department of Special Investigation, which brought the charges.  The DSI, an agency under the Justice Ministry, has charged
leaders of the pro-Thaksin  Red Shirts  with terrorism and
initiated cases against about 300 rank-and-file members for
crimes such as arson. The murder charges against Abhisit and
former Deputy Prime Minister Suthep Thaugsuban are the first
against government leaders.  “Both sides are guilty in different contexts,” Tharit
said by phone. “There will be more cases on the government side
as there are a high number of deaths and injuries. The delay in
bringing charges is because authorities needed to get a court
ruling first.”  Political Retribution  Abhisit has dismissed the case as political retribution and
said he’d sue the DSI for violating the law in bringing the
charges. An emergency decree in place during the protests
provides him immunity if the actions were not discriminatory or
disproportionate, he said, adding that a court confirmed that
armed people were among the protesters.  Abhisit said he made “a very good choice in terms of my
duty to restore order” after he negotiated with demonstrators
and they rejected his offer for November elections. “I’m
willing to face the charges and fight and prove my innocence in
court. And I will respect the verdict,” he said.  Abhisit’s moves to discredit the DSI will only help the Red
Shirts bring him before the  International Criminal Court ,
according to Robert Amsterdam, a lawyer for Thaksin and the
group. Abhisit is confident he’ll be acquitted in a Thai court
because the judiciary is biased against Thaksin, Amsterdam said.  No Justice  “The more he attacks the DSI, the more he gives me
ammunition to go to the ICC and say  Thailand ’s not capable of
doing this,” Amsterdam said. “Me and Abhisit are seeing it the
same way. We both know he won’t get justice in Thailand.”  While government forces were responsible for most of the
deaths and injuries, heavily armed elements among the protesters
also should be prosecuted, Human Rights Watch said in September.
Red Shirt leader Tida Tawornseth denied the group had any
connection with the armed men seen in video footage, saying they
were either a rival military faction or members of the army who
infiltrated the group to make them appear violent.  “They said all the time that we’re the bad guys, burning
the buildings, but now everything changed,” Tida said. “It’s a
very good thing for Thai society to wake up and to change the
idea of who is the bad guy.”  Emergency Powers  Abhisit took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote after
judges used the post-coup constitution to disband the ruling
party composed of Thaksin’s allies. Protesters then blocked
parts of Bangkok to pressure Abhisit to call elections,
prompting him to invoke emergency powers to detain opponents,
close media outlets and use soldiers to disperse crowds.  Since Yingluck took power, Abhisit has sought to block her
party from overhauling a constitution written after the military
ousted Thaksin in a 2006 coup and passing a broad amnesty that
may bring him back from exile. Street protests since the coup
have killed more than 100 people as Abhisit’s party and groups
linked to the military and palace have resisted moves to grant
more power to elected politicians.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haslinda Amin in  Singapore  at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  