-- Abu Dhabi’s Aldar to Buy Sorouh in $1.5 Billion Deal
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-21T12:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/abu-dhabi-merger-creates-developer-with-13-billion-in-assets.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  agreed to buy
Sorouh Real Estate PJSC in a 5.5 billion-dirham ($1.5 billion)
deal that would create the  Middle East ’s third-biggest publicly
traded property company by assets.  Aldar will offer 1.288 of its shares for each Sorouh share,
the companies said today in a statement. That values Sorouh’s
shares at 2.10 dirhams, based on the Jan. 17 closing price.
Sorouh Managing Director Abubaker Seddiq Al Khouri will serve as
chairman of the combined Aldar Sorouh Properties PJSC.  Abu Dhabi’s government, which backed the deal, has taken an
increasingly direct role in supporting builders and development
projects after the credit crisis kicked off a real estate slump
that caused values to drop by more than 50 percent. The oil-rich
state spent $9.8 billion to bail out Aldar in 2011 and last year
it backed the revival of halted projects including branches of
the Louvre and Guggenheim museums.  Reducing Aldar Sorouh’s 13.4 billion-dirham debt pile will
be the new company’s “overarching priority,” Al Khouri told
reporters today.  Cash flows of about 15 billion dirhams, mostly from
government contracts, will be used “to substantially reduce the
debt over the next three years,” he said. Al Khouri described
the transaction as a merger of equals.  Price Premium  The purchase price of Sorouh shares is 72 percent higher
than the closing price of 1.22 dirhams on March 11, when the
companies said they planned to discuss a possible merger,
Bloomberg data shows.  Abu Dhabi ’s government and related
entities will own about 37 percent of the new company, which
will have more than 47 billion dirhams in assets, according to
the statement.  Aldar Chairman Ali Eid AlMheiri has been proposed as the
company’s vice chairman. The deal will take effect in June,
subject to shareholder approval, and a management team will be
appointed prior to the extraordinary general meetings of Aldar
and Sorouh, according to the statement.  Aldar’s  shares  have surged 20 percent since the companies
said they planned to study a possible merger on March 11, while
Sorouh’s have rallied 39 percent. Aldar fell 9.8 percent to 1.47
dirhams at the close in Abu Dhabi today, while  Sorouh (SOROUH)  gained 4.3
percent to 1.7 dirhams, the highest close since Dec. 2010.  Buying Assets  Abu Dhabi’s government agreed to purchase infrastructure
assets and homes from Sorouh for a combined 3.2 billion dirhams,
according to the statement. The government will pay 1.6 billion
dirhams for housing units in the Gate project which is set for
completion in the second-quarter, Al Khouri told reporters
today. A similar amount will be paid by the government for work
on roads, bridges and other infrastructure, he said.  “The valuation has exceeded expectations and the business
will benefit as part of a bigger entity, ensuring Sorouh has
full-government backing,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, managing
director of Abu Dhabi Financial Services Co., the brokerage unit
of  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC. (NBAD)  “It will probably be
rewarded handsomely in government contracts.”  Qatar’s  Barwa Real Estate Co. (BRES)  and  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  of
Dubai are the region’s biggest publicly traded developers by
assets, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Credit Suisse Group AG advised Aldar and Allen & Overy LLP
represented the developer. Sorouh was advised by Morgan Stanley
and represented by Clifford Chance LLP. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC advised the steering
committee on the deal. Ernst & Young did accounting for the
committee and Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. performed valuation work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  