-- Admiral Rises After Goldman Upgrades on Claims: London Mover
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-01-21T17:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/admiral-rises-after-goldman-upgrades-on-claims-london-mover.html
Admiral Group Plc (ADM) , the insurer of
3.6 million U.K. vehicles, rose the most in three months after
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  upgraded the stock, saying the company
will benefit from the falling cost of automotive claims.  Admiral advanced 4.9 percent to 1,211 pence in London
trading, the biggest climb in the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  of leading U.K.
shares. Analysts at Goldman Sachs led by Ravi Tanna upgraded the
stock to buy from hold and said it has the potential to return
30 percent over the next 12 months.  Admiral has underperformed the  Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance
Index (SXIP)  over the last six months as U.K. auto-insurance premiums
declined while claims for bodily injury continued to rise. The
British government is proposing a series of legislative changes,
such as capping whiplash claims and limiting fees paid to so-
called “no win no fee” lawyers, to hold down costs and
premiums, which doubled in the three years through 2011.  “We believe there is potential for claims inflation to
decline faster than the market expects,” Tanna wrote in a note
to clients today. “As a result of renegotiated reinsurance
terms, the group has significant gearing towards lower claims
inflation.”  The insurer, led by chief executive officer, founder and
biggest shareholder Henry Engelhardt, reinsures about half its
premiums with companies including  Munich Re . After renegotiating
terms with its reinsurers, Admiral is entitled to 90 percent of
its underwriting profit while taking 25 percent of the risk,
Tanna said in the note.  “This makes it the most geared company in our coverage to
improving trends in motor claims,” Tanna said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 