-- African Bank Tightens Loan Criteria on Credit Oversupply
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-01-22T15:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/african-bank-tightens-loan-criteria-on-credit-oversupply.html
African Bank Investments Ltd. (ABL) ’s
chief executive officer said South Africa’s biggest provider of
unsecured loans is assessing who it lends to more carefully
because of an oversupply of credit to its target market.  The value of consumer loans not backed by assets surged 39
percent in the year through September to 140 billion rand ($15.8
billion), according to the most recent data available from the
country’s  National Credit Regulator .  “We pulled back in August last year when we saw an
oversupply of credit,” Leon Kirkinis, CEO of the Midrand, South
Africa-based lender, said in an interview at the bank’s head
office on Jan. 18. “There has been a herd mentality and the
growth in credit has been supply-side driven.”  African Bank’s biggest rival, Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd.,
this month said a third of people applying for credit are too
over-committed to be considered for loans. Bayport Ltd. cut the
number of new loans by 29 percent in November from the month
earlier.  “Eighteen months ago we’d approve 80 out of 100 loans and
then in 2012 it was 77 out of 100 and by the end of last year it
was 68 out of 100,” Kirkinis, 53, said. The bank is prepared to
tighten its lending criteria again as consumer indebtedness
rises, he said.  African Bank is applying more stringent criteria to mine
and government workers because too much credit is being afforded
to employees in those industries without adequate assessments
being done on their ability to repay loans, Kirkinis said.  ‘Good Thing’  “The industry is slowing down and that’s a good thing,”
he said. “People realized it was going too far. There was an
exuberance.”  African Bank boosted its gross advances by 33 percent in
the year ended Sept. 30 to 53 billion rand.  Its stock has declined 17 percent over the past year in
Johannesburg, the second-worst  performance  on the 52-member FTSE
JSE/Africa Financials Index. The shares fell 1.2 percent to
30.58 rand by the close of trade, giving the company a market
value of 25.5 billion rand.  Still, there are many people in  South Africa  who cannot
access secured credit and that provides room for growth for
African Bank, Kirkinis said. The company isn’t considering
expanding outside the country, he said.  The bank is seeking to provide funeral policies and to
extend credit to entrepreneurs who own small businesses but have
few assets with which to secure loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  