-- African Troops Face Mali’s Insurgents as Forces Gather
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-01-21T04:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/african-troops-face-mali-s-insurgents-as-forces-gather.html
African soldiers arriving in  Mali  to
join a French-led war against northern insurgents will face
hazardous terrain, a heavily armed enemy and a challenge of
coordinating a multitude of different militaries.  Troops from at least eight West African countries, led by
Nigerian Major General Shehu Abdulkadir, are assembling in the
Malian capital, Bamako, this week to battle an alliance of
rebels that has been in control of two-thirds of the desert
nation since April and threatens to destabilize the region.  The African troops deployed eight months earlier than
planned after the fighters -- mainly militants seeking to impose
strict Islamic law -- moved toward Bamako earlier this month.
Their advance was stopped only by hastily deployed French jets.  “There are serious concerns about the regional force’s
capacity to conduct counterinsurgency and counter-terrorism
operations in northern Mali,” Alexis Arieff, an Africa policy
analyst at the U.S. Congressional Research Service, said in a
Jan. 17 interview. “It’s incredibly difficult terrain. You are
talking about mixed battalions. You add to that lack of common
language, lack of specific training in desert warfare for some,
lack of transport to get to the north.”  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  are
among mining companies with operations in the landlocked
country, which vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-biggest gold
producer. It’s one of the continent’s poorest nations, with the
crisis leading to an economic contraction of 4.5 percent last
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Algeria Link  Togo,  Nigeria ,  Burkina Faso ,  Guinea ,  Senegal ,  Benin  and
 Ghana  have pledged to contribute troops to the African-led
International Support Mission to Mali, or Afisma, which was
conceived by the  African Union  before France’s airstrikes. The
force is set to reach 5,500, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said on Europe1 radio yesterday, higher than an earlier
plan of 3,300. For the wider region, which has seen violent
clashes in countries including Ivory Coast,  Sierra Leone  and
Liberia over the past decade, stability is at stake.  “The crisis in Mali, if not brought under control, may
spill over to Nigeria and other West African countries with
negative consequences on our collective security, political
stability and development efforts,” Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in a letter to the country’s Senate on Jan. 17
requesting troops.  Militants who captured a gas plant in  Algeria  on Jan. 16
and took dozens of hostages had demanded that France end its
military intervention in neighboring Mali. Algeria reported that
23 hostages and 32 terrorists died when government forces raided
the plant Jan. 19, and officials warned that the death toll
could rise.  Colonial Control  Mali is twice the size of France, which had colonial
control of the country until 1960. The U.S. and European
governments say they are worried that al-Qaeda-linked groups are
establishing bases northern Mali from where they may stage
terrorist attacks on Western targets.  The African force will cost an estimated $500 million,
Desire Kadre Ouedraogo, president of the Economic Community of
West African States Commission, told state-owned television in
the  Ivory Coast  yesterday. International donors will meet Jan.
29 in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa to discuss funding.  It’s not clear who will fund the force, said Lori-Anne
Theroux-Benoni, a Dakar, Senegal-based researcher with the
Institute for Security Studies.  “Some are still asking who will pay,” she said in an
interview on Jan. 16. “Funding will quickly become a problem if
it is not resolved.”  March Coup  Mali’s year of crisis was sparked by a coup in March led by
soldiers complaining they didn’t have the training or equipment
to fight the rebels, who had started attacking northern military
outposts. The insurgents exploited the situation to overrun the
vast desert region, including the historic trading city of
Timbuktu.  In order to shore up Mali’s state authority, the African
troops will need to win back the rebel-held territory and
provide enough security to hold elections, Theroux-Benoni said.  “It’s not perfect and there’ll be lots of casualties, but
they have to deal with the situation at hand,” she said.  The French force may reach 2,500, Fabius said in Abidjan on
Jan. 19, with 2,000 already in the country. There will be a
joint command center to coordinate between the African and
French contingents, according to Chaka Aboudou Toure, the
representative to Mali of the Economic Community of West African
States Commission.  Hardened Response  West African nations have in recent years hardened their
response to challenges on state authority. When Ivory Coast’s
former president,  Laurent Gbagbo , refused to step down after he
lost a 2010 election, Ecowas immediately backed his challenger,
 Alassane Ouattara , and supported France when it used force to
oust him.  The region’s soldiers have had limited success in previous
interventions, the biggest of which was in Liberia’s civil war
in 1990, which waged on for another six years after West African
troops were deployed.  Heavy weapons and fighters from 2011 civil war in
neighboring Libya have boosted the arsenal of the insurgents,
who number 2,000 to 5,000, with criminal bands and drugs
smugglers on the fringes, according to a report from CF2R, a
French institute that does research on intelligence.  African countries are also keen to intervene for fear of
Islamist fighters collaborating with militants in their own
countries, said Stephen Ellis, a senior researcher at the  Africa 
Study Centre in Leiden, the Netherlands. Nigeria, Africa’s top
oil producer, is already battling Boko Haram insurgents whose
attacks have killed more than 1,500 people in a four-year
campaign.  Mali Citizens  The attackers in the raid on the Algerian gas plant
included citizens of Algeria, Mali,  Egypt , Niger and Mauritania,
as well as  Canada , according to Mauritania’s private ANI news
agency, citing an unidentified source in the group.  “None of the governments in West Africa have any sympathy
for the Islamist groups but every West African country has an
Islamist movement,” Ellis said in an interview. “Unemployment
is so high in most countries that you can always recruit youth
to fight, especially if there are opportunities for looting and
crime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Bamako at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  