-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Drop on Intervention Fear; Bonds Decline
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-01-21T08:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/taiwan-dollar-forwards-drop-before-exports-data-volatility-dips.html
Taiwan dollar forwards declined to a
two-week low on speculation the island’s monetary authority will
restrain the pace of its appreciation to help protect exporters
at a time when overseas demand is improving.  The three-month forward contracts halted a two-day advance
as the benchmark Taiex  index  of stocks slid. A government report
released after market hours today showed export orders climbed
8.5 percent in December from a year earlier, following an 11.1
percent gain in November.  Government bonds  fell.  “Too fast an appreciation in the Taiwan dollar will hurt
exports, which are only beginning to recover,” said Jenny
Huang, an economist in Taipei at Sinopac Financial Holdings.
“It will be a slow and controlled” gain for the currency, she
said.  Three-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.2 percent
to NT$28.865, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the most
since Jan. 4. The spot exchange rate was little changed at
NT$29.07 based on Taipei Forex Inc. prices, erasing a 0.43
percent gain in the final minute of trading.  The central bank has intervened in the market on most days
in the past nine months to damp the currency’s strength,
according to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month implied volatility in the  Taiwan dollar , a gauge
of expected moves in exchange rates used to price options,
dropped nine basis points or 0.09 percentage point to 2.8
percent, the lowest since September 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 0.625 percent bonds due February 2015 rose
more than one basis point to 0.7 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The  overnight interbank lending  rate was
little changed at 0.384 percent, a weighted average compiled by
the Taiwan Interbank Money Center shows.  The  finance ministry  will auction NT$40 billion ($1.4
billion) of two-year notes on Feb. 5, it said in a statement
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  