-- Talaat Moustafa Falls as Madinaty Court Case Drags: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-01-21T14:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/talaat-moustafa-falls-as-madinaty-court-case-drags-cairo-mover.html
Talaat Moustafa Group Holding (TMGH) ,
 Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded property developer, fell to the
lowest level in more than a month as a land ownership dispute
drags on longer than some investors anticipated.  Shares of the Cairo-based company declined 3.1 percent to
4.09 Egyptian pounds, the lowest since Dec. 12, at the close in
Cairo. That brings the three-day retreat to 8.5 percent and
values the company at 8.44 billion pounds ($1.3 billion). The
benchmark EGX 30 Index fell 0.8 percent today.  A case against Talaat Moustafa’s ownership of Madinaty, its
biggest land asset, has been referred to a different court to
hear appeals from both sides starting April 16, Chief Financial
Officer Jihad Sawaftah said last week. As much as 45 percent of
the undeveloped portion of the land may be revalued, he said, as
the company seeks to hold on to the 33 million square-meter plot
it purchased from the government in 2005.  “Investors had built positions based on a positive outcome
but now they’re finding out they may have to wait as long as
September for a resolution,” Ankur Khetawat, a real estate
analyst at Cairo-based CI Capital Holdings who has an overweight
recommendation on the stock, said by phone. The shares hold
“some value at this price level but the overhang is still
there.”  The land has been the subject of a court dispute for more
than two years. Hisham Talaat Moustafa, the company’s former
chairman, told Egypt’s Illicit Gains Authority he paid money to
a former housing minister to facilitate the company’s
acquisition of Madinaty land on the outskirts of Cairo, news
website Mubasher reported last week, citing judicial officials
it didn’t identify. Sawaftah denied the allegation last week.  Eight analysts recommend investors buy the shares, while
three say to hold it, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .
Talaat shares have gained 29 percent over the past year,
compared with a 44 percent surge for the  EGX 30 Index. (EGX30)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  