-- Malawi Keeps Interest Rate at 6-Year High as Inflation Persists
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2013-01-21T07:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/malawi-keeps-interest-rate-at-6-year-high-as-inflation-persists.html
Malawi’s central bank maintained its
benchmark interest rate at 25 percent, a six-year high, as it
maintains its fight against inflation, the monetary policy
committee said.  The decision was  based on “the need to allow more time
for the recent monetary tightening to work through the system,”
the Lilongwe-based bank said in a statement published on its
website.  The central bank raised the benchmark rate by 4 percentage
points in December to curb an increase in prices and stem
weakness in the southern African nation’s currency. Inflation
accelerated 33.3 percent in November from 30.6 percent in
October, the bank said.  President Joyce Banda devalued the kwacha by a third
against the dollar a month after taking office in April and
deregulated fuel prices. That was in line with recommendations
from the International Monetary Fund to allow the resumption of
donor aid. Gasoline costs have climbed 69 percent since May.  Growth in money supply dropped to 18 percent in November
from a year earlier, compared with 23 percent in the preceding
month, the bank said. Net credit to government from banks rose
to 139.7 billion kwacha ($403 million) in November compared with
125.6 billion kwacha a month earlier.     Malawi is  Africa ’s biggest exporter of burley tobacco, a
low-grade variety of the crop, and Limbe Leaf Tobacco Co., a
unit of the U.S.-based  Universal Corp. (UVV) ,  Alliance One
International Inc. (AOI)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are among buyers in
the country. About half of the population of 15 million live on
less than $1 a day, according to the International Monetary
Fund, while the government relies on donor funds to finance 40
percent of its budget.  The kwacha was the worst performer in Africa last year
against the dollar, slumping 51 percent. The currency retreated
0.4 percent to 346.5 per dollar by 8:46 a.m. in the capital,
Lilongwe, taking its drop this year to 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  