-- Malaysian Stocks Slump Most in 16 Months: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-01-21T09:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/malaysian-stocks-slump-most-in-16-months-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
Malaysian  stocks  tumbled the most
since September 2011 on speculation the government will call for
an early election that will result in a weaker grip on power.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  sank 2.4 percent to
1,635.63 at the close in Kuala Lumpur, after earlier plunging as
much as 2.7 percent. It was the worst performer among benchmark
gauges in  Asia  today. The measure’s trading volumes were 89
percent above the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Axiata Group Bhd., the country’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, slid 5.1 percent, leading declines in the index.  Speculation that the government will call for national
elections as early as March helped trigger the selloff,
according to Samsung Asset Management Co.’s  Alan Richardson .
Prime Minister Najib Razak must dissolve the nation’s parliament
by April 28. Najib’s approval rating fell to the lowest level in
16 months, the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research said in a
statement on Jan. 10. Najib is overseas and couldn’t comment on
the election timing, a government spokesperson said today.  “There is always the overhang of political risk before the
election,” Richardson, a Singapore-based  fund manager  who helps
oversee about $82 billion for Samsung Asset Management, said by
phone. “There is uncertainty whether the ruling coalition would
be able to at least maintain the existing majority they have.”  2008 Slump  The prime minister said last month elections may come soon
as his ruling Barisan Nasional, or National Front, coalition
attempts to regain a two-thirds parliamentary majority it lost
in 2008. The KLCI slumped 39 percent that year, the most since
1997, on concern a stronger opposition would stymie government
investment plans. Barisan has ruled the country for 55 years.  The head of the opposition-led government in Selangor state
said after winning power from the National Front in 2008 that he
would review a contract awarded to Puncak Niaga Holdings Bhd., a
water-treatment operator. The stock tumbled 6.4 percent on March
18 that year, after news on the contract review was reported by
the Star newspaper.  The KLCI index  trades  at 14.6 times estimated earnings, a
2.1 percent premium versus the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, even
after today’s plunge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The KLCI is “in overbought and bearish divergent
territory,” Lee Cheng Hooi, head of retail research for equity
markets at Maybank Investment Bank Bhd., wrote in a report
today. “As  Malaysia  prepares for the 13th general election over
February to June 2013, political uncertainty could cause
investors to adopt a risk-off approach.”  ‘Fairly Valued’  Axiata (AXIATA) , which gained 28 percent last year, today had its
biggest loss since March 2009. Trading volumes are more than
three times the 20-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock traded at 17.6 times estimated earnings, a
21 percent premium over the KLCI’s multiple.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , the nation’s second-biggest
lender by assets, plunged 4.5 percent, the most since Aug. 25,
2011.  UEM Land Holdings Bhd. (ULHB)  slumped 4.8 percent, while IHH
Healthcare Bhd. sank 4.4 percent. Mobile-phone operator  DiGi.Com
Bhd. (DIGI)  slipped 4.1 percent.  The KLCI is “fairly valued,” Richardson said. “It’s not
appealing particularly at this point in time but it’s not
expensive either. Given the earnings momentum in the market,
it’s probably not strong enough to sustain this kind of
valuation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  