-- Malaysia Stocks Slump to Six-Week Low on Election Concerns
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-01-22T09:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/malaysian-stocks-more-volatile-than-emerging-markets-on-election.html
Malaysian  stocks  sank to a six-week
low as election concerns made equities more volatile than the
benchmark emerging-market index for the first time in almost
five years. The ringgit weakened.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  slid 0.4 percent to
1,628.66 in Kuala Lumpur to its lowest close since Dec. 7, amid
speculation impending polls will weaken the ruling coalition’s
grip on power. It sank 2.4 percent yesterday, the most since
September 2011. The gauge’s 30-day  volatility  rose to 10.4
yesterday, the highest level since January 2012, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It was the first time the reading surpassed
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index since May 2008. The ringgit fell
0.3 percent to 3.0426 per dollar.  Prime Minister Najib Razak must dissolve the nation’s
parliament by April 28 as his approval rating slid to the lowest
level in 16 months, the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research said
in a Jan. 10 statement. Yesterday’s slump in the KLCI Index,
which had been the least volatile among 21 emerging markets,
dragged its valuation to a seven-month low of 14.6 times
estimated profit.  “People are just taking the cash and running,”  Bharat Joshi , who helps oversee the equivalent of $1.7 billion at
Aberdeen Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Given some of these stocks that were
actually battered down, valuations are compelling. It’s
definitely a stock-pickers’ market right now.”  Final Lap  Najib is overseas and couldn’t comment on the election
timing, a government spokesperson said today. Chua Soi Lek,
president of the Malaysian Chinese Association, said it has
ramped up its election machinery and is in the final lap of
preparations for the polls, the Star newspaper reported today.
The MCA is the nation’s second-biggest political party and part
of the governing coalition.  UMW Holdings Bhd. (UMWH)  led declines in the Malaysian gauge with
a 3.4 percent drop. The index’s trading volumes were about 62%
above the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. UMW
assembles vehicles for Toyota Motor Corp. in Malaysia.  The ringgit was the worst performer among Asia’s 11 most-
traded today and touched 3.0493, the weakest since Jan. 8.  “There is always the overhang of political risk before the
election,”  Alan Richardson , a Singapore-based  fund manager  who
helps oversee about $82 billion for Samsung Asset Management
Co., said by phone yesterday. “There is uncertainty whether the
ruling coalition would be able to at least maintain the existing
majority they have.”  Contract Review  The prime minister said last month elections may come soon
as his ruling Barisan Nasional, or National Front, coalition
attempts to regain a two-thirds parliamentary majority it lost
in 2008. The KLCI slumped 39 percent that year, the most since
1997, on concern a stronger opposition would stymie government
investment plans. Barisan has ruled the country for 55 years.  The head of the opposition-led government in Selangor state
said after winning power from the National Front in 2008 that he
would review a contract awarded to  Puncak Niaga Holdings Bhd. (PNH) , a
water-treatment operator. The stock tumbled 6.4 percent on March
18 that year, after news on the contract review was reported by
the Star newspaper.  As recently as Jan. 15, the KLCI had the lowest volatility
reading among benchmark indexes in 21 emerging markets, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. After the market slump yesterday, it
was the ninth-lowest after rising above markets including India,
 Thailand  and  South Africa .  Trend Reversal  “This could mark the start of a trend reversal as pre-
election jitters pick up in the run-up to the 13th general
elections,” HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn. said in a report
today. The KLCI is “expected to remain under selling
pressures” and could fall toward 1,600, it said.  Public Bank Bhd. (PBK) , the nation’s third-largest lender by
assets, slipped 1.3 percent, the biggest drag on the benchmark
gauge.  Hong Leong Financial Group Bhd. (HLFG)  slumped 2.7 percent,
while  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  sank 2.3 percent.  The declines yesterday made stocks including  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA)  “compelling” to invest in,
Aberdeen’s Joshi said. Axiata was valued at a six-month low of
17.6 times estimated profit after tumbling 5.1 percent
yesterday, while CIMB traded at a multiple of 11.3, the least
since March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Axiata gained
1 percent today, while CIMB dropped 0.3 percent.  “They look a lot more compelling than they did three
months ago,” he said. “These are still good names and
reasonably priced. They don’t deserve to be beaten down so bad.
The balance sheet hasn’t changed since yesterday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  