-- Algeria Says Militants Were to Move Hostages After Blast
-- B y   S a l a h   S l i m a n i ,   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-21T23:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/algeria-says-militants-were-to-move-hostages-after-blast.html
A multinational group of terrorists
that killed at least 38 hostages, including three Americans, at
a gas complex in  Algeria  planned to blow up the site and escape
into neighboring Mali with their captives, according to the
first official account of the raid.  Only the actions of the Algerian army prevented the 32-man
militant squad, which had “a massive arsenal” and explosives
experts, from fleeing with hostages, Abdelmalek Sellal, the
country’s prime minister, told reporters in Algiers yesterday.
At least one member of the terrorists was a Canadian national
whose job was to contact the media, he said.  The extent of the death toll remains uncertain. Sellal said
37 foreign workers and one Algerian were killed, along with 29
militants, bringing the number of dead to 67. He said three
militants were captured, with five foreign hostages still
missing. Other governments have said 17 people remain
unaccounted for, according to the  Associated Press , and reports
of the number killed have varied since the Algerian forces moved
against the militants.  The operation at the In Amenas gas facility underscored the
dangers Algeria faces as French forces target jihadis in Mali.
Sellal, whose nation fought a decade-long battle against
Islamists in the 1990s, reiterated that Algeria backed peaceful
dialogue and wouldn’t commit troops to Mali.  The scenario outlined by Sellal was of an orchestrated
assault planned by the militants over two months and complete
with inside information from a former driver at the Saharan gas
facility, operated by London’s  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  of  Norway ,
and state-run Sonatrach. The siege was dealt with
“professionally” by the Algerian military, Sellal said.  ‘Unacceptable Demands’  “The army first tried to negotiate in the hope of
resolving the situation, but the terrorists were determined and
their position was clear, and they had unacceptable demands,”
Sellal said.  The attackers hailed from eight nations including Tunisia,
 Egypt ,  Niger , Mauritania and  Canada , according to the premier.  The deceased hostages also came from diverse backgrounds,
including people from  Japan , the U.S., the  Philippines ,
 Colombia , Britain and France, according to their respective
governments. The workers were killed one-by-one, Sellal said, in
a mass execution.  The three U.S. citizens killed in the attack were Victor
Lynn Lovelady, Gordon Lee Rowan and Frederick Buttaccio, the
U.S. State Department announced yesterday. Seven other Americans
survived the ordeal,  Victoria Nuland , a spokeswoman for the
department, said in a statement.  Porous Borders  Sellal said the attackers crossed from north Mali into
Niger, then  Libya  and finally Algeria, an indication of the
difficulties of policing the porous borders Algeria shares with
its neighbors. The group was headed by a man named Bechneb
Mohamed al-Amin, according to Sellal.  The first stage of the “cowardly act by a group of
terrorists” began at 5:30 a.m. on Jan. 16 and targeted a bus
carrying passengers to In Amenas airport, Sellal said. BP’s
country manager was among the passengers, he said.  The militants “started firing at the bus and received a
severe response from soldiers,” he said. “They failed to
achieve their goal which was to kidnap foreign workers.”  The attackers then divided into two groups, with 11 men
heading to the gas plant and the others to the housing unit. The
militants were heavily armed, with rocket-propelled grenades and
automatic weapons as they stormed the complex that housed a
total of 790 workers, of whom 134 were foreigners from 26
nations, the prime minister said.  Guard’s Effort  A young Algerian security guard at the gas factory was
among the first to be killed. Before dying, he managed to sound
the alarm, a heroic effort that allowed workers to shut down the
complex and to hide, Sellal said.  During the first night, the militants began preparations to
flee to  Mali  in a convoy of vehicles, strapping explosives to
the hostages. They were prevented from leaving the complex by
the army, which had surrounded the site and struck with
“force,” killing the group’s leader, Sellal said.  The attackers then sought to join their fellow militants,
putting the hostages into the vehicles and using them as human
shields. The military’s final assault on the militants came amid
fears they were trying to destroy the facility, he said.  Security Forces  Commenting on the intervention by security forces, Sellal
said, “I swear before God that there are few in this world who
could achieve” what the Algerian armed forces undertook.  The remarks appeared aimed at initial criticism directed at
Algeria over the military’s response -- efforts later defended
by  France , the nation’s former colonial ruler.  Responsibility was claimed by militants of the al-Qaeda-
linked al Mulathameen group, who said their action was inspired
by the arrival last week of French forces seeking to block a
jihadist takeover of neighboring Mali. The group, headed by
Mokhtar Belmokhtar, a one-eyed Algerian militant, warned other
attacks could follow, according to a statement published on
Mauritania’s private ANI news agency on Jan. 20.  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said seven Japanese were
killed, the Kyodo news agency reported. In addition, six
Filipinos, at least three Britons, two Romanians, one French
security worker and a Colombian were slain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salah Slimani in Algiers at 
 sslimani2@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  