-- Mali, French Forces Take Second Town in Insurgents’ Fight
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-01-21T14:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/mali-french-forces-take-second-town-in-insurgents-fight.html
French and Malian forces took
control of the town of Diabaly and Douentza as soldiers from
neighboring African countries continued to arrive to join the
fight against rebels that control two-thirds of the nation.  Malian soldiers entered Diabaly “with the support of
French troops” today, army spokesman Colonel Diarran Kone said
by phone from the capital, Bamako. Diabaly is 400 kilometers
(250 miles) from the city, and was the southern-most point held
by militants who overran the town earlier this month.  French and Malian forces have been battling the fighters,
mainly militants seeking to impose a strict version of Islamic
law, after they moved toward the capital. On Jan. 18, French
military spokesman  Thierry Burkhard  said Konna was under control
of Mali’s troops. Douentza, near Konna, is also under army
control, the French Defense Ministry said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The seizures come as Ivory Coast President Alassane Ouattara, chairman of the Economic Community of West African
States Commission, landed in Bamako today, Ecowas spokesman
Mamadou Amat said by phone. He will meet the leaders of African
troops that are being deployed eight months earlier than planned
to aid the French and Malian effort to push back the militants,
Amat said.  Economy Contracts  “There are serious concerns about the regional force’s
capacity to conduct counterinsurgency and counter-terrorism
operations in northern Mali,” Alexis Arieff, an Africa policy
analyst at the U.S. Congressional Research Service, said in a
Jan. 17 interview. “It’s incredibly difficult terrain. You are
talking about mixed battalions. You add to that lack of common
language, lack of specific training in desert warfare for some,
lack of transport to get to the north.”  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  are
among mining companies with operations in the landlocked
country, which vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-biggest gold
producer. It’s one of the continent’s poorest nations, with the
crisis leading to an economic contraction of 4.5 percent last
year, according to the International Monetary Fund.  Togo, Nigeria, Burkina Faso,  Guinea ,  Senegal ,  Benin  and
 Ghana  have pledged to contribute troops to the African-led
International Support Mission to Mali, or Afisma, which was
conceived by the African Union before France’s airstrikes. The
force is set to reach 5,500, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said on Europe1 radio yesterday, higher than an earlier
plan of 3,300. For the wider region, which has seen violent
clashes in countries including Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone and
Liberia over the past decade, stability is at stake.  Gas Plant  “The crisis in Mali, if not brought under control, may
spill over to Nigeria and other West African countries with
negative consequences on our collective security, political
stability and development efforts,” Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan said in a letter to the country’s Senate on Jan. 17
requesting troops.  Militants who captured a gas plant in  Algeria  on Jan. 16
and took dozens of hostages had demanded that  France  end its
military intervention in neighboring Mali. Algeria reported that
23 hostages and 32 terrorists died when government forces raided
the plant Jan. 19, and officials warned that the death toll
could rise.  The African force will cost an estimated $500 million,
Desire Kadre Ouedraogo, president of the Economic Community of
West African States Commission, told state-owned television in
the Ivory Coast yesterday. International donors will meet Jan.
29 in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, to discuss funding.  Crisis Year  It’s not clear who will fund the force, said Lori-Anne
Theroux-Benoni, a Dakar, Senegal-based researcher with the
Institute for Security Studies.  “Funding will quickly become a problem if it is not
resolved,” she said in an interview on Jan. 16.  Mali ’s year of crisis was sparked by a coup in March led by
soldiers complaining they didn’t have the training or equipment
to fight the rebels, who had started attacking northern military
outposts. The insurgents exploited the situation to overrun the
vast desert region, including the historic trading city of
Timbuktu.  A total of 3,150 French forces are involved in the mission,
with 2,150 already in the country, according to a Defense
Ministry statement e-mailed today. There will be a joint command
center to coordinate between the African and French contingents,
according to Chaka Aboudou Toure, the representative to Mali of
the Ecowas Commission.  Civil War  West African nations have in recent years hardened their
response to challenges on state authority. When Ivory Coast’s
former president, Laurent Gbagbo, refused to step down after he
lost a 2010 election, Ecowas immediately backed his challenger,
Ouattara, and supported France when it used force to oust him.  The region’s soldiers have had limited success in previous
interventions, the biggest of which was in Liberia’s civil war
in 1990, which waged on for another six years after West African
troops were deployed.  Heavy weapons and fighters from 2011 civil war in
neighboring Libya have boosted the arsenal of the insurgents,
who number 2,000 to 5,000, with criminal bands and drugs
smugglers on the fringes, according to a report from CF2R, a
French institute that does research on intelligence.  African countries are also keen to intervene for fear of
Islamist fighters collaborating with militants in their own
countries, said Stephen Ellis, a senior researcher at the  Africa 
Study Centre in Leiden, the Netherlands.  Boko Haram  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, is already battling
Boko Haram insurgents whose attacks have killed more than 1,500
people in a four-year campaign. The attackers on the Algerian
gas plant included citizens of Algeria, Mali,  Egypt , Niger and
Mauritania, as well as  Canada , according to Mauritania’s private
ANI news agency, citing an unidentified source in the group.  “None of the governments in West Africa have any sympathy
for the Islamist groups but every West African country has an
Islamist movement,” Ellis said in an interview. “Unemployment
is so high in most countries that you can always recruit youth
to fight, especially if there are opportunities for looting and
crime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Bamako at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  