-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Rise on Growth Prospects After BOJ
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-01-22T06:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/aussie-kiwi-dollars-snap-declines-versus-yen-before-boj.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose against their U.S. counterpart after the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  said it would expand monetary stimulus, boosting prospects
for global growth.  Both currencies rose briefly against the yen after  Japan ’s
central bank said it would set a 2 percent inflation target and
shift to Federal Reserve-style open-ended asset purchases in its
strongest commitment yet to ending two decades of deflation.
Japan is Australia’s second-largest trading partner.  “For global growth it’s a good thing to have some
expansive monetary policy in Japan,” said Derek Mumford, a
Sydney-based director at Rochford Capital, a currency risk-
management company. “It’s supportive of the Aussie dollar as
it’s attempting to speed up growth and get inflation in the
Japanese economy.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.0554 as of 5:04
p.m. in Sydney and bought 94.09 yen from 94.23 yesterday. New
Zealand’s dollar gained 0.6 percent to 84.12 U.S. cents and
fetched 75.00 yen from 74.91 yesterday.  The Aussie rose as much as 0.8 percent and New Zealand’s
currency climbed as much as 1 percent against the yen
immediately after the BOJ decision, before the move reversed.  The central bank’s statement “should be regarded as
underwhelming expectations,” Greg Gibbs, a Singapore-based
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  Against the yen, the Aussie and New Zealand dollars have
climbed more than 4 percent this year, leading advances among
major currencies.  Inflation Data  Demand for the Aussie was tempered before the Bureau of
Statistics releases inflation data tomorrow that may spur bets
on further cuts to  Australia ’s benchmark interest rate.  Australia’s trimmed mean gauge of core prices probably rose
0.7 percent in the fourth quarter, matching the previous three-
month period’s reading, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Swaps traders are betting on a 45 percent chance that the
Reserve Bank of Australia will lower benchmark borrowing costs
to 2.75 percent when officials meet Feb. 5.  Yields on Australia’s 10-year bonds were little changed at
3.36 percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates which is sensitive to interest-
rate expectations, rose two basis points to 2.83 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  