-- Averting Climate Change May Cost $700 Billion a Year
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-21T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/averting-climate-change-may-cost-700-billion-a-year.html
About $700 billion a year of new
spending on renewable power, low-carbon transport and energy
efficiency is needed to meet the United Nations goal to cap
temperature rises, a report for the  World Economic Forum  showed.  That cash is needed in addition to the $5 trillion a year
countries must spend on infrastructure for agriculture,
transport, power and water through 2020, according to a report
released today by the consultant  Accenture Plc (ACN)  for the forum’s
Green Growth Action Alliance.  “This development needs to be greened by re-evaluating
investment priorities,” former Mexican President  Felipe Calderon , chairman of the alliance, wrote in a forward to the
report. “There remains a considerable shortfall in investment.
Closing this gap is our collective task and one that we cannot
afford to fail.”  The  World Bank  says the planet is on track to warm by 4
degrees Celsius (7.2 degrees Fahrenheit) this century, double
the level deemed safe by scientists working in a UN process. To
rein in warming, governments must use public money to leverage
as much as five times the amount in private investment in clean
technologies, according to the report.  “The G20 governments must accelerate the phasing-out of
fossil-fuel subsidies, enact long-term carbon price signals,
enable greater free trade in green technologies, and expand
investment in climate adaptation,” the report said.  The WEF holds its annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland  from
Jan. 23 to Jan. 27. The Green Growth Action Alliance is a
coalition of more than 50 financial institutions, companies,
governments and non-governmental organizations that’s co-
ordinated by the WEF. Members include General Electric Co.’s
energy division, HSBC Holdings Plc and Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  