-- Bangladesh War Tribunal Gives Death Sentence in First Ruling
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-01-21T10:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/bangladesh-war-tribunal-gives-death-sentence-in-first-ruling-1-.html
A  Bangladesh  war crimes tribunal
sentenced a former leader of the country’s largest Islamic party
to death, its first conviction for offenses carried out four
decades ago during the independence struggle with Pakistan.  Abul Kalam Azad, an ex-member of the Jamaat-e-Islami party,
was today found guilty of rape and murder. The verdict was
handed down in absentia in Dhaka by Justice Obaidul Hassan as
the 66-year-old Azad is absconding.  “We should not forget the millions of victims who deserve
that their tormentors are held accountable,” Hassan and two
fellow judges said in written summary of the judgment. “The
passage of time does not diminish the guilt. Justice delayed is
no longer justice denied.”  As British colonial rule ended in South Asia in 1947, East
and West  Pakistan  were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,241
miles) of Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted
to quell a nationalist uprising in the east that was triggered
by the jailing of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who had led his Awami
League to victory in elections.  The war ended nine months later with the creation of
 Bangladesh  after Indian forces helped defeat Pakistan’s army.
Jamaat-e-Islami supported staying with Pakistan during the war
and several of its leaders are among 10 people being
investigated by the tribunal on charges they collaborated with
Pakistani forces.  Hindus Raped  The International Crimes Tribunal was set up in 2010 by the
government led by Sheikh Mujib’s daughter, Sheikh Hasina Wajed,
after it began to investigate alleged war criminals from the
conflict that killed three million people. Opposition parties
have called it politically motivated.  New York-based Human Rights Watch has expressed concern
over  some aspects  of the tribunal’s working, including the
harassment of defense counsel, the need for clearer definitions
of war crimes and better protection for witnesses.  Azad aided the Pakistani army in committing criminal acts
and atrocities including murder, abduction, torture and rape in
Faridpur, a district in central Bangladesh, during the war,
according to a trial document sent to reporters by the tribunal.  Azad was charged with involvement in the killing of at
least 12 unarmed people and raping of two Hindu women in
Faridpur in 1971, the document shows. Twenty-two prosecution
witnesses, including victims and victims’ families, testified
against Azad.  “We have no way to appeal against the verdict as the
convict is a fugitive,” Abdus Shukur Khan, a state-appointed
counsel for Azad, said in a phone interview. “If we want to
take the case to the higher court, the convict has to be present
in court and file an appeal.”  The incidents cited in the charges “might have taken
place, but my client was not involved in such crimes,” Khan,
the lawyer, told reporters in Dhaka on Dec. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  