-- Banks Swimming in Capital Get Dividend Go-Ahead: Nordic Credit
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 2013-01-21T12:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/banks-swimming-in-capital-get-dividend-go-ahead-nordic-credit.html
Sweden’s banks  are free to raise
dividend payments after building up surplus capital that more
than fulfills the nation’s regulatory requirements, Financial
Markets Minister Peter Norman said.  “It’s a question for the banks themselves,” Norman said
in a Jan. 18 interview in Stockholm. Sweden’s banks now exceed
the nation’s capital requirements “by a good margin,” he said.  Sweden in 2011 told its banks to set aside bigger capital
buffers than those required elsewhere and in November said
stricter risk weights will apply to their mortgage assets. Yet
banks in the largest Nordic economy have managed to build up
reserves that exceed the requirements, spurring speculation that
shareholder payouts will soon be increased.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  SEB AB (SEBA)  and  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  already hold more than the 10 percent core Tier 1 equity
relative to their risk-weighted assets that they’re required to
set aside this year. They also exceed the 12 percent minimum
requirement that will apply from 2015.  Credit derivative investors have rewarded the lenders for
amassing extra capital, with default swaps on debt sold by
Handelsbanken costing about 20 basis points less than similar-
contracts on Deutsche Bank AG, according to data available on
Bloomberg.  Shares in Handelsbanken rose 1.1 percent to 245.70 kronor
as of 1:46 p.m. in Stockholm, making it the day’s best-
performing major bank in the Nordic region. Swedbank rose 0.7
percent, SEB gained 0.3 percent and Nordea increased 0.2
percent. All four banks’ share moves topped the 0.1 percent gain
in the 38-member Bloomberg index tracking European financial
stocks.  Not ‘Acute’  Sweden , which originally wanted to enforce the 10 percent
rule as of Jan. 1, has pushed back its deadline as the Nordic
country waits for European regulators to complete the
administrative groundwork that enables the switch, Norman said.
Setting a new date for implementation is no longer “acute”
because  banks  already comply with the standard, he said.  “Going into fourth-quarter results, we think the focus of
Swedish banks should be on dividends and capital returns,”
Masih Yazdi and Carla Antunes-Silva, analysts at Credit Suisse,
said in a note to clients today. “We see scope for positive
surprises on the proposed dividends for 2012 as well as signals
of changed dividend policies for the coming years.”  ‘Excess Capital’  Handelsbanken and Swedbank had ratios of 17.9 percent and
17.3 percent, respectively, at the end of September. SEB’s stood
at 16.5 percent, while Nordea’s was 12.2 percent, according to
their third-quarter earnings reports.  Nordea and Swedbank are due to report fourth-quarter
earnings on Jan. 30, followed by SEB on Jan. 31 and
Handelsbanken on Feb. 6.  “We don’t see why SEB, Handelsbanken and Swedbank should
not be allowed to distribute excess capital freely in 2013,”
 Andreas Hakansson , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in a
phone interview. “We do not expect buybacks, but we do expect
Swedbank to increase its payout to 65 percent while SEB and
Handelsbanken will pay out 50 percent.”  Handelsbanken may raise its 2012 dividend by 11 percent to
10.8 kronor a share; pay out 11.2 kronor next year and 12 kronor
for 2014, according to Bloomberg dividend  forecasts . Swedbank
will probably increase its dividend for 2012 by 17 percent to
6.2 kronor a share, 6.6 kronor the following year and 7 kronor
for 2014. SEB AB may boost it by 20 percent this year to 2.1
kronor, while Nordea Bank by 15 percent to 0.3 euro, the
 forecasts  show.  Risk Weights  “Swedish banks are in a position where they can meet the
requirements without having to jeopardize their business models
or sell assets,” Michael Sandfort, chief analyst at Nordea
Markets. “It is easier to operate in an economy that is fairly
robust, as the Swedish one is.”  Borg has urged banks only to consider raising dividend
payouts if they continue to meet capital requirements after
taking the stricter risk weights into account. Sweden’s
financial regulator on Nov. 26 set a minimum risk-weight
requirement of 15 percent for mortgage assets, almost three
times existing levels. That would require Sweden’s biggest banks
to set aside an additional 20 billion kronor in capital, the
Financial Supervisory Authority estimated at the time.  The new rules would lower Swedbank’s core capital ratio by
1.5 percentage points and Handelsbanken’s by 1.1 percentage
points, the FSA said. Nordea would need to set aside 3.4 billion
kronor and SEB 2.3 billion kronor, cutting their ratios by 0.2
percentage point and 0.4 percentage point, respectively. The
calculations haven’t been adjusted for the effects of Basel III.  Default Risk  Under the so-called Basel III rules, banks are required to
have a minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, of 7 percent.  Handelsbanken, Swedbank and SEB were the best-capitalized
major lenders in the European Union in the third quarter,
according to a Bloomberg ranking of 20 of the region’s largest
banks. Nordea was No. 6, after retaining earnings, cutting costs
and risky assets in recent quarters.  Swedish bank default risk tumbled to an almost 18-month low
this month as investors reward the lenders for setting aside
more capital, credit default swaps show.  It costs 75 basis points to insure against default on
senior debt issued by Nordea, compared with as high as 176 basis
points in May last year, according to  data  available on
Bloomberg on five-year credit-default swap contracts. Investors
need to pay 117 basis points to insure against non-payment on
similar  debt  sold by Citigroup Inc. Default swaps on Deutsche
Bank AG  traded  at 90 basis points last week.  “The Swedish FSA has been pretty aggressive, and from a
pure credit perspective, that is positive for the banks,” said
Sandfort. “The Swedish FSA will stay on the hawkish side of the
playing field.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Toby Alder in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  