-- Barclays Workers’ Push for Libor Case Anonymity Rejected
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-01-22T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/barclays-workers-request-for-anonymity-in-libor-case-rejected.html
A group of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  employees
had a request to prevent their names from being published ahead
of the U.K.’s first trial related to manipulation of the  London 
interbank offered rate rejected by a judge.  “I simply do not see that there is any sufficient case of
prejudice” to the trial, Judge Julian Flaux said in dismissing
the request yesterday.  Affiliates of Guardian Care Homes Ltd. sued Barclays over
an interest-rate swap tied to Libor and argued the benchmark was
manipulated. The swap resulted in a loss for the Wolverhampton,
England-based Guardian and Barclays was ordered to give the
company’s lawyers the identities and e-mails of bank staff that
were included in disclosures to British and American regulators
during a probe into interest-rate manipulation.  Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($459 million) over
its traders trying to manipulate Libor and other  interest rates 
for profit, while  UBS AG (UBSN)  was fined $1.5 billion in December for
rate-rigging. More than a dozen banks are being investigated in
worldwide probes into whether they profited from abusing the
process used to set Libor, the baseline for more than $300
trillion of financial contracts globally.  David Pannick , a lawyer for 24 Barclays workers, had argued
that it was unfair for the employees to be identified when they
weren’t parties to the lawsuit and could face serious
allegations.  Barclays said the case was without merit and the names
shouldn’t be released.  ‘Innocent Individuals’  “The fact that someone is named in hundreds of thousands
of pages of documents following a wide-ranging three-year
investigation in which no stone was left unturned does not
necessarily mean that person was involved in any wrongdoing,”
Barclays spokesman Jon Laycock said in an e-mail. “Many
entirely innocent individuals may be referred to in the
documents underpinning the settlements” with regulators.  The names of any Barclays traders or executives won’t
necessarily be published before the trial, Flaux said. Anything
the bank discloses is still subject to confidentiality under
court rules, unless it is mentioned in a pre-trial hearing.  Bloomberg News  joined with other media organizations,
including the Times in London, the Telegraph and the Financial
Times in opposing the employees’ application for anonymity. The
names weren’t immediately released after Flaux’s ruling.  “They may be grand, they may be wealthy, they may consider
themselves above all this,” the newspapers’ lawyer Guy Vassall-
Adams said before Flaux’s ruling. “They are just like any other
witness in court proceedings up and down this country.”  The case is Graiseley Properties Ltd. & Ors. v. Barclays
Bank Plc,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division
Commercial Court, No. 12-1259.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  