-- Barclays Staff Seek Anonymity in U.K. Libor-Fixing Case
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-01-21T14:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/barclays-staff-seek-anonymity-in-u-k-libor-fixing-case.html
A group of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  employees
asked a judge to block their names from being published ahead of
the U.K.’s first trial related to manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate.  “It’s simply unfair for persons to be named in
circumstances where they are not parties to the claim and where
there are, or may be, serious allegations being made against
them,”  David Pannick , a lawyer for 24 Barclays workers, said at
a London court hearing today.  Affiliates of Guardian Care Homes Ltd. sued Barclays to
revoke an interest-rate swap because the product, which resulted
in a substantial loss for the Wolverhampton, England-based
company, was tied to the benchmark that Guardian argues was set
dishonestly. A trial is scheduled for later this year.  Barclays has been ordered to give Guardian’s lawyers the
identities and e-mails of staff that were included in
disclosures to British and American regulators during a probe
that resulted in the bank being fined 290 million pounds ($460
million) for traders trying to manipulate Libor and other
 interest rates  for profit.  Two British newspapers, The Times and The Telegraph,
opposed the employees’ application for anonymity.  “They may be grand, they may be wealthy, they may consider
themselves above all this,” the newspapers’ lawyer Guy Vassall-
Adams said. “They are just like any other witness in court
proceedings up and down this country.”  More than a dozen banks are being investigated in worldwide
probes into whether they profited from abusing the process used
to set Libor, the baseline for more than $300 trillion of
financial contracts globally. In addition to Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
was fined $1.5 billion in December for rate-rigging.  Kevin Roberts , a lawyer for the employees, and Barclays
spokesman Jon Laycock didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment  The case is Graiseley Properties Ltd. & Ors. v. Barclays
Bank Plc,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division
Commercial Court, No. 12-1259.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  