-- BASF’s Year of Smaller Deals Shows CEO Bock’s Tech Focus
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-22T09:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/basf-s-year-of-smaller-deals-shows-ceo-bock-s-tech-focus.html
BASF SE (BAS)  Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock pushed through a bid for  Pronova BioPharma ASA (PRON)  by boosting
his offer by 8 percent. He has the backing of investors as the
extra cost is a fraction of the $10.5 billion in cash probably
generated by BASF last year.  The $900 million deal is Bock’s second-largest purchase
since he took over in May 2011 and will give the world’s biggest
chemicals maker a leading position in pharma-grade Omega 3, a
top-purity fatty acid used in heart drugs such as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Lovaza. Bock’s penchant for smaller
technology-driven deals over riskier big-ticket purchases is
winning investor accolades.  “I don’t mind bolt ons,” said Stephan Thomas, who helps
manage 16 billion euros ($21.3 billion) including shares of BASF
at  Frankfurt  Trust. “It’s a better strategy than buying
something big with integration costing a lot, lay-offs and
probably bad press.”  Bock is so far showing less appetite for multi-billion
dollar deals than his predecessor  Juergen Hambrecht , who bought
Swiss additives and dye maker Ciba for $5 billion in 2009 and
cosmetics ingredient maker Cognis for $3.8 billion a year later.
By contrast, Bock has bought 12 companies in areas such as
battery materials and biological crop-care and spending of
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF on takeovers still dropped to
$2 billion in 2012 compared with an average of $3.5 billion in
the prior six years, according to Bloomberg data.  Specific Investments  “If you look at this strategy, you aren’t just being
careful, you are more definite in your decisions because you are
making very specific investments,” said  Boris Boehm , a fund
manager at  Aramea Asset Management  in Hamburg, who holds BASF
shares. “There are a host of smaller companies under the radar.
I wouldn’t call targeting them conservative because that sounds
so unexciting. It’s entrepreneurial.”  Still, BASF’s cash generation would allow Bock, 54, to
spend big. The company, which is scheduled to report full-year
earnings on Feb. 26, probably generated cash of almost 7.9
billion euros in 2012 as sales may have increased 5.9 percent to
77.8 billion euros, according to a survey of analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  BASF shares declined as much as 2 percent to 72.32 euros in
Frankfurt trading and were down 1.4 percent at 72.80 euros as of
10:12 a.m. local time. The stock has gained 29 percent in the
past six months, boosting the company’s market value to 66.9
billion euros.  Sprawling Portfolio  Last year’s largest purchase was the $1.02 billion
acquisition of seed-treatment supplier Becker Underwood Inc.
Becker supplies bacteria and microscopic worms that feed on
soil-dwelling fungus gnats, an alternative to traditional
fungicides and pesticides.  Pronova, based in Lysaker,  Norway , adds a pharma-grade
fatty acid used in blockbuster heart drugs to BASF’s sprawling
portfolio of materials and chemicals spanning skin-care
ingredients and lightweight plastics used in electric vehicles.  BASF, founded 147 years ago, raised its offer to 13.50
kroner a share on Jan. 15, valuing Pronova at almost 5 billion
kroner ($900 million) after minority shareholders balked at a
previous 12.50 kroner a share bid. The company yesterday said it
won almost 98 percent support from the Norwegian drug-ingredient
maker’s shareholders, enough for the acquisition to go through.  Financial Scrutiny  All Pronova shareholders except  Herkules Private Equity ,
which held half of the stock, will get the higher price. That
means that the German company, which is paying in cash for
Pronova, will only have to pay an additional $27 million for the
higher bid.  “While Bock could buy a larger company if available at the
right price, he’d probably lend more weight to the financial
side of a deal and may therefore be more cautious,” said
Frankfurt Trust’s Thomas, whose fund has a bigger block of BASF
shares than any other equity.  Bock, who climbed BASF’s corporate ladder through a career
in finance, founded a new unit to provide a home for the four
battery-material makers purchased. At its headquarters on the
Rhine river, laboratories form pockets of innovation in BASF’s
sprawling headquarters, where steam crackers split naphtha into
chemical building blocks at the 3.86 square-mile site.  BASF has also teamed up with universities, research
institutes and partners such as Robert Bosch GmbH and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  to develop new lithium-ion batteries. The goal is to boost
the range of electric cars while lowering battery prices and
BASF has earmarked a three-digit-million euro investment in that
segment by 2016.  Support  “It’s a strategic focus of going into certain areas,”
Thorsten Strauss, an analyst at NordLB, said. “It’s also about
using opportunities. Still, if something bigger was to come onto
the market, they would probably jump at the opportunity.”  Frankfurt Trust’s Thomas said he wouldn’t mind a “mega
deal” at BASF as long as the company doesn’t overpay, the
integration goes quickly and the deal is accretive in a
relatively short time. Of the bigger deals that BASF has done,
the integration of Ciba probably took longer than management had
budgeted, he said.  BASF has also taken a deeper look at Cognis to harness more
growth and synergies.  As well as batteries, BASF is building up its water
technology business. Its venture capital arm in May invested in
NanoH2O Inc., a U.S. company that makes membranes for seawater
desalination. That followed the purchase of a startup called
 Inge Watertechnologies AG  in 2011.  BASF shares rose 32 percent in 2012 in Frankfurt, beating
the 29 percent gain of  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index. Aramea
Asset Management’s Boehm said investors wouldn’t mind if Bock
continued to add key technology assets at a low price.  “It’s a careful approach and in my opinion that’s the
charm of it,” he said. “The share price hasn’t suffered under
this strategy. I can imagine that they will continue because
they’ve had a good experience with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  