-- Batista’s MMX at Six-Week Low in Sao Paulo on CEO Change
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-01-21T22:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/batista-s-mmx-at-six-week-low-in-sao-paulo-on-ceo-change.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the
iron-ore producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , fell to a six-week low after changing its chief
executive officer for the second time in 15 months.  MMX declined 2 percent to 3.90 reais in  Sao Paulo , the
lowest since Dec. 7. MMX has dropped 48 percent in the past 12
months.  Carlos Gonzalez , mining director at Batista’s EBX Group
Co., will replace Guilherme Escalhao, 50, who is resigning from
the company, Rio de Janeiro-based MMX said in a Jan. 18
regulatory filing. Escalhao was named CEO in October 2011 after
 Roger Downey  resigned. Management turnover is a risk for
investors in MMX, which replaced its chief financial officer
three times in the same period, according to HSBC Holding Plc.  “This management change was largely unexpected by the
market,” HSBC analyst Jonathan Brandt said in a note to clients
Jan. 18. “Continued management changes have had a negative
effect on project execution, with the six-month delay in the
Sudeste Superport to the end of 2013 being the most recent
example.” He has a neutral recommendation on the stock.  Escalhao is the fifth CEO of the six publicly traded
companies controlled by Batista to be replaced since June. EBX
named Otavio Lazcano as CFO on Aug. 6, replacing Nicolau Chacur.  Gonzalez, a former Vale executive, joined EBX in 2005, the
company said in its filing. He left in 2008 to work as chief
operating officer of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Minas-Rio iron-ore
project in Brazil, and he returned to EBX in 2011.  MMX’s press office declined to comment on the reasons for
Escalhao’s departure when contacted by Bloomberg on Jan. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  