-- Biotie Considers Developing Alzheimer’s Drug on Its Own
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-01-21T12:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/biotie-considers-developing-alzheimer-s-drug-on-its-own.html
Biotie Therapies Oyj (BTH1V) , the developer
of an anti-alcoholism medicine with H.  Lundbeck (LUN)  A/S, may forgo a
partnership for an experimental Alzheimer’s drug following
positive data on a U.S. treatment that uses a similar mechanism.  Biotie, which has been in talks with several drugmakers to
cooperate on its SYN120 product, is reconsidering the strategy
after  Acadia Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACAD)  reported success in late-stage
studies of the pimavanserin treatment for Parkinson’s disease-
related psychosis, Chief Executive Officer Timo Veromaa said in
an interview in London. Keeping the drug could eventually yield
more revenue for Biotie, he said.  SYN120 is designed to improve cognition in Alzheimer’s
patients by blocking 5-HT6 receptors in the brain, which results
in increased concentrations of acetylcholine and glutamate,
chemicals that aid learning and memory processes, according to
Turku, Finland-based Biotie. SYN120 also has the ability to
block the 5-HT2A receptor, which Acadia’s pimavanserin targets,
Veromaa said.  “This has led to an internal debate as to whether this is
a compound that we should rather hold onto and develop on our
own,” Veromaa said. “In today’s market, just licensing out is
not the value proposition that the big-ticket investors are
looking for.”  Acadia’s Jump  Acadia’s stock price has more than  doubled  since Nov. 26,
the day before the San Diego-based drugmaker released results
from the pimavanserin trial. The company said on Dec. 12 that it
raised an additional  $86 million in a share sale  to fund
completion of late-stage clinical tests without a partner.  Biotie’s SYN120 may have commercial potential for use by a
subset of patients with  Parkinson’s disease  or schizophrenia, in
addition to relieving Alzheimer’s, Veromaa said in the Jan. 18
interview. Biotie will decide how to proceed by the end of the
first half, he said.  “The company is now at a stage, with a substantial cash
balance and a number of very late-stage successfully partnered
programs, where taking more of the development in house should
bring more rewards,” said Otello Stampacchia, managing partner
of Omega Funds and a Biotie investor.  Advancing the development of SYN120 alone would also make
Biotie more attractive as a takeover target for companies
focused on neurological disorders, such as Lundbeck and  UCB SA (UCB) ,
he said.  Biotie shares rose 2.3 percent to 44 euro cents as of 2:02
p.m. in Helsinki, paring their decline in the past 12 months to
14 percent.  UCB Partnership  The company is also awaiting an announcement from partner
UCB this quarter on next steps for their experimental medicine
SYN115 for Parkinson’s disease, which the company said last
month showed “highly significant” effects on symptoms in a
mid-stage study.  The size of the study and data quality makes the mid-stage
trial likely to be considered as part of late-stage testing on
efficacy needed for regulatory approval, Veromaa said.  Separately, Biotie may terminate a development program for
ronomilast to treat respiratory disease, a medicine the company
acquired through its  purchase  of Elbion GmbH in 2008, he said.
The drug had been positioned as a better version of Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.’s Daxas, with the same PDE4 inhibitor
mechanism of action and fewer side effects, particularly nausea.  In discussions with potential partners, “there has not
been much appetite for an improved Daxas,” Veromaa said.
“PDE4s come with a lot of baggage.”  Potential Target  Biotie, which is always considering acquisition
opportunities, isn’t currently in any active discussions on
buying other companies, and could at some point become a
takeover target itself, Veromaa said.  Commercial success for Selincro, the anti-alcoholism drug
approved by European Union regulators last month, may prompt
Copenhagen-based Lundbeck to decide that acquiring the Finnish
company would be preferable to making royalty payments, he said.
Similarly, if SYN115 comes close to receiving regulatory
approval, UCB may opt to buy out Biotie, he said.  “One might consider that we have two potential existing
suitors,” Veromaa said. “But there’s a few years to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  