-- BMW-Mercedes Hatchbacks Head for India After China Flop
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-01-22T13:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/bmw-mercedes-hatchbacks-head-for-india-after-china-flop-cars.html
Hatchbacks from BMW, Mercedes-Benz
and Audi grew so popular in  Europe  that the luxury carmakers bet
Chinese consumers would feel the same way. They didn’t. Next
stop:  India .  The German companies say they plan to sell small cars in
India from this year, with  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
introducing the entry-level A-Class in mid-2013, followed by
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  with its 1-Series.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi may introduce the similar-sized A3 in 2014.  A  growing middle class , chronic shortages of parking and
road-space in India’s teeming cities, together with an obsession
for fuel efficiency should spell a windfall for makers of
premium small cars. Failure to lure motorists in India, already
the world’s largest hatchback market, would consign the luxury
marques to servicing only the wealthiest -- and dim prospects
that a similar strategy will work in other emerging markets.  “If you have scale aspirations, then it’s important to
succeed with the right models at the right price points,” said
Neelesh Hundekari, Mumbai-based partner and head of the luxury
and lifestyle practice at A.T. Kearney, a consultancy. “India
is a poor country but people still want a piece of luxury, and
at the right price point, they will buy a BMW or a Mercedes.”  Finding those points is tricky in India, where a decade of
record economic  growth  has created a nascent middle class whose
aspirations to luxury are tempered by an eye for value and
constrained by the price tag. India’s National Council of
Applied Economic Research  defines  the middle class as those with
annual incomes of 200,000 rupees to 1 million rupees -- or
$3,700 to $18,500.  Affordable Luxury  “Indians are looking for affordability, even in the luxury
segment,” said  Deepesh Rathore , the New Delhi-based managing
director in India for IHS Automotive, a research firm. “Once a
customer buys a BMW or Mercedes, he’s not going to go back to a
lower brand.”  India’s luxury auto market may quadruple from last year’s
level by 2020, compared with global growth of 40 percent, IHS
estimates. J.D. Power & Associates, another research company,
says it  expects  India’s car market will be the world’s third
largest by that year.  It has a way to go: Audi this month said India sales soared
63 percent last year -- to 9,003 cars. The company sold 405,838
vehicles in  China , a 30 percent gain on 2011. Auto sales in
China, the world’s No. 1 car market, reached 19.3 million last
year; India deliveries were at 2.77 million.  China Plus  Finding the key to tap  emerging markets  outside China is
increasingly important for BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Audi as demand
in Europe heads for a sixth straight annual decline. Full-year
sales fell 7.8 percent to 12.5 million cars in 2012, the lowest
in 19 years. Mercedes-Benz sales dropped 5.6 percent in December
in Europe; Audi’s deliveries fell 18 percent.  “You will not get growth from the matured markets so
emerging markets such as India,  Korea , Brazil,  Russia  and China
are very important,” said Philipp von Sahr, BMW’s president for
India.  BMW will introduce the 1-Series hatchback at the end of
this year, Sahr said, declining to reveal the price before the
model goes on sale. Mercedes will sell the A-Class for less than
the 2.1 million-rupee tag on its B-Class, Eberhard Kern,
managing director of the Indian unit, said in an e-mail, without
specifying a figure. Audi didn’t respond to three e-mails
seeking comment.  Daimler’s  shares  fell as much as 1.9 percent to 42.37 euros
at 2:32 p.m. in  Frankfurt . BMW’s stock declined 2.1 percent to
72.76 euros, while Audi-parent VW gained 0.3 percent to 176.95
euros.  Hatchbacks Unproven  Not everyone is convinced Indians who can afford cars from
BMW, Mercedes and Audi will go for the small vehicles.  “Hatchbacks are unproven in the premium segment,” said
 Ashvin Chotai , managing director of Intelligence Automotive Asia
in  London . “People would prefer to buy a larger and more
luxurious model.”  In China, premium hatchbacks accounted for only 4.4 percent
of the 1.2 million luxury cars sold there last year. By
contrast, almost one in four of the 1.87 million luxury autos
sold in  Germany ,  France ,  Italy  and the U.K were hatchbacks.  “The Chinese are crazy about bigger cars,” said Abdul
Majeed, head of the automotive sector for India at
PricewaterhouseCoopers in Chennai. “Manufacturers are trying to
increase their customer base with such models and I don’t see
why these models won’t succeed.”  Love Affair  They may have a head start in India. The country’s affinity
for small cars goes back nearly three decades, when the  Maruti
800 hatchback  was introduced in 1983.  Tax breaks  helped spur the
popularity of the vehicles. Last year, 1.6 million hatchbacks
were sold in India -- more than in any other country.  The scene at 7 p.m. in the  Mumbai  suburb of Juhu helps
explain why. Eight lanes of traffic are squeezed into the five
lanes painted on the road; motorbikes, auto rickshaws and trucks
all jostle for any opening in the gridlock. Like their Parisian
and Roman counterparts, city-dwellers in India’s commercial
capital find their slim and nippy hatchbacks more suited to
street conditions.  Parking, too, is a growing issue in India’s sprawling
cities.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s billionaire chairman,  Mukesh Ambani , solved it with a 168-lot garage in his 27-story
residence. For most, that’s not an option. Parking lots can cost
as much as 10 million rupees in Mumbai, the Times of India
 reported  in November.  Parking Disputes  Angst over spaces can boil over: two brothers were murdered
last year in a brawl over parking, Mumbai police said.
“There is no place to park a car in apartment buildings in
Mumbai today so disputes do occur,” said Ambadas Pote, a deputy
police commissioner in India’s financial center.  Rising pump prices may also weigh in the hatchbacks’ favor.
The Indian government is freeing prices from government control
to trim its subsidy bill for food, fuel and fertilizer to 1.9
trillion rupees, or 2 percent of gross domestic product.  Gasoline prices have climbed 31 percent since June 2010,
when rates were freed, according to Indian Oil Corp.’s  website .
Refiners were this month allowed to set diesel prices without
government approval.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , which sells most of the nation’s
cars, recognized the Indian consumers’ fixation with fuel
economy in a  commercial  aired last year. In it, a NASA scientist
explains to a group of visitors the complexities of a rocket
that can reach Jupiter. Turning to his audience for questions,
an Indian man asks for the rocket’s gas mileage.  BMW’s diesel-powered 1-Series 120d hatchback uses 4.8
liters of fuel per 100 kilometers, while the 3-Series
counterpart consumes 5.8 liters, according to the company’s
 website . For cost-conscious consumers in the newly emerging
middle classes, such savings may matter.  “People today want a car that’s easy to park and is
efficient, as fuel prices are only going to rise,” said Nitin
Dossa, chairman of the Western India Automobile Association in
Mumbai. “It’s a craze to have a hatchback.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  