-- BOE Inflation Target Isn’t Working and Should Change, E&Y Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-21T09:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/boe-inflation-target-isn-t-working-and-should-change-e-y-says.html
The  Bank of England ’s inflation-
targeting regime isn’t working and the government should use the
appointment of  Mark Carney  as governor to reassess the remit,
according to the Ernst & Young Item Club.  The London-based group recommends that the Bank of England
switch to a target for money gross domestic product. That would
put growth “on a par with inflation as an objective of economic
policy and remove the risk to its credibility that the Monetary
Policy Committee runs by allowing inflation to overshoot the
target,” it said.  Bank of Canada Governor Carney, who is scheduled to take
over from  Mervyn King  at the Bank of England later this year,
has discussed the virtues of a nominal GDP target as a policy
tool. Bank of England policy maker  Ian McCafferty  said on Jan.
18 that the BOE’s current mandate is “relatively flexible” and
that a nominal GDP target may only be of use as a temporary
measure in “unusual circumstances.”  “The inflation target has now become a risk to the
credibility of the MPC and is long past its sell-by date,” said
 Peter Spencer , chief economic adviser to the Item Club. “We are
hopeful that the Treasury will see the arrival of a new governor
of the Bank of England as an opportunity to review the remit.”  In the report, the Item Club also said the U.K. government
should increase borrowing to boost spending on infrastructure
and housing to fuel the economic recovery. It sees the economy
growing 0.9 percent this year and 1.9 percent in 2014.  “The U.K. has crawled out of recession, but the
government’s mid-term report card should read ‘could do
better,’” Spencer said. “There is scope for borrowing to help
fund infrastructure investment” and “the government could
certainly do more to encourage housing investment, which is
subtracting from GDP when it should be adding to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  