-- BofA Rejects Euro Haven Before Default Ruling: Argentina Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-01-21T11:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/bofa-rejects-euro-haven-before-default-ruling-argentina-credit.html
Speculation that Argentine euro
bonds will be shielded from claims on the nation’s defaulted
debt is pushing relative yields to a two-year low, prompting
Bank of America Corp. to say it’s time to sell.  Yields on euro bonds due in 2033, issued under the
country’s 2010 debt restructuring, have dropped 3.8 percentage
points to 14.2 percent since climbing to a record on Nov. 28.
That’s cut the so-called spread over similar-maturity dollar
debt to 0.32 percentage point. The gap fell to a 29-month low on
Jan. 10 and compares with the average difference of 1.38
percentage points since the debt was sold.  Euro bondholders asked a U.S. court last month to exclude
their investments from a legal dispute between  Argentina  and so-
called holdout creditors from its $95 billion default that want
to be repaid in full. While the appeals court still has to
decide whether to require institutions outside the U.S. to
withhold payments from holders of Argentina’s euro debt,
investors should sell before the court reconvenes on Feb. 27,
according to Bank of America’s Jane Brauer.  “The euro assets ran up too far on the hopes that there
would be a distinction,” Brauer, a strategist at Bank of
America in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “Just
because there’s been a brief and someone asked for it, doesn’t
mean the court will agree. Take profits on the euros.”  Euro Returns  The 1.9 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in outstanding notes,
which were sold under  English law , have returned 31 percent from
their low on Nov. 28, the day the appeals court blocked District
Judge Thomas Griesa’s decision to pay the holdouts by Dec. 15.  That exceeds an average return of 20 percent on Argentina’s
 restructured  dollar debt and the 1 percent gain for emerging-
market bonds, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The appeals court isn’t likely to distinguish between
bondholders or the way they get paid, which will cause euro bond
prices to fall, Brauer said.  If the court decides that financial firms responsible for
transferring Argentina’s interest payments to bondholders aren’t
legally required to withhold that money, dollar bonds will
rally, she said.  Holders of the euro-denominated debt, including Knighthead
Capital Management LLC, Redwood Capital Management LLC and Perry
Capital LLC, joined Argentina in challenging Griesa’s orders. In
a brief filed Jan. 4, the group said the injunctions are
“vastly overbroad” because the interest payments they receive
from Argentina aren’t routed through the U.S. and the court
doesn’t have jurisdiction over foreign financial firms.  Euroclear Plea  Argentina deposits the creditors’ bond payments in a local
account of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , which transfers the
money to its account in  Germany . The funds are then distributed
to investors through clearing houses, including Brussels-based
Euroclear SA/NV. Euroclear submitted an amicus brief asking for
the reversal of Griesa’s orders, which they claim would be in
violation of Belgian law.  “I’d rather own euro paper because it should have no legal
issue with U.S. Courts,” Diego Ferro, who helps manage more
than $500 million in emerging-market debt at Greylock Capital
Management LLC, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.
“The U.S. ones do, and a fairly serious one, and until these
problems are resolved” he will hold onto the bonds, he said.
Ferro also said he will sell the euro debt when yields fall
below those of the dollar notes.  Cross-Atlantic  The appeals court would also have to distinguish between
BNY Mellon’s New York and European-based entities for euro
bondholders to get paid, according to Henry Weisburg, a partner
at New York-based law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP.  Even if Argentina is able to pay creditors in  Europe , a
blocked payment to dollar-bondholders could result in the
acceleration of payments for the euro notes because they have a
so-called cross-default clause with their dollar counterparts,
according to the bond prospectus.  “A whole bunch of things have to happen for you to get to
a scenario where you are better off in the euro bonds,” Joe Kogan, the head of emerging-market debt strategy at Scotia
 Capital Markets  in New York, said in a telephone interview.  The implied probability of default in the next five years
based on trading in credit-default swaps is 74 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost to protect
against an Argentine default using the swaps fell 15 basis
points to 1,892 basis points at 6:52 a.m. in New York.  Default Protection  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries widened eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 1,070 basis points,
according to JPMorgan. The peso was little changed at 4.9503 per
dollar.  Siobhan Morden, head of Latin America fixed-income strategy
at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, says it’s more practical to
sell the euro bonds now than to risk navigating the potential
legal pitfalls.  “The best thing to do at this stage is if you made money
trading around these legal risks, to probably take profits and
head to the sidelines,” Morden said in a telephone interview
from New York. “You need real expertise on the legal side to
take commitment or show commitment to trade the view now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  