-- Bovespa Stock Index Declines for Second Session as Oi, MMX Slump
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-21T20:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/bovespa-index-futures-rise-as-data-show-slower-brazil-inflation.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index fell for a
second session as iron-ore producer MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA
and phone company  Oi SA (OIBR4)  tumbled amid concern management changes
may hurt their operations.  Oi,  Brazil ’s third-largest publicly traded phone company,
was the worst performer on the gauge after Veja reported that
controlling shareholders disapprove of the results achieved by
Chief Executive Officer Francisco Valim. The magazine didn’t say
how it obtained the information. MMX fell after announcing the
second change in its top executive in the past 15 months.  The Bovespa index lost 0.1 percent to 61,899.71 at the
close of trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-six stocks advanced on the
measure while 30 fell. The real was little changed at 2.0419 per
dollar. Trading volume on the Bovespa was 36 percent lower than
the average over the previous 10 days amid a holiday in the
U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors don’t have such a negative view about the job
Valim’s done at Oi, so the news report about disagreements
between him and shareholders is a negative,” Luis Gustavo
Pereira, an analyst at Futura Corretora in  Sao Paulo , said in a
telephone interview. “For MMX, it’s the second management
change in not such a long period. Some people may take it as a
reason to be more cautious on the stock.”  Oi slumped 5.1 percent to 8.70 reais. The company will
report earnings per share of 42 centavos for 2012, a 75 percent
decrease from a year before, according to the average  estimate 
of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Oi’s press office declined
to comment on Veja’s report.  MMX Slumps  MMX fell 2 percent to 3.90 reais. The iron-ore producer
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista  said in a regulatory
filing on Jan. 18 that it named  Carlos Gonzalez  as chief
executive officer, replacing Guilherme Escalhao, who is
resigning from the company. Escalhao was named as MMX’s top
official in October 2011.  Some retailers and construction companies advanced after a
measure of inflation increased less than analysts forecast,
spurring speculation policy makers will keep benchmark borrowing
costs at a record-low 7.25 percent for longer to boost growth.  Online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  rose 2.8 percent
to 16.74 reais. Natura Cosmeticos SA, Brazil’s biggest cosmetics
maker, jumped 1.6 percent to 56.50 reais.  Inflation Data  Swap rates fell on most contracts after the IGP-M index of
wholesale, construction and consumer prices rose 0.34 percent in
the 20-day period ending Jan. 10, according to a report from the
Getulio Vargas Foundation today. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted an increase of 0.38 percent.  “The IGP-M figures came in slightly below forecasts,
making investors bet that in this scenario the central bank will
focus more on growth and won’t rise the benchmark rate this
year,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB
do Brasil SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
Brazil boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its
advance to 18 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.5 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.9 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  