-- Brazil Ethanol Maker GraalBio to Get $294 Million From BNDES
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-01-21T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/brazil-ethanol-maker-graalbio-to-get-294-million-from-bndes-1-.html
GraalBio, a Brazilian cellulosic-
ethanol maker, will get a 600 million reais ($294 million)
investment from development bank Banco Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Economico e Social as the biggest sugarcane
growing nation struggles to meet domestic demand for the fuel.  BNDES, as the lender is known, will disburse the funds
through 2020 in exchange for a 15 percent stake in the closely
held company and a seat on its board, GraalBio President
Bernardo Gradin said today on a conference call. GraalBio is a
unit of Grupo Graal Investimentos SA, a holding company for the
Gradin family.  Making fuel from discarded stalks and leaves, as GraalBio
plans to do, will be 30 percent cheaper than so-called first-
generation ethanol because it doesn’t require planting on new
land, Gradin said in a telephone interview. Companies aren’t
building enough sugarcane mills in  Brazil  to meet projected
demand because producing ethanol from the crop’s juice doesn’t
yield sufficient returns to justify investments, he said.  “The industry has reached a level of maturity so that the
returns, when you consider the cost of the land and agricultural
costs, make investments in first-generation ethanol
unattractive,” Gradin said. “Our technology gets 45 percent
more fuel from the same land.”  A first facility with an annual capacity of 82 million
liters (21.6 million gallons) planned for the state of Alagoas
is expected to start operating at the start of 2014, he said.
 Novozymes A/S (NZYMB)  will supply enzymes for the facility.  No Investments  No investments were made in new Brazilian ethanol mills
last year compared with a peak of $7.4 billion in 2008 as rising
production costs and poor harvests prompted companies to shelve
or abandon projects, Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  Sao Paulo , said today in a telephone
interview. Brazil won’t produce enough light-vehicle fuel in
2018 to meet demand if investments don’t increase.  Claire Curry, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
said it’s unlikely that GraalBio or any other company in Brazil
will be able to produce ethanol from organic waste cheaper than
from cane juice without subsidies.  The high cost of enzymes and equipment necessary to break
down tough crop residues into fermentable sugars makes
cellulosic-ethanol production more expensive than making fuel
from cane juice in Brazil or corn starch in the U.S., Curry said
today in a telephone interview.  That said, the nation may be first to produce cellulosic
ethanol competitively with other fuels.  “There’s definitely a case for it in Brazil,” where an
abundance of cane residues and low engineering costs make
production cheaper, she said. “It currently makes more sense to
do it there than anywhere else in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  