-- Cameron to Make EU Speech in London on Morning of Jan. 23
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-21T12:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/cameron-to-make-europe-speech-in-london-on-morning-of-jan-23.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will
make his delayed speech on plans to renegotiate Britain’s
relationship with the European Union and hold a referendum on
the outcome in  London  on the morning of Jan. 23.  Cameron was originally due to make the speech in Amsterdam
three days ago, though he was forced to postpone it to this week
because of the hostage crisis at a gas plant in  Algeria  in which
as many as six Britons may have died.  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, announced the
new date in a briefing for reporters in London today. Asked
whether the speech would mention the possibility of a referendum
on quitting the 27-nation bloc, as some in the premier’s
 Conservative Party  are demanding, Gray said that “on the speech
content, you are going to have to wait till he delivers it.”  Extracts from the speech released by the premier’s office
last week put 40 years of integration with the continent on the
line by raising the specter of a U.K. exit from the EU. “More
of the same” won’t be enough to guarantee the EU’s future
because of British dismay at a lack of consent to their alliance
within the 27-nation bloc, Cameron planned to say.  “There are changes we want in that relationship, but we
also need to see how the changes in the euro zone are affecting
the European Union, how that affects this country,” Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday.  ‘Fresh Consent’  “When we have done those things, there is a strong case
for fresh consent in this country, for the people of this
country having their say,” Hague told  BBC  television. “It’s
about the interests of this country, about making a success of
membership of the European Union but also with democratic
consent for that in its modern form, in the best form that we
can bring about.”  Cameron is responding to pressure from Tory lawmakers for
looser ties with the EU or an outright departure from the union.
In 2011, they defied him in record numbers in parliament with a
failed bid to force a referendum on leaving the EU.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for yesterday’s Sunday Times newspaper
found 40 percent of respondents saying they would vote to stay
in the EU compared with 34 percent who say they would vote to
leave. YouGov polled 1,912 adults on Jan. 17 and Jan. 18.  The company found at the start of the month that 46 percent
would vote to leave compared with 31 percent who would vote to
stay in, in line with surveys throughout 2012, YouGov’s  Anthony Wells  said on his  U.K. Polling Report website .  ‘More Likely’  “In the last fortnight some will obviously have thought a
little more about it as a referendum becomes a more likely
possibility,” Wells wrote.  Liam Fox , Cameron’s former defense secretary, told  BBC
television  he was briefed on the speech and “was broadly
satisfied with what I saw.”  Fox, who said he’d like to see British ties with the EU
reduced to “a basic economic relationship,” told the BBC that
“if that is the speech that is finally delivered, a great many
of us will think that it’s a speech that we’ve been waiting a
long time for any prime minister to deliver.”  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said last week that local
politics should take more of a back seat.  “European interests should always be the most important,”
the former Belgian prime minister said. “The European Union
doesn’t just mean taking account of national concerns.”  Cameron planned to say that the deepening integration of
the 17 euro countries, which don’t include Britain, and the
demands of global competition raise “fundamental questions”
about the nature of the U.K.’s relationship with the EU.  ‘Increasingly Frustrated’  “People are increasingly frustrated that decisions taken
further and further away from them mean their  living standards 
are slashed through enforced austerity or their taxes are used
to bail out governments on the other side of the continent,”
Cameron was due to say.  Cameron will meet today with Estonian Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  as part of a series of conversations with EU leaders in
the run-up to his speech, Gray said. He may also phone others as
he pursues a diplomatic drive.  Europe  Minister David Lidington
travels to Dublin today to meet Irish ministers. Ireland
currently holds the EU presidency.  Both Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition partners and the
opposition  Labour Party  oppose his push to loosen ties with
Europe, saying he risks investor confidence and London’s role as
a financial center.  “I do hope that they bring clarity, but I hope that they
exercise a judgment not based on party interest but the national
interest,” Labour’s foreign-affairs spokesman,  Douglas Alexander , told Sky News television yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  