-- Cameron’s Top Civil Servant Slammed by Lawmakers Over Whip Probe
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-01-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/cameron-s-top-civil-servant-slammed-by-lawmakers-over-whip-probe.html
U.K. lawmakers criticized the
country’s top civil servant over the inadequacy of a probe into
allegations that led to the resignation of Chief Whip Andrew Mitchell from Prime Minister David Cameron’s Cabinet.  The House of Commons Public Administration Committee said
Cabinet Secretary Jeremy Heywood should have urged Cameron to
ask an adviser specifically tasked with looking at ministerial
misconduct to investigate Mitchell. The chief whip resigned
after allegations he was abusive to police in September.  “The Cabinet secretary attempted to investigate this
matter but failed to resolve or even to investigate the
questions arising from the discrepancies in the accounts of the
events, or to advise the prime minister that they required
further investigation,” Bernard Jenkin, the Conservative
lawmaker who heads the panel, said in a report published in
 London  today. “This underlines the all-too-obvious truth that
investigations into ministerial misconduct are not an
appropriate role for the Cabinet secretary.”  London’s Metropolitan Police made two arrests last month in
an investigation into an officer’s allegation that Mitchell, who
was in charge of discipline in Cameron’s Tory party, called
officers “plebs” outside the prime minister’s Downing Street
residence after they refused to let him cycle through the main
gate. He stepped down a month later.  ‘Smear Campaign’  A  report by Channel 4 News  televised Dec. 18 said a police
officer had posed as a member of the public and falsely claimed
to have witnessed the events in an e-mail to his lawmaker.
Cameron may restore Mitchell to office if the new evidence
exonerates him, a person familiar with the premier’s thinking
said at the time.  Mitchell said last month that “elements” within the
Metropolitan force conducted a “smear campaign” against him.
He admitted swearing at officers, while denying he used the
“awful toxic language” attributed to him.  According to today’s report, even though Heywood told the
committee in testimony he considered “that there were
unanswered questions, including the possibility of a gigantic
conspiracy or a small conspiracy,” he said he “decided on
balance to let matters rest as they were.”  Heywood “told us he had never assessed CCTV evidence
before,” Jenkin said, referring to recordings from cameras
outside Downing Street that might have clarified the allegations
against Mitchell.  Jenkin said that Cameron’s adviser on ministerial
interests, Alex Allan, “might well have uncovered the truth”
of the matter “given time, attention and with his relevant
experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  