-- Canada Stocks Touch 17-Month High as Euro Ministers Meet
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-01-21T22:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/canada-stocks-rise-as-banks-gain-ahead-of-euro-finance-meeting.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, closing at the
highest level in more than 17 months, as European finance
ministers met for the first time this year to discuss a solution
to the region’s debt crisis.  Bank of  Nova Scotia  and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  gained at
least 0.4 percent.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the
BlackBerry 10 line of smartphones, jumped 11 percent after Die
Welt reported Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said in an
interview he’s still considering a sale of hardware production.
 Golden Predator Corp. (GPD)  surged 17 percent after announcing on Jan.
18 it plans to transition to a royalty mining company. Home-
improvement retailer  Rona Inc. (RON)  added 3.1 percent after naming a
new executive chairman.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 68.56
points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,794.25 in Toronto, the highest
close since August 2011. The benchmark gauge has gained 2.9
percent this year. Markets in New York were closed for Martin
Luther King Jr. Day.  “When there were concerns about Europe a year ago markets
took a tumble, now maybe investors are looking at Europe as not
as important,”  David Cockfield , managing director and  fund
manager  with Northland Wealth Management, said from Toronto. His
firm manages about C$200 million ($201 million). “There’s not a
lot for the market to get upset about. Markets are somewhat
relaxed and people who were on the sidelines are edging back
in.”  Jean-Claude Juncker , Prime Minister of Luxembourg, stepped
down as head of the group of euro-area finance ministers as the
policy makers met in Brussels today. Jeroen Dijsselbloem of the
Netherlands assumes the informal, unpaid post. The ministers are
discussing how and when the 500 billion-euro ($666 billion)
European Stability Mechanism can bypass governments and provide
direct help to banks.  Bank Shares  Scotiabank rose 0.8 percent to C$58.34 and Royal Bank added
0.4 percent to C$61.96 as bank stocks  contributed  most to gains
in the S&P/TSX. Trading volume on the S&P/TSX was 47 percent
lower than the 30-day average.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, rose 11 percent to C$17.41
after Heins, speaking to the German Die Welt newspaper, said the
company’s strategic review is continuing. Pressure to sell off
assets has diminished because of high cash reserves, and other
options include licensing of RIM’s software, Heins said.  Rona, based in Boucherville,  Quebec , gained 3.1 percent to
C$11.86, the highest close since September.  Rona, with the backing of Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec and Invesco Canada Ltd., its two biggest shareholders,
has appointed Robert Chevrier as the company’s new executive
chairman. Robert Pare has resigned the post and will continue as
a board member. Four new directors, including Bernard Dorval,
former group head of insurance at Toronto-Dominion Bank, also
immediately join the board.  Golden Predator  Golden Predator, which is exploring for gold in the Yukon
Territory’s Tintina gold belt, soared 17 percent to 39 Canadian
cents after announcing on Jan. 18 it will change the company’s
name to Gold Bullion Royalty Corp., focused on royalty creation
through its 34 existing projects. The company will also spin off
its Golden Predator Canada Corp. unit to shareholders through a
dividend or other plan, it said in a statement.  Gluskin Sheff + Associates Inc. (GS) , a Toronto-based wealth-
management company, advanced 5.9 percent to C$16.65 after
declaring a special semi-annual dividend of 65 Canadian cents a
share based on C$34 million of performance fees earned in the
six months ended Dec. 31.  Nevsun Resources Ltd. (NSU) , operator of a mine in Eritrea,
slumped 8.7 percent to C$4.22 after about 200 Eritrean soldiers
mutinied and stormed a Ministry of Information building in the
capital of Asmara,  Agence France-Presse  reported. Nevsun’s Bisha
mine is operating normally, an external consultant for the
company said today by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  