-- Canada Reaching Budget Balance Said to Be More Difficult
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-01-21T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/canada-reaching-budget-balance-said-to-be-more-difficult.html
Canada ’s revenue outlook has
deteriorated since Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  updated his
fiscal plan in November amid signs the economy has slowed,
making it more difficult to bring the budget into balance, a
person with direct knowledge of the government’s budget planning
said.  Budget planners are concerned that weaker revenue may
outpace Flaherty’s ability to offset it through accelerated
spending cuts, especially since the government pledged not to
curb transfers to individuals and provinces, the person said on
condition they not be identified because they aren’t authorized
to speak to the media on the subject. Still, the goal remains  to
balance  the budget by 2015, the person said.  Canada’s economy probably had its worst six-month
performance since the end of the 2009 recession in the second
half of last year, as  exports  fell and uncertainty about the
global expansion prompted businesses to curb spending, leading
economists to scale back their expectations for 2013.  “Tax revenues are just not going to be maintaining the
pace you would have expected just six months ago,” said  David Watt , chief economist at HSBC Bank Canada.  Flaherty, seeking to return the country to surpluses while
ensuring the economy isn’t hurt by fiscal tightening, already
scaled back revenue projections in a  November budget update  by
C$7 billion ($7.1 billion) for the next fiscal year and by C$36
billion over five years, citing lower commodity prices.  Optimistic Forecast  In that update, growth projections for 2013 were cut to 2
percent from a March forecast of 2.4 percent when the budget for
the fiscal year beginning in April was released. That 2 percent
now looks optimistic.  Growth in 2013 will probably be closer to 1.7 percent,
according to the median of the forecasts of economists at six
Canadian banks:  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, Bank of  Nova Scotia , BMO Capital Markets, Royal Bank
of Canada and HSBC Canada.  A 0.3 percentage-point reduction in 2013 growth projections
may create an additional budget shortfall of more than C$1
billion in the next fiscal year and almost C$4 billion over
three years, according to Bloomberg calculations based on a
formula provided by the finance department in its  last update.  A
one-year 1 percentage-point reduction in growth narrows the
budget balance by C$3.9 billion in the first year and C$12.8
billion over three years, according to that formula.  “Growth has not been as firm as they had been expecting,”
Watt said. “As a result, the fiscal situation has been a bit
more of a challenge.”  Budget Balance  Flaherty has said he will balance the budget before the
next federal election, expected in 2015, by cutting departmental
expenses and forgoing new spending. A government pledge not to
raise taxes or cut transfers to individuals and provinces is
handcuffing the government’s ability to meet that goal as
revenue wanes.  Direct program spending, which excludes transfers and makes
up just under 50 percent of federal  government spending , is
projected to decline to C$118.9 billion in the fiscal year that
begins April 1, down from C$120.8 billion projected in the
2012-13 fiscal year, then remain little changed through 2017,
according to the November fiscal update. As a share of GDP,
direct program expenses will decline to 5.4 percent by 2017, the
 lowest since at least 1967 , from 6.7 percent this year.  The finance department also scaled back its revenue
assumptions in the update, after  final figures  for the fiscal
2011-12 showed the government’s revenue as a share of the
economy shrank to its lowest in at least 45 years.  Canada  now projects  total tax revenue as a share of GDP
will average 14.3 percent over the next five years, ranging from
14 percent in the current year to as high as 14.4 percent in
2015. That ratio has averaged about 15.5 percent over the
previous 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  