-- Chilean Peso Falls as Intervention Speculation Offsets Inflows
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-21T17:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/chilean-peso-falls-as-intervention-speculation-offsets-inflows.html
Chile’s peso weakened as concern the
central bank may take steps to slow the currency’s rise offset
inflows from foreign investors.  The peso slid 0.2 percent to 472.35 per  U.S. dollar  at the
close in Santiago. The decline pared its gain this month to 1.5
percent, the biggest among the region’s most-traded currencies.  Chile’s currency appreciated to its strongest level in 25
months against the country’s five major trading partners last
month, according to data from the central bank. The government
is concerned that the strength of the peso is squeezing margins
for exporters, President Sebastian Pinera said on Jan. 17.  “At these levels there’s a lot of noise about
intervention,” said Mauricio Olivares, a currency trader at
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s unit in Santiago. “It’s hard to see the
peso going through 470 or 469 because few players are prepared
to take those positions overnight. Verbal intervention has put a
floor on the  exchange rate .”  International investors cut their dollar-forwards position
to a 16-month low on speculation stable or rising interest rates
and the  lowest inflation  since 2010 will make the peso more
profitable than the U.S. currency. The central bank on Jan. 17
left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 5 percent for a
12th straight month.  “Since November we have seen bigger positions, especially
from offshore banks going short dollars in the local market,”
Olivares said. “Their position has been to bet on the
appreciation of the peso because there’s a wide rate
differential. As long as there’s no sign the central bank will
do anything, offshore investors will keep pushing the peso
higher.”  Offshore investors had a $2.6 billion net short peso
position on Jan. 17, the smallest since Sept. 16, 2011. They
have reduced bets against the peso by $6 billion in the past two
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  