-- China Vanke Surges on Share Plan for Hong Kong: Shenzhen Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-21T09:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/china-vanke-surges-on-share-plan-for-hong-kong-shenzhen-mover.html
China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s
biggest developer by market value, surged by the 10 percent
daily limit in Shenzhen after announcing plans to shift trading
of its foreign-currency shares to Hong Kong.  Vanke’s yuan-denominated A shares and its Hong Kong dollar
B shares both jumped to the highest in more than three years,
triggering a broader rally in  China ’s foreign-currency stocks on
speculation other companies will follow the move.  The plan would widen Vanke’s access to global investors,
giving the company entry to an exchange where the daily trading
value is more than 100 times higher than in the B-share markets.
The developer joins  China International Marine Containers Group
Co. (2039)  in seeking to exit the  B-share market , which has languished
after the nation opened its local-currency stock markets to
foreign investors.  “The move will help Vanke access more resources in the
long run,” Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a phone interview today. “The
developer will have two platforms to raise funds in the
international market if the conversion is approved.” Du said he
expected Vanke to debut in Hong Kong around April.  Vanke rose to 11.13 yuan at the close on the Shenzhen
exchange, the highest since Dec. 17, 2009. Its  B shares ,
denominated in Hong Kong dollars, also jumped by the 10 percent
limit to HK$13.75, the highest in more than five years. Both
classes of shares resumed trading after a halt since Dec. 26.  Vanke Property (Overseas) Ltd., its Hong Kong unit, surged
13 percent to HK$16.98, the highest in four months. Vanke, based
in the southern city of Shenzhen, in May said that it will pay
HK$1.08 billion ($139 million) for a 74 percent stake in what
used to be Winsor Properties Holdings Ltd. to expand overseas.  B Shares  The Shenzhen B-share index jumped 4.7 percent, the most
since November 2009, while the  Shanghai  B-share index climbed 3
percent, the highest since August 2011.  The developer plans to convert all of its Shenzhen-listed B
shares to Hong Kong-listed H shares pending approval from
shareholders and the regulators, the company said in a filing to
the Shenzhen stock exchange on Jan. 18.  Vanke had 1.31 billion B shares, about 12 percent of the
total capital, with a market value of HK$16.4 billion before the
Dec. 26 suspension. It was the second-largest listed company
among both Shanghai and Shenzhen B shares in terms of market
capitalization.  B-share markets, where foreign institutions and Chinese
individuals are allowed to trade, were set up in 1992 to give
local companies a way to raise funds from global investors,
banned from buying securities denominated in  yuan . Interest in B
shares has waned as the government allowed qualified overseas
investors to access the larger, more liquid A-share market and
eased limits on foreign exchange.  The conversion may reduce Vanke’s financing costs in the
long term, and provide more flexibility for the developer to
optimize its capital structure, analysts led by Wang Yi at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a report today.  Raising Profile  The average  daily trading  in Shenzhen and Shanghai’s B-
share markets was 463 million yuan ($74 million) in the last
three months, compared with HK$62.1 billion ($8 billion) for
Hong Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Hong Kong market has better market influence and
resources compared with China’s B share market, so the
conversion will mean a lot to investors and the company,” said
Tan Huajie, Vanke’s board secretary in an e-mailed statement on
Jan 18. “The conversion will help raise Vanke’s profile in the
international market and obtain a broader platform.”  A group of so-called third parties will provide a cash
option for B-share holders who decide not to swap their stock
for H-shares, according to the statement. China Resources
(Holdings) Co.,  Government of Singapore Investment Corp . and
Hillhouse Capital Management Ltd. are among buyers who have
agreed to pay HK$13.13 a share to exiting investors.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission is considering
looser criteria for mainland companies to sell shares in Hong
Kong as part of its efforts to increase their access to capital,
the Shanghai Securities News reported Dec. 28, citing an
unidentified CSRC official.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  