-- Chinese Developer Bond Flurry Rises as Three More Market Notes
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-21T07:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/chinese-developer-bond-flurry-rises-as-three-more-market-notes.html
Central China Real Estate Ltd. (832)  and
 China SCE Property Holdings Ltd. (1966)  are marketing U.S. dollar-
denominated bonds, adding to the record $6.05 billion raised by
 Hong Kong  and Chinese developers this year.  Central  China  Real Estate, part-owned by Southeast Asia’s
biggest property developer CapitaLand Ltd., is offering seven-
year securities to yield about 8.125 percent, while China SCE
and China Aoyuan Property Group Ltd. are marketing more of their
existing 2017 bonds, according to people familiar with the
matters. Future Land Development Holdings Ltd., based in
 Shanghai , also plans to sell securities in the U.S. currency,
according to a company statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
today.  Developers from China and Hong Kong have sold almost half
of all U.S. dollar notes in Asia outside of Japan this year,
with January already the busiest month for such offerings in
data compiled by Bloomberg since 1999. New home prices in China
rose for a seventh-straight month in December and expectations
for further advances boosted sales, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real estate website owner, said Jan. 4.  “Investors have fresh cash in the new year and are hungry
to take positions, which is giving Chinese property companies
the opportunity to increase their liquidity,” said Frank Huang,
head of fixed-income trading at SinoPac Securities ( Asia ) Ltd.
in Hong Kong. “The cost of funding in dollars is still low.”  Premium Plunge  The average yield premium Chinese real estate companies pay
has plunged 249 basis points in the past 12 months to 223 basis
points over benchmark rates as of Jan. 18, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. That compares to a 106 basis-point
fall to 158 basis points for developers globally.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose by 0.5 of a basis point to 107
basis points as of 3:36 p.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices show. The gauge has ranged from 102.8
basis points to 110.1 basis points this year, according to data
provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index declined one basis point to
137 as of 4:25 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche Bank AG
prices. The measure is set for its lowest close since August
2011, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Australian Bonds  The Markit iTraxx Australia was also little changed at
114.5 as of 10:39 a.m. in Sydney, according to Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices. The benchmark has ranged from
111.6 to 127.5 this year, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  