-- Cocoa Swings on Low Stockpiles, Better Crop Outlook; Sugar Falls
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-21T11:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/cocoa-swings-on-low-stockpiles-better-crop-outlook-sugar-falls.html
Cocoa swung between gains and losses
in  London  as investors weighed improving prospects for the
smaller of two annual crops in  Ivory Coast , the world’s largest
producer, and falling exchange stockpiles. Sugar fell.  Cocoa  inventories  with a valid grading certificate in
warehouses monitored by NYSE Liffe stood at 43,020 metric tons
as of Jan. 7, down more than 50 percent in the past year. NYSE
Liffe will update inventory figures later this week. Rabobank
International cut its cocoa price forecasts last week, citing a
better outlook for the Ivorian crop. Still, global production
will fall about 3 percent to 3.91 million tons this season,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  “The expected 3 percent fall in this season’s output
should be manageable due to the large carried-over stock from
the last two seasons’ surpluses and poor demand,”  Kona Haque ,
an analyst at Macquarie in London said in a report e-mailed
today. “Certified stocks on Liffe are still trending lower and
if we were to get another fall next season, it would be harder
to manage and would lead to lower stocks.”  Cocoa for March delivery was 0.1 percent lower at 1,480
pounds ($2,349) a ton by 11:18 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London. It
gained as much as 0.7 percent and lost as much as 0.5 percent
earlier today. ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , where cocoa trades
in dollars, was closed for a holiday. Raw sugar and arabica
coffee also trade on ICE.  Indian Harvest  Cocoa for March delivery last traded 3 pounds a ton above
the futures for May, a market structure known as backwardation
and that may signal limited supplies. The March contract
switched to being more expensive on Jan. 17, raising concerns
that traders may try to take delivery when the March contract on
NYSE Liffe expires on March 13 amid low stockpiles.  White, or refined, sugar for March delivery fell 0.3
percent to $490.70 a ton on NYSE Liffe, after earlier dropping
0.4 percent to $490, the lowest price for a most active contract
since July 2010.  India ’s sugar harvest “is unexpectedly ahead of last
year’s progress, although growers in Maharashtra may have been
tempted to push hard early to rescue what they could of a poor
crop,” Tom McNeill, a director at Green Pool Commodity
Specialists Pty in  Brisbane ,  Australia , said in a report e-
mailed today.  Robusta coffee for March delivery fell 0.6 percent to
$1,964 a ton in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 