-- Companies Reassess Security After 23 Hostages Killed in Algeria
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p ,   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-01-21T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/companies-reassess-security-after-23-hostages-killed-in-algeria.html
Companies are reinforcing security
at their facilities in the world’s trouble spots and reviewing
evacuation plans after at least 23 workers were killed in an
attack on a natural gas plant in  Algeria .  The incident is prompting businesses operating in North
 Africa  and other politically volatile regions to enact safety
programs to protect employees, said Tim Husted of Carlson
Wagonlit Travel. Companies are “very aware” of the militant
attacks and are carrying out contingency plans, which may
include relocation of non-essential personnel, he said in a
telephone interview.  “In a situation where something like this happens in an
area where these risks are very known risks, our clients tend to
be very prepared,” Husted said.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the Johannesburg-based gold
prospector with interests in three mines in  Mali , said it’s
reinforcing security even though its operations are far from the
conflict. The company is limiting travel, avoiding certain
routes and deploying additional guards around the mines and
residential villages, said Alan Fine, a spokesman for the mining
company.  Companies and many of the consultants that work for them
generally won’t discuss their security measures, preferring not
to share that information publicly. After the attacks in
Algeria, corporate statements reflected caution and concern.  Security Protocols  “We’re looking at all appropriate measures according to
the situation,” Sebastien Duchamp, a spokesman for Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)  said in a telephone
interview. “Our number-one priority is ensuring the safety of
our employees at all times. We can’t discuss specific security
protocols.”  Algeria’s special forces ended the takeover of the gas
plant operated by London-based  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  of  Norway  and
Algeria’s Sonatrach in a final raid on the facility Jan. 19.
Security forces freed 685 Algerian workers and about 107 foreign
captives, according to Algeria’s Ministry of Interior. Officials
warned the death toll could rise.  While threats to corporate facilities and employees are not
a new problem, improved technology and weaponry creates
constantly shifting challenges that must be managed.  ‘Emerging Dangers’  “There are new dangers, emerging dangers, and in many
cases, the companies and organizations just are ill-equipped to
handle that increased threat,” said Bruce Branson, associate
director of the Enterprise Risk Management Initiative at the
Poole College of Management at North Carolina State University
in a telephone interview.  Algerian security forces weren’t prepared for the scale and
severity of the attack on the gas plant, said Rob Harford, a
director at Salamanca Risk Management, part of the London-based
Salamanca Group Merchant Bank and operational risk consultant.  “When faced with a specific and direct threat, security
levels and protection measures need to be enhanced,” he said.  Global corporations are increasingly relying on their own
intelligence networks to anticipate and respond to events that
threaten workers’ safety or damage their business, said Fred
Burton, vice president of intelligence at Stratfor, an Austin,
Texas-based corporate security consultant. Companies from energy
and mining to transportation and hotels are hiring former
military and government analysts, and investing in the most
sophisticated surveillance and safety technology to improve
their ability to avoid danger.  Tripwire Warnings  “They have to operate in these areas with a very robust
capability to develop information on their own,” Burton said.
“What they’re looking for are tripwires for events to start
unfolding that may give them even three hours, if not 72 hours,
to be able to batten down the hatches or start removing their
personnel from some of these volatile areas.”  Terrorist attacks are only one part of the array of threats
companies face. Corporate security forces must develop
intelligence networks in regions with increased potential for
violence, shoring up detection and defense capabilities.  Piracy off the coast of Somalia has declined thanks to the
shipping industry’s increased use of armed guards and
international naval patrols. Violent pirate attacks are rising,
though, off the West Africa coast, where dozens of tankers
transit every day.  Oil and natural gas companies including The Hague-based
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, San Ramon, California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
and Total SA of  France  have battled Nigerian thieves and
militants for decades who attack their facilities and sabotage
pipelines.  Hindering Repairs  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest mobile-phone operator,
said such attacks are hampering its abilities to provide service
in Nigeria. The Johannesburg-based company has suffered damage
to its fiber-optic network with more than 70 cuts to lines a
month nationwide, it said last year. Bomb and gun attacks blamed
on Islamist militants have hindered repairs and slowed new
construction.  “As you fix it, it goes down again,” said MTN Nigeria
Communications Chief Executive Officer Brett Goschen in a May 15
interview in Lagos.  Foreign workers have long been a target of kidnappings and
attacks by paramilitary groups and criminal gangs in Latin
America, especially in Colombia. Colombia’s armed forces are
searching for rebels that kidnapped five people working for
Toronto-based gold prospector  Braeval Mining Corp. (BVL)  last week,
including three employees and two consultants.  Anticipating Danger  “The company is fully cooperating with efforts of the
authorities to ensure the safety and health of its employees and
consultants,” Braeval said in a statement Jan. 18. The
kidnapping was carried out by 25 members of the National
Liberation Army, according to Armed Forces Chief Alejandro
Navas.  Anticipation and prevention is a growing focus of companies
operating in regions where foreigners can generate resentment
and hostilities, especially energy and mining workers who tap
natural resources, said Daniel Karson, a chairman with Kroll
Advisory Solutions in New York.  Kroll advises companies to throw out preconceptions and
start from scratch in evaluating safety at their facilities.
Priorities are “lives first and assets second,” Karson said.  Companies start by assessing potential threats in their
chosen location, including political risks and any history of
violence in the area. Security officials are diving deeper into
the backgrounds of the people they hire or work with, searching
for red flags such as a history of accepting bribes, Karson
said.  Panic Buttons  Remote facilities like the gas plant in Algeria, where help
is not close at hand, get special attention. Buildings are
reinforced and technology is used to control access to the
perimeter and interior of the facility, including alarm systems,
panic buttons, and retinal or fingerprint-scanning systems to
secure doors. Cameras can stream live images of the premises to
security monitors anywhere in the world, Karson said.  “There are any number of 21st century technological
approaches you can use to protect the facility,” he said.  Avoiding dangerous places is one of the basic security
measures taken at  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , a motion and control
equipment-maker based in  Cleveland ,  Ohio , said Chief Executive
Officer Don Washkewicz. Washkewicz canceled a trip to the Middle
East after the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi in
September that left the U.S. ambassador to Libya and three other
embassy staff dead. And he won’t travel to Colombia.  Traveling Guards  The company, with 311 manufacturing locations in 48
countries, provides security guards for executives traveling to
places like Brazil and Mexico.  “You never can be 100 percent safe, but we try to be as
safe as possible,” Washkewicz said.  Companies are working harder at preventing violence with
more awareness of the issues that can trigger social unrest and
make a company a target, said Iain Donald, a senior vice
president who works in risk analysis at Control Risks Group in
New York. Executives need to manage projects with as much
sensitivity as possible to local concerns about the environment,
jobs and politics.  Managing Grievances  Many community grievances can be managed, and “in the
perfect world that happens from the outset,” Donald said.  Donald joined other security experts in pointing out that
some things are beyond a company’s control, such as organized
crime in  Mexico  or Colombia, or the political grievances of
rebel groups.  “It’s very difficult to make things safe,” said Simon Hawkins, an oil analyst at Nplus1 Singer Ltd. in  London  who was
captured by gunmen when he worked for Shell in Nigeria in the
1990s. “Armored guards, security gates, locked fire doors --
that’s all you can do, really, and sometimes that’s not good
enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  