-- Copper Swings Between Gains and Drops as China’s Imports Slide
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-01-21T10:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/copper-swings-between-gains-and-drops-as-china-s-imports-slide.html
Copper swung between gains and
declines in  London  as investors weighed reduced imports of
refined metal into  China , the world’s biggest consumer, against
a weaker dollar.  Shipments fell 4.7 percent in December from a month earlier
as higher prices on the London Metal Exchange reduced the
attractiveness of buying metal overseas to sell at home, Chinese
customs figures showed today. The dollar slipped as much as 0.2
percent against a basket of six currencies, making raw materials
more appealing as an alternative investment.  “For some time now, Chinese buying of copper has been very
opportunistic, accumulating metal at low prices and drawing down
stockpiles if LME prices get too far ahead” of  Shanghai , said
Nic Brown, head of commodity research at Natixis SA in London.  Copper for delivery in three months was little changed at
$8,057 a metric ton by 9:59 a.m. on the LME. Copper for delivery
in March fell 0.3 percent to $3.667 a pound on the Comex in  New
York , where floor trading is closed today for Martin Luther King
Jr. Day.  Money managers cut their net-long positions, or bets on a
rising copper market, by 20 percent to 16,168 Comex futures and
options contracts as of Jan. 15 from a week earlier, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data  showed . The number of
futures contracts bought and sold on the exchange was 50 percent
below the 100-day average.  Japan ’s copper wire and cable shipments fell 1.2 percent to
58,000 tons in December from a year earlier as demand from the
auto, electric-machinery and export industries slowed, industry
figures showed.  Copper  stockpiles  tracked by the LME were little changed at
345,525 tons, daily exchange figures showed. Orders to draw
metal from warehouses dropped 3.5 percent to 51,000 tons.  Nickel, lead and tin fell in London. Aluminum and zinc
gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  