-- Credit Agricole Plans Cost Reductions, Union Official Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-01-21T17:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/credit-agricole-plans-cost-reductions-union-official-says.html
Credit Agricole  SA’s corporate- and
investment-banking division plans to lower costs to reach return
on equity of at least 10 percent by 2015, without a new job-
reduction plan, a union representative said.  Credit Agricole’s “strategic choice” for the unit remains
to increase its corporate financing business while reducing the
riskiest capital-market activities, said Didier Mas, a CFDT
labor union representative at the firm. Credit Agricole’s
corporate and investment bank isn’t planning a new job-cutting
program after eliminating about 500 positions in  France  last
year, he said.  Credit Agricole plans 150 million euros ($200 million) to
200 million euros in cost cuts at the division through 2015 in
areas such as information-technology services, two people
familiar with the matter said, citing a meeting the management
had with labor representatives last month. The unit by the end
of December had reached its target to cut headcount globally by
about 1,750 positions, they said.  L’Agefi reported the cost-cutting plan earlier today,
without saying where it got the information. An official at
Credit Agricole’s corporate and investment bank declined to
comment for this article.  Credit Agricole also sold the unit’s headquarters at La
Defense, outside Paris, for 188 million euros, the people said.  Credit Agricole’s corporate and investment bank said in
September that it expected a “medium-term” return on equity,
or ROE, of between 10 percent and 12 percent. Credit Agricole in
2011 embarked on job-cutting and asset-reduction programs,
closing operations in 21 countries. The bank stopped most of its
equity derivatives business and has no proprietary trading desks
left, it said Sept. 26.  Credit Agricole in November posted a 2.85 billion-euro
third-quarter net loss on costs tied to the disposal of its
Greek retail-banking unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  