-- Crisis Erased in Europe Junk Bond Yield Premiums: Credit Markets
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-21T15:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/crisis-erased-in-europe-junk-bond-yield-premiums-credit-markets.html
Rising confidence in the outlook for
Europe has emerged in the region’s junk bonds, where investors
have pushed yields to the lowest relative to investment-grade
debt since the early days of the global financial crisis.  Speculative grade borrowers from carmaker  Renault SA (RNO)  to
French phone equipment manufacturer Alcatel-Lucent and
Portugal’s Telecom SGPS SA are paying an average 3.25 percentage
points more to borrow than the safest debt issuers, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. The premium has shrunk from a
peak of 20.7 percentage points in March 2009.  The riskiest corporate bonds are rallying along with
government debt and the euro as the region’s fiscal crisis and
threat of a currency break-up recedes. European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi has expressed a greater willingness than
his predecessor, Jean-Claude Trichet, to use the ECB’s resources
to bolster the financial system.  “Given the relatively low defaults we’re experiencing,
investors will continue to be enticed in to riskier names,”
said Thomas Rahman, a credit strategist at Ria Capital, an
Edinburgh-based fixed-income broker. “They’re looking at it on
a relative basis and I expect there’s room for further
tightening” in yield premiums, he said.  Default Rates  As central banks flood the global financial system with
cheap cash, the corporate default rate is close to an all-time
low, bolstering investors’ confidence to speculate on riskier
assets.  The failure rate fell to 1.8 percent in  Europe  during the
fourth quarter of 2012, compared with a global rate of 2.6
percent, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Jan. 9 report. The
worldwide rate may rise to 3 percent this year, Moody’s said,
still lower than the 4.8 percent average since 1983.  That’s helped cut the yield on junk debt to 5.3 percent
from 12 percent at the start of 2012 and trigger a rush of
issuance, with companies selling 3.5 billion euros ($4.7
billion) of securities this year, more than 10 times the same
period in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to insure U.S.
company bonds from default rose for a second week, while global
issuance of corporate debt tumbled 13 percent from the previous
five-day period. Banks dominated sales in Europe.  U.S. Risk  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, was little changed
last week at a mid-price of 87.1, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The measure reached 89.7 on Jan. 15, the highest
this year.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell 1.25 basis points to 102.5 at 3
p.m. in  London . The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-
grade borrowers outside  Japan  was little changed at 106.5.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were the most active
dollar-denominated corporate securities last week, accounting
for 4 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Sales Slump  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was the top underwriter in the $112.1
billion of global corporate bond sales last week, down from the
$128.4 billion issued in the previous week, Bloomberg data show.  In Europe, lenders led by Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and
Paris-based  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  dominated sales. Corporate
issuance totaled 14.9 billion euros last week, 20 percent more
than the average for the past year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Banks accounted for 8.2 billion euros of that,
with Banco Santander and SocGen each issuing 1 billion euros.  High-yield bonds were the best-performing corporate
securities worldwide last year, gaining 18.8 percent, compared
with 10.6 percent for investment-grade, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. The asset class also outperformed a 4.5
percent gain on global government bonds and has returned 0.1
percent this year, the data show.  Speculative-grade companies are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings.  ‘Whatever it Takes’  Confidence in Europe has improved since Draghi declared in
July that “within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever
it takes to preserve the euro.” Europe’s common currency has
climbed against all 31 of its world’s most-traded peers since
then.  The Bloomberg European Financial Conditions Index rose to
the highest since July 2007, while the benchmark  Stoxx Europe
600 (SXXP)  is approaching a two-year high and Spain’s 10-year
government bond yields fell this month to the lowest since
March.  Markets are rallying even as the euro-area economy won’t
return to growth until the next quarter as a recovery in  Italy 
is delayed and  France  continues to shrink, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation currency region
probably fell 0.4 percent last year and will decline 0.1 percent
in 2013, according to the Jan. 17 forecast.  Fresenius Bond  The first high-yield company to issue bonds in Europe this
year was Fresenius SE & Co., the German private hospitals
operator. The Bad Homburg-based company, ranked BB+ by S&P and
Fitch, priced 500 million euros of bonds due July 2020 with a
coupon of 2.875 percent on Jan. 10, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Austria’s Novomatic AG, the world’s second-largest maker of
slot machines, priced 250 million euros of six-year bonds on
Jan. 16 with a 4 percent coupon, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It was the unrated company’s cheapest financing in more
than seven years and the relative yield on the notes tightened
11 basis points to 278 basis points more than the swaps rate
since the sale, Bloomberg prices show.  Renault’s 600 million euros of 4.625 percent bonds due 2017
yield 289 more than the benchmark swap rate, narrowing from a
high of 388 Oct. 1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The spread on  Portugal  Telecom’s 750 million euros of 5.875
percent bonds due 2018, sold in October, tightened by 152 since
issue to 346. Alcatel-Lucent’s 500 million euros of 8.5 percent
2016 bonds yield 633 over swaps, from 870 last month.  Gap Narrows  In the U.S., the gap in yields between junk and investment-
grade bonds narrowed to 3.7 percentage points as of Jan. 17, the
least since July 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The difference declined from a 2012 peak of
4.88 percentage points on June 5.  Investment grade companies yield an average 2 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate
index, and some of the strongest borrowers pay even less.
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of luxury
cars, priced three-year bonds with a 1 percent coupon on Jan.
15, its lowest-ever funding cost, Bloomberg data show.  Among investment-grade companies selling a total 35 billion
euros of bonds this year, Madrid-based Telefonica SA, the BBB
ranked telephone company, paid investors a coupon of 3.987
percent to buy 1.5 billion euros of 10-year bonds Jan. 8.  ‘More Risk’  “Everyone’s taking on more risk and while it’s been that
way for a while, the dynamic is accelerating,” said Norval Loftus, chief investment officer at broker Allegra Asset
Management Ltd. in London. “People really need to adjust their
definition of what high-yield means as we’re definitely in a
bubble and, like all bubbles, eventually it’s going to burst.”  The cost of insuring against default on high-yield European
companies is approaching the lowest in 18 months, with the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
mostly junk-rated borrowers declining 59 basis points since the
end of 2012 to 423 basis points.  High-yield bond funds attracted more than $1.6 billion of
cash in the first full week of January, according to data from
EPFR Global, a subsidiary of Informa Plc, extending an inflow
streak stretching back to late July.  “Flows into high-yield have just been non-stop,” said
Matt Eagan, a Boston-based money manager at Loomis Sayles & Co.,
which manages $12 billion of high-yield bonds including $1.5
billion in European corporate junk debt. “It’s a natural part
of the credit cycle that investment-grade yields get scrunched
down so much that you have a core of buyers that will get in the
crossover space to get a pick-up in yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  