-- Crude Oil’s Implied Volatility Falls to Lowest Since 1996
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-21T17:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/crude-oil-s-implied-volatility-falls-to-lowest-since-1996.html
Implied volatility in crude oil, a
measure of expectations for future price swings, eased to its
lowest level in 17 years as growing confidence in the global
economy was balanced by surging output in  North America .  The implied volatility for U.S. West Texas Intermediate
crude on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange was at 21.7 percent on
Jan. 18, based on data for the rolling second-month options
contract. That’s the lowest since a level of 21.2 percent was
reached on Jan. 9, 1996.  Oil prices  have been supported by the receding likelihood
of any collapse in the single European currency, while at the
same time price rallies have been prevented by booming U.S.
production, according to Archbridge Capital AG.  “A lot of risks are being priced out of the market,” said
Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, chief investment officer at Archbridge
in Zug,  Switzerland , who predicts volatility will rebound.
 “The risk of a Eurozone break-up is being priced out. And as
supply increases and stocks build we have less to worry about on
the upside.”  Volatility has also declined in equity markets. The
benchmark gauge for U.S. stock options fell to its lowest level
since April, 2007, on Jan. 18. The  Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , or VIX, retreated 8.2 percent to
12.46 and has tumbled 45 percent since Dec. 28.  April WTI oil options contracts are the second-closest to
expiry on the Nymex, after March. February options expired on
Jan. 16 while the February futures contract expires today.  The second-month options contract can often be a more
reliable guide to volatility than the front-month, which
fluctuates as investors roll their positions into the subsequent
futures contract when the front month expires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  