-- Dotcom Raid Anniversary Marked by New File-Sharing Site
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-21T05:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/dotcom-raid-anniversary-marked-by-new-file-sharing-site.html
Kim Dotcom, marking one year since
his Megaupload.com website was shut down by the  U.S. Department
of Justice  and his home raided by New Zealand tactical squad
officers in helicopters, unveiled a successor file-storage and
sharing site, saying innovation won’t be stopped.  The  Mega  website began accepting registrations from the
public at 6:48 a.m. Auckland time, coinciding with the time the
first helicopter touched down at Dotcom’s NZ$30 million ($25
million) mansion in an Auckland suburb. The site had more than a
million visitors and 500,000 people registered in the first 14
hours, Dotcom told more 200 guests, including journalists, he
had invited to the official start of the website at his home
yesterday.  “I’ve never seen anything like this,” he said from a
stage set up outside his home. “Sometimes good things come out
of terrible events.”  Mega, like its predecessor, will let users upload, download
and share files, competing with sites such as Dropbox.com and
even Google Inc.’s Youtube.com, Dotcom said. Unlike those sites,
Mega will allow file encryption through an Internet browser with
the user having the only key to unlock the file, preventing
governments and storage providers from viewing the contents, he
said.  Breaking Impossible  Breaking into a file at Mega is “impossible,” Dotcom said
in a Bloomberg Television interview last week before the start
of the website. According to DigiCert Inc., the Lindon, Utah-
based provider of Internet Security Certificates,  cracking  a
2048-bit RSA SSL code using a standard desktop computer would
take 500,000 times longer than the age of the universe, which is
about 13 billion years old.  The random generation of the encryption code, which
includes typewriter strokes and movements of the mouse on an
individual’s computer, may actually be predictable, according to
the website  Gizmodo .  “The code actually leaves Mega open to decide whether or
not they feel like enforcing encryption for any given user,”
according to Gizmodo. “Of course, it also benefits Mega to keep
everything encrypted for its own ‘see no evil’ purposes.”  It’s up to the user to decide whether to encrypt a file,
Dotcom responded.  Dawn Raid  Before dawn on Jan. 20, 2012,  New Zealand  police,
cooperating with U.S. authorities, raided Dotcom’s rented
mansion in an Auckland suburb, using two helicopters and 27
officers, some armed with assault rifles and gas canisters.  The officers seized 18  luxury vehicles  at the home,
including a 1959 pink Cadillac, while Megaupload sites were shut
down worldwide and his bank accounts frozen in  Hong Kong . Dotcom
spent four weeks in jail before winning his release on bail.  The stage show unveiling the new website included
characters dressed in Swat-like gear, with replica assault
rifles, rapelling from the roof of Dotcom’s home, while a
helicopter with FBI printed on the side hovered overhead.  “This is not about mocking any government or Hollywood,”
Dotcom said before the staged raid. He then went on to accuse
the U.S. government of “staging legal warfare” through
copyright laws.  “To those who use copyright laws to stifle innovation, you
will be left behind on the side of the road of history,” Dotcom
said.  Copyright Infringement  Dotcom was indicted in Virginia for what U.S. prosecutors
called the biggest copyright infringement in the country’s
history, with the Megaupload site having generated more than
$175 million in criminal proceeds from the exchange of pirated
films, music, book and software files.  Peter Carr , spokesman for U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride,
referred  Bloomberg News  to a statement Dotcom made in February
to a New Zealand court, when he pledged not to resurrect the
Megaupload site. Carr declined to comment further when contacted
last week.  Dotcom, who turns 39 today, changed his name legally from
Kim Schmitz. Megaupload.com advertised that it had more than 1
billion visits to the site, more than 150 million registered
users and 50 million daily visitors. U.S. prosecutors, in court
filings, said the site accounted for 4 percent of  Internet
traffic .  The site had employed 220 people, all of whom will be
offered jobs with the new project, Dotcom said. The new site
will also employ several hundred New Zealanders, from call
center workers to web designers, he said.  Going Public  Dotcom said he hoped to list the new company on the New
Zealand stock exchange. He didn’t say when he wanted it to
happen.  Dotcom’s extradition hearing in Auckland was postponed last
month from March to August. New Zealand  High Court  Justice Helen
Winkelmann ruled on June 28 that warrants police used to search
Dotcom’s home, ahead of his arrest, were overly broad and
invalid. In December, Winkelmann granted Dotcom permission to
sue New Zealand’s spy agency for intercepting his
communications.  “Given how long this is going on, he needs to be able to
make a living,” said Ira Rothken, Dotcom’s lawyer who also took
to the stage at the unveiling, adding the legal team was
satisfied the site doesn’t violate any laws.  The New Zealand case is Between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928. High Court of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is: USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of  Virginia 
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  