-- Dubai’s Du Reorganizing Operations, Outsourcing Jobs, CEO Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-01-21T10:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/dubai-s-du-reorganizing-operations-outsourcing-jobs-ceo-says.html
Du, the smaller of two phone
companies in the United Arab Emirates, is restructuring
operations and outsourcing jobs as it seeks to boost earnings,
Chief Executive Officer Osman Sultan said.  The company formally known as  Emirates Integrated
Telecommunications Co. (DU)  started the reorganization program on
Jan. 1, Sultan said in a phone interview with Bloomberg News
today. Du is outsourcing roles at some call centers in the
company’s information technology department, a move that is
unrelated to the restructuring of operations, Sultan said. The
outsourcing will continue this year and next, he added.  “We’re entering a new phase in the life of this company,
and that requires that the company shapes itself,” Sultan said.
Du is on track with its growth plans and “for this we have to
do certain things like restructuring operations in the most
optimal manner,” he said.  The United Arab Emirates government last month raised
royalty fees on Du, prompting speculation its earnings may
suffer. The phone company, which derives  all of its revenue  from
the U.A.E., said in May it may seek to expand in Saudi Arabia.
Mobile phone penetration in the U.A.E. reached 200 percent in
2010, according to the communications regulator. Du has gained
47 percent of the mobile-phone market share in the second-
largest Arab economy since it started operations in 2007.  Seeking Expertise  The purpose of outsourcing is “to leverage on expertise
and capabilities built by global players” as the company seeks
to improve its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
and amortization, Sultan added.  Du’s 2012 net income is  expected to rise  47 percent to 1.61
billion dirhams ($438 million) after royalty, according to the
mean estimate of eight analysts on Bloomberg. The company’s
shares have outpaced its competitor, gaining 21 percent in 2012
compared with a drop of 0.7 percent for  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , which is listed in Abu Dhabi. Du’s
shares fell 0.8 percent to 3.54 dirhams at the close in
Dubai today.  The company said it obtained a $100 million loan from
Standard Chartered Plc on Jan. 2, the third raised in a month,
as it seeks funding to upgrade its network and for capital
expenditure. The loans came as the new royalty payment terms
stipulated Du will pay 17.5 percent of 2012 profit to the
government, in addition to 5 percent of revenue. That’s up
from 15 percent of profit and the same amount of revenue
a year earlier.  The outsourcing and reorganisation are part of a “strategy
to increase profits by reducing cost and expanding product
line,” Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer
Securities, said. “Over the medium to long term this positive
for the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  