-- Dubai Said to Hire HSBC, StanChart for $1 Billion Sukuk
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-01-21T15:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/dubai-said-to-hire-hsbc-stanchart-for-1-billion-islamic-bonds.html
Dubai’s government may raise more
than $1 billion from a planned sale of Islamic bonds and has
mandated five banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  for the
offering, according to two people familiar with the deal.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) ,  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC (DIB)  and  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  have also been
hired for the sale of sukuk, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the information is private. A sale may start
as soon as tomorrow, according to one of the bankers. Reuters
reported the story earlier today.  The planned issuance will be the first sovereign sukuk sale
in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of bonds that comply with
Islam’s ban on interest surged to a record $21 billion in the
region last year as borrowing costs plunged. The yield on
Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk due in 2014 tumbled 344 basis
points, or 3.44 percentage points, last year to 2.13 percent,
the data show.  “Investor’s perception for Dubai credit risk has improved
significantly in 2012 and the strong risk-on momentum continues
into 2013,” said Apostolos Bantis, a credit analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  London . “Despite the improved sentiment for
Dubai’s credit story the emirate has high refinancing needs and
taking advantage of the current low-rates environment is a very
good strategy.”  Borrowing Binge  Dubai, the second-biggest sheikhdom in the  United Arab
Emirates , went on a borrowing binge to turn itself into a
regional hub for commerce, transport and financial services,
before teetering on the brink of default in 2009. The emirate’s
credit risk dropped more than peers in the  Middle East  last year
as state-linked companies paid and restructured debt.  The cost of insuring the emirate’s unrated bonds for five
years has retreated 14 basis points this month to 211 on Jan.
18, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The government’s last bond issuance was in April, when it
sold $1.25 billion of sukuk in two tranches, including $600
million of five-year notes at a coupon of 4.9 percent. It also
raised $650 million of 10-year bonds at a 6.45 percent coupon.
The offering secured $4.5 billion in bids.  Core Industry  Dubai plans to create an  Islamic finance  council to
regulate equity and fixed-income products as it seeks to become
a hub for the industry, taking on centers such Bahrain and
 Malaysia , home to the world’s biggest sukuk market. Islamic
finance will become one of the economy’s “core” industries,
the government said this month.  The premium investors demand to own Dubai’s bonds over
Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Shariah-compliant notes due June 2015
narrowed five basis points this month to 75 as of Jan. 18.  A spokeswoman for the Dubai government said she couldn’t
immediately comment on the debt-issuance plans. A spokesman for
HSBC couldn’t immediately be reached, while spokesmen for
Standard Chartered in Dubai and Dubai Islamic Bank couldn’t
immediately comment. A spokesman for Emirates NBD declined to
comment. A spokesman for National Bank of  Abu Dhabi  said the
lender doesn’t comment on client issues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  