-- Egypt Courthouse Torched After Judges Quit Protester Death Case
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-21T06:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/egypt-courthouse-torched-after-judges-quit-protester-death-case.html
A courthouse in  Egypt ’s second-
largest city was torched while security forces clashed with
protesters in a new flare-up of violence days ahead of the
anniversary of the 2011 uprising.  Judges at the Alexandria court had withdrawn from the trial
of police officers accused of killing protesters during the
revolt against  Hosni Mubarak , shortly before they were scheduled
to rule on it, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported.  The unrest was the latest example of the tensions gripping
the Arab world’s most populous nation as it seeks to restore
political stability and revive its economy with a $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund loan.  Families of the victims had clashed with riot police a day
earlier, and the fighting extended into a second day yesterday.
Authorities said unidentified assailants set fire to part of the
courthouse while at least two riot police trucks were also set
ablaze, MENA reported.  In Cairo, at least six people were killed and 12 wounded in
fighting that erupted after a stray bullet fired by police
killed a civilian on Jan. 19, the state-run Ahram reported
today. Prosecutors are investigating incident, it said.  Critics of President Mohamed Mursi have pointed to the
acquittals of police accused of killing protesters during the
2011 revolution as evidence that the Islamist leader has failed
to deliver on campaign pledges. Hostility toward the police, a
key tool of repression under Mubarak, has served as a catalyst
for repeated clashes between protesters and security forces over
the past two years.  Opposition to Mursi, who narrowly defeated Mubarak’s last
premier for the presidency in June, has gathered momentum over
recent months, fueled by opposition to the country’s new
Islamist-drafted constitution. More than a dozen political
parties and youth activists groups have called for marches
against Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood on Jan. 25, Ahram said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  