-- Egypt Central Bank Allows Temporary Foreign-Currency Facilities
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-01-21T16:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/egypt-central-bank-allows-temporary-foreign-currency-facilities.html
     Jan. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Egypt ’s central bank said it’s
allowing banks to temporarily provide clients with facilities in
foreign currency for import operations.  The central bank will permit banks to refinance importing
operations for clients by providing “temporary facilities in
foreign currency” based on the banks’ credit evaluation,
according to a statement dated Jan. 14 and posted on the central
bank’s website today. The previous rules allowed such financing
only to borrowers who could show that they had the foreign-
currency resources to repay them.  “They are relaxing the rules for trade financing by
allowing banks to lend to clients who don’t possess the foreign-
exchange resources to get around the shortage of FX liquidity,
so that business activities are not interrupted,” said Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at Cairo-based investment bank EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE. “This might help ease the situation a bit,
but the problem will still remain that there’s a growing gap
between the demand and supply of foreign exchange in the
market.”  Egypt’s economy has been struggling to recover since the
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011, as the political
tensions that followed hurt tourism and foreign investment. The
bank introduced foreign-exchange auctions in December to
preserve its plunging foreign reserves by limiting the amount
banks could buy.  The pound was little changed at 6.6199 per dollar at the
close in Cairo. The currency has depreciated about 6.5 percent
since the auctions started, more than twice the amount it fell
in the previous year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  