-- Emerging Stocks Fall as Malaysia Shares Drop on Election Concern
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-01-21T22:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/emerging-stocks-fall-as-malaysia-shares-drop-on-election-concern.html
Developing-nation stocks fell, led
by the biggest tumble in Malaysian equities since September
2011, after the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  approached the
highest valuation in 20 months.  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) , Malaysia’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, had the steepest drop since March 2009 on concern the
government will call an election that will weaken its grip on
power. OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest crude producer,
snapped a three-day advance as oil slid from a four-month high.
Natura Cosmeticos SA, Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker, rose to
its highest since Jan. 11 after data showing slower-than-
forecast inflation boosted consumer stocks.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.2 percent to
1,078.05 as of the close of trading. The gauge added 0.7 percent
last week and trades at 10.9 times estimated profit, within 1
percent of the highest level since May 2011. European finance
ministers meet in Brussels today for the first time this year to
discuss the continent’s debt crisis, while U.S. markets are
closed for a public holiday.  “Investors are taking advantage of the high prices and
stretched valuations to pocket some gains and slowly rebalance
their portfolio,”  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
BDO Unibank Inc., said by phone from  Manila  today. “Markets
would like to see  Europe  move out of the debt crisis and enter a
recovery mode this year.”  Russia’s Micex Index retreated from the highest since
April, losing 0.2 percent, as the price of oil declined as much
as 0.5 percent in  New York . The volume of shares changing hands
in Micex companies today was 29 percent less than the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Micex IPO  The Moscow Exchange, which runs the Micex and RTS indexes,
expects to raise more than $500 million in an initial public
offering, according to a person who asked not to be identified,
citing a quiet period before the IPO. The amount is less than an
earlier estimate that the sale would raise $1 billion, which was
given on Jan. 16 by three people familiar with the matter who
asked not to be named as the details aren’t public.  Brazil’s Bovespa index slipped 0.1 percent to 61,899.71
after a report showing slower-than-forecast inflation spurred
speculation policy makers will hold the benchmark lending rate
at a record low for longer in an attempt to boost the recovery.  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo , a Brazilian online retailer,
advanced 2.8 percent to 16.74 reais. Natura jumped 1.6 percent
to 56.50 reais.  Phone company  Oi SA (OIBR4)  tumbled 5.1 percent in Sao Paulo, the
biggest drop on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, after Veja
magazine reported that controlling shareholders disapprove of
the performance of Chief Executive Officer Francisco Valim. The
company’s press office declined to comment to the report when
contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Czech Stocks Drop  The Dubai Financial Market General Index fell 0.3 percent,
ending a three-day rally that sent the measure to the highest
close since April 2010. The Czech PX Index lost 1.2 percent in
 Prague , heading for the lowest close since Dec. 17.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index gained 0.3 percent, rising
for a seventh day, its longest winning streak in three months.
The BSE India Sensitive Index added 0.3 percent to the highest
close since Jan. 6 after Reliance Industries Ltd., India’s
biggest company by market value, reported profit that beat
estimates.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index sank 2.4 percent, the
sharpest loss since September 2011, with volumes 89 percent more
than the 30-day average. Speculation Malaysia’s government will
call for national elections as early as March helped trigger the
selloff in the country’s equities, according to Samsung Asset
Management Co.’s  Alan Richardson .  “There is uncertainty whether the ruling coalition would
be able to at least maintain the existing majority they have,”
Richardson, a Singapore-based  fund manager  who helps oversee
about $82 billion for Samsung Asset, said by phone.  Malaysia’s ringgit depreciated 0.8 percent before inflation
data this week, which economists predict will show consumer
prices rose for the first time in 15 months.  Axiata, Malaysia’s largest mobile-phone operator, lost 5.1
percent.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , the nation’s second-biggest
lender by assets, slumped 4.5 percent, the most since Aug. 25,
2011.  Lukoil slid 0.9 percent and OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest
oil and natural gas company, slid 0.6 percent in Moscow.  Kernel Holding SA, Ukraine’s biggest sunflower-oil
producer, jumped 4.5 percent in Warsaw, the most since Dec. 3.
The company said its grain sales surged 82 percent and bulk oil
sales rose 66 percent in the fiscal second-quarter ending in
December. BRE Bank SA raised its recommendation on the stock to
accumulate from reduce.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , Turkey’s sole oil
refiner, declined 2.9 percent in Istanbul trading after UBS AG
cut the stock to sell from the equivalent to hold.  Aldar Tumbles  Aldar Properties dropped 9.8 percent, the most since
December 2009 after agreeing to buy  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  with
its shares. Sorouh jumped 4.3 percent to the highest close since
December 2010.  Reliance Industries, owner of the world’s largest oil-
refining complex, rose 2.2 percent to the highest since June
2011 after third-quarter profit increased the most in two years.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has risen 2.2 percent this
year, trailing a 3.6 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
developed nations. A gauge of technology stocks in the emerging-
markets measure fell 0.8 percent today, the most of 10  industry
groups .  Samsung Falls  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest maker of
smartphones and televisions, declined 1.8 percent, the biggest
drag on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 0.2 percent in
 Hong Kong , the highest close since Aug. 2, 2011. Thailand’s
benchmark index added 0.4 percent to close at the highest level
since July 1995.  China Vanke Co. (200002) ’s foreign-currency denominated B shares
jumped 10 percent to the highest level in more than five years
in Shenzhen. The developer plans to convert all of its B shares
to Hong Kong-listed H shares pending approval from shareholders
and the regulators, the company said in an exchange filing on
Jan. 18.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 264 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  