-- Tengelmann Billionaire Haub Retires as Outsiders Win Role
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   D a v i d   d e   J o n g
-- 2013-01-21T14:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/tengelmann-billionaire-haub-retires-as-outsiders-win-role.html
Erivan Karl Haub, who became a
billionaire at the helm of Tengelmann Group, retired as advisory
board chairman as the family-owned German retail company shifted
oversight completely to outsiders.  Two other advisory board members were also replaced as
their terms expired, and the body for the first time no longer
has members of the retailer’s founding family, Muelheim an der
Ruhr-based Tengelmann said today in a  statement . Haub, who
turned 80 last year, was chief executive officer for 33 years
until 2002, and is currently worth at least $4.86 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Haub’s leadership, which included a stake in the A&P
grocery brand’s holding company in the U.S. until 2012, built
 Tengelmann  into a food and textile retailer with about 4,000
stores generating 11 billion euros ($14.6 billion) in annual
sales and employing more than 80,000 employees. His sons Karl- Erivan and Christian remain as managing directors, a role
they’ve held since he became advisory board chairman in 2002.  “Tengelmann has long been a construction site,” Boris Planer, chief economist at  Planet Retail  in  Frankfurt , said in a
phone interview. “The company struggled throughout its time of
investment in the U.S., and at one point accepted its food-
retail activities in Germany and Europe were not going to be
successful either without prohibitive levels of investment.”  The retailer has been adding assets since 2000 in non-food
operations and online commerce, and “this is where Tengelmann
seems to continue to generate decent profit,” Planer said.  Real Estate  Tengelmann Group  was founded in 1866. Its current brands
include the Kaiser’s and Tengelmann supermarket chains, Kik
apparel discounters and OBI do-it-yourself hardware stores. It
also owns the Trei real-estate management and development
company, which was founded in 2008, and the Tengelmann E-
Commerce GmbH Web-based business.  The advisory committee will choose a new chairman at its
next meeting, Tengelmann said today, without specifying a date.  The German company bought a stake in Montvale, New Jersey-
based Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. in 1979. Tengelmann held
40 percent of the U.S. retailer, which owns such grocery chains
as A&P, Waldbaum’s, Food Emporium and Pathmark, and  Christian
Haub  was its chairman when the unit filed Chapter 11 protection
from creditors at the end of 2010.  A&P emerged from bankruptcy in March 2012 controlled by
investors Yucaipa Cos., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Mount
Kellett Capital Management LP.  War Concern  Haub invested in A&P in the 1970s “because he was afraid
of the potential of a World War III, so in case  Europe  went to
war, he was going to move a part of the family fortune to the
U.S.,” Planer said. “It was never successful commercially and
ended sadly. The U.S. withdrawal and Tengelmann’s latest
investments in Europe reflect the fact that the Haub family is
comparatively risk-averse.”  Karl-Erivan Haub took over management of Tengelmann’s
European operations while his brother was running the U.S.
assets, Planer said.  Karl-Erivan “grew up in a retail-business environment,”
Planer said. His background at  McKinsey consulting company  has
helped give him “a good knowledge of retail, finance and
restructuring. The son becoming CEO saved Tengelmann as a
company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
David  De Jong  in  New York  at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  