-- Mercedes Formula 1 Team Hires Williams Executive Toto Wolff
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-01-21T12:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/mercedes-formula-1-team-hires-williams-executive-toto-wolff.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Formula One team
Mercedes Grand Prix Ltd., which didn’t win a race with seven-
time champion  Michael Schumacher  in the past three years, plans
to hire Toto Wolff as executive director from  Williams. (WGF1)   The Mercedes team said in a statement it signed a letter of
intent with the Austrian investor, who had held the same role at
Williams and owns 15.5 percent of that team. Shares in Williams
Grand Prix, the only listed Formula One team, fell 2 percent to
24.20 euros at 1:10 p.m. in Frankfurt.  Wolff, who will work with team manager  Ross Brawn  and non-
executive chairman Niki Lauda, is to take a 30 percent stake in
Mercedes Grand Prix, Daimler spokesman Florian Martens said by
telephone. Lauda will take a 10 percent stake. Daimler holds the
remaining 60 percent.  “As an entrepreneur, investor and motorsport manager, Toto
Wolff has proven that this sport runs in his blood; at the same
time he is also well aware of the economic necessities of the
business,” Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said
in the statement. “Together with him and Niki Lauda, we will
further develop our motorsport activities.”  Wolff, who joined the Williams board in 2009, said in the
Mercedes statement he was leaving “on good terms” with the
Grove, England-based team. Williams said in a statement the
Austrian will leave the board but retain his shareholding. His
responsibilities will be shared by other executives, Williams
said. Wolff is a shareholder in HWA AG, the partner of Mercedes
in the DTM touring cars series.  ‘Long History’  “Toto has a long history with them and I certainly was not
going to stand in the way of him accepting this once in a
lifetime opportunity,” Williams founder and main shareholder
 Frank Williams  said in the statement.  Stuttgart-based Daimler has owned the Mercedes team since
November 2009, although it hasn’t won a race even with
Schumacher as a driver the last three years. The 44-year-old
German quit the series after last season ended on Nov. 25.  Lewis Hamilton , the 2008 Formula One champion, has joined from
McLaren.  Mercedes’s head of motor sport, Norbert Haug, left the team
at the end of last season after 22 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  