-- EU Carbon Permits ‘Worthless’ Without Change of Rules, UBS Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-21T12:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/eu-carbon-permits-worthless-without-change-of-rules-ubs-says.html
Carbon-dioxide permits in the
European Union emissions trading system, the world’s largest,
are “worthless” without a change in the rules to tighten
supply and curb a record glut, according to UBS AG.  EU allowances for delivery in December sank to a record
4.79 euros ($6.37) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange today. The contract was at 4.86 euros as of 9:51 a.m.
in  London , extending its losses to 27 percent this year after
low bids from utilities, factories and banks forced  Germany  on
Jan. 18 to cancel a sale of permits for the first time.  “With current rules ETS won’t work until 2045, thus carbon
is worthless,” Per Lekander, a Paris-based analyst at UBS, said
in a research note today.  The price of permits in the EU emissions trading system, or
the ETS, plunged about 80 percent since the beginning of 2008 as
the economic crisis eroded industrial output. The limits on
discharges were set before the euro area entered two recessions
in four years. The program, which imposes emission caps on about
12,000 facilities owned by manufacturers and power plants,
doesn’t allow any price floors or ceilings.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, will
not get support from governments for its plan to temporarily cut
oversupply by delaying auctions of some permits, according to
UBS. The commission’s strategy, known as backloading, would
postpone sales of 900 million allowances from 2013-2015 to
2019-2020 to help prices rebound.  EU nations and the region’s parliament have two options
now: to “sit back and do nothing and see the market crash” or
to support the short-term rescue plan to backload allowances,
said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the commission.  Act Swiftly  “I urge the  member states  and the European Parliament to
act,” he told a briefing in Brussels today. “They have now the
tools presented by the commission. They have to act swiftly and
with determination.”  The glut has swelled to almost 1 billion metric tons, or
almost half of the average annual pollution limit in the system
at the beginning of 2012, according to the commission. The
excess can be about 2 billion permits by the end of the current
trading period through 2020 unless the EU tackles it, the
 regulator  said last year.  “With the current emissions cap -- 1.74 percent reduction
per year -- the ETS will be long each year until 2025 and it
will take until 2045 before the current 1.5 billion tons surplus
inventory has been eliminated,” Lekander said.  Changing the EU emission trading rules would require
support from member states and the European Parliament. The bloc
would have to amend the existing law or adopt new legislation to
tighten the cap, accelerate the annual pace of greenhouse-gas
reductions or introduce price management mechanisms.  Primary Supply  Primary supply of allowances rose this year as the EU moved
to selling a greater portion of allowances after handing most of
them to emitters for free in the 2005-2012 period. Governments
are scheduled to sell 15.7 million tons of permits at auctions
this week.  The decline in carbon prices means that polluters “got a
grace period, no more,” Lekander said. “European climate
policies remain intact and the CO2-constraints will eventually
be re-established. This could for instance happen through a
price floor in ETS or via a carbon tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  