-- EU Carbon Declines to Record Before Sales of 15.7 Million Tons
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-21T18:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/eu-carbon-declines-to-record-before-sales-of-15-7-million-tons.html
European Union emission permits fell
to a record before sales planned for this week of 15.7 million
metric tons, which will further boost supply.  EU carbon for December dropped 3.1 percent as nations
prepared for four auctions this week on the European Energy
Exchange AG. A sale by  Germany  on Jan. 18 failed, even after EEX
extended it by 15 minutes. The unsold volume will be added to
the country’s next four weekly auctions.  Permits lost 16 cents to close at 4.95 euros ($6.59) a
metric ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. Certified
Emission Reduction credits for December rose 2 cents to 34 euro
cents a ton on ICE.  Allowances in the emissions trading system, the world’s
largest, are “worthless” without a change in the rules to
tighten supply and curb a record glut, according to UBS AG. Low
bids from utilities, factories and banks forced Germany on Jan.
18 to cancel a sale of permits for the first time. Today’s sale
of prompt allowances by EU nations had a settlement price of
4.70 euros a ton.  “With current rules, the emissions trading system won’t
work until 2045, thus carbon is worthless,” Per Lekander, a
Paris-based analyst at UBS, said today in a research note.  Unsold volumes could exacerbate the market’s oversupply in
subsequent sales, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said today,
citing a potential “snowball effect.”  EU nations are considering whether to support a plan by the
European Commission in Brussels to temporarily cut supply in
order to deal with the glut.  German power for next year declined 1.2 percent to a record
42.20 euros a metric ton, according to data from brokers
compiled by Bloomberg. Carbon can track power as falling
electricity cuts the incentive to sell forward and hedge by
buying fuel and carbon futures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  