-- Euro Area Grapples With ESM Rules as Legacy Assets Loom
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-01-22T07:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/euro-area-grapples-with-esm-rules-as-legacy-assets-loom.html
Euro-area finance ministers staked
out their turf in a brewing battle over bank rescues amid German
and Austrian warnings that direct bailouts won’t be widely
available.  Ministers seek an agreement in the first half of this year
on how and when the 500 billion-euro ($668 billion) European
Stability Mechanism can bypass governments and provide direct
help to banks. Ireland and  France  led calls at a meeting of euro
finance chiefs in Brussels yesterday for work to proceed quickly
so the new tool can be ready as quickly as possible.  Some creditor nations countered that direct bank aid
shouldn’t start until the  European Central Bank  takes up its new
role as single supervisor within the currency zone, which isn’t
expected until 2014. In the meantime, the ESM needs to leave its
resources free to be a lender of last resort, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  “One has to damp further-reaching expectations because
that would completely overburden the ESM,” Schaeuble told
reporters after the meeting. He urged the euro area not to
“repeat earlier mistakes” by raising hopes of aid that won’t
materialize.  “We mustn’t relapse to create incentives that fall under
the heading of moral hazard,” Schaeuble said. “We must keep
decision-making power and liability close together.”  Bailout Payments  Bank bailout policy was the major open issue at yesterday’s
meeting, which saw Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem
take over from Luxembourg Prime MinisterJean-Claude Juncker as
head of the so-called Eurogroup. The ministers welcomed progress
in  Greece , Spain and  Portugal  toward winning new bailout payouts
and also said they didn’t expect to make a rescue deal with
Cyprus until March.  With no do-or-die decisions to make, ministers instead were
able to take a first run at sorting out who should benefit from
the prospect of direct bank aid. French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said the new ESM tool is important and needed to
safeguard the financial system.  “We can’t have a mechanism that is weak and unreadable,”
Moscovici said. “Having that direct recap is part of this
banking union. Priority means let’s go fast. Let’s be really
ambitious.”  EU leaders dangled the prospect of direct bailouts as a way
to assure investors that they would protect the euro from an
onslaught of banking problems that threatened to overwhelm
individual nations. Since then, they have relied on
announcements from the European Central Bank to keep markets
calm.  Bond Markets  Borrowing costs in bailed-out and debt-laden euro nations
have plummeted since the ECB pledged to commit to backing their
bond markets.  Spain ’s 10-year yield has declined more than 200
basis points. The cost of insuring Ireland against default has
dropped 84 percent since July 2011.  The euro climbed 0.4 percent against the  U.S. dollar  today,
trading at $1.3367 at 8:40 a.m. in Brussels.  With officials declaring the worst of the region’s three-
year market emergency over, finance ministers debated whether
the ESM should take over earlier bank bailouts that were routed
through governments and what to do with so-called legacy assets.
A European Union aide who briefed reporters last week defined
those as loans already on a bank’s balance sheet that could
cause problems in the future.  Noonan’s Call  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  called for some aid
to be available “retrospectively” to banks that have received
aid and are still doing business, like  Bank of Ireland Plc ,
 Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and  Permanent TSB Group Holdings Plc. (IPM)   “Banks that were still functioning, lending, trading banks
would be eligible, even though insolvent banks on wind-downs
mightn’t be,” Noonan said.  The actual amount of ESM funds available for direct aid to
banks may be less than 100 billion euros because the fund needs
to fulfill its main mission of lending to governments that lose
 market access , said Nicolas Veron, senior economist at the
Brussels-based Bruegel research group. Bank aid may also require
additional set-asides for the ESM to maintain a high  credit
rating .  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said the ESM
shouldn’t lend to banks until the EU is closer to a more
complete banking union.  Direct Recapitalizations  “You can’t say only because we have an agreement on a
single supervisor, the way is clear for direct
recapitalizations,” Fekter said going into the meeting. “All
the burdens can’t be imposed on the net payers, even if the
ailing countries want things to go faster.”  Incoming Eurogroup chief Dijsselbloem endorsed further
progress on banking union, without taking a stand on the
technical issues surrounding direct ESM aid.  “The completion of the banking union is essential in my
view,” Dijsselbloem said. He called for the EU to press ahead
with efforts to create a single resolution mechanism, along with
harmonized deposit guarantee schemes and work toward a “single
rulebook” for financial regulation across the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  