-- European Drone Plan Seeks Political Backing as in Boost to EADS
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-01-21T15:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/european-drone-plan-seeks-political-backing-as-in-boost-to-eads.html
France  and  Germany  are set to renew
efforts to work on a joint unmanned aerial vehicle, supporting
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  in its attempt to
compete in a market now dominated by Israeli and U.S. companies.  Efforts to strengthen ties will probably be discussed when
French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian meets his German
counterpart Thomas de Maiziere tomorrow, Christian Schmidt,
state secretary for Germany’s Ministry of Defense, said. Senior
politicians are gathering to celebrate a treaty signed in 1963
that sealed the two countries’ friendship after World War II.  “There is a desire to explore development of a European
drone,” Schmidt said in an interview in Berlin. “A European
drone solution has to have more capability than current U.S.
systems to make sense,” such as enhanced communications so spy
drones can safely fly in civil airspace with airliners, he said.  A Franco-German drone agreement would come about two years
after France committed to working closely with the U.K. on
unmanned aircraft programs. That pact saw  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and
 Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  join up to develop a system, in a move that
sidelined EADS, the parent of Airbus SAS.  EADS said last year that it wasn’t continuing with its own
Talarion drone after failing to win government funding.  Although France and the U.K. have moved forward with BAE
and Dassault on designing a futuristic combat drone, progress on
the 1 billion euros ($1.33 billion) Telemos surveillance system
stalled after  Francois Hollande  came to power last year.  The French government is undertaking a strategic review of
its defense needs, and Le Drian, the defense minister, said in
May that he’ll “go back to square one” on plans to build
military drones.  The French and German air force now operate similar
unmanned spy planes in  Afghanistan , based on Israel Aerospace
Industries Ltd.’s Heron drone. Both are exploring what bridging
options need to be pursued before a European model is ready
around the end of the decade.  Options include continuing to fly current systems,
acquiring Heron-TPs, a larger model IAI is selling, or
purchasing General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc. Reaper
drones flown by the U.S. military and others.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  