-- European Airports Limit Region’s Flights as Snow Spreads
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-21T16:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/european-airports-limit-region-s-flights-as-snow-spreads.html
European airports are seeking to
return to normal operations tomorrow after snow and ice swept
through the region, disrupting hundreds of flights.  Heathrow airport in London,  Europe ’s busiest hub, and
Charles de Gaulle in Paris said they aim to resume a largely
normal flight program tomorrow, while Fraport AG said it expects
snow will continue to cause disruption in  Frankfurt  tomorrow.
Heathrow scrapped 196 flights today, about 15 percent of the
total, and Frankfurt suspended almost half of all flights.  Airport disruptions entered a second week as arctic
temperatures engulfed much of Europe, leaving thousands of
passengers stranded and aircraft iced up at their gates.
European rules require airlines to pay for food and
accommodation for passengers stranded by cancellations. Some
light snow is expected over Northern  England  and Scotland on
Tuesday, with weather easing across Britain by Wednesday.  “The atmosphere is finely balanced across southwestern
areas of Britain, with some places seeing heavy rain and others
seeing heavy snow on Tuesday,” Met Office Chief Forecaster
Martin Young said in an e-mailed statement.  British Airways (IAG) , a unit of International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, said customers scheduled to travel today will
not be charged if they choose to delay and rebook. People on
canceled flights are being offered the choice of a refund, re-
booking or re-routing on another airline, the carrier said.  Suspending Flights  BA is scrapping mostly short-haul flights to destinations
including Frankfurt, Berlin and Geneva, Switzerland. The
carrier’s schedule is “under constant review,” spokesman Tony Cane said by e-mail.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  has begun suspending flights
scheduled to fly tomorrow, boosting total cancellations for the
two first days of the week to 536, according to its website.
While all four runways in Frankfurt are clear, many planes
require time-consuming de-icing, further disrupting operations.  The U.K.  Met Office  issued an “amber” alert for parts of
northern England and  Scotland  today, warning that some areas
might have as much as 20 centimeters (7.9 inches) of snow.  Gatwick  airport, London’s second-busiest hub, said on its
website that passengers should expect some delays and check with
airlines before traveling. Some services on the direct train
from the airport to the capital have also been canceled.  Stansted, the city’s No. 3 airport, said its runway is
clear and the visibility is good.  Ryanair Plc (RYA) , the No. 1
operator there, canceled 24 flights today because of a shortage
of de-icing fluid.  Eurostar  London City , in the east of the capital, said its runway is
now open after being closed earlier today. Some flights may
experience disruptions due to last night’s weather conditions,
the airport operator said on its Twitter feed.  Eurostar Group Ltd., whose trains to  London  from Paris and
Brussels have been brought to a halt during previous snowfalls,
pre-emptively canceled five services Tuesday and warned all
trains would suffer delays because of speed restrictions.  British rail companies including Virgin Trains and
 Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) ’s South West Trains have also amended
timetables to minimize disruption. SNCF, the French state-owned
rail operator, slowed its high-speed TGV trains while projecting
97 percent of operations would be maintained.  Transport for London, which oversees the U.K. capital’s
public transport system, said it has 89,000 metric tons of salt
stockpiled and de-icing trains are in operation. The city’s
Underground subway lines were all operating normally as of 3:42
p.m. local time.  Air France-KLM  KLM canceled about 50 European flights to and from
Amsterdam-Schiphol, according to a statement on the website of
the Dutch national carrier owned by  Air France-KLM. (AF)  The airport
scrapped 20 flights overall, mostly because of snow conditions
elsewhere in Europe, spokeswoman Marit Merkus said.  The French civil aviation authority forecast a return to
normal service tomorrow in an e-mailed statement, citing the
latest weather forecasts. The authority, airport operator
 Aeroports de Paris , Air France and other carriers “will remain
vigilant as to the possible presence of mixed rain and snow
during the day,” it said in the statement.  All runways at Brussels Airport are clear and the airport
functioning normally, spokesman Jan Van der Cruysse said by
telephone today. Some flights have been canceled as result of
snow at other airports and a number of flights have been
diverted to Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  