-- Mexico Bond Yields Tumble After Rate Decision; Peso Declines
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-01-21T22:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/mexico-bond-yields-fall-to-six-month-low-on-flows-peso-declines.html
Mexico ’s bond yields fell to their
lowest level since July, extending last week’s tumble, after
policy makers signaled that slowing inflation may prompt them to
cut benchmark rates for the first time in three years.  Yields on the government’s peso bonds due 2022 fell 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 5.09 percent at 4
p.m. in Mexico City, after dropping 20 basis points last week.
It was the yield’s lowest closing level since July 23. The peso
declined 0.3 percent to 12.7000 per U.S. dollar.  “The concern they had about inflation was switched to a
concern about growth,”  Mario Copca , a currency and fixed-income
strategist at Metanalisis SA in Mexico City, said in a phone
interview from Mexico City. “The expectation of a possible rate
cut is making it so flows will continue to come into the local
market” from investors looking to benefit from rallying bond
prices.  In a statement accompanying their decision to leave the
benchmark rate at 4.5 percent on Jan. 18, policy makers said
that if a “downward trend in general and  core inflation ” is
confirmed, a rate cut may be “advisable.” The comment damped
speculation that policy makers led by Governor Agustin Carstens
would boost rates, a move that would reduce the attractiveness
of outstanding bonds, according to Copca.  The central bank said Jan. 18 that the inflation outlook
has improved while risks to economic growth persist.  The government’s bonds due 2022 yield 3.36 percentage
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. Mexico’s
record-low 4.5 percent benchmark borrowing cost compares with
key rates of less than 1 percent in the U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe .
Mexican policy makers last adjusted benchmark rates in July 2009
when they lowered borrowing costs by 25 basis points.  Seeking Returns  “Foreign capital continues looking for returns,” Jose
Carreno, a bond trader at Banco Base SA, said in a telephone
interview from San Pedro Garza Garcia.  Citigroup Inc.’s local Banamex unit said in a note to
clients on Jan. 18 that it was changing its end of the year
projection for the Mexican peso to 12.5 per  U.S. dollar  from
12.6 per dollar. Foreign investment in the $144 billion market
for fixed-rate peso bonds, known as Mbonos, grew to 54.9 percent
on Jan. 8, the highest proportion since February 2000, central
bank data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  