-- Expanded Panama Canal May Change Tolls to Lift Energy Shipments
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-01-21T15:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/expanded-panama-canal-may-change-tolls-to-lift-energy-shipments.html
The Panama Canal, handling 5 percent
of world trade, may change how it calculates tolls for ships
carrying energy cargoes to boost traffic once a $5.25 billion
expansion is complete in 2015.  The canal is investigating charging fees based on the cargo
capacity of commodity carriers and tankers hauling fuels
including liquid gases, Panama Canal Authority Administrator
Jorge Luis Quijano said in a telephone interview Jan. 17. The
proposed system would replace an existing toll-setting mechanism
that doesn’t always reflect cargo capacity, he said.  Expanding the 99-year-old, 80-kilometer (50 miles) waterway
to accommodate bigger ships will cut freight costs for energy-
fuel cargoes and open new trade routes if the fees are set
correctly, he said. The canal is used by 14,000 vessels a year,
carrying 5 percent of world trade, according to its website.  “We have taken our lenses off and put on some new lenses
and are trying to look at our business in a different way,”
Quijano said. “The economies of scale that the big ships bring
in is a benefit to the shipping line and is a benefit we want to
share in. It’s not that we want to eat it all, we want to take a
piece of that.”  The authority is consulting canal users about the proposed
changes, including meetings with associations representing
owners of  tankers  and dry-cargo vessels in  London  next month, he
said. The new fee structure will be announced by February 2014,
for implementation by 2015, he said.  The Panama Canal Universal Measurement System, the existing
method, uses a formula that doesn’t always take into account how
much cargo ships can hold, according to Quijano. The canal
changed its price structure in 2005 for  container ships , with
fees now based on how many 20-foot steel boxes the vessels can
carry, according to the authority’s website.  The expansion will deepen and widen the canal, adding a
third set of locks, and open for commercial transits by June
2015, six months later than first intended, Quijano said. Loans
taken out to pay for the expansion need to be paid off by 2028,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  