-- Finance Least-Trusted Industry for Third Year in Edelman Survey
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-01-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/finance-least-trusted-industry-for-third-year-in-edelman-survey.html
Financial services  and  banks  were
the least-trusted industries for the third year, with half of
people surveyed saying they could be trusted to do what’s right,
according to an annual  poll  by public relations firm Edelman.  The numbers improved from 45 percent who trusted financial
companies in the survey released last year and 47 percent who
trusted banks.  Technology (MXWO0IT)  companies topped the ranking again
with 77 percent, down two percentage points from a year earlier,
according to the poll of the so-called informed public ages 25
to 64 in 20 countries.  Institutions were more trusted overall this year and the
reputation of business continued to surpass government. The
portion of the informed public who said they trust business
climbed to 58 percent from 53 percent a year ago, while trust in
government rose to 48 percent from 43 percent, the survey found.
The share who said they trusted business “a great deal” was 17
percent, the same as for government, according to the online
poll, which surveyed 4,600 people in October and November.  The countries with the highest proportion of people who
said they trusted business were Mexico, at 82 percent, and
India, at 81 percent. Those with the lowest trust were  South
Korea , at 31 percent, and Russia, at 40 percent, the survey
found.  In the U.S., 62 percent said they trusted business to do
the right thing, compared with 53 percent who said they felt the
same about government. In the U.K., business garnered 56 percent
and government got 47 percent, according to the survey.  ‘Informed Public’  Trust in banks was below 50 percent in two-thirds of the
markets surveyed. In the U.S., the percentage of the informed
public who said they trust banks has risen to 49 percent from 25
percent two years ago, although it’s still below the 69 percent
who said they trusted banks in 2008. The lowest percentages
expressing trust in banks were 11 percent in Ireland, 19 percent
in  Spain  and 22 percent in the U.K., the survey found.  Edelman defines the “informed public” as college-educated
people in the top 25 percent of  household income  for their age
group in their country who report having significant engagement
in business news and public policy. That group is a good
indication of where “informed opinion” is heading, according
to Edelman.  Banks and financial service companies were also the least
trusted among the broader general public surveyed by Edelman,
the poll found.  The Financial Times reported the survey’s results earlier
on its website. Edelman releases the Trust Barometer survey
results annually at the start of the  World Economic Forum ’s
annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  