-- First Solar, Abengoa Bullish on Mideast, Africa Power
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-01-21T09:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/first-solar-abengoa-bullish-on-mideast-africa-power.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG) ’s
renewable energy unit are targeting the Middle East and North
Africa as utilities seek to cut reliance on burning oil and
natural gas in power plants to meet demand.  The providers of plants generating electricity from the sun
can produce energy at a price competitive with fossil fuels when
accounting for the profit oil producers forgo by burning crude
at home, said Raffi Garabedian, chief technology officer for
First Solar.  “That dynamic drives the economic proposition for
renewables in this region,” Garabedian said in an interview in
Abu Dhabi on Jan. 16. Demand for alternatives to burning liquid
fuels “creates a very healthy long-term market for
photovoltaics in the region.”  Photovoltaic, or PV, cells like those developed by First
Solar capture sunlight and convert heat directly into
electricity. Concentrated solar power, or CSP, plants, like
those built by Abengoa Solar, use mirrors reflecting the sun’s
rays to heat a fluid that creates steam to turn a turbine.  “The Middle East and Africa are areas where we see
opportunities in the short term,” Abengoa Solar Chief Executive
Officer Santiago Seage said in an interview the same day.
Abengoa Solar’s CSP facilities are well suited to the region
since gas is available to help run turbines at its plants,
boosting generation capacity and allowing for potentially
constant supply, he said.  Faster Rate  PV plants are cheaper than CSP facilities because panel
prices have plunged at a faster rate than the fluid-based
plants, also known as solar thermal units, Seage said. The
lower-cost power the PV plants can generate has the disadvantage
of being available only when the sun is shining, while solar
thermal plants can store the heated fluid for future use or use
gas supply to raise production levels, Seage said.  Garabedian and Seage were in Abu Dhabi for a renewable
energy conference last week.  Middle East and North African states are seeking new power
sources to supply domestic demand as their populations and
economies grow. The countries, many of which are gas and oil
exporters, use the fuel at home to supply markets where power is
sold at subsidized prices. With the European benchmark Brent
crude selling at more than $110 a barrel, using liquid fuel
domestically costs oil producers about $90 for each barrel of
crude, Adnan Amin, director general of the Abu Dhabi-based
 International Renewable Energy Agency , said in an interview last
month.  More Competitive  First Solar has shifted to producing complete power plants
for utilities from its origins as a maker only of solar modules,
helping it better compete in a market in which the cost of
photovoltaic cells has plunged, Garabedian said. That shift,
initially made in the U.S. market, has made the company more
competitive internationally where utilities want reliable power
supply, he said.  Abengoa Solar is producing electricity at the Shams 1 power
plant that’s completing testing in Abu Dhabi, Seage said. The
100-megawatt plant, a joint venture with Abu Dhabi’s state-owned
renewable energy company Masdar, will be inaugurated this
quarter and reach full generation capacity by the summer, he
said.  The company is also working to complete two plants in the
U.S. and has closed financing on two facilities in South Africa.
Construction has started at the 50- megawatt and 100-megawatt
plants in South Africa that will encompass a solar tower to beam
sunlight onto mirrors mounted on the ground. Completion is seen
in late 2014 or early 2015, Seage said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  