-- Gas-Union Expands Into Netherlands, Austria as Trading Jumps
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-01-21T12:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/gas-union-expands-into-netherlands-austria-as-trading-jumps.html
Gas-Union GmbH, the German energy
company that has supplied natural gas for more than 50 years,
will expand into the Netherlands as trading surges in mainland
 Europe ’s biggest market for the fuel.  Gas-Union will start buying and selling at the Title
Transfer Facility hub in the Netherlands and at Baumgarten in
 Austria  by April,  Tobias Meyer , head of  portfolio management  at
the Frankfurt-based company, said today by phone. Gas-Union has
hired four traders over the past two years, taking its total to
six, he said.  The European Union has encouraged the opening of the
region’s gas markets, making it easier to buy fuel outside of
long-term contracts linked to  oil prices . The high cost of gas
sold at those prices left “deep red marks” on the profit and
loss statements of  RWE AG (RWE)  and other midstream gas companies, RWE
Chief Executive Officer Stefan Judisch said last April.  “The Dutch market is the dominant trading place in
continental Europe and trading makes more sense here than it
does in  Germany ,” Andreas Holzer, head of market development
and regulatory affairs at the gas trading desk of EnBW Trading
GmbH, said Jan. 8 by e-mail. “I expect the international hubs
to gain importance in the future.”  Gas trading in the Netherlands surged 33 percent in 2011 to
6,495 terawatt-hours and churn, the volume traded divided by the
amount used, was 16.3, according to Prospex Research Ltd. That
compares with 2.5 for the market in Germany, the London-based
researcher said in its European Gas Trading report in September.  London Brokers  The Title Transfer Facility accounted for 32 percent of
total European gas volumes in 2012, up from 28 percent in 2011,
according to London Energy Brokers’ Association. The growth came
at the expense of the U.K.’s National Balancing Point, which
shrank to 56 percent from 61 percent, LEBA data show.  The long-term oil-indexed gas price has traded above the
next-day Dutch gas price every month since February 2011,
according to data from the German Federal Office of Economics
and Export Control and brokers.  Gas-Union traded 75 to 80 terawatt-hours of gas in the year
ended Oct. 31, or about 10 percent of Germany’s gas consumption,
Meyer said. In 2011, the company sold 59.2 terawatt-hours of gas
and had sales revenue of 1.46 billion euros ($1.94 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  