-- Geithner’s Bailouts Didn’t Create Our Mess
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-21T23:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/geithner-s-bailouts-didn-t-create-our-mess.html
The public remains obsessed with
ending “too big to fail,” the unstated policy in which the
federal government rescues the biggest banks to prevent
financial disaster. With the imminent retirement of U.S  Treasury
Secretary   Timothy Geithner , who masterminded bailouts while
serving as  New York  Federal Reserve president and later at
Treasury, bloggers are  firing  up another rhetorical fusillade
against the Geithner-era bailouts.  The anger is misdirected. For one thing, most of the
bailouts consisted of loans on which the government and
taxpayers will earn a profit. And the bailouts were, in general,
the least bad of all possible options.  Ordinary Americans suffered far more because we had a
crisis, not because bailouts were among the remedies for ending
it. People were hurt, that is, because the economy went south,
jobs and decent wages disappeared, and the stock market and home
values tanked.  Minimizing the likelihood of bailouts is important, but not
because they became a symbol of popular frustration. It’s
important because, in a few specific circumstances, the
possibility of a bailout later may induce risky behavior now and
bring on the next crisis. This isn’t true of the programs that
people commonly object to, such as the Troubled Asset Relief
Program or the loans to American International Group Inc. TARP
severely diluted shareholders of weak banks, and those of AIG
were wiped out.  Surprises, Panic  No law can eliminate the possibility of a future TARP-style
rescue. Crises, by their nature, tend to surprise, and surprises
lead to panic. The officials presiding over the next one will
react in the same manner as Geithner,  Henry Paulson  --
Geithner’s predecessor as Treasury secretary -- and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  did in 2008. They will want to
stop the panic and save the sermons on moral hazard for later.  This means the important post-crisis work that remains
isn’t to fret over too big to fail; it is minimizing the
likelihood and severity of a future panic. Rather than banning
bailouts, ban the conditions that lead to them.  We know what happened in 2008:  Wall Street  was struck by a
modern-style bank run. Yet most of the regulatory response
hasn’t been concerned with deterring another panic. The Dodd-
Frank financial-reform law and other measures are mostly about
making sure that banks don’t do something stupid, such as
operate with too little capital, or trade derivatives without
transparency. These are good and worthy goals. But at some
point, if history is any guide, banks will discover some new,
supposedly foolproof, asset class and become too exposed to it.
It won’t be tulips; it won’t be subprime mortgages; it will be
something we can’t anticipate now. And when this new “sure
thing” starts to look dicey, banks will be vulnerable again.  Although Congress mostly avoided the issue after 2008, we
do have experience in deterring panics. Regulations tend to
focus on what banks own (assets such as loans and securities).
Avoiding panics is concerned with what they owe (liabilities,
which include deposits).  After the bank runs of the early 1930s, the U.S. enacted
 deposit insurance . And since then, customers haven’t run to the
bank, even if the bank is thought to be unsound.  This poses a  moral hazard : What if banks, realizing their
deposits are insured, recklessly gamble on unsound assets? This
happened in the savings-and-loan crisis in the 1980s, and it was
expensive.  After that, the price that banks paid for deposit insurance
was adjusted according to risk levels. Amazingly, even during
the crisis of 2008, the premiums paid by healthy banks were
enough to cover depositor losses in failed institutions.
Insurance worked.  Bank Runs  We did have bank runs in 2008, though not the kind seen in
the old  photographs  with men in hats and coats lined up on the
sidewalk. Instead of ordinary depositors, the people who pulled
their money out were investors in various unregulated
instruments such as repurchase-agreement loans, short-term
commercial paper and money-market funds. Each of these is
similar, in an economic sense, to a deposit: They offer people
and institutions a place to park savings with seeming security
and the option of immediate withdrawal.  During the financial crisis, it was these “depositors”
who panicked. The refusal by lenders to roll over short-term
IOUs led to the  failure  of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
near-collapse of many other firms. The difference between old-
fashioned deposits and the so-called shadow-market loans
described above is that the former can only be issued by banks
and in certain well-defined circumstances. And banks must
purchase deposit insurance. Shadow deposits are uninsured and
mostly unregulated.  The solution, as in the 1930s, is to regulate short-term
IOUs and to require, in many cases, insurance. In broad terms,
if you are a financial institution, you would be able to borrow
short-term funds only under certain conditions and, when you
did, you would need insurance. This would have a cost, just as
deposit insurance has a cost.  Banks probably would have to shift some of their funding to
more stable, long-term credit sources. Their funding wouldn’t be
poised on a tripwire, and lenders wouldn’t have cause for panic.  Banks are likely to oppose such measures, which would cut
into their profits. Recently, to the satisfaction of bankers,
international regulators in  Basel ,  Switzerland  have actually
loosened liquidity standards aimed at preventing a repeat of
2008.  Morgan Ricks, a former Treasury senior policy adviser and
now an assistant professor at Vanderbilt Law School, says the
banks’ cheap overnight funding provides undeserved, “subsidy
profits." Their borrowing costs, he says, are inordinately
cheap because the market believes that banks won’t be allowed
to fail. Insurance would put a price on that subsidy.  `Wrong Stuff'  Ricks says the regulatory response to the crisis “focused
on the wrong stuff.” The first priority should be “the
instability of the funding model.”  Gary Gorton, a professor of management and finance at  Yale
University , with co-author Andrew Metrick, wrote his own
prescription in “Regulating the Shadow Banking System.” The
paper begins with the observation that “After the Great
Depression, by some combination of luck and genius, the  United
States  created a bank regulatory system that was followed by a
panic-free period of 75 years.” That ended in 2007 “and the
ensuing panic was centered in a new ‘shadow’ banking system.”  The paper says money-market mutual funds, for example,
offer “an implicit promise” -- in effect, free insurance. Its
authors advocate regulation that would winnow away this freebie.  Gorton and Ricks have targeted the explicit place where
moral hazard induces bad behavior. When Ricks writes about
“subsidy profits” and Gorton discusses “implicit promises,”
each is talking about the potential for a future bailout to
corrupt free-market calculations of risk. If Congress and rule
makers want to get serious about too big to fail, this is the
place to start.  ( Roger Lowenstein  is the author of “When Genius Failed:
The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  