-- German State Election Fails to Provide Clarity on EU Carbon Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-21T17:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/german-state-election-fails-to-provide-clarity-on-eu-carbon-fix.html
Yesterday’s elections in the German
state of  Lower Saxony  failed to provide clarity on whether the
country will back the European Union plan to strengthen the
bloc’s carbon market, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  The Free Democrats of Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, an
opponent of the proposed EU carbon fix, got a boost in the vote
yesterday, winning almost twice as much backing as polls had
suggested. That was not enough to allow FDP and  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democrats  to remain in power in Lower
Saxony. The ruling coalition lost control of the state as the
 Social Democrats  and Greens took a single-seat majority.  At stake is the price of carbon permits in the EU emissions
trading system, which analysts including UBS AG said may extend
record lows unless governments support a plan to reduce a glut
of permits.  Germany  hasn’t decided yet on whether to back the EU
proposal, known as backloading, which pits Roesler against
 Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier.  “The results do not make Germany’s position on backloading
any clearer than it was ahead of the poll,” Itamar Orlandi, a
London-based analyst at New Energy Finance, said by e-mail
today.  EU emission permits for delivery in December fell to a
record low of 4.79 euros ($6.38) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London  today. The contract extended its loss
to about 85 percent since its record high in June 2008, amid a
record oversupply of allowances triggered by an economic crisis.  EU Plan  Altmaier has repeatedly voiced support for the EU plan to
reduce the glut by delaying auctions of 900 million permits
starting this year. Germany may abstain in any vote on the
backloading proposal should the environment minister insist on
his position, Roesler’s ministry said in November.  “The FDP’s higher-than-expected support means that
Roesler’s anti-backloading view cannot be ignored,” Orlandi
said. “At the same time, the victory of the red-green bloc will
remind  Angela Merkel  that many Germans are still willing to bear
the costs of an ambitious environmental policy and might punish
decisions that undermine the existing policy.”  Germany is one of four nations that have the highest number
of votes in the EU ballot system: 29 out of 345. The three other
countries are Italy and France, which signaled support for
delaying carbon-permits sales, and the U.K., which said last
month it didn’t have a final position yet.  The backloading proposal requires 255 votes to be
implemented.  Poland , which has 27 votes and leads the opponents
of the carbon market fix, would need to muster 91 votes to block
the plan designed by the European Commission.  The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, today called on
 member states  and the European Parliament to act “swiftly and
with determination” to strengthen the carbon market.  “Abstention would amount to a negative vote,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the commission, said by
phone today. “We’re urging Germany and the U.K. to support the
proposal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  