-- German Stocks Advance as Euro-Area Finance Ministers Meet
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-01-21T16:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/german-stocks-advance-as-euro-area-finance-ministers-meet.html
German stocks  advanced to their
highest in more than two weeks as euro-area finance ministers
meet for the first time this year, and the Bundesbank said
Europe’s largest economy is showing signs of recovery.  EON AG and RWE AG, Germany’s biggest utilities, gained 1.6
percent and 0.9 percent, respectively.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
rose 4 percent as Credit Suisse Group AG raised its price target
on the carrier.  Adidas AG (ADS)  slipped 0.9 percent as a gauge of
personal and household goods companies fell the second most
among the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 0.6 percent to 7,748.86 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , its highest level since Jan. 4. The
gauge has increased 1.8 percent so far this year as U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget to prevent most
scheduled tax increases and delay spending cuts that had
threatened to push the world’s largest economy into a recession.
The HDAX Index added 0.5 percent today.  “European policy has learnt that we have to show
stability,”  Robert Halver , head of capital markets research at
Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt, said in a telephone interview.
“Even today with the finance ministers meeting we will not have
any disruptions, there will be harmony.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 41
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ministers Meet  Euro-area finance ministers, gathering in Brussels today,
will begin talks on how to channel firewall funds directly to
banks. Policy makers will probably clash over how and when the
500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism can bypass
governments. They will also assess the economies of Spain,
Cyprus and Greece.  The Bundesbank said the German  economy  has started to show
signs of recovery after a probable contraction in the final
quarter of last year.  “The largely stable labor market and a better outlook for
output suggest that the economic weakness won’t last all that
long,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its monthly
report today. A recovery “is already appearing in the first
quarter of 2013,” it said.  The  Bank of Japan  will expand asset purchases when its
meeting concludes tomorrow, according to all 23 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Their median estimate projects a 10 trillion
yen ($111 billion) increase.  The yen has weakened 12 percent versus the  U.S. dollar  in
the past three months on speculation Japan’s central bank, under
pressure from new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, will increase
stimulus.  Utilities Climb  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  added 1.6 percent to 14.07 euros and 0.9
percent to 29.32 euros, respectively. A gauge of utilities
companies posted the second-biggest gain of the 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600.  Lufthansa gained 4 percent to 15.02 euros. Credit Suisse
raised its price target on Europe’s second-largest airline by 28
percent to 18.06 euros and said it was its preferred European
flag carrier because of its attractive valuation and earnings
potential for this year.  BASF SE (BAS)  advanced 0.9 percent to 73.81 euros. The world’s
biggest chemical maker, which raised its bid for Pronova
BioPharma ASA three days before the offer expired, won almost 98
percent support from the Norwegian drug-ingredient maker’s
shareholders, enough for the acquisition to go through.  Salzgitter AG, the country’s second-biggest steelmaker,
added 2.8 percent to 37.10 euros as a gauge of basic resources
companies contributed the most to the Stoxx 600’s advance.  Adidas, the world’s second-biggest sporting-goods maker,
lost 0.9 percent to 69.98 euros.  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  lost 5.3 percent to 4.50 euros. The pay-
TV provider half-owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. earlier
announced it will issue as many as 20.4 million new shares at
4.46 euros apiece and forecast a full-year loss of between 48
million euros and 58 million euros, compared with an earlier
prediction of a 46 million-euro loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  