-- German Bunds Fall Before Ministers Discuss Bailout States
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-01-21T17:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/german-bunds-little-changed-as-euro-producer-prices-drop.html
German bonds fell, pushing 10-year
yields toward a three-month high, as European finance ministers
gathered to assess  Spain , Cyprus and  Greece  and discuss bank aid
amid signs the  European debt crisis  is easing.  Benchmark bunds dropped after the Bundesbank said the
German economy has started to show signs of recovery. Portuguese
notes declined for the first time in four days after the
 International Monetary Fund  said the country’s plan to regain
access to bond markets two years after requesting a bailout is
“viable.” Spanish 10-year bonds fell as the country hired
banks for a debt sale. Dutch bonds dropped before the nation
auctions securities tomorrow.  “We’ve got the finance-minister meeting today and we’ll
see how well that goes,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “We are looking for bund yields to rise. Yields are
biased more to the upside because sentiment and confidence is
improving.”  Germany ’s 10-year bund  yield  rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.59 percent at the 5 p.m. London
close. The rate climbed to 1.64 percent on Jan. 18, the highest
level since Oct. 18. The 1.5 percent security maturing in
February 2023 fell 0.35, or 3.50 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,331)
face amount, to 99.15.  Two-year yields rose two basis points to 0.20 percent after
reaching 0.24 percent on Jan. 18, the  most  since April 2.  At a meeting in Brussels today euro-area ministers will
probably clash over how and when the 500 billion-euro European
Stability Mechanism can bypass governments and provide direct
help to banks.  Economic Recovery  With officials declaring the worst of the region’s three-
year market emergency over, finance ministers are debating
whether the ESM should take over earlier bank bailouts that were
routed through governments and what to do with so-called legacy
assets. A European Union aide who briefed reporters defined
those as loans already on a bank’s balance sheet that could
cause problems in the future.  “There won’t be much trading today because the U.S. is
closed,” said Mathias Van Der Jeugt, a fixed-income strategist
at KBC Bank NV in Brussels. “At the finance ministers meeting
we don’t expect a major outcome on the banking deal.”  ‘Better Outlook’  “The largely stable labor market and a better outlook for
output suggest that the economic weakness won’t last all that
long,” the nation’s Frankfurt-based central bank said in its
monthly report today. A recovery “is already appearing in the
first quarter of 2013.”  Bonds from Cyprus advanced even as a euro-area official
told reporters that the region’s finance ministers won’t decide
on a financing plan for the nation at today’s meeting or before
Cypriot elections in February.  The nation’s 4.5 percent bond maturing in April 2017 rose
for a fourth day, pushing the yield down three basis points to
10.92 percent.  Cyprus should have sufficient financing through March and
could reach a deal with European Union authorities in the second
half of that month, the official told reporters in Brussels.  Portuguese two-year yields climbed 10 basis points to 3.34
percent. The nation aims to regain access to markets by
September.  “The authorities’ strategy for a gradual return to markets
remains viable,” the Washington-based IMF said in a staff
report about the sixth review of the rescue program for
 Portugal , released Jan. 18. “The authorities are actively
engaging with potential investors, including through road shows,
with a view to issuing debt at two- or three-year tenors when
market conditions allow.”  Spanish Auction  Spanish 10-year bonds declined after the nation hired banks
for the sale of a new bond due in January 2023, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because they’re not authorized to speak about it.  The yield on the benchmark securities climbed eight basis
points to 5.16 percent.  The Dutch 10-year yield rose four basis points to 1.73
percent. The nation’s debt agency sold 2.31 billion euros of 96-
day bills at a rate of minus 0.011 percent today. It is
scheduled to auction bonds maturing in 2014 and 2042 tomorrow.  Belgian bonds were the most volatile in euro-area markets,
followed by those of  France , according to measures of 10-year or
similar-maturity debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-year
securities, and credit-default swaps. The French 10-year bond
yield climbed five basis points to 2.18 percent.  U.S. markets are closed for the Martin Luther King Jr.
public holiday.  German bonds have handed investors a loss of 1.1 percent
this month through Jan. 18, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spain’s gained 1.7 percent, while France’s fell 0.9
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  