-- Goldman Forecasts Gold Rally Amid Debt-Ceiling Confrontation
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-01-21T14:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/goldman-forecasts-gold-rally-amid-debt-ceiling-confrontation.html
Gold may climb over the next three
months as U.S. lawmakers attempt to tackle the country’s debt
ceiling and the world’s largest economy slows, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said, advising investors to place bets on advances.  “We see current prices as a good entry point to re-
establish fresh longs,” analysts Damien Courvalin and  Alec Phillips  wrote in a Jan. 18 report. The bank reiterated a three-
month target of $1,825 an ounce, as well as a forecast for
prices to weaken in the second half as the  U.S. economy 
rebounds.  Gold fell 5.5 percent last quarter, the worst performance
since 2008, on expectations for a recovery and potential end to
central bank stimulus in the U.S. An advance to $1,825 would be
consistent with rallies into debt-ceiling decisions, the
analysts wrote. Since 1960, Congress has raised or revised the
debt limit 79 times, according to the Treasury Department.  “The uncertainty associated with these issues, combined
with our economists’ forecast for weak U.S. GDP growth in the
first half of 2013 following the negative impact of higher taxes
will push gold” to the three-month target, they wrote.  Gold, which rallied for a 12th year in 2012, traded at
$1,687.90 an ounce on the Comex at 9:49 a.m. in  New York .
Holdings in  exchange-traded products  reached a record last
month, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Most-active prices last
traded above $1,825 an ounce in September 2011.  Borrowing Limit  The Treasury has said the U.S. will exceed its $16.4
trillion borrowing authority sometime from mid-February to early
March. Financing for government agencies is set to lapse March
27, and lawmakers must pass new spending or cause a shutdown.
Also in March, Congress will confront the $110 billion in
automatic spending cuts, half from defense, that were postponed
in a Jan. 1 tax deal.  Goldman restated its outlook for lower prices in the second
half of this year, a call echoed by Credit Suisse Group AG and
Allan Hochreiter(Pty) Ltd., as the U.S. recovers. As growth
improves, prices will likely decline even with continued central
bank and exchange-traded fund demand, Goldman said.  Gold’s bull market is over, Allan Hochreiter Chief
Executive Officer Rene Hochreiter, the top forecaster in the
London Bullion Market Association’s 2012 poll, said this month.
The metal’s appeal is set to diminish as so-called fear trades
fade, according to Credit Suisse’s  Tom Kendall , head of
precious-metals research and the most accurate precious-metals
forecaster in the past eight quarters tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  