-- Greece’s New Loan Payout Cleared by Euro Area Signals Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-21T23:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/greece-s-new-loan-payment-cleared-by-euro-area-signals-optimism.html
Euro-area finance ministers blessed
the next disbursement of emergency aid for  Greece , highlighting
the goodwill that led to the unblocking of loans last month for
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government.  At a meeting yesterday in Brussels, the euro finance chiefs
gave the green light for the payout of 9.2 billion euros ($12.3
billion) to Greece this month. Of the funds, 7.2 billion euros
in bonds are for the further recapitalization of Greek banks and
2 billion euros in cash are to cover the government’s budget
needs.  The trouble-free payout of new loans for Greece indicates
greater European political confidence in the ability of the
government in  Athens  to press ahead with budget cuts and market-
opening initiatives outlined in the nation’s international aid
program. That in turn has helped lessen speculation that was
rife last year about a possible Greek exit from the 17-nation
single currency.  “We perceive a greater commitment to keep Greece in the
currency union, if it complies with the program,” London-based
Morgan Stanley analysts including Daniele Antonucci said in a
report yesterday. “Many transitory support measures have
already been extended, more will come.”  More Time  The disbursement for January is part of a 49.1 billion-euro
tranche that the euro area approved last month for Greece
through March after revamping the nation’s second rescue. Policy
makers gave the Samaras government two extra years until 2016 to
meet budget-cutting targets.  Europe  split the whole tranche into
sub-installments over four months to allow more oversight of
Greece’s progress in curbing expenditure and overhauling the
recession-hit economy.  “We noted with satisfaction that the milestones for
January have been achieved,” Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, who led the Brussels meeting of euro-area
finance ministers, told reporters afterward.  Greece received 34.3 billion euros last month, including
funds for banks. After the January disbursement, the country is
due to get about 5.6 billion euros for budget obligations in two
separate payments in February and March. The  International
Monetary Fund  is contributing a separate amount to Greece of
about 3 billion euros this quarter.  Two Bailouts  These sums are part of a 130 billion-euro rescue package
approved early last year after an initial 110 billion-euro
bailout in 2010. The second rescue also included the biggest
writedown of privately held debt.  The euro area’s rescue funds, the European Financial
Stability Facility and the European Stability Mechanism, will
probably clear aid payments to Greece, Spain and  Portugal  “in a
week” as the final step in the disbursement, according to Klaus
Regling, who heads the EFSF and the ESM.  Loans for Athens were frozen last June after Greek
opposition grew to fiscal austerity that’s a condition for
European and IMF aid. Greece held two elections in which anti-
bailout parties gained and Samaras emerged as the head of a
three-party coalition in favor of staying in the euro while
seeking more time to meet targets for narrowing the  budget
deficit  as the economy shrinks for the sixth year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  