-- Grilli Says Bondholders Take Priority in Italy in Time of Crisis
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-21T16:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/grilli-says-bondholders-take-priority-in-italy-in-time-of-crisis.html
Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli , whose 14-month tenure has been marked by tax increases
and recession, said austerity was the only option as bondholders
must take priority in a financial crisis.  Grilli was challenged today by European Parliament members
in Brussels who questioned whether his budget rigor under Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  did more harm than good. Grilli said their
austerity-first strategy results from leaders asking themselves,
“Will the market continue to fund me, will it continue to buy
my bonds?  ‘‘Then you have to take that as the first priority,’’
Grilli said.  Grilli is defending his record as Monti campaigns for a
second term. The 69-year-old Monti has been blamed by rivals
including his predecessor,  Silvio Berlusconi , for taking money
out of the hands of consumers through tax increases. While the
recession deepened in the second half of last year, Grilli said
his policies eased the financial crisis and set the conditions
for future growth.  ‘‘It’s impossible to have credible growth rates without
stabilized financial markets,’’ Grilli said. ‘‘It was like
trying to build a house on sand. The first fire we had to put
out was to restore the market’s confidence in  Italy  and in Italy
as a debtor country.’’  Yields on Italian 10-year bonds fell to 4.21 percent today,
compared with 6.45 percent on Nov. 12, 2011, when Berlusconi
resigned.  The debate over austerity has defined the Italian campaign
before a vote on Feb. 24-25. Berlusconi, 76, has vowed to roll
back Monti’s austerity, while frontrunner Pier Luigi Bersani,
who leads a coalition of center-left parties, has said he will
respect the government’s budget commitments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Milan at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 