-- Militants Planned to Move Hostages After Gas-Plant Blast
-- B y   S a l a h   S l i m a n i ,   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-21T20:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/gunmen-planned-to-move-hostages-after-gas-blast-algeria-says.html
A multinational group of terrorists
entered the In Amenas gas complex seeking to blow it up and
escape into neighboring  Mali  with foreign hostages, Algeria’s
premier said, in the first official account of the raid.  Only the actions of the Algerian army prevented the 32-man
militant squad, which had “a massive arsenal” and its own
explosives experts, from escaping with their captives,
Abdelmalek Sellal told reporters in Algiers today. At least one
member of the group was a Canadian national whose job it was to
contact the media, he said.  The operation, which left 38 hostages dead, including three
Americans, underscored the dangers Algeria faces as French
forces engage in operations in Mali targeting jihadis. Sellal,
whose nation fought a decade-long battle against Islamists in
the 1990s, reiterated that Algeria backed peaceful dialogue and
wouldn’t commit troops to Mali.  The three U.S. citizens killed in the attack were Victor
Lynn Lovelady, Gordon Lee Rowan and Frederick Buttaccio, the
U.S. State Department announced today. Seven other Americans
survived the ordeal,  Victoria Nuland , a spokeswoman for the
department, said in a statement.  The scenario outlined by the Algerian prime minister was of
an orchestrated assault planned by the militants over two months
and complete with inside information from a former driver at the
Saharan gas facility, operated by London’s  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) 
of  Norway , and state-run Sonatrach. The siege was dealt with
“professionally” by the Algerian military, Sellal said.  ‘Unacceptable Demands’  “The army first tried to negotiate in the hope of
resolving the situation, but the terrorists were determined and
their position was clear, and they had unacceptable demands,”
Sellal said. A total of 37 foreign workers and one Algerian were
killed, and five people remain unaccounted for, he said. Three
militants were captured and 29 killed, with the attackers
hailing from eight nations including Tunisia,  Egypt ,  Niger ,
Mauritania and  Canada .  The deceased hostages also came from diverse backgrounds,
including people from  Japan , the U.S., the  Philippines ,
 Colombia , Britain and  France , according to their respective
governments. The workers were killed one-by-one, Sellal said, in
a mass execution.  He said the attackers crossed from north Mali into Niger,
then  Libya  and finally Algeria, evidence of the difficulties of
policing the porous borders Algeria shares with its neighbors.
The group was headed by a man named Bechneb Mohamed al-Amin, who
belonged to the Masked Brigade, according to Sellal.  ‘Cowardly Act’  The first stage of the “cowardly act by a group of
terrorists” began at 5:30 a.m. on Jan. 16 and targeted a bus
carrying passengers to In Amenas airport, Sellal said. BP’s
country manager was among the passengers, he said.  The militants “started firing at the bus and received a
severe response from soldiers,” he said. “They failed to
achieve their goal, which was to kidnap foreign workers.”  The attackers then divided into two groups, with 11 men
heading to the gas plant and another to the housing unit. The
militants were heavily armed, with rocket-propelled grenades and
automatic weapons as they stormed the complex that housed a
total of 790 workers, of whom 134 were foreigners from 26
nations, the prime minister said.  A young Algerian security guard at the gas factory was
among the first to be killed. Before dying, he managed to sound
the alarm, a heroic effort that allowed workers to shut down the
complex and to hide, Sellal said.  Leader Killed  During the first night, the militants began preparations to
flee to Mali in a convoy of vehicles, strapping explosives to
the hostages. They were prevented from leaving the complex by
the army, which had surrounded the site and struck with
“force,” killing the group’s leader, Sellal said.  The attackers then sought to join their fellow militants,
putting the hostages into the vehicles and using them as human
shields. The military’s final assault came amid fears the
attackers were trying to destroy the facility, he said.  Commenting on the intervention by security forces, Sellal
said, “I swear before God that there are few in this world who
could achieve” what the Algerian armed forces undertook.  Initial Criticism  The remarks appear aimed at initial criticism directed at
 Algeria  over the military’s response -- efforts later defended
by France, the nation’s former colonial ruler.  Responsibility was claimed by militants of the al-Qaeda-
linked al Mulathameen group, who said their action was inspired
by the arrival last week of French forces seeking to block a
jihadist takeover of neighboring Mali. The group, headed by
Mokhtar Belmokhtar, a one-eyed Algerian militant, warned other
attacks could follow, according to a statement published on
Mauritania’s private ANI news agency yesterday.  The full details of the death toll have yet to become
completely clear, with official and independent media earlier
putting the toll at more than 80, including the militants.  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said seven Japanese were
killed, the Kyodo news agency reported. In addition, six
Filipinos, at least three Britons, two Romanians, one French
security worker and a Colombian were killed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salah Slimani in Algiers at 
 sslimani2@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  