-- Michael Winner, Film Director and Food Critic, Dies at 77
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-01-21T15:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/michael-winner-movie-director-and-food-critic-dies.html
Michael Winner, who died today, was
a successful movie director before he started writing about
restaurants for the Sunday Times, where his self-professed
ignorance about food never inhibited him from trenchant views.  His films included “Scorpio” and “Death Wish.” He
directed stars including Marlon Brando, Sophia Loren, Anthony Hopkins, Jeremy Irons, Robert Duvall, Faye Dunaway, James Stewart, Charles Bronson, Robert Mitchum, John Cleese, Burt Lancaster, Michael Caine, Roger Moore and Lauren Bacall, just to
cite a few of the names dropped on his  website .  Winner, 77, was suffering from liver cancer and said last
year that specialists had given him 18 months to live. He said
in October he was considering traveling to the Dignitas clinic
in Switzerland to commit suicide, the Times reported.  “Michael was a wonderful man, brilliant, funny and
generous,” his widow Geraldine said, according to  Sky News . “A
light has gone out in my life.”  Winner, who was born in London, went to Cambridge
University at the age of 17, the youngest student there, and
graduated at 20 with an honors degree in law and economics,
according to his website.  He became known as a director of comedies such as “The
Jokers,” before in 1974 creating “Death Wish,” the first of a
series of violent films that starred Charles Bronson. His film
career lasted more than 50 years before he became a restaurant
critic.  Vendetta Punches  In his new role, he won thousands of readers and a large
mail bag with his acerbic writing. Those he admired were heaped
with praise. Those who fell below his expectations were
pilloried: No punches were pulled, no vendettas left unpursued.  He was popular for the warmth and humor of his writing and
there was sadness when in December he said he was retiring from
writing his “Winner’s Dinners” column in the Sunday Times.  “The endless drivel you write about restaurants and food
has kept me amused for years,” the newspaper cited a reader as
saying. “Don’t you dare threaten to shuffle off -- either from
your column or your mortal coil.”  Winner was also known for the catchphrase, “Calm down
dear,” used in the television commercials he created for the 
insurance company Esure. He also founded the Police Memorial 
Trust after a woman constable, Yvonne Fletcher, was shot dead 
outside Libya’s  London  mission in 1984.  He married his partner Geraldine Lynton-Edwards two years
ago.  It’s safe to say he wasn’t a regular at restaurant-industry
parties and generally didn’t hang out with food critics. I saw
him only twice. The first was at a reception at the Burlington
Arcade, where he was chatting with the pop singer Lulu.  Ivy Breakfast  “That’s Michael Winner,” one waitress said to her
companion. “Who’s Michael Winner?” the colleague responded.
The other occasion was when he was taking breakfast with the
singer Lily Allen at the Club at the Ivy.  One of his best friends was the actor Michael Caine, who
paid this tribute to him on “This Is Your Life.”  “I am here to tell everybody, Michael, you are a complete
and utter fraud,” Caine said. “You come on like this
bombastic, ill-tempered monster. It’s not the side of you I see.
I see a man who has a tremendous artistic eye.  “You have an incredible legal brain. Before I even go to
my own lawyer I talk to you first. You’re extremely funny, very
sensitive, very kind and very generous. I hope everyone believes
me when I say that you are a kind and wonderful person. “And 
I’m not kidding.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater,  Erika Lederman  on London
going out and  Shaun Walker  on the Bolshoi ballet.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  