-- Ikea Plan for India Stores Gets Government Board Approval
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-01-22T01:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/ikea-s-plan-for-stores-in-india-is-approved-by-government-board.html
India’s overseas investment board
approved furniture retailer Ikea’s proposal to open outlets in
the country, bringing the Swedish chain closer to becoming the
first major foreign retailer to set up its own stores.  The  Foreign Investment Promotion Board  cleared the
retailer’s proposal, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said in a
statement yesterday. The board last year barred Ikea, the
world’s largest furniture maker, from operating cafes and
restricted the kind of items it could sell at stores.  The approval means Ikea may gain access to a retail market
that the Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India and
 Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  predict will double to 47 trillion rupees ($874
billion) in 2017. Ikea still needs approval from the Indian
Cabinet to proceed with its plan to invest as much as 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) to set up 25 stores.  “We consider this as a very positive development,”
Juvencio Maeztu, Ikea’s manager for India, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are now waiting for approval from the Cabinet
and subsequently a notification so that we can initiate the
process of establishing Ikea stores in the country.”  The government’s approval for Ikea is “overall very good
for the retail sector,” Bharat Chhoda, retail analyst at ICICI
Direct, said before the decision was announced. The
steadfastness shown by the government will probably “be very
positive for the entire sector, showing that the government is
looking to fast-track” such proposals, Chhoda said.  Allowing Entry  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government last January
passed regulations that allowed single-brand companies such as
Ikea to open outlets without local partners.  The government in September allowed foreign multi-brand
retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  to own
as much as 51 percent of retail outlets. A similar decision was
suspended in 2011 due to political opposition that paralyzed
parliament.  “The government is committed to play a constructive role
in encouraging foreign direct investment, especially in areas
which create jobs and provide technological advancement,”
Sharma said in the statement. “Ikea has a business model which
integrates” small- and medium-sized enterprises and the
domestic industry, he said.  Pavers Ltd. , a British footwear retailer, was the first
foreign single-brand retailer to get government approval for
full ownership.  Kirana Shops  Large outlets constitute a small chunk of  India ’s retail
market, which is dominated by small grocery stores. These shops,
known as kirana, often sell goods on credit, and account for 68
percent of the total value of groceries sold in the country,
according to the report by the  Associated Chambers of Commerce
and Industry of India  and Yes Bank.  Ikea, controlled by Swedish billionaire  Ingvar Kamprad , has
338 stores in 40 countries, operated by the company as well as
its franchisees, according to the group’s  website . More than
half the retailer’s revenue comes from stores in  Europe , its
annual report shows. The company has 28 stores in  Asia ,
according to the report.  India’s rules require foreign-owned retail companies to
locally source at least 30 percent of the value of goods sold.  India’s furniture market is dominated by small, unorganized
players who could be the worst-affected when Ikea sets up its
stores,  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research &
Investment Services Pvt., said in an interview ahead of the
ministry’s decision.  “Furniture in India is a fairly disorganized product, you
hardly have any national players,” Kejriwal said. Ikea’s wide
portfolio of relatively cheap products will pull customers from
the smaller retail outlets in cities, he said.  Foreign investors still face a maze of regulations in
India’s retail market. They will also be required to invest a
minimum of $100 million, with half being used to build
facilities for manufacturing, distribution and warehouses within
the first three years of their foray, India’s Department of
Industrial Policy & Promotion said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  