-- Impax Fails to Win Approval for Parkinson’s Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-21T13:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/impax-fails-to-win-approval-for-parkinson-s-drug.html
Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  failed to
win U.S. approval for a new version of an extended-release drug
used to relieve spasms in patients with Parkinson’s disease.  The  Food and Drug Administration  requires a re-inspection
of a plant involved in the development of the medicine called
Rytary, which combines standard Parkinson’s medications in a new
sustained release formulation, the Hayward, California-based
company said today in a statement. A warning letter was issued
in May 2011, Impax said.  “We will work with the FDA on the appropriate next steps
for the Rytary application,” said Larry Hsu, president and CEO
of Impax, in the statement. “We remain committed to resolving
the warning letter and bringing this new treatment option to
patients who are suffering from Parkinson’s disease.”  The medication would likely be used most among patients for
whom the standard medicines, levodopa and carbidopa, have
stopped working as reliably, said  David Amsellem , an analyst
with Piper Jaffray & Co. in  New York . Rytary could generate peak
sales of $200 million to $300 million, Amsellem said.  “A controlled-release product is something that has been
elusive over the years,” Amsellem said in a telephone
interview.  Impax, which specializes in controlled-release drugs, will
develop and sell Rytary in the U.S. and Taiwan while
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , based in  London , will market it in other
regions throughout the world. Impax already markets a generic
version of a longer-acting combination called Sinemet, sold by
 Merck & Co. (MRK)   Merck’s Sinemet extended-release carbidopa-levodopa tablet
received approval in 1991 though it’s not widely used, Amsellem
said. People who use it are more likely to suffer impairment of
voluntary movement than those who use the immediate-release
version, according to the label for the medication.  Involuntary Movements  Patients with advanced  Parkinson’s disease  who used Rytary
experienced a 34 percent decrease in the amount of time during
waking hours when the medication wore off and involuntary muscle
movements returned, the companies said in an August 2011
statement. This was compared with a decrease of 10 percent for
those who used the immediate-release generic drugs combined with
entacapone, a medicine that helps more of the other treatments
reach the brain.  The starting point was 5.9 hours, improving to 3.8 hours of
“off time” when Rytary wore off compared with 5.2 hours for
the generics.  Parkinson’s  is a progressive neurological disorder that
causes body tremors, the loss of muscle control and impaired
movement, according to the  National Institutes of Health . There
is no cure. A variety of medicines provide relief from symptoms
for the estimated 10 million people worldwide with the disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  