-- India, Largest Gold Buyer, Raises Import Tax to Cut Deficit
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h ,   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-01-22T09:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/india-largest-gold-buyer-increases-import-tax-to-cut-deficit.html
India , the world’s largest bullion
buyer, increased taxes on gold imports to reduce a record
current-account deficit and moderate demand for the precious
metal that’s rallied for 12 straight years.  The duty on gold and platinum imports was raised to 6
percent immediately from 4 percent, Economic Affairs Secretary
Arvind Mayaram told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday. A levy on
gold ore, concentrate and so-called dore bars for refining will
be doubled to 4 percent, and an excise tax on refined gold will
climb to 5 percent from 3 percent, the customs said on its
website. The tariff will be reviewed if imports moderate,
Mayaram said.  Increased taxes may reduce demand in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy after prices jumped 7.1 percent in 2012 as investors and
central banks boosted purchases. About 80 percent of India’s
current-account deficit, the broadest measure of trade, tracking
goods, services and investment income, is due to gold imports,
according to the  Reserve Bank of India .  “Consumption and imports will fall definitely,” Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade
Federation, said in a phone interview from Kolkata. “This will
also help the government reduce the current-account deficit.”  Gold for immediate delivery climbed as much as 0.3 percent
to $1,694.88 an ounce in  London  today after the  Bank of Japan 
set a 2 percent inflation target and shifted to Federal Reserve-
style open-ended asset purchases to end two decades of
deflation. It gained 0.3 percent yesterday. Platinum gained 9.5
percent to $1,685.49 an ounce since the beginning of January.  Rising Premium  Standard Chartered Plc said earlier this month that its
gold shipments to India soared on mounting concern the duty
would be raised. Expectations for the tax increase helped boost
premiums in Asia by as much as 50 percent since mid-December,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said Jan. 4.  “There was a pretty clear sign that people were
anticipating something was going to happen and trying to bring
in some gold beforehand,” said  Dan Smith , an analyst at
Standard Chartered in London. “The appetite for gold is so
ingrained in India, it probably won’t have too much of a
dramatic impact.”  Domestic  mutual funds , which offer gold-backed exchange-
traded funds, will be allowed to deposit part of the bullion
they hold with banks to boost availability for jewelry and gem
making, Mayaram said. Investments in gold funds totaled 119.9
billion rupees ($2.24 billion) at the end of December, according
to the Association of Mutual Funds in India.  Tapping Stockpiles  “The advantage will be that a part of the gold lying in
stock will be brought into circulation and will partially meet
the requirements of the gems and jewelry trade,” Mayaram said.
“It is hoped that consequently there will be a moderation in
the quantity of gold that is imported.”  Last March, India doubled the tax on purchases of gold bars
and coins to help narrow the current-account gap. Demand for
gold still picked up “significantly” in the July-to-September
quarter, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in its biannual
Financial Stability report in December.  The current-account deficit widened to $22.3 billion in the
three months to Sept. 30 as a faltering global economy hurt
exports, the central bank said Dec. 31. The rupee fell to a
record low of 57.3275 against the dollar last year as bullion
imports widened the current-account deficit to an all-time high.  Gold imports are “a huge drain,” Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said Jan. 2. Purchases in the nine
months through December were estimated at $38 billion, compared
with $56.5 billion in 2011-2012, the  finance ministry  said in a
statement yesterday.  Nomura Forecast  Imports may drop as much as 12 percent to 750 metric tons
in the year beginning April 1 from an estimated 855 tons this
year,  Sonal Varma  and Aman Mohunta, economists at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in a report dated yesterday.  India’s gold demand slid 28 percent in the 12 months
through September, as jewelers held a strike in March and April
to protest taxes on imports and as local prices surged to an
all-time high, according to the World Gold Council, which ranked
India as the biggest buyer in the period. Higher taxes and
domestic prices will again be a drag on physical demand this
year, said Joni Teves, an analyst at UBS AG in London.  Bullion in Mumbai surged to a record 32,464 rupees per 10
grams (0.35 ounce) on Nov. 26 and gained 13 percent last year.
Gold for February delivery was little changed at 30,780 rupees
on the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd . today.  ‘Best Commodity’  “In India, people have more belief that gold is the best
commodity they can invest in,” said Mohit Kamboj, president of
the Bombay Bullion Association. “The increase in duty is too
small. The tax won’t impact imports and it will only help
increase government’s revenue.”  Buying gold is considered auspicious in India during
religious festivals and weddings. The festivals start in August
and end in November, and is followed by the wedding season.  “The interesting thing will be whether demand holds up now
this has actually been announced,”  Standard Chartered ’s Smith
said. “We saw a temporary surge. Maybe we’re going see a bit of
weakness now that the implementation has come through,” he
said, referring to bullion imports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  