-- Rupee Falls From 11-Week High on Dollar Buys Before U.S. Holiday
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-01-21T12:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/india-s-rupee-trades-near-an-11-week-high-on-policy-optimism.html
India’s rupee retreated from the
highest level in 11 weeks on speculation importers boosted
dollar purchases before a U.S. market holiday today.  The Asian currency was also pressured due to concerns about
Europe’s economy, according to  Development Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB) 
European finance ministers meet in Brussels today to discuss
tackling their region’s debt crisis. The rupee had strengthened
earlier on optimism investors will step up purchases of the
nation’s assets as policy makers boost efforts to spur economic
growth and improve public finances.  “Because of the U.S. holiday, there is concern that we may
have insufficient inflows or even outflows tomorrow,” said
Naveen Raghuvanshi, a trader at Development Credit Bank in
Mumbai. “That affected the rupee.”  The rupee declined 0.1 percent to 53.7550 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
53.6350 earlier, the strongest level since Nov. 2. One-month
implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 20 basis points,
or 0.20 percentage point, to 10.35 percent.  Policy Revamps  The  Reserve Bank  of India will lower its  repurchase rate  to
7.75 percent from 8 percent at a Jan. 29 review to support
Asia’s third-largest economy, according to 11 of 14 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. Two predict a cut to 7.50 percent and one
sees no change. The government last week allowed state refiners
to adjust diesel prices over a period of time, adding to steps
aimed at curbing energy subsidies and tackling the widest  budget
deficit  among the largest  emerging markets .  The rupee pared losses today, after dropping as much as 0.5
percent earlier , after India raised import duty on gold and
platinum to 6 percent from 4 percent. The government expects
demand for gold will moderate, Arvind Mayaram, economic affairs
secretary, said in  New Delhi .  “The rupee did react in the last couple of minutes to this
news and the market would already have discounted it,” said
 Paresh Nayar , head of money-markets and currency at  FirstRand
Ltd. (FSR)  in Mumbai. “This is part of the overall reform movement
that has taken on positive momentum over the past few days and
is positive for the rupee.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 54.84 per
dollar, compared with 54.85 on Jan. 18, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 54.71 versus 54.60. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  