-- Indonesia Plans Scorecards to Boost Corporate Governance
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-01-21T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/indonesia-plans-scorecards-to-boost-corporate-governance.html
Indonesia ’s  Financial Services
Authority  plans to publish scorecards rating companies on the
quality of their corporate governance as it begins supervising
 capital markets  in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy.  The agency plans to rate the nation’s 50 biggest listed
companies this year, said Muliaman Hadad, chairman of the newly
minted regulator known by its Indonesian acronym of OJK. How
companies treat minority shareholders and the roles played by
board directors are among the criteria, he said in an interview
in Jakarta on Jan. 15. OJK will consolidate supervision of
capital markets, banks and non-bank financial institutions.  Hadad, a former central bank deputy governor, wants
companies to improve practices to lure investors and broaden the
pool of capital to fund growth. Indonesia’s economic recovery
since the Asian financial crisis in 1997-1998, when the nation
had to seek an International Monetary Fund bailout, has prompted
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service to raise their
sovereign debt scores to investment grade.  “The market has high hopes with the establishment of
OJK,” said Fadlul Imansyah, a Jakarta-based  fund manager  at
CIMB-Principal Asset Management, which oversees about 2.1
trillion rupiah ($215 million) of assets. “The financial system
cannot be divided into parts because what’s out there in the
market is connected with one another.”  Hadad said the authority will study the corporate
governance scorecards introduced by  Thai regulators  in the wake
of the 1997 Asian financial crisis.  Excellent Qualities  Capital markets should be the main funding source instead
of banks, Hadad said. Companies raised 90.8 trillion rupiah in
stock and bond sales last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
while net new loans by commercial banks reached 431.4 trillion
rupiah as of November, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on central bank data.  Indonesia’s stock market is the third largest in Southeast
 Asia  behind Malaysia and  Singapore . Its biggest stock by market
value is  PT Astra International (ASII) , the nation’s largest auto
retailer that also owns a palm oil producer, a mine contractor
and a banking venture with Standard Chartered Plc.  “We’d like to see how companies implement sound corporate
governance so investors are confident that these companies are
in good hands,” said Hadad, 52. “The top 50 at least should
reflect excellent qualities.”  OJK took over the regulatory and supervisory roles of the
capital market, insurance, pension fund and financing industries
from the  Finance Ministry  and the ministry’s capital market
supervisory agency on Jan. 1, and will assume oversight of
lenders from the central bank at the start of next year.  Clear Enforcement  OJK aims to strengthen its enforcement role and boost its
information-gathering capacity to improve corporate governance,
Hadad said, adding he will also look into existing disclosure
rules to identify potential improvements.  “Enforcement is key,” Hadad said, referring to all
publicly listed companies. “Violations need to be followed up
on, sanctions have to be clear and exercised.”  London-listed  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , co-founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild ,
said Sept. 24 it has begun a probe into “potential financial
and other irregularities” at its Indonesian operations,
including  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , the nation’s biggest coal producer.  Shares of Bumi Resources slumped 73 percent last year as
coal prices fell and the company reported a nine-month net loss
after a $422 million charge on derivative transactions.  OJK is monitoring the Bumi case to see whether disclosure
rules have been upheld and investors’ interests protected, Hadad
said. The agency will wait for results of the inquiry, including
one initiated by the company’s audit committee, he said, 
declining to comment further on the case.  Thai Model  Thailand  requires that more than 500 listed companies fill
in a questionnaire and ranks them in areas such as board
composition, the profile of their auditors and carbon emissions.  The scorecards have “worked very well to improve the
 corporate governance  at Thai listed companies,” said Bordin
Unakul, head of the corporate services division at Thailand’s
stock exchange. “If you don’t return the questionnaire it means
zero score, so most companies are very cooperative.”  Indonesia’s Hadad has a master’s degree in public education
from  Harvard University  and a doctorate in business and
economics from  Monash University  in  Melbourne . He leads a board
that includes Nelson Tampubolon, a former director in the
International Directorate at the central bank; Nurhaida, the
former chairwoman of the Financial Market and Financial
Institutions Supervisory Agency at the Ministry of Finance; and
Rahmat Waluyanto, the former director general of debt management
at the Ministry of Finance.  Market Performance  The  Jakarta Composite index  rose 13 percent last year as
gains in construction, infrastructure and consumer stocks
outweighed declines among mining stocks.  Bonds rose for a fourth straight year, returning 13.9
percent in 2012, the highest among Asian emerging bonds,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc. The rupiah was the worst-
performer among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the
Japanese yen, declining 5.9 percent, the most since 2008.  Indonesia’s economy grew 6.17 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, holding above a 6 percent
pace for an eighth quarter.  Bank Indonesia  has kept its key
 interest rate  at a record low of 5.75 percent for 11 months,
helping boost investment and consumer spending. Private spending
in the world’s fourth-most populous nation accounts for 63
percent of the economy, according to government data.  Astra, Unilever  Economic growth is helping companies such as Astra sell
more cars and encouraged Unilever, the world’s second-biggest
consumer goods company, to build a $150 million plant on Sumatra
island to make ingredients for soap and shampoos. Domestic
investment rose 33 percent and foreign direct investment gained
22 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, government
data show.  Fitch upgraded Indonesia’s long-term foreign and local
currency rating to BBB- with a stable outlook in December 2011,
giving the country an investment grade rating for the first time
since the Asian financial crisis. Five weeks later Moody’s
Investors Service raised the foreign- and local-currency rating
to Baa3 from Ba1.  The IMF arranged more than $100 billion of loans to
Thailand, Indonesia and  South Korea  after their currencies
collapsed during the 1997-1998 crisis. Hundreds of Indonesian
companies, including more than a dozen banks, had became
insolvent because they had loaded up on borrowing in dollars.  In return for the bailout, governments were forced to cut
spending, raise interest rates and sell state-owned companies.
Indonesia repaid its debt in 2006, four years before schedule.  “The financial industry will develop at a fast pace,”
Hadad said. “If you ask me how attractive our capital market
is, I say it’s very attractive since it’s a reflection of our
economy’s potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  