-- Ireland Faces Legal Challenge to Anglo Irish Bailout Notes
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-21T15:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/ireland-faces-legal-challenge-to-anglo-irish-bailout-notes.html
Ireland’s government faces a legal
challenge tomorrow to the burdening of taxpayers with the cost
of bailing out former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society.  David Hall , a director of Irish Mortgage Holders
Organisation, a debtors’ advocacy group, is questioning whether
the state’s use of 31 billion euros ($41 billion) of so-called
promissory notes, or IOUs, to rescue the Dublin-based lenders is
a legal use of public funds, Hall said on his Twitter account on
Jan. 13. The case is set to be heard over three days.  While Hall declined to comment on the case when contacted
by phone today, he confirmed the Twitter account was his. He
said that he is being represented by lawyers John Rogers and
Ross Maguire. Irish Finance Ministry officials weren’t
immediately in a position to comment.  As the rescue bill for Anglo Irish and INBS soared in 2010,
then Finance Minister Brian Lenihan held off injecting all the
cash into the lenders straight away. Instead, he promised to
provide the money over more than 10 years, by issuing promissory
notes to them. This avoided the nation having to borrow from
bond investors at a time when its borrowing costs were soaring.  Final Stages  The legal challenge comes as the government is in the
“final stages” of restructuring the notes, Deputy Prime
Minister Eamon Gilmore said yesterday.  The notes are currently used as collateral to access
emergency funding through the Irish central bank. The government
is seeking to secure an accord with the European Central Bank so
that the money is paid back over a longer period of time.  The promissory notes make up the bulk of the 34.7 billion-
euro rescue cost of Anglo Irish and INBS, which were merged and
renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp. 2011 and ordered to wind
down by the end of the decade.  “Neither side to the case likes the promissory notes,
which were effectively used to fund the bailout of private
creditors to Anglo Irish,” said Conall Mac Coille, chief
economist at Dublin-based securities firm Davy. “But the
government is taking a different approach in seeking to extend
the repayment of the bailout and the ECB’s funding of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  