-- Irish CMBS Loan Fails to Pay Out After Real Estate Values Halve
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-01-21T16:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/irish-cmbs-loan-fails-to-pay-out-after-real-estate-values-halve.html
A loan backing an Irish commercial
mortgage bond failed to repay at maturity after the underlying
properties halved in value.  The 373 million-euro ($497 million) interest-only loan
matured on Jan. 15 and a three-day grace period ended without
repayment, according to a statement from Hypothekenbank
Frankfurt AG, a unit of Commerzbank AG that manages the
commercial mortgage-backed securities.  CMBS pool cash flows from loans to offices, shopping
centers and industrial units and package the payments into notes
sold to investors. The Opera Finance (CMH) Plc commercial
mortgage bonds, which were issued in February 2006 and mature in
January 2015, depend on the underlying loan for interest
payments.  The default doesn’t stop interest payments to the CMBS and
places the loan into a process known as special servicing. That
gives Hypothekenbank Frankfurt increased powers to try to ensure
the loan is repaid, which would mean the bonds would pay out by
the time they mature.  The bank can, for example, now negotiate directly with
lenders and property buyers to sell the underlying real estate,
thus making it more likely investors in the CMBS bonds will
eventually be repaid.  The loan is secured against 16 Irish properties including
the Stillorgan shopping mall near Dublin’s city center and was
originally borrowed by Real Estate Opportunities Ltd., which
filed for administration in 2011.  REO’s majority owner  Treasury Holdings Ltd. , the Irish
company which used to own  London ’s Battersea Power Station, went
into liquidation in November 2012. Burlington Real Estate Ltd.,
run by former Treasury Holdings employees, has been appointed to
manage the properties, according to the Jan. 15 investor report.  The value of the buildings fell to 270.5 million euros in
February 2012 from 570 million euros in 2008, according to a
Jan. 15 report sent to investors. Commercial property values in
Ireland fell about 65 percent from 2007 to 2012, broker CBRE
Group Inc. said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  