-- Italy Yields May Rise on Outcome of February Vote, Official Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2013-01-21T08:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/italy-yields-may-rise-on-outcome-of-february-vote-official-says.html
Italy ’s borrowing costs may rise if
next month’s election fail to produce a stable government,
Finance Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo said in an interview.  Under Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who raised taxes and
overhauled pension and labor laws, the  yield difference  between
Italian and German 10-year bonds has fallen by more than half to
261 basis points. Opinion polls indicate that the coalition led
by the  Democratic Party  may fail to win a majority in both
houses of parliament, which would make the country difficult to
govern.  “The question is whether we will be able to form a
government able to guarantee stability,” Polillo said in an
interview in his office in Rome Jan. 18. Should political forces
fail to agree on a reform agenda “the spread and Italian risk”
will increase, he said.  Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani has said he will
seek the support of Monti and his allies even if he wins a
majority in both houses of Parliament in the Feb. 24-25 vote.
Still, Bersani’s main ally Nichi Vendola has called for
reversing some of Monti’s policies, and Union of Centrists
leader  Pier Ferdinando Casini , one of Monti’s main supporters,
has deemed an alliance with Bersani “science fiction.”  Union Backers  Bersani striking a deal with Monti would also rile the
party’s union base, which has widely criticized the premier’s
austerity drive and demanded changes to the country’s pension
and labor laws.  “The real threat is not Vendola,” Polillo said. “The
real problem is represented by the CGIL and the Fiom” labor
unions. Everything depends on whether the next government will
be able “to convince the CGIL to rediscover its reformist
spirit,” he said.  A possible post-election alliance between the centrists and
Bersani has partly reassured investors the next administration
won’t undo Monti’s efforts and will respect the fiscal
commitments made to the European Union. Still, Italy may need at
least 9 billion euros ($12 billion) in additional budget
measures in 2013 to meet its deficit targets as the worsening
recession hurts tax revenue and fuels unemployment costs,
Polillo said.  Choking Growth  The  Bank of Italy  last week cut its forecast for the
economy, predicting a contraction of 1 percent this year
compared with a previous forecast of a 0.2 decline, saying the
global slowdown and weak domestic demand were choking growth.
That will make it harder for Italy to meet its goal of a 2013
deficit of 1.6 percent of gross domestic product, Polillo said.  Italy is still on track to meet its target to balance the
budget in structural terms, or excluding the effects of the
recession, this year, he said. The government probably missed
its overall deficit target of 2.6 percent of GDP last year,
Polillo said. The Bank of Italy said Jan. 18 the deficit in 2012
was about 3 percent, a prediction Polillo said was reasonable.  Italy has three possibilities to fill the 9 billion-euro
gap, Polillo said. The next government can cut public spending,
seek more revenue through fighting  tax evasion  or just let the
deficit in 2013 run above 2 percent of GDP, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  