-- Jonathan Miller New Bio Mixes Insults with Intellect
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-01-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/jonathan-miller-mixes-insults-with-intellect-in-new-bio-review.html
Jonathan Miller  has committed career
suicide so many times, it’s a miracle he’s still working. Kate
Bassett’s biography “In Two Minds” reveals why.  Miller, 78, is an opera and theater director, a presenter,
satirist, writer, photographer, philosopher, conversationalist,
and doctor. The word “polymath” (which he loathes) barely
begins to do him justice.  He’s capable of rudeness, vitriol, pompousness and
arrogance, and his grumpy promises to give up directing opera
occur with amusing regularity. I’ve worked with him myself, and
it wasn’t a happy experience: more about that later.  Bassett’s beautifully balanced account was written with
Miller’s cooperation although neither read nor censored by him.
It describes how caring he can be to friends, and how he can
enthuse them with his dazzling cross-disciplinary ideas.  His secret of survival? For every bridge he burns, he’s
somehow able to build another. He’s inexhaustible, and
unceasingly curious.  Bassett treats her subject with respect, and, thankfully,
without kid gloves. She describes Miller’s frequent outbursts in
all their silliness and savagery, yet remains non-judgmental.  Naturally, the spats are the book’s most amusing parts.  One feud started at the  Metropolitan Opera , where Miller
was directing a new “Marriage of Figaro.” He called Cecilia Bartoli a “silly selfish girl, willful and wayward” because
she wished to sing -- as per her contract -- accepted variants
of two of the arias.  Mafia-Speak  The affair blew up into a scandal. Miller claimed that
Joseph Volpe, the general manager, had said “Don’t f--- with
me” and then fired him. Volpe now says Miller fired himself,
and invented the Mafia-style dialogue.  Another long-running imbroglio began when  Peter Hall , the
new artistic director of the U.K.’s  National Theatre , promoted
Miller to associate director in 1973. Miller trounced his boss
in the press, and compared him to a “ball of rancid pig’s fat
rolled around the floor of a barber’s shop.” Miller resigned in
1975.  When on form, Miller’s work can be of the highest rank.
Several of his long-running productions, including a brilliant
Mafia-style “Rigoletto” and a witty 1920s “Mikado,” are
reliable cash cows for the troubled  English National Opera .  When he’s not on form, it’s another story. My own
experiences of performing in a work directed by him were dour.  Beggar’s Opera  In 1999, my friend the conductor Charlie Hazlewood invited
me to play double bass in “The Beggar’s Opera” at Wilton’s
 Music Hall  in  London . The costumed musicians were to be fully
incorporated into the action, he said. We’d be on stage, joining
in, acting. It sounded fun.  In the event, it was fun in the way a car crash is.
Miller’s mind was elsewhere. He barely acknowledged the
musicians, and we ended up far from the stage, shunted away in a
dark corner. I’ve wondered since if the reason was that he can’t
read music. Whatever it was, he was distant and unapproachable.  “Jonathan relies on a flash of genius... and it never
happened,” Hazlewood says in the book. “It was a duff month
for him. The whole thing was ghastly,” he says. I can second
that.  Bassett  describes Miller’s difficult childhood. His father,
a child psychiatrist, was an attention-seeking autocrat. His
novelist mother was emotionally distant. Miller says his
memories of early youth are mostly “wretched and miserable.”  It’s easy to speculate where the healthy and hysterical
aspects of his ingrained anti-authoritarianism spring from.  Showing Off  One fascinating tidbit is that the novelist Stevie Smith
wrote a story about Jonathan when he was a boy. It’s called
“Beside the Seaside: A Holiday With Children,” and describes
the pre-teen Jonathan as a brattish show-off.  Miller’s rise to celebrity in the 1960s with Dudley Moore,
 Peter Cook  and  Alan Bennett  (in the satirical sketch show
“Beyond the Fringe”) is recounted with liveliness.  The later sections can feel sometimes like a dutiful trudge
from one production to the next.  There are plenty of pro-and-con comments from friends,
family, colleagues, enemies, and admirers, and the end result is
an elegant portrait of a complex man.  Hypersensitive Miller hates critical “contras” against
him, as much as he enjoys the “pros,” and he once threatened
to kill an opera critic for his negative comments. Here the plus
and minus comments are about equal. Good luck to the author.  “In Two Minds” (479 pages) is published by Oberon Books
at 20 pounds in the U.K. It is being published in the U.S. at
$36 on Feb. 12. To order the book in  North America , click  here .  Information:  http://oberonbooks.com/in-two-minds   Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Erika Lederman  on London going out and  Shaun Walker  on the
Bolshoi ballet.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 