-- JPMorgan Names Courboin France Head, Seillier EU FIG Chief
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-21T14:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/jpmorgan-names-courboin-france-head-seillier-eu-fig-chief-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, named Kyril Courboin head of France,
replacing Isabelle Seillier, who is becoming head of the firm’s
financial institutions group for Europe, the  Middle East  and
 Africa .  Courboin, who joined JPMorgan in 1990 and currently heads
the financial institutions team in Europe, will report jointly
to Emilio Saracho, deputy chief executive officer of EMEA, and
Viswas Raghavan, head of banking for the region, according to an
internal memorandum to employees. The contents of the document
were confirmed by a spokeswoman for the lender today.  Seillier, who joined the firm in 1993 and has been in
charge of France since 2008, will be responsible for covering
banks and other clients in the financial-services industry in
the region. She will report to Raghavan.  JPMorgan combined its investment bank with the firm’s
corporate bank and treasury and securities-services units last
year, and named Raghavan head of banking for  Europe  as part of a
revamp. Fourth-quarter revenue at the newly combined corporate
and investment bank rose 21 percent to $7.6 billion,  New York- 
based JPMorgan said last week, the first time it reported
results of the entire group.  Courboin’s “knowledge of the financial sector is second to
none, and his international profile will help further develop
our business in France,” Raghavan said. “Isabelle has
positioned JPMorgan as a top international bank in France, which
will prove invaluable in her new regional role.”  Courboin has worked on deals including Credit Agricole SA’s
2003 acquisition of Credit Lyonnais and the privatization of
Credit Industriel et Commercial. Seillier served as head of
investment banking activities for  France  from 2005 to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  