-- JPMorgan Embraces Offshore Yuan as Trading Doubles
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-01-21T03:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/jpmorgan-embraces-offshore-yuan-as-trading-doubles-china-credit.html
Standard Chartered Plc estimates
offshore trading of  yuan  has doubled to at least $6 billion a
day, giving investors more confidence to invest in the currency
using options, forwards and Dim Sum bonds.  Average daily transactions in Hong Kong surged from $3
billion in the past year, said Charles Feng, Standard
Chartered’s regional head for fixed-income trading in the city.
Trading in offshore options in the currency swelled to between
$300 million and $500 million per day, according to J.P. Morgan
Private Bank, which is buying the contracts for its clients.
HSBC Holdings Plc says combined yuan deposits and certificates
of deposits in the city will rise 43 percent this year to 1
trillion yuan ($161 billion).  Dim Sum bonds have been rallying for a record six
consecutive weeks as the central bank announced plans to
accelerate the opening up of capital markets to foreigners and
allow cross-border yuan loans. The  average yield  on the
securities fell five basis points last week to 3.5 percent, the
lowest since October 2011, a Deutsche Bank AG index showed. That
compares with an average 2.62 percent for global corporate debt,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “Offshore yuan liquidity is unambiguously improving,”
said Cliff Tan, East Asian head of global markets research at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Hong Kong. “In particular,
there is more official sector activity in the first days of the
year. This flow is very promising for central banks to get more
involved.”  Offshore Premium  The yuan in Hong Kong climbed 0.5 percent this month and
touched 6.1735 per dollar on Jan. 11, the highest since trading
started in 2010, Bloomberg data show. The offshore rate was
6.1908 as of 11:24 a.m. local time today, a 0.45 percent premium
to the spot rate of 6.2187 in  Shanghai . Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards gained 0.8 percent in Hong Kong this month.  One-year implied volatility on the offshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was
2.4 percent today, down from 4.4 percent a year ago, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Comparable gauges are 10 percent
for the Brazilian real, Russian ruble and  India ’s rupee.  ‘Burgeoning’ Market  The yield on Chinese government Dim Sum bonds due June 2022
was 3.06 percent today, compared with 1.84 percent for 10-year
U.S. Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  “We have been utilizing high carry and low volatility for
our clients in the offshore renminbi via its burgeoning options
market,” said Erik Wytenus, Hong Kong-based head of foreign
exchange and commodities at J.P. Morgan Private Bank in Asia.
“This allows for a beneficially asymmetric risk profile for
these strategic positions.”  Hong Kong’s Dim Sum bond market is increasingly offering
attractive yields as long as buyers are selective, said Adam K.
Tejpaul, managing director for the investment business of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s private bank unit in Asia. The yield on
Caterpillar Inc.’s Dim Sum bonds due 2014 was 2.53 percent at
the end of last week, compared with 0.58 percent on its similar-
maturity dollar debt. The machinery maker is rated A at Standard
& Poor’s.  China  backed Hong Kong’s status as the major offshore yuan
hub in its latest five-year economic plan and is seeking to curb
reliance on the use of dollars in international trade and
investment. The city “will consolidate and expand the offshore
yuan business,” in particular cross-border trade settlement and
sales of yuan-denominated securities, Leung Chun-ying, Hong Kong
Chief Executive said in a Jan. 16 policy address.  Loan Experiment  Central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on Dec. 31 the
country will “deepen” financial reform in 2013. The government
may soon announce details for a cross-border yuan loan program
in Qianhai, a trial zone near Hong Kong, China Securities
Journal reported Jan. 9, citing Wang Jinxia, a spokesperson for
the Qianhai management bureau. Hang Seng Bank Ltd., a Hong Kong-
based subsidiary of HSBC, will arrange the first yuan loan to
Qianhai Co., the lender said Dec. 31.  “The Qianhai trial will accelerate the recycling of the
yuan and boost the currency’s liquidity,” said Ken Hu, a Hong
Kong-based fund manager at BOCHK Asset Management Ltd, who runs
the best-performing Dim Sum bond fund that returned 29 percent
in 2012.  RQFII Program  China announced the  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investors, or RQFII, program in December 2011,
which allows offshore yuan to be invested in China’s domestic
securities. The available quotas were boosted by 200 billion
yuan to a level of 270 billion yuan in November and Guo Shuqing,
chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said in
Hong Kong on Jan. 14 that the ceiling can be increased by 10
times more.  Hong Kong residents are subject to a daily conversion limit
of 20,000 yuan at the Shanghai rate, while non-residents can buy
unlimited amounts of China’s currency at the offshore rate. DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. said the limit for people living in the city
could hamper the growth of the yuan pool in Hong Kong as more
investors channel funds back to China for investment.  “As more offshore yuan centers emerge, it no longer makes
sense for Hong Kong to cap locals’ conversion at such a level,”
said Nathan Chow, a Hong Kong-based economist at DBS. “Hong
Kong needs to ensure a self-sustainable cycle of yuan with
increasing repatriation channels for offshore yuan. We expect
more Dim Sum bond issuance in 2013 with better liquidity.”  ‘Hedging Demand’  Yuan deposits  in the city grew 2.9 percent in November to
571 billion yuan, according to Hong Kong Monetary Authority
data. That’s the biggest increase since August 2011. Dim Sum
bond issuance climbed 16 percent last year to a record 175.8
billion yuan. There has been 18.2 billion yuan in sales this
month.  Offshore yuan trading is “primarily driven by hedging
demand” from companies, which have replaced currency
speculators as the dominant force in the market, according to
Standard Chartered’s Feng. “We see this as a positive sign as
it paves the way for a more sustainable offshore yuan trading
environment,” he said.  China’s economic growth accelerated for the first time in
two years as government efforts to revive demand drove a rebound
in industrial output, retail sales and the housing market. Gross
domestic product rose 7.9 percent in the three months ended Dec.
31, the nation’s statistics bureau said last week. That compared
with the 7.8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
and 7.4 percent in the previous quarter.  Liquidity Operations  The People’s Bank of China said on Jan. 18 it will start
short-term liquidity operations as additional tools to manage
cash supply, amid efforts by policy makers to liberalize of
interest rates. Repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase
contracts with a maturity of less than seven days will be the
main tools of the so-called SLOs, the central bank said in a
statement. It named 12 banks, including Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China Ltd., as participants in
the SLOs, which will supplement regular open-market operations
held every Tuesday and Thursday.  The cost of insuring China’s bonds was steady last week.
Five-year credit-default swaps protecting the nation’s sovereign
notes rose two basis points to 65 in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “We welcome the growth and deepening of local markets,”
said Jamie Stuttard, the London-based head of international
bond-portfolio management at Pyramis Global Advisors, a unit of
Fidelity Investments, which oversees $1.7 trillion.  “The
development of the Dim Sum market is important in building a
global bond opportunity set which reflects patterns of global
economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  