-- Juncker Replaced by Dijsselbloem After 8 Years as Eurogroup Head
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i ,   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-01-21T21:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/juncker-replaced-by-dijsselbloem-after-8-years-as-eurogroup-head.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker stepped down as head of the group of euro-area
finance ministers, handing the frontline post in combating the
debt crisis to Jeroen Dijsselbloem of the Netherlands.  Juncker, 58, was present at the creation of the euro,
serving as Luxembourg’s finance minister during the Maastricht
Treaty negotiations in 1991. He became prime minister in 1995
and started chairing euro ministers’ meetings in 2005.
Dijsselbloem, 46, became Dutch finance minister in November.  With tensions in financial markets on the wane, the mission
is “further restoring the trust in the euro and the  euro zone 
and the economic perspective,” Dijsselbloem told reporters
before the meeting. “That is the main task at hand. There seems
to be a new basis for trust.”  The ministers’ approval was confirmed by Guy Schuller, a
spokesman for the Luxembourg government.  Dijsselbloem’s assumption of the informal, unpaid post
follows last year’s appointments of a German to run the euro
area’s permanent rescue fund and a Luxembourger to a vacancy on
the  European Central Bank , tilting the European balance of power
toward northern countries committed to fiscal discipline.  The  Eurogroup  brings together euro-area finance ministers,
the European Commission and the ECB. Its chairmanship rotated
after the euro’s arrival in 1999 until Juncker, then also
Luxembourg’s finance minister, was named the first full-time
chief in 2005. Initially named for a two-year term, he was
reappointed three times.  Last-Minute Objections  While Dijsselbloem emerged as the front-runner to succeed
Juncker after a December summit of government leaders, last-
minute objections from  France  threatened to derail the
appointment on concerns that it would give  Germany ’s northern
allies too much sway in crisis management.  “I’ve supported the candidacy of Dijsselbloem from very
early on,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
today.  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici , who questioned
the rush to make the appointment in a Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung interview last week, said Dijsselbloem needs to balance
northern and southern interests and not push too hard for
 deficit reduction .  “It’s important that we know how he sees the future of the
euro zone,” Moscovici said before tonight’s meeting.  Dutch Opinion  Dijsselbloem, a member of the Dutch Labor Party, became
finance minister on Nov. 5 as part of Liberal Prime Minister
 Mark Rutte ’s coalition government following an election in
September. He served as a member of the Dutch parliament from
2000 until his appointment to the Cabinet, with a short hiatus
in 2002. He holds a degree in agricultural economics from
Wageningen University.  Dutch opinion of the appointment split along party lines.
Maastricht University professor Willem Vermeend, a former
undersecretary of finance and Labor Party associate of
Dijsselbloem, predicted a weightier role for the Netherlands in
 crisis management .  “The Germans always like to get support from the
Netherlands and we know that it’s not appropriate to resist what
the Germans want,” he said. “The Dutch try in return to get
something back in another way.”  Arnold Merkies, a finance expert with the opposition
Socialist Party, feared that Dijsselbloem will be “easier to
influence” as a Brussels neophyte. “He cannot take a position
in favor of the Netherlands. In this role he will be enforced to
be neutral.”  Juncker earlier this month said that even if Luxembourg
“will lose influence” with him giving up his Eurogroup role,
he will still be around as prime minister “and he will in the
future be much freer to take a stand.”  “Because so far every word I said was weighed by the
financial markets, by analysts,” he said. “Now, I will be able
to speak freely again and express my opinion about European
affairs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  