-- Stephens to Face Serena Williams as Federer, Murray Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-21T14:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/kuznetsova-beats-wozniacki-to-reach-australian-open-quarterfinal.html
U.S. teenager Sloane Stephens
yesterday reached her first tennis Grand Slam quarterfinal at
the Australian Open, where she’ll play five-time champion Serena Williams for a spot in the final four.  Top seed Victoria Azarenka earlier set up a meeting with
two-time major winner Svetlana Kuznetsova, while Roger Federer
and Andy Murray remained on course for a semifinal meeting with
straight-set wins and will next play Frenchmen Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Jeremy Chardy.  The 29th-seeded Stephens, at 19 the youngest player left in
the women’s draw, beat 56th-ranked Bojana Jovanovski of Serbia
6-1, 3-6, 7-5 at  Melbourne  Park even after having more than
twice as many unforced errors as winners. The victory guaranteed
that Stephens will break into the top 20 of the women’s rankings
after the tournament.  “She brought it full force in the second, third set,”
Stephens said in a news conference. “I just had to find a way.
Mentally it was pretty tough.”  Williams, the No. 3 seed from the U.S., routed 14th-seeded
Maria Kirilenko of  Russia  6-2, 6-0 in 57 minutes to open the
night session on Rod Laver Arena. Federer then followed by
beating 13th-seeded Milos Raonic of Canada 6-4, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2
to move to his 35th straight major quarterfinal.  Switzerland’s Federer, seeking a record-extending 18th
Grand Slam title, made just 12 unforced errors and won the only
three breaks of serve in the match against the tournament’s ace
and service-speed leader.  “It was pretty cold, maybe it helped me,” Federer said in
a court-side interview, when asked how he neutralized the serves
of his 6-foot-5 opponent. “I’ve got good reflexes.”  Today’s Action  Today at Melbourne Park, former French Open winner Li Na of
 China  plays Wimbledon finalist Agnieszka Radwanska of  Poland  for
a spot in the semifinals, while 2008 champion Maria Sharapova
faces fellow Russian Ekaterina Makarova. In the men’s draw, and
all-Spanish quarterfinal between Nicolas Almagro and David Ferrer is followed by defending champion Novak Djokovic of
Serbia against former Wimbledon runner-up Tomas Berdych of the
Czech Republic.  Federer will next face 7th-seeded Tsonga, the 2008 runner-
up in Melbourne. The Frenchman advanced by defeating a
compatriot, No. 9 Richard Gasquet, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 6-2.  The 31-year-old Williams was clinical in beating Kirilenko,
getting 87 percent of her first serves in and almost three
quarters of her service returns back in play. She committed just
six unforced errors in winning her 20th straight match.  Serve Chances  “I definitely have never hit that high of a percentage
because I take a lot of chances with my serve,” Williams told
reporters after reaching her 35th career Grand Slam singles
quarterfinal. “I really want to be able to keep it up.”  Williams defeated Stephens 6-4, 6-3 in Brisbane two weeks
ago and said she’s expecting a tough contest.  “I feel like for me it will be another good match and a
good opportunity for both of us,” added Williams. “One of us
will be in the semifinals, which I think is awesome.”  U.S. Open champion Murray cruised past 14th-seeded Gilles Simon of  France , 6-3, 6-1, 6-3, in 95 minutes. While Simon beat
countryman Gael Monfils in 4 hours, 43 minutes to get to the
fourth round, Murray, 25, had spent just 5 1/2 hours on court in
total to reach the same stage.  “Obviously no one knew how Gilles would be,” Murray said
in a televised courtside interview. “He is one of the best
movers on tour and clearly was struggling with his movement
today. Grand Slams are so physical these days and it is tough.”  Chardy’s Confidence  The Scot next faces another Frenchman, Jeremy Chardy, who
ousted his third straight seeded opponent with a four-set win
against Andreas Seppi, the No. 21 from  Italy . Chardy, ranked
36th, scored the biggest upset of the men’s draw with his third-
round win against sixth-seeded Juan Martin Del Potro of
 Argentina .  “I feel confident,” Chardy said after reaching his first
major quarterfinal. “Against Del Potro, I played a very good
match. So it was good for my head.”  Women’s No. 1 seed Azarenka dropped just two games in
beating Elena Vesnina of Russia after being pushed to three sets
by injured American Jamie Hampton in the previous round. The
Belarusian, who broke through for her first major title in
Melbourne 12 months ago, next faces a player on the comeback
trail. Kuznetsova missed the second half of last season because
of a knee injury.  Fresher, Stronger  “It’s going to be very tough match,” Azarenka said. “I
can see Sveta came back much fresher, much stronger. She knows
how to handle big stages, big tournaments.”  Kuznetsova, unseeded at a major for the first time since
the 2003 French Open, ousted No. 10 Caroline Wozniacki 6-2, 2-6,
7-5 in a match lasting 2 hours, 28 minutes at Rod Laver Arena.  The 27-year-old Kuznetsova, who won 2009 French Open and
2004 U.S. Open titles and was ranked as high as No. 2 in the
world, has fallen to No. 75 while recovering from a knee injury
that forced her to miss the second half of last season.  “I have nothing to lose, she has all the pressure,” said
Kuznetsova, who leads Azarenka 4-3 in career meetings. “I know
I’ve got the game to give her some problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  