-- Kuwait’s NBK Profit Beat Estimates Amid ‘Ongoing Challenges’
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-01-21T13:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/national-bank-of-kuwait-drops-most-in-3-months-on-dividend-cut.html
National Bank of Kuwait SAK , the
country’s largest lender, posted 2012 earnings that beat
estimates amid what it called a “stagnant” operating
environment. The shares fell after it proposed a lower dividend.  Net income  rose 0.9 percent to 305.1 million dinars ($1.1
billion), the bank said in an e-mailed statement today. That
compares with a mean estimate of 302.6 million dinars from five
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We achieved a solid set of results despite the ongoing
challenges,” Group Chief Executive Officer Ibrahim Dabdoub
said. “The outlook for 2013 has improved as we expect to see
more  government spending , mainly on mega projects, which in turn
generates economic activity and creates opportunities for the
private sector.” Last year was “turbulent” for the banking
industry “as the operating environment remained stagnant,”
Dabdoub said.  The global credit crisis weakened lending and investment
banking in the  Middle East , pushing up loan-loss provisions and
led to a drop in the value of investments. Kuwait has dragged
implementation of a $110 billion development plan to diversify
and modernize its oil-reliant economy, hampering the demand for
debt.  The board recommended a cash dividend of 30 fils a share
and five bonus shares for every 100, the bank said. NBK paid a
cash dividend of 40 fils and 10 bonus shares for every 100 in
2011. The shares dropped 2 percent, the most since Oct. 22, to
970 fils. There are 1,000 fils to the dinar. The stock lost 5.7
percent last year compared with a 2.1 percent gain in the Kuwait
Stock Exchange Index.  “NBK’s results were better than our expectations, on
account of higher  capital gains  and lower provisions,” said
Naveed Ahmed, a banking analyst at Kuwait City-based  Global
Investment House KSCC. (GLOBAL)  “While the quality of earnings is lower
than what we would be happy with, lower-than-expected provisions
might actually be a good sign, though needs further
investigation. We are happy with the payouts which are in line
with our forecast.”  Kuwaiti loan growth rose to 5.2 percent in the year to
November, having risen as high as 5.5 percent in September, the
fastest pace in almost three years. Personal loans grew 12
percent. While political turmoil thwarted attempts to speed up
investment projects and spur corporate lending, the government
and parliament have pledged cooperation to put the development
plan on a fast track.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  