-- Netanyahu Seeks New Term in Israel Election as Settlers Gain
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-01-22T13:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/netanyahu-seeks-third-term-in-israeli-election-as-settlers-gain.html
Israelis vote today with Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  probably headed for a third term and
a dilemma whether to expand West Bank settlements or choose
allies backing new peace efforts with the Palestinians.  Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu ticket has been the clear
favorite in all pre-election polls, forecast to win between 32
and 37 seats in the 120-member Knesset. In any scenario, he will
have to patch together a group of smaller parties to gain a
parliamentary majority.  The coalition’s makeup may determine outcomes ranging from
managing inflation to whether Israel bombs  Iran . Parties in the
current coalition, including the ascendant Jewish Home, are
gaining support by opposing talks aimed at agreement on a
Palestinian state. That’s Netanyahu’s stated policy and reviving
the process is a U.S. priority. Alternative partners on the
center-left have objected to parts of the premier’s economic
plan, including spending cuts to slash the  budget deficit .  “This election will show how strong Netanyahu’s own base
is, and what price he needs to pay for a coalition that gives
him political flexibility.” said Peter Medding, a Hebrew
University political scientist.  “Likud-Beitenu is the party of the people, and the bigger
it is, the easier it will be to lead,” Netanyahu, 63, said
after voting early today at a Jerusalem polling station with his
wife and two sons.  Bombing Iran  The premier would also need support from his Cabinet for
any decision on bombing Iran’s nuclear facilities, an Israeli
threat that has led to tensions with President  Barack Obama .
Netanyahu says it may be necessary to stop Iran gaining atomic
weapons that would endanger  Israel . He regularly says the world
should be more worried about an Iranian bomb than Israeli
settlements.  Investors have shown their approval for Netanyahu’s
handling of the economy. Since his second term began in March
2009, Israel’s benchmark  stock index  has climbed 64 percent and
the shekel has surged 13 percent versus the dollar.  Voting stations, where Israelis will cast paper ballots at
10,133 sites around the country, opened at 7 a.m. and close at
10 p.m., when all three television stations will announce exit
polling results. Some 5.7 million Israelis, about 20 percent of
them Arab citizens, are eligible to vote. By 2 p.m., 38.3
percent of eligible voters had cast ballots, the highest rate
since 1999 and up from 34 percent in the 2009 vote, the  election
committee said .  Coalition Bargaining  “Higher voter participation is likely to work in favor of
center and left parties,” said Israeli pollster Rafi Smith.
Smaller parties such as Kadima, headed by former Defense
Minister Shaul Mofaz, may find it harder to pass the minimum
vote threshold.  No matter which party gets the most votes, forming a
government with a majority in the Knesset, Israel’s 120-seat
parliament, may take two months or longer. No party has ever
done it alone. The process starts with President  Shimon Peres 
formally asking the head of the winning party to open
negotiations with smaller parties to create a ruling coalition.
If he or she can’t do that in six weeks, the second-place party
gets a chance.  Polls show the  Labor Party  led by Shelly Yachimovich coming
second with as many as 18 seats. Netanyahu may avoid inviting
her into a coalition because of the party’s emphasis during the
campaign on increased social spending.  “Labor is not supportive of fiscal restraint,” said
 Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist for HSBC Holdings
Plc.  Building Settlements  Netanyahu says the deficit needs to be narrowed to 3
percent of economic output this year from 4.2 percent in 2012,
requiring 14 billion shekels ($3.7 billion) in spending cuts. He
called the election a year ahead of schedule after failing to
get coalition partners to agree on the measures.  Another possibility to anchor the coalition is the Jewish
Home party, led by Naftali Bennett, which wants to expand
settlement construction. It’s set to be the campaign’s biggest
winner, with polls projecting as many as 16 seats. The ultra-
Orthodox Shas party, which also wants to increase social
spending, may get as many as 11 seats and try to retain its
place in the coalition.  The most vocal advocate for renewed peace talks with the
Palestinians that could join the Cabinet is the Hatenuah party
led by former Foreign Minister  Tzipi Livni , who is likely to win
only six to eight seats, according to polls.  The absence of the  peace process  from much of the campaign
debate has left Palestinians sour about the prospects for a two-
state solution.  ‘Deliberate Omission’  “Most Israeli political parties are guilty of the
deliberate omission of peace from their agenda,”  Hanan Ashrawi ,
a member of the Palestinian negotiating team since 1992, wrote
yesterday in a column for Haaretz. “They talk about
negotiations when they mean dictation. They talk about
‘managing’ the occupation rather than putting an end to it.”  Netanyahu had aimed to strengthen his hand on the
Palestinian and budget issues by running on a combined ticket
with Yisrael Beitenu, a party founded by immigrants from the
former  Soviet Union .  The move backfired when party chairman Avigdor Liberman was
indicted on a fraud charge and quit as foreign minister. All
polls have shown Likud-Beitenu retreating from its current 42
Knesset seats, with some forecasts as low as 32.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  