-- Nigeria Central Bank Holds Benchmark Interest Rate at 12%
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-01-21T16:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/nigeria-central-bank-holds-benchmark-interest-rate-at-12-.html
The  Central Bank  of Nigeria left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for an eighth consecutive
meeting as inflation exceeded the bank’s target.  The Monetary Policy Committee kept the  policy rate  at 12
percent, Governor Lamido Sanusi told reporters today in the
capital, Abuja. That was in line with the forecasts of 12 of the
13 economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News .  While  inflation  slowed to 12 percent in December, it’s
still above the central bank’s target of less than 10 percent.
The central bank expects inflation to ease close to the target
this month as higher fuel prices that took effect in January
last year fall out of the calculation.  “After the first quarter, inflation will likely trend
higher, in which case the MPC cannot afford to cut rates too
soon,” Adedayo Idowu, a Lagos-based analyst at Vetiva Capital
Management Ltd., said in an e-mailed response to questions
before the rate decision.  Rising government spending is adding to pressure on
inflation. Lawmakers increased the benchmark oil price in this
year’s budget by $4 to $79 a barrel, providing more funds to the
government to spend. President Goodluck Jonathan hasn’t yet
signed the budget into law.  Nigeria saves revenue above the budgeted oil price, and
raising it would inject more liquidity into the economy. That
may force the central bank to keep  interest rates  high, crimping
investment, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said on Oct.
10.  The economy expanded 6.5 percent in the third quarter, down
from 7.4 percent in the same period a year earlier, according to
the National Bureau of Statistics. The country expects to
produce 2.53 million barrels a day this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  