-- No Taboos for BOJ Contender Muto in Japan Deflation Fight
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-01-22T01:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/no-taboos-for-boj-contender-muto-in-fight-to-end-japan-deflation.html
Former  Bank of Japan (8301)  Deputy Governor
Toshiro Muto said that all policy options should be available to
the central bank as it looks to turn around more than a decade
of falling prices.  “The top priority for  Japan  is to defeat deflation, even
if there are side effects,” Muto, chairman of the Daiwa
Institute of Research and a possible contender to replace BOJ
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , said in an interview in  Tokyo 
yesterday. “I don’t think it’s right to consider any possible
measure as taboo as the flexibility or boldness of monetary
policy will be lost.”  The BOJ is set to adopt Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s desired
2 percent inflation target today, according to 21 of 23
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The bank’s policy meeting
may end between noon and 3 p.m. Tokyo time, based on practice
over the past three months. Ending consumer-price declines would
give companies and households more incentive to borrow, helping
the world’s third-biggest economy to pull out of a contraction.  Muto declined to comment on specific monetary policies,
including foreign bond purchases, cutting  interest rates  on bank
reserves held at the BOJ and expanding the central bank’s asset-
purchase program.  2014 Outlook  “It is highly probable that easy monetary policy will
continue until at least the end of 2014,” said Muto, 69.
“Buying  government bonds  is the most appropriate for
quantitative easing, and the most realistic policy.”  Muto, who served as BOJ deputy governor for five years, was
the government’s first choice for the top job in 2008, only for
his nomination to be rejected by upper house lawmakers who saw
his  finance ministry  background as a threat to the bank’s
independence.  The yen fell 0.1 percent to 89.68 per dollar as of 10:14
a.m. local time, ahead of the BOJ decision.  In 2007, as deputy governor, Muto said that keeping rates
too low could be problematic. Asked yesterday if he had changed
his view because ending deflation was now the top priority, he
said: “Yes.”  “In an economy with such entrenched deflation, the risk of
inflation is a very unlikely scenario. I strongly think that a
policy of monetary easing is justified,” Muto said.  The central bank may increase its asset purchases by 10
trillion yen ($111 billion) at today’s meeting, according to the
survey.  Shirakawa Successor  Mari Iwashita, a bond strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc., sees Muto as the favorite to succeed Shirakawa.  The BOJ’s holdings of Japanese government bonds exceeded
100 trillion yen ($1.1 trillion) for the first time at the end
of September, according to the bank, raising the risk that
yields will jump on perceptions that it is financing public
spending.  Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan
Co. and a former BOJ official, predicts the central bank will
today adopt open-ended purchases of assets such as government
debt at the rate of 4 trillion yen per month.  The yen has fallen around 10 percent against the dollar
since mid-November as Abe urged aggressive easing to end
deflation and boost growth. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has
risen in the last ten weeks as a weaker currency boosts the
outlook for exporters.  Yields on Japanese government debt fell yesterday, with the
benchmark 10-year government bond yield dropping to 0.735
percent.  Accommodative Policies  “We need to head toward more accommodative policies,”
said Muto, who worked at the finance ministry for 37 years. “We
of course need to monitor negative effects but we shouldn’t hit
the brakes.”  Those comments contrast with Koichi Hamada, a retired Yale
University professor who’s advising Abe on choosing a new
central bank chief. Hamada said Jan. 20 that the BOJ will need
to slow easing if the effects on prices and the yen go too far.  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  said in its campaign
manifesto that the BOJ should be included in a proposed private-
public fund to buy foreign bonds. Shirakawa has said that buying
foreign bonds would amount to currency intervention, which is
the responsibility of the finance minister.  The government is set to present its nominations for the
governorship and the two deputy governor positions around Feb.
15, the Nikkei newspaper said last week. Shirakawa’s term
expires in April and those of his two deputies end in March. Two
entrants to the policy board last year have already pressed for
bolder policy action, giving Abe the chance to forge a pro-
easing majority on the board.  Another potential candidate to succeed Shirakawa is Asian
Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda , according to
JPMorgan’s Kanno. Kuroda said this month that the BOJ should
conduct unlimited easing until it achieves 2 percent inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  