-- Nokia Siemens Said to Plan Debt Sale of Up To $1 Billion
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-01-21T12:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/nokia-siemens-said-to-plan-debt-sale-of-up-to-1-billion.html
Nokia Siemens  Networks, the phone-
equipment venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Siemens AG, may sell as much
as 750 million euros ($1 billion) of bonds to bolster its
finances, according to a person familiar with the plans.  The company’s board still needs to approve the sale of the
debt, said the person who asked not to be identified because the
plans aren’t public. Riitta Maard, a Nokia Siemens spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Nokia Siemens, which vies with Huawei Technologies Co. for
the second spot in the wireless-gear market behind Ericsson AB,
returned to profit last year. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia Siemens
and Paris-based  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  are among mobile-systems
providers that cut jobs and costs as the slowing global economy
crimped spending on mobile-network infrastructure.  “The company has shown some improvement in terms of its
results,” said Robert Jaeger, a technology, media and telecoms
analyst at Societe Generale SA in  London .  “Given that it’s a
difficult sector and the company’s much smaller than Ericsson,
I’d expect the rating to be somewhere in the BB space.”  Nokia’s debt is ranked BB- at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings and an equivalent Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
three levels below investment-grade status. All three raters
have a  negative outlook  on Nokia.  Siemens AG (SIE)  is graded A+ by S&P
and Fitch and Aa3 at Moody’s.  Speculative-grade, or junk, debt is ranked below Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- by Fitch and S&P.  Junk Yields  Nokia Siemens is considering a bond sale as investor demand
for higher-yielding assets pushes borrowing costs to record
lows. Junk-rated securities yield 5.3 percent on average, down
from 11.6 percent a year earlier, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Euro High-Yield Index.  European issuers sold 3.5 billion euros of  junk bonds  this
year, more than 10 times the amount raised in the same period of
2012 and the busiest start to a year since 2010, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The cost of insuring Nokia debt against default rose two
basis points to 592, according to Bloomberg data at 12 p.m. in
London. Credit-default swaps on Nokia dropped to a nine-month
low of 581 basis points on Jan. 14 from 1,244 in July. A decline
in the contracts signals improvement in perceptions of  credit
quality .  This month, Nokia said Nokia Siemens had a fourth-quarter
operating profit of 13 percent to 15 percent of sales excluding
some items, beating Nokia’s forecast. In October, Nokia Siemens
posted its first quarterly sales increase and profit since last
year, helped by demand for long-term evolution, or LTE, networks
that allow faster data speeds.  Nokia and Siemens abandoned talks with private-equity
companies in July 2011 over the network venture as the buyout
firms failed to come up with a compelling offer. The parents
said two months later Nokia Siemens would “become a more
independent entity.”  The Financial Times earlier reported Nokia Siemens’s plan
to sell debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  