-- Nokia Siemens Plans Bonds as Credit Risk Holds Near 18-Month Low
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-21T17:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/nokia-siemens-plans-bonds-as-credit-risk-holds-near-18-month-low.html
Nokia Siemens  Networks is said to be
planning its first bond sale, tapping investor demand for high-
yield assets as the risk of owning the debt holds near the
lowest since July 2011.  The phone-equipment venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
which isn’t rated, may sell as much as 750 million euros ($1
billion) of bonds, according to a person familiar with the plan.
The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield ratings fell seven basis points
to 416, just above the low of 414 reached Jan. 18, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “Nokia Siemens’s deal isn’t surprising given the depth of
demand and low yields out there,” said Stuart Stanley, a  fund
manager  at Invesco Asset Management Ltd. in  London , who oversees
$3 billion of high-yield bonds. “Technology is a difficult
sector for credit investors as things can change very quickly.
On the other hand, it is certainly a global and significant
company.”  European companies sold 3.5 billion euros of speculative-
grade debt in 2013 as of last week, more than 10 times the
amount raised in the same period last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Borrowers are taking advantage of demand for
higher-yielding investments as the  European Central Bank  holds
 interest rates  at historic lows to stimulate recovery.  Junk bonds  yield 3.25 percentage points more than
investment-grade debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.
That compares with a peak of 20.7 in March 2009.  Junk Sales  A bond sale from Nokia Siemens still needs to be approved
by the company’s board, said the person familiar with the
company’s plan, who asked not to be named because they’re not
authorized to speak about it.  A Nokia Siemens high-yield bond offering would be the
second-largest in euros this year. On January 9, Italian
business information services company, Cerved Group SpA, issued
a three-part deal totaling 780 million euros, Bloomberg data
show.  Nokia in Espoo,  Finland  is rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BB- by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, three
levels below investment-grade status.  Elsewhere in bond markets, Spanish utility  Iberdrola SA (IBE) 
sold 1 billion euros of eight-year bonds, its longest-dated sale
since September 2010, Bloomberg data show. Italy’s Banco
Popolare SC issued 1.25 billion euros of bonds in its first
senior, unsecured benchmark offering in the currency since 2011.  Belfius Covereds  Belgium’s Belfius Bank NV offered 500 million euros of 10-
year covered bonds, its second sale of the loan-backed
securities. It opened the market for Belgian covered bonds in
November, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies fell two basis points to 102. The
Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps on the
senior debt of banks and insurers dropped four basis points to
132 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  