-- Novozymes Names Nielsen CEO Amid Biofuel-Market Challenge
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-01-21T14:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/novozymes-names-nielsen-ceo-amid-biofuel-market-challenge.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s biggest
maker of enzymes used in washing-machine powder, named Peder Holk Nielsen as its chief executive, handing the 56-year-old the
challenge of meeting growth targets against a backdrop of slower
bioethanol production and drug-development delays.  Nielsen will succeed CEO Steen Riisgaard, who is retiring
on April 1 after 12 years in the role, Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
Novozymes said in a statement today. Novozymes also reported
fourth-quarter earnings that beat analyst estimates, buoyed by
sales of enzymes for household and consumer products.  Novozymes’ change of leadership coincides with a slowdown
in sales of enzymes used to convert corn into biofuel as the
industry contends with cheaper gasoline costs. Nielsen,
currently head of enzymes, will accompany Riisgaard to the  World
Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos this week to promote
its biotechnology.  “What surprised us was the evolution of the crisis in the
U.S. fuel-ethanol industry, that it continued to get worse,”
said Nielsen, who earned a PhD in chemical engineering prior to
a career in industry that saw him join Novozymes when it split
from Novo Nordisk in 2000.  Shares of the Danish supplier of enzymes to the beer and
jeans industry jumped as much as 8.5 percent, their biggest
intraday jump since April 29. They traded 6.8 percent higher at
171.8 kroner in Copenhagen as of 3:00 p.m. Novozymes has
advanced 7.8 percent this year, valuing it at 52.3 billion
kroner ($9.3 billion).  DuPont Co. (DD) , its principal rival in
enzymes following the purchase of Novozymes’ local competitor
Danisco, added 4.5 percent.  Beating Estimates  “The share price has been drifting a bit, but now we’ve
come through with 2012 results that were, if anything, a bit
better than what we had guided,” said Nielsen in a phone
interview.  Earnings before interest and taxes were 671 million kroner
in the fourth quarter. Analysts had  predicted  571.8 billion
kroner, according to eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Danish company is targeting more than 10 percent growth
in revenue from existing businesses after 2015. Sales this year
will expand 4 percent to 7 percent, it forecast.  Demand for enzymes for biomass conversion and sales to the
biopharmaceutical industry are expected to “materialize
slowly” in 2013 and 2014, before those businesses make a more
significant contribution by 2015, according to Novozymes.  Biofuel Pick-Up  DuPont, Novozymes and  Royal DSM NV (DSM)  are hoping for a step
change in the pace of cellulosic biofuel production as the first
high-volume refineries go into operation, marking a shift from
an experimental fuel into a commercially viable one.  Production of the fuel made from crop waste, wood chips,
household trash and other non-food organic sources will reach
9.6 million gallons (36 million liters) in 2013, up from less
than 500,000 gallons in 2012, according to data compiled by the
U.S. Energy Information Administration and obtained by  Bloomberg
News . That gain will leave the industry short of the
government’s target for 1 billion gallons that gasoline and
diesel producers are expected to blend into their products next
year under a federal energy regulation.  Possible New Plant  Latin America  and  Asia  will likely account for the next
wave of cellulosic biofuel plants, said Riisgaard, who is
retiring after overseeing Novozymes since its initial public
offering in 2000. If the biofuel market in  Brazil  develops well,
Novozymes could add a dedicated plant there to supply the local
market, he said.  Riisgaard said among the highlights of his career at
Novozymes was making a go of a business that skeptics regarded
as the “dumb” part of pharma company Novo Nordisk, with little
potential as a standalone business. Passing up on the
opportunity to buy AgraQuest isn’t a regret, given the multiple
and $425 million price tag that  Bayer AG (BAYN)  agreed to, he said.  Novozymes has 47 percent of the market and that share is
gaining, Riisgaard said.  His departure coincides with a redesign of Novozymes’
management to incorporate an improved focus on bringing
innovation and technology to the market more quickly. Andrew
Fordyce, vice president of sales and customer solutions, joins
the board.  “There’s going to be more focus on the pipeline of
innovation,” said Chief Financial Officer Benny Loft in an
interview. “Our challenge is to listen to customers and get our
innovation to them faster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  