-- To Ease Drought on the Mississippi, Look Upstream
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-21T23:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/to-ease-drought-on-the-mississippi-look-upstream.html
One quick way to raise the level of
the  Mississippi River , in this drought-parched season of idled
barges, would be to release more water from dams on its biggest
tributary, the Missouri.  Would that be smart? Many Dakotans, wishing to hang onto
their water for uses such as oil drilling and fishing, would no
doubt argue against it. What’s weird, though, is that the idea
doesn’t even come up for debate, because federal law prohibits
manipulating the Missouri in any way that’s expressly meant to
help the Mississippi.  Thus this latest drought, like the floods that wreaked
another kind of havoc less than two years ago, exposes a basic
inadequacy in the way the U.S. manages the Mississippi River
basin.  For a century, the river system has been regulated and
engineered piecemeal. But as demands on water and power -- for
navigation, electricity, recreation, consumption, agriculture
and, now, hydraulic fracturing -- have increased beyond what the
basin can provide, those who depend on the water need to come up
with a cooperative management strategy for the entire river
system.  Granted, this is a considerable chunk of territory,
covering more than a million square miles and containing all or
parts of 31 states, plus two Canadian provinces. The
Mississippi’s substantial feeder rivers include not only the
 Missouri  but also the  Ohio , the  Illinois , the  Tennessee , the
 Arkansas , the Platte and the Red River of the South.  Flood Control  Since 1928, when Congress authorized the  Mississippi River
and Tributaries Project , the U.S. has managed the river with an
emphasis on flood control. It has built levees and floodways,
worked to stabilize the channel and put up dams on tributaries.  Now, many other interests also need to be managed. Barges,
which carry billions of dollars’ worth of grain, oil, coal and
fertilizer -- $2.8 billion in January alone, according to the
American Waterways Operators, a barge industry trade group --
can’t operate unless the channel is at least 9 feet deep. This
winter, water levels have dropped enough to threaten that
traffic, and the  Army Corps  of Engineers has worked furiously to
 clear rocks  from the river bottom.  Wetlands also need to be maintained as home to fish, birds
and other wildlife. Drinking-water supplies must be kept clean.
And farmers need water to grow corn, cotton and other crops.  All of this can be managed best if the Mississippi basin is
treated as a whole. One of the bigger obstacles to doing this is
the set of overlapping federal laws and court rulings, beginning
with the Flood Control Act of 1944, that govern the Missouri.
They require that, in operating the series of dams on the upper
Missouri, the Army Corps of Engineers should consider eight
interests -- in addition to flood control, these are water
supply and quality, irrigation, hydropower, navigation, fish and
wildlife protection, and recreation. They specifically do not
include anything to do with the  Mississippi .  Congress could, of course, change the law -- though
differences of opinions among the states make the politics
tricky. In 2009, lawmakers authorized a $25 million study to
assess whether any changes should be made to the management of
the Missouri, but soon after the study was started Congress
declined to allocate most of the money for it.  State Cooperation  The good news is, Congress isn’t the only place where
progress can happen -- as other states have demonstrated in more
successful efforts to manage the  Colorado River  and the  Columbia
River . Those are smaller rivers, but in both cases the
interested states have been able to work with one another and
the federal government to reach consensus on how the waters
should be managed. And, fortunately, there is growing desire
from a range of users of the Mississippi and all its tributaries
to cooperatively figure out how to balance their interests
without overly taxing the rivers.  Representatives from the spectrum of Mississippi River
interests -- barge operators, farmers and ranchers, flood-
management specialists, environmentalists, and federal, state
and local governments -- met in September to begin  America’s
Great Watershed Initiative . Ideally, this group will work for
consensus on the best, most scientifically sound ways to manage
the network of waterways.  Ultimately, Congress will need to act. (It could take a
useful baby step now by funding that Missouri study.) But
Mississippi interests need not wait for gridlock in  Washington 
to dissolve before figuring out how all interests might
cooperatively move forward.  If  climate change  increases the number of extreme droughts
and floods, it may only push everyone that much faster toward
consensus. For the moment, though, the best temporary fix for
the Mississippi would be a nice stretch of  rain .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 