-- Obama Begins Inauguration Day With Prayer at St. John’s
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-01-21T21:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/obama-begins-inauguration-day-with-prayer-at-st-john-s.html
President  Barack Obama  began
Inauguration Day by attending a worship service at St. John’s
Episcopal Church, the 197-year-old parish a block from the White
House known as “the church of the presidents.”  Obama, joined by his wife, Michelle, and daughters Sasha
and Malia, sat in the first row of the packed church, not the
traditional Pew 54, the president’s pew, which is reserved for
the commander-in-chief.  In his sermon, the Reverend Andy Stanley of North Point
Community Church in Alpharetta,  Georgia , called Obama the
“pastor-in-chief” for his address to mourners at a memorial
service for the victims of the mass shooting at a Newtown,
Connecticut, elementary school.  Stanley recalled the story of Jesus, “the most powerful
person in the room,” washing the feet of his disciples,
according to the gospel of St. John.  “Mr. President, you have an awfully big room,” Stanley
said, telling him he must continue using the power of his office
for the benefit of all Americans. He urged Obama “leverage that
power for the benefit of the other people in the room.”  Though the president has never joined a church in
 Washington , he occasionally attends St. John’s, which is across
Lafayette Square from the presidential mansion.  President’s Church  Reverend Luis Leon, pastor of the Episcopal church since
1994, offered the benediction during the public inauguration at
the Capitol today. He replaced Pastor Louie Giglio, after the
discovery that a sermon Giglio gave in the mid-1990s was
critical of gay rights. The Episcopal Church supports same-sex
relationships.  Leon is an immigrant from Guantanamo, Cuba. He came to the
U.S. in 1961 at age 12 as part of the “Operation Peter Pan”
flights out of Cuba, joining thousands of children whose parents
feared for their future in the island nation.  St. John’s, which has about 1,000 members, is registered as
a national historic landmark. The first service was held in
1816.  James Madison  was the first president to attend the
church. Every president since then has attended a regular or
occasional service at St. John’s.  Prayer Service  Obama and Biden are scheduled to attend a national prayer
service at Washington National Cathedral tomorrow, concluding an
inaugural tradition dating to  George Washington .  The bell in St. John’s steeple weighs nearly 1,000 pounds.
It was cast by Paul Revere’s son, Joseph, at his Boston foundry
in August 1822 and installed at St. John’s on Nov. 30, 1822,
according to the church’s website.  Obama yesterday marked his official swearing-in yesterday
by attending Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church,
one of Washington, D.C.’s oldest African-American congregations.  “It is an honor to be part of a milestone in American
history,” Leon said to the El Nuevo Herald newspaper. “It is a
special honor to be an immigrant in this country, the only
country where an event like this can happen.”  “I feel that in some way I am representing the U.S.
Hispanic community,” Leon said. “We are an important part of
this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  