-- Obama Inaugural’s Liberal Definition of Rights
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2013-01-21T22:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/obama-inaugural-s-liberal-definition-of-rights.html
President Barack Obama’s speech
today made -- or tried to make -- two different points, both
concerning the definition of “rights.” Although couched in the
kind of president-ese appropriate to such an occasion, both
goals were easy to spot, and both are parts of a solidly liberal
vision of society and government.  People have been looking for the real  Barack Obama  --
principled (maybe dangerously principled) progressive or deeply
(maybe disappointingly) moderate compromiser? This speech makes
the answer clear.  First, Obama added a chapter on gay rights to the official
story of America as a continuing experiment in expanding
freedom: “We, the people, declare today that the most evident of
truths -- that all of us are created equal -- is the star that
guides us still; just as it guided our forebears through Seneca
Falls, and Selma, and Stonewall.” Women’s rights, blacks’
rights, gays’ rights. From now on that’s our story, and we’re
sticking with it.  This almost offhand reference by the president to a 1969
 gay-rights riot  as part of the grand procession of American
equality and civil rights is itself a milestone. From now on,
the boilerplate Fourth of July rhetoric of all politicians, or
at least all Democratic politicians, will cite “black or white,
men or women, Christian or Jewish or Muslim, gay or straight,”
and they will leave out the last pairing at their peril. (A
genuine contribution of George W. Bush’s presidency was adding
Muslims to the roll-call of American pluralism. One now says,
“our churches, synagogues, and mosques.” Following Obama, one
will refer to “our gay brothers and sisters” who deserve to be
“treated like anyone else under the law.”)  Positive Rights  The president’s second fascinating gloss on the concept of
rights has to do with negative and positive rights. In the U.S.,
when we think of rights, we think mainly of negative rights:
rights against the government. The Bill of Rights is largely a
list of things the government may not do to you. It may not
prevent you from having your say, or praying to your own God, or
living unbothered in your own house. It may not discriminate
against you on account of race, religion, and so on. But it has
no positive duty to feed or house you.  There is another view of “rights” that sees them in
positive terms, as obligations of society to all its citizens.
The right to education, to food, to a job, to health care, and
so on. These are the kind of rights that engage Obama.  “We the people,” he said today, “still believe that every
citizen deserves a basic measure of security and dignity.” Like
the other kind of rights, these rights can exist in theory for
years or centuries without being realized in practice. That’s
one reason that the struggle is never-ending.  Of course, being a politician, Obama claims that his vision
of society is uniquely American. His critics, by contrast, have
tried to nail him as a European intellectual (two fighting
words). In truth, his vision of a properly run society is closer
to the European model than, say, Representative Paul Ryan’s. But
voters seem to prefer Obama’s. Or at least the voters were given
the opportunity for the Ryan model and turned it down.  Obama said: “A modern economy requires railroads and
highways to speed travel and commerce; schools and colleges to
train our workers.” And, “A great nation must care for the
vulnerable and protect its people from life’s worst hazards and
misfortune.”  Who disagrees with that? Yet our particular great nation is
letting its railroads and highways rot and does only a mediocre
job of protecting people from life’s worst hazards.  Central Philosophy  Perhaps we now know why Obama took up health-care reform at
the beginning of his first term, even though there was other
stuff (i.e. the financial crisis) going on, and his advisers
(the ones on his payroll and those in the news media) were
saying, put it off. Decent health care for everybody isn’t just
a nice thing to have. It’s central to Obama’s philosophy of
government.  So Obama does have a vision -- articulated pretty clearly
if not explicitly in his speech today. Society, through its
proxy, the government, should provide the individual with a
higher level of protection from hardship and catastrophe than it
does now. Government should also invest in public goods such as
highways and education, which will also grease the wheels of
commerce. Even global warming and the deficit get shoehorned
into the framework of problems the government must deal with so
individuals can be free to live their lives as they choose.  The president said, “This generation of Americans has been
tested by crises that steeled our resolve and proved our
resilience.” It has? If so, it sure caught me napping. I think
we are fairly untested, and it’s hard to share the president’s
optimism. But he gets paid to be optimistic.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 