-- London Home Prices Have Biggest New-Year Surge in Five Years
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-01-21T07:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/london-house-prices-record-biggest-new-year-surge-in-five-years.html
London  home sellers flooded the
market in January and pushed up  asking prices  in the biggest
new-year increase since 2008,  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  said.  Asking prices in the capital rose 3.6 percent from the
previous month to an average 480,890 pounds ($764,000), the
property website operator said in a report today. Prices rose
9.7 percent from a year earlier, the biggest annual increase
since February 2010. Nationally, prices rose 0.2 percent.  The number of new properties hitting the London property
market rose 29 percent from a year earlier. If that becomes a
trend, Rightmove said it could help to better balance supply and
demand and slow house-price growth. Demand in London has boosted
values and helped the city outperform the rest of the country
over the past year.  The continued increase in London prices “restricts any
recovery in transaction volumes that deliver the level of
fluidity that a vibrant and healthy market needs,” said  Miles Shipside , director at Rightmove. Still, “the rush of sellers to
the market this month could be an early signal that the heady
rate of price increases is set to slow down, driven by stretched
buyer affordability and more stock to choose from.”  Nationally, prices rose 2.4 percent in January from a year
earlier to an average 229,429 pounds, Rightmove said. Recent
reports have indicated credit availability is improving as the
Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme starts to take
effect. Acadametrics Ltd. said last week that home values may
record a modest increase this year, though the outlook for the
economy remains uncertain.  London Outlook  In a separate report today, the  Centre for Economics and
Business Research  forecast that U.K. house prices will rise 0.8
percent this year. It also predicted that the average value will
reach 223,000 pounds in 2014, surpassing the 2007 pre-crisis
peak for the first time.  Rightmove said that new sellers in London will raise prices
by 3 percent this year, less than the 6.8 percent increase
recorded in 2012. Across the U.K., both values and property
transactions will increase in 2013, it said.  “The thaw will also be helped by growing confidence that
prices are more likely to go up than down,” Shipside said.
“There is an increasing body of evidence suggesting genuine
‘green shoots’ of recovery after a prolonged period of the
housing market bumping along the bottom.”  In a separate report today, the British Retail Consortium
said the number of shoppers visiting stores in U.K. fell 1.2
percent in December from a year earlier. At shopping malls, so-
called footfall dropped 2.8 percent, it said. The report follows
data on Jan. 18 showing that  U.K. retail sales  unexpectedly fell
0.1 percent in December from November.  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Eddie Buckle  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  