-- Hong Kong to Spend $4 Billion on Waste Management, Loh Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-01-21T08:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/hong-kong-to-spend-4-billion-on-waste-management-loh-says.html
Hong Kong will spend at least HK$31
billion ($3.9 billion) building infrastructure to handle waste
through 2021, as it seeks to alleviate a space shortage at
landfills.  The government is considering facilities treating  food
waste , expanding landfills and building incinerators,  Christine Loh , undersecretary for environment, said today at a conference
in Hong Kong.  The city’s plans to expand landfills at its nature reserves
and build large incinerators have met with opposition from
lawmakers and environmental groups, stalling earlier proposals
by the government. Existing landfills will be full within seven
years, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said in a Jan. 16 policy
address.  “We are going to have to build a whole range of hardware
to deal with the waste we aren’t able to reuse, recycle,” Loh
said.  Part of the proposed spending includes two food waste
treatment plants and landfill expansions, Loh said. Food
leftovers represent about 40 percent of the city’s trash going
into dumps.  The government is building  an incinerator  in Tuen Mun, in
northwest  Hong Kong , Loh said.  Hong Kong wants to increase its recycling rate for
materials including metals, glass and paper to 55 percent from
48 percent, Loh said. To achieve this goal, the government wants
to allocate ship berths for recyclers and implement a levy on
each glass bottle, she said.  “Quite a lot of our recycled waste is exported -- paper,
metal, aluminum,” said Loh. “The recycling industry has
complained for many years they don’t have any dedicated berth,
terminals, sites for them to do the exports. We are now looking
for some dedicated space for them.”  The bottle levy would place a charge on the producers of
glass containers imported into Hong Kong, which would then be
passed on to consumers, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  