-- Morgan Stanley Leads Rise in All-or-Nothing Structured Notes
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-01-21T13:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/morgan-stanley-leads-rise-in-all-or-nothing-structured-notes.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Standard Chartered (STAN) 
Plc and Credit Agricole SA are selling the most structured notes
in two years where returns are linked to the U.S. dollar’s
relationship to  China ’s yuan and the Japanese yen.  The banks sold $93.6 million of notes with so-called
digital coupons this month, accounting for the entire market and
following no issuance in December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the most since $134 million of sales in
January 2011.  Digital coupons, also known as all-or-nothing interest
payments because they’re payable only if certain conditions are
met, are popular with investors because they can generate higher
returns. Volatility in China’s currency is close to the lowest
in 10 years and correlation between currencies such as the
Australian and Taiwanese dollars is near the closest to zero in
five years, Bloomberg data show.  “Digital coupons offer a payout that is linked to a
straightforward view” of whether a currency will appreciate or
depreciate against another, said David Naville, head of foreign-
exchange structuring for the Asia-Pacific region at Barclays Plc
in Hong Kong. “If the view is right, the coupon is paid.
Otherwise it’s not.”  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets,
raised 346.4 million  yuan  ($55.7 million) from one-year notes
tied to the Chinese currency this month, Bloomberg data show.
The securities pay coupons as high as 8.6 percent as long as the
yuan appreciates by as much as 1 percent or more in Hong Kong’s
offshore market, or else nothing. Noel Cheung, a spokeswoman for
the bank in Hong Kong, declined to comment on the bank’s notes.  Standard Chartered  Standard Chartered sold 101.5 million yuan of one-year
notes on Jan. 7 that pay 6 percent if the offshore yuan is less
than or equal to 6.24 per dollar. If it ends above that level,
investors will be paid 0.25 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Credit Agricole (ACA)  raised $21.5 million from two 10-year
offerings this month, including an $11 million note that pays
6.5 percent as long as the Australian dollar is worth $0.86 or
more U.S. dollars and the greenback can buy 27.5 or more of
 Taiwan ’s currency. The bank also sold a $10.5 million note that
profits if the dollar gains against the yen and remains at or
below 6.37 yuan, Bloomberg data show.  High Coupons  France ’s third-largest lender, which is rated A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and A by Standard & Poor’s, offered the notes
with coupons that can be 3.5 percentage points above where
European banks with a Bloomberg composite rating between A- and
A+ can raise funding in dollars for 10 years, according to
 Bloomberg Valuation data . The bank was able to create the notes
with high coupons because the correlation between the currency
pairs is low, said Christine Lefort, Paris-based global head of
foreign-exchange and precious metals research and development.  Baskets that contain components that are less correlated to
each other are less volatile, making options embedded in the
structured notes cheaper to buy.  Daily price moves in the exchange rate between the U.S. and
Australian currencies are .09 percent correlated with those in
the rate between the U.S. and Taiwanese dollars, Bloomberg data
show. A correlation of 1 indicates two prices move exactly
together.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  