-- Hostess Bakers Union Hires Investment Bank Gordian in Asset Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/hostess-bakers-union-hires-investment-bank-gordian-in-asset-sale.html
The union and the pension fund
representing Hostess Brands Inc. workers hired investment bank
Gordian Group LLC in connection with the bankruptcy of the maker
of Twinkies and Wonder bread.  The New York-based banking firm was selected in part for
its experience working on behalf of employees in other
restructurings, the Bakery Confectionery Tobacco Workers and
Grain Millers International Union said in a  statement  on its
website Jan. 19. It represents more than 5,000 Hostess workers.  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  submitted the lead bid for most of the
assets of the company’s bread-baking operations, Hostess Chief
Executive Officer Gregory F. Rayburn said Jan 11.  “We aim to be directly involved in the M&A process in a
way the union hasn’t been to date,” Peter Kaufman, Gordian’s
president, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We’re open
to working with Flowers as well as other bidders for the brands,
the assets and the company.”  Hostess, the 82-year-old maker of Ding Dongs and Ho Hos,
began to wind down operations in November after failing to reach
an agreement with its striking bakers’ union on concessions to
help it emerge from its second bankruptcy. Changes in American
diets led to years of declining sales while ingredient costs and
labor expenses climbed.  The Hostess liquidation sales may generate about $1
billion, financial adviser Joshua Scherer of Perella Weinberg
Partners LP said in November.  Airline Restructuring  Gordian Group previously represented the Transport Workers
Union in the restructuring of American Airlines, according to
the statement. Tom Becker, a Hostess spokesman, declined to
comment on the hiring of Gordian Group and an e-mail to a union
spokeswoman wasn’t immediately returned.  A hearing to consider approval of bidding procedures is set
for Jan. 25.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  