-- Thai Billionaire Nears Win on F&N After OUE Sticks to Bid
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-01-22T01:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/overseas-union-enterprise-not-increasing-offer-price-for-f-n.html
Thailand ’s richest man came closer
to winning control of  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  after a rival group
failed to top his S$13.8 billion ($11.2 billion) offer for the
130-year-old property and beverage company.  A group led by  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  said
yesterday it won’t match Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s Jan. 18 offer of S$9.55 a share. The OUE
group had bid S$9.08 a share in November.  OUE’s decision gives Charoen the upper hand after a two-
month battle over a company that has assets from soft drinks to
serviced apartments. The billionaire has built a 40 percent
stake in F&N in his push to win the biggest takeover of a
Singapore-based company.  “It’s all over,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based
director of special situations at Religare Capital Markets.
“All said and done, S$9.55 is not a bad outcome. While it’s not
quite as good as what it could have got, I think the vast
majority of F&N shareholders would be satisfied considering
where the stock was trading before the saga erupted.”  Charoen’s TCC Assets Ltd. still needs to gain the support
of a majority of  shareholders . F&N fell 2 percent to S$9.55 at 9
a.m. in  Singapore  trading, matching Charoen’s bid.  “Charoen seems pretty convinced that his S$9.55 offer is
as generous as he’s going to get,” said Jason Hughes, head of
premium client management at IG Markets in Singapore. “In all
likelihood, there would be enough willing sellers at that price.
On the balance of probability, F&N is now TCC’s for the
taking.”  F&N  shares  have gained 22 percent since Charoen announced
his initial investment in the company on July 18, three times
the gain in the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Impossible Takeover  OUE, a Singapore-based property company, had enlisted
Japanese brewer Kirin Holdings Co. in its November bid. OUE
would get the company’s property business and Kirin would take
the food and beverage unit, under that pact. The Japanese brewer
would offer S$2.7 billion for F&N’s food and beverage business,
if the group won enough support to complete the takeover.  “It would be impossible for Kirin to get the beverage
business,” said Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research for JI
 Asia  in  Tokyo . “It’s unimaginable for the rival ThaiBev to hand
it over to Kirin.”  Beer maker ThaiBev or  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , which owns shares
in F&N, is controlled by Charoen. Kirin, which has a 14.8
percent stake in F&N, hasn’t decided what it would do with its
shares, said Kan Yamamoto, the company’s spokesman. He declined
to comment on the OUE decision.  Cutting Losses  Kirin would get about S$2 billion for its 14.8 percent
stake if it decides to sell at Charoen’s price. The stock gained
5 percent to 1,100 yen at 10:10 a.m. in Tokyo trading.  Charoen’s offer values the company at S$13.8 billion and he
would pay about S$8.3 billion for the 60 percent he doesn’t
control.  OUE said yesterday that to win majority shareholder support
it would have had to raise its bid “to a level which is no
longer as attractive.” The decision led to a lapse in its
offer, which expired yesterday.  “OUE decided to cut their losses and keep on going with
their own business,” Hughes said.  Thai Beverage jumped 4.6 percent to 46 Singapore cents, set
for a record. OUE rose 4 percent to S$2.85, set for the highest
since Oct. 5.  Charoen, 68, agreed to buy a 22 percent stake in F&N in
July, sparking a fight for its assets. He had offered S$8.88 a
share in September. His latest offer will remain open until Feb.
4, F&N said in a statement.  The Thai billionaire was born and raised in Bangkok’s
Chinatown district. He bid for the rights to operate
distilleries during a liberalization of the nation’s liquor
industry, before expanding into beer, alcohol, sugar, and
packaging businesses.  Charoen’s unlisted business, TCC Group, has a real estate
unit. His Thai Beverage, which sells the Chang brand of beer,
gets almost all its revenue from its home market.  OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses
ranging from real estate and financial services to food across
Asia. If successful, it would be the biggest ever acquisition of
a Singapore-based company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  