-- Toxic Melamine Released From Bowls Serving Hot Soup, Study Finds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-21T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/toxic-melamine-released-from-bowls-serving-hot-soup-study-finds.html
Melamine , the chemical that killed
infants in a milk-formula scandal in  China  in 2008, may be
ingested when it’s used to serve hot food, a study found.  The toxic chemical is released from melamine-containing
tableware when exposed to boiling-hot substances, researchers at
the  Kaohsiung Medical University  in Taiwan showed. Their study,
involving a dozen healthy adult volunteers, detected traces of
melamine in urine following consumption of noodle soup consumed
from non-breakable melamine bowls.  The finding, in a research letter published today in the
Journal of the American Medical Association  Internal Medicine ,
suggests a mechanism for regular exposure to the organic
chemical, widely used in plastics, adhesives, countertops,
dishware and whiteboards. Consumption of melamine-contaminated
dairy products in  China  gave people kidney stones that resulted
in at least six deaths and sickened more than 300,000 babies.  “Although the clinical significance of what levels of
urinary melamine concentration has not yet been established, the
consequences of long-term melamine exposure still should be of
concern,” Chia-Fang Wu and colleagues said in the letter.  Their research analyzed urine samples collected from the
volunteers within 12 hours of the consumption of noodle soup
served in either melamine or ceramic bowls. Melamine excretion
totaled 8.35 micrograms in those whose soup was served in
melamine bowls, compared with 1.31 micrograms in the control
group.  China pledged to improve consumer protection after melamine
powdered-milk scandal in 2008.  Shanghai ’s government announced
last month it is considering harsher punishments for companies
that violate food safety rules.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  