-- Pacific Group to Convert 1/3 of Hedge-Fund Assets to Gold
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-01-21T01:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/pacific-group-to-convert-one-third-of-hedge-fund-assets-to-gold.html
The Pacific Group Ltd. , founded by a
former PaineWebber Inc. trader, is converting one-third of its
hedge-fund assets into physical gold, betting that prices will
go up as governments print more money to pay off debt.  The Hong Kong-based asset manager plans to take delivery of
$35 million worth of gold bars that can be traded on the London
Bullion Market Association and other international markets,
William Kaye, its founder and chief investment officer, said in
a telephone interview on Jan. 18. It has secured vault space at
Hong Kong International Airport to store the gold, he said.  Investors disillusioned with government money printing to
service “insurmountable” public debt may seek alternatives to
fiat currencies, Kaye said. Asset managers, including  Soros Fund
Management  LLC, Paulson & Co. and Sprott Inc., are betting on
the precious metal even after a 12-year rally has cemented the
longest  bull market  in at least nine decades.  “Gold, the way we look at it, is anywhere from being
undervalued to being seriously undervalued,” Kaye said. “We’re
in the early stages, in our judgment, of what would likely be
the world’s largest short squeeze in any instrument.”  Fiat currencies have no tangible backing, such as gold or
silver, except governments’ good faith and can become worthless
due to hyperinflation or loss of public faith.  Pacific Group’s $95 million Greater Asian Hedge Fund, which
started trading in 2001, returned 2.8 percent last year, taking
the cumulative net return since its February 2000 inception to
195 percent. It suffered two down years in 2008 and 2011,
according to its December 2012  newsletter .  Soros, Paulson  Gold for immediate delivery finished last year up 7 percent
at $1,675.35 an ounce, off the high of $1,900.23 reached on Sept.
5, 2011. Prices retreated for three consecutive months to
December, as the easing  European debt crisis  and faster growth
from the U.S. and  China  spurred speculation that central banks
will scale back stimulus. Spot gold finished last week up 1.3
percent at $1,684.30 an ounce, a second consecutive weekly
advance.  Soros Fund Management, founded by the billionaire  George
Soros , raised its stake in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) , the biggest
gold-backed exchange-traded product by 49 percent in the third
quarter to about $215 million, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filings show. Paulson & Co., led by  John Paulson 
whose wager against the subprime mortgage market made him a
billionaire in 2007, has a bet of about $3.6 billion through the
trust, according to the filings.  Investors would seek the safest assets while governments
spend to stimulate their economies, raising the risk of
accelerating inflation,  Eric Sprott , the founder and chairman of
the Canadian  fund manager  said in July. Sprott manages funds
that invest mainly in gold, silver and precious-metals equities.  ‘Financial Catastrophe’  Central banks have so far been able to manipulate  interest
rates  to allow governments to service their debt at low costs,
averting market seizures, Kaye said. Still, the next big rally
in precious-metal prices may be 18 months to two years away,
triggered by a “financial catastrophe,” he added.  Ownership of gold through financial instruments based on it,
such as Comex futures contracts, now represents more than 100
times the physical gold that exists above ground worldwide, Kaye
said, citing the Pacific Group’s own analysis.  “All you actually need for a major upward revaluation of
gold is for a small fraction of people to physically reclaim
from major central banks or other depositories that are holding
your gold and using it for their purposes,” he added.  The Pacific Group has just converted the first tranche of
such investments, buying gold bars from local refineries, Kaye
said without giving the exact value of the delivery.  Kaye was a manager of the arbitrage department of
PaineWebber in  New York  and also worked in the mergers and
acquisitions department of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according
to a  biography  posted on his company’s website. In 1991, he set
up the Pacific Group, which also has made private-equity
investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  