-- Palm Favored by Ospraie Rising as Reserves Retreat: Commodities
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-01-22T18:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/palm-favored-by-ospraie-rising-as-reserves-retreat-commodities.html
Palm oil is rebounding from a seven-
month bear market after  Malaysia , the second-biggest grower, cut
export taxes to diminish record stockpiles.  Inventories will drop 16 percent to 2.2 million metric tons
by March, the most since 2010, after tariffs were reduced to
zero this month, according to the median of six analyst and
trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Futures will rally 14
percent to 2,800 ringgit ($921) a ton in Kuala Lumpur by the end
of this quarter, the median of 13 estimates shows.  The most-consumed cooking oil rose 11 percent since hitting
a three-year low in December on prospects for more exports and
as trees, which are harvested throughout the year, start their
lowest-yielding quarter. Dwight Anderson, the founder of New
York-based hedge fund Ospraie Management LLC, said last month
that palm was one of his top commodity picks for 2013. Dorab Mistry, who has traded the oil for three decades, says prices
probably already peaked this year because output will rebound.  “Palm oil will climb in the first quarter, or until May,
as stockpiles may decline,” said Hariyanto Wijaya, a Jakarta-
based analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of the biggest
bank by assets in  Indonesia , the largest palm-growing nation.
“The price will probably drop in the second half because of
increased output in Malaysia and Indonesia.”  Raw Materials  Futures that fell as low as 2,217 ringgit on Dec. 13 on the
Malaysia Derivatives Exchange advanced 1.9 percent to 2,465
ringgit today. They slumped 23 percent in 2012, the biggest rout
since 2008. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials
rose 2.8 percent this year and the MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities added 3.7 percent. A Bank of America Corp. index
shows Treasuries lost 0.4 percent.  Malaysian  inventories  reached a record 2.63 million tons in
December, or about 14 percent of the country’s annual output.
That prompted the government to reduce the export tariff from
Jan. 1 to 4.5 percent to 8.5 percent, from about 23 percent.
With prices still below the threshold that triggers the lowest
rate, the tax was removed completely for January and February.  The anticipated surge in shipments will coincide with a
seasonal drop in output. Harvesting typically peaks in September
or October and reaches its lowest point in January or February,
with an average decline of 34 percent in the past five years,
data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board show. That should also
boost prices, and demand will strengthen because of rising costs
for competing oils, said Ivy Ng, an analyst at  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Malaysia’s second-largest lender by assets.  Global Reserves  Soybean oil, the most-consumed after palm, advanced 5.6
percent to 52.46 cents a pound in Chicago trading this year
after U.S. farmers endured the worst drought since the 1930s.
Global reserves of the commodity will tumble 15 percent to 3.27
million tons by September, the steepest slump since 1997, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  Palm may reach 2,600 ringgit this quarter and rally further
by June, said Sabri Ahmad, the chief executive officer of Felda
Global Ventures Holdings Bhd., the third-largest plantation
operator. He cited lower output and higher demand for the oil
for use in the production of biofuels. A record 5.6 million tons
was used for fuel in 2012, according to Oil World, a Hamburg-
based research company.  That may not be enough to diminish the glut of supply as
harvesting accelerates in the second quarter. Production in
Indonesia, which together with Malaysia accounts for 87 percent
of world output, will expand 8.1 percent to a record 28 million
tons this season, the USDA estimates. The country’s stockpiles
may swell to 3.5 million tons this month, from 3.25 million tons
in December, according to the median of four estimates.  Production Expands  Global output will expand 5.2 percent to an all-time high
of 53.33 million tons in 2012-2013, leaving stockpiles at a
record 7.083 million tons by the end of the season, the USDA
predicts. Prices surged to a record 4,486 ringgit in 2008 and
climbed again to 3,967 ringgit in 2011, encouraging production.  Palm will drop below 2,200 ringgit in August or earlier,
amid a worldwide glut of edible oils, Mistry told a conference
in Bali in November. Prices may have already peaked this year,
he said in an e-mail Jan. 9, without revising his November
forecast. Worldwide production of nine edible oils tracked by
the USDA including palm, peanut and soy will expand to a record
157 million tons this year, or 63 percent more than a decade
ago, the agency estimates.  Titanic Again  “Production of oilseeds looks terrific for 2013,” wrote
Mistry, a director at Godrej International Ltd., who became
known as Mr. Titanic after he correctly compared vegetable oil
prices to the ill-fated liner in 1998. “I am afraid it is the
Titanic again. The ship of world vegetable oils is taking in
water by the hour.”  Stockpiles at major ports in China, the biggest consumer
after  India  and Indonesia, rose to a record 1.18 million tons,
the state-owned China National Grain & Oils Information Center
said Jan. 16. India, the largest user, said Jan. 17 that it will
tax crude-palm-oil imports for the first time since 2008 to
protect its farmers from a surge in shipments.  Rabobank International expects palm to rally to 2,700
ringgit in the second quarter before easing to 2,600 ringgit and
2,500 ringgit in final two quarters.  Slumping palm helped contain global food costs last year
even as droughts from the U.S. to  Europe  drove soybeans and corn
to records. The  United Nations’ gauge  of prices across 11 oils
and fats retreated 22 percent since April as its overall index
of 55 foods fell 1.7 percent.  Diesel Discount  Ospraie’s Anderson said in a Dec. 5 interview on Bloomberg
Television that he’s bullish on palm because of its discount to
diesel, which increases its attractiveness for use in biofuel.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Anderson, declined to
comment in an e-mail Jan. 10.  Palm’s  discount  to gasoil, another so-called middle
distillate comparable with diesel, was at $150.2 a ton today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia will extend
nationwide a program to use a 5 percent palm blend in biodiesel
and also introduce a 10 percent blend, Plantation Industries and
Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok said Jan. 14.  Demand may also surpass current forecasts as economies
strengthen.  China  accelerated for the first time in two years in
the last three months of 2012 and U.S. growth will gain every
quarter through the end of 2013, the medians of estimates from
as many as 91 economists compiled by Bloomberg show.  Felda will report a 21 percent gain in profit to 951.44
million ringgit this year, according to the mean of 18 analyst
estimates. The company’s refining margins should improve after
the cut in export tariffs, according toHoe Lee Leng, an analyst
at  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  in Kuala Lumpur who anticipates an average
price of 2,800 ringgit in 2013.  “Overall I don’t see a bearish sentiment, I see a friendly
market,” said  Felda (FGV) ’s Sabri. “In terms of the supply side, the
next three months are going to be quite tight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  