-- Panel Recommends Domestic Abuse Screening for U.S. Women
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-01-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/panel-recommends-domestic-abuse-screening-for-u-s-women.html
Women of childbearing age should be
screened by their primary doctors to determine if they are
victims of domestic abuse, a U.S. panel recommends.  The  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force , an independent
panel, was seeking to update its 2004 recommendations to help
health professionals screen and prevent domestic violence. While
available research allowed the group to issue guidelines for 14-
to 46-year-old females, the task force was unable to make
proposals for other groups such as the elderly. The panel also
said not enough data existed to provide preliminary suggestions
for how doctors could help prevent child abuse or neglect.  “We hope the clinicians get the message that screening for
intimate partner violence works, particularly for women of
childbearing age,” said  David Grossman , a member of the task
force and senior investigator at the Group Health Research
Institute in  Seattle , in a Jan. 18 telephone interview. “As far
as screening for men and screening for the elderly, we would say
that we just don’t know about the effectiveness of that. We’re
basically saying clinicians need to use their judgment.”  As for children, Grossman said, “we just don’t have enough
information to know what works to prevent child abuse in primary
care.” Doctors though still need to be alert to the signs and
symptoms of abuse and neglect and act accordingly, he said.  A review 11 clinical trials published today in the  Annals
of Internal Medicine  showed that early childhood home visitation
programs helped reduce neglect and abuse, although the findings
were inconsistent across the studies.  “It was kind of a mixed bag,” said  Heidi Nelson , senior
investigator of the study and a professor of medicine at  Oregon
Health & Science University  in  Portland , in a Jan. 18 telephone
interview. “More and better research would be helpful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  