-- Pearson Lowers 2012 Forecast Citing Tough Market Conditions
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-01-21T16:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/pearson-lowers-2012-forecast-citing-tough-market-conditions.html
Pearson Plc (PSON) , owner of the Financial
Times newspaper, cut its forecast for 2012 and predicted a
difficult 2013, as tougher market conditions hit earnings at its
professional education and FT Group units.  Pearson reduced its earnings per share forecast for 2012 to
about 84 pence from 84.9 pence. The difficult market, along with
“structural industry change,” will continue into 2013, the
London-based company said in a statement today.  Pearson said 2012 earnings will reflect the sale of FTSE
International and losses from its  Pearson in Practice  U.K. adult
training business, which the company plans to sell. To combat
declines in print sales, Pearson has emphasized its education
businesses under new Chief Executive Officer John Fallon, and in
November the company said it may re-examine its ownership of the
Financial Times. Pearson said last week the FT is not for sale.  “While the downgrade may seem modest, the mere fact they
have done one for a share with such a high rating and reputation
for updates” is significant, said Ian Whittaker, a media
analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London  who recommends selling the
shares.  The company expects to report operating profit of about 935
million pounds ($1.49 billion) for last year compared with 942
million pounds for 2011, Pearson said in the statement.  Shares Drop  The stock fell 2.9 percent to 1,202 pence as trading volume
reached almost triple the three month daily average at the 4:30
p.m. close in London. The decline was the biggest intraday drop
in six months.  Pearson is the second-worst performer in the Stoxx 600
Media Supersector Index over the past three months, with a
decline of about 1.3 percent. The 28-company index has gained
9.3 percent in that period, led by  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  and
 Mediaset SpA. (MS)   Pearson, which generates about 60 percent of sales from the
U.S., said it will report good revenue growth for 2012 even as
the fourth quarter slowed on weaker advertising. The company’s
Financial Times Group division will report “significantly”
lower full-year profit reflecting the absence of a contribution
from FTSE International.  The professional education business will also post a
significant drop on the Pearson in Practice operation, which in
the first half of 2012 had a loss of 10 million pounds, compared
with a 16 million-pound profit for 2011, the company said.
Pearson plans to sell this business and is estimating the cost
for closure and impairment at about 120 million pounds.  Modest Revenue  Pearson’s North American education division will report
“modest” revenue growth at constant exchange rates, while
international education will show double-digital sales growth on
good performances in development markets, assessment and
English-language teaching.  Pearson’s Penguin book division has traded in line with
expectations and will report higher revenue at constant exchange
rates. The company announced a combination with Bertelsmann AG’s
 Random House  last year, and is going through regulatory
clearance.  Pearson is due to report full year earnings on Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  