-- Peter Mel Wins Super Bowl of Surfing Return Off California Coast
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-21T07:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/peter-mel-wins-super-bowl-of-surfing-return-off-california-coast.html
Peter Mel won the invitation-only
professional surfing contest known as Mavericks, which returned
to  California  yesterday with waves up to 30 feet after a three-
year wait for the right weather conditions.  Mel, 43, finished atop a field of  24 surfers  competing off
the Pacific coast near Half Moon Bay, about 30 miles (48
kilometers) south of  San Francisco .  Zach Wormhoudt finished second, followed by Greg Long, Alex
Martins, Mark Healey and Shawn Dollar. The six who reached the
final -- all of whom are American except for Martins, who is
from Brazil -- split the prize money evenly, Mel told the crowd
during the award ceremony.  “We do the mutual thing where as a brotherhood we kind of
split the cash, so we’re all sharing the money,” Mel said,
without disclosing the amount each received. “That’s how we do
it. When you start a final like that, it kind of takes the
pressure off. Usually when you do that too, the waves come and
that’s kind of what happened.”  Mel, from  Santa Cruz , California, is “one of the most
respected big-wave surfers of the modern era,” according to the
Mavericks International  website .  The competition, held intermittently since 1999, is billed
as the  Super Bowl  of big-wave surfing. Each year during the
contest season, November through March, chosen surfers from
California to South Africa wait for notice of the competition,
which can come as little as 24 hours in advance.  Mavericks is famed for producing the biggest surfable waves
in the U.S. outside of Hawaii. The surf break is due to the
presence of a reef, according to a seafloor study by the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  