-- Petrobras to Double Ships at Rio by 2015, Operator Says
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-01-21T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/petrobras-to-double-ships-at-rio-by-2015-operator-says.html
Triunfo Logistica Ltda, a terminal
operator in the  Rio de Janeiro  port, said it’s preparing to
double the number of ships the company handles for  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  over the next two years.  Triunfo has two contracts for a total of 350 to 370 vessels
a month for Petrobras, as the country’s state-run oil producer
is known, and is seeking to cut the time each ship is docked as
a way to avoid spending on infrastructure to receive more ships,
Chief Executive Officer  Rogerio Caffaro  said in an interview at
the company’s port offices.  The surge in demand will come as Petrobras seeks to ramp up
production over the next seven years of so-called pre-salt
reserves under the Atlantic Ocean seabed. Support vessels for
both Petrobras’s pre-production and productive fields will
account for Triunfo’s higher work flow.  “Petrobras is working with Triunfo to slash times, which
are currently at 15 hours per ship, less than the 17 hours
stipulated by contract,” Caffaro said.  Ships handled by Rio de Janeiro-based Triunfo for Petrobras
are mainly Platform Supply Vessels, Anchor Handling Tug Supply
Vessels  and Research Vessels.  The two Petrobras contracts account for 40 to 50 percent of
closely-held Triunfo’s 200 million reais of annual sales,
Caffaro said. The company also operates with containers and
steel shipments, and has maintenance contracts for Floating
Production, Storage and Offloading vessels with third parties.  Tug-boat operator  Wilson Sons Ltd (WSON11)  and vessel suppliers and
operators  Tidewater Inc. (TDW)  and  Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. (HOS)  are
among companies that operate in the Brazilian off-shore oil
industry. Petrobras accounted for 93.9 percent of Brazilian oil
production in November, the latest data published by the oil
regulator show.  Petrobras’s press office didn’t immediately answer
questions sent by e-mail on the company’s port handling plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  