-- Pimco to Norway Love Mexico as New Bond Gauges Use GDP
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-01-22T11:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/pimco-to-norway-love-mexico-as-new-bond-gauges-use-gdp.html
The world’s biggest investors are
moving away from allocating money to government bond markets
based on their amount of debt, a strategy that has favored the
largest borrowers for three decades.  Norway’s $702 billion sovereign-wealth fund and Pacific
Investment Management Co. are starting to shift to indexes that
favor less-indebted nations with growing gross domestic product,
such as  Brazil  and South Korea. Pimco boosted the proportion of
Mexican holdings while trimming the percentage allocated to U.S.
issues in its biggest exchange-traded fund.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s largest money manager, with $3.8 trillion in assets, has
$3 billion tied to a gauge based on credit-worthiness rather
than capitalization.  The move away from market-size benchmarks that guide at
least $9 trillion in fixed-income investments may raise
borrowing costs for industrialized nations and curb those for
developing economies. Bonds from the Group of Seven countries
underperformed the global government debt market last year by
the most on record.  “We’re beginning to see enough evidence on the side of GDP
indexes and seeing investors finally pulling the trigger toward
making the reallocation,” Saumil Parikh, a money manager and
member of the investment committee at Newport Beach, California-
based Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a
telephone interview Dec. 10. “The tyranny of market-cap
indexing is finally now going to go into reverse.”  Steady Inflows  The three-decade rally in sovereign securities has depended
on steady inflows into the most-indebted nations. Money managers
traditionally benchmarked performance against indexes weighted
to markets with the most debt, giving greater emphasis to the
U.S.,  Japan  and  Italy  at the expense of nations that borrowed
less even if they were growing faster.  Global borrowings outstanding totaled $25.7 trillion as of
Jan. 15, with 83 percent in G-7 countries and 13 percent in
emerging-market nations, Bank of America Corp. data show.  The ratios of debt to GDP climbed to records of 93.6
percent for the U.S. and 205.5 percent for Japan, from 62
percent and 170 percent in 2007. The U.S. is poised to overtake
Japan this year as the nation with the most amount of debt due,
with maturities rising to $2.9 trillion from $2.6 trillion.  Bigger Gains  Indexes based on the size of economies are doing better
than those using the amount of debt outstanding.  A  Barclays Plc (BARC)  measure focusing on GDP returned 6.9 percent
last year, versus 4.3 percent for the bank’s benchmark for
global bonds using market capitalization, the biggest difference
in data going back to 2001. Pimco’s Global Advantage Bond Index,
which is based on GDP instead of debt outstanding, gained more
than twice the Barclays standard gauge in 2012.  Debt of G-7 countries returned 3.8 percent last year, 0.8
percentage point less than for all sovereigns, the widest gap on
record, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The Barclays Global Aggregate Bond Index, the most-used
market-capitalization benchmark for government and non-
government global bonds, is weighted 36 percent to the U.S.,
followed by Japan at 18 percent. Japan has the highest
allocation in the Barclays Global Treasury Bond Index, which
measures sovereign debt, at 29 percent, followed by the U.S. at
27 percent.  Mexico  makes up about 0.6 percent of the gauges.  GDP Weights  In 2009 the London-based bank introduced the Barclays
Global Aggregate GDP Weighted Index, which is weighted 31
percent to the U.S., 12 percent to Japan and 3.7 percent to
Mexico.  While the U.S. and Japan lead allocations in both,
countries such as Mexico, South Korea and  Australia  have bigger
shares in the economy-based measures than they do in the
standard gauges. Australia’s debt totals 26.7 percent of its
GDP, while it’s 33.6 percent for South Korea, and 35.4 percent
for Mexico.  Allocations  of bond funds based on GDP are still a small
part of the total. Pimco has about $18 billion of its $1.9
trillion in assets tied to its GDP measures. Fidelity
Investments attracted $193 million since May to track an
economy-weighted benchmark. The Boston-based firm has $1.6
trillion under management.  Investors can’t always get bonds of countries with the
highest growth rates, such as China and  India , amid restrictions
on foreign ownership, according to Chris Redmond, head of global
bond-manager research at consulting firm Towers Watson.  Transition Phase  About 25 percent of Towers Watson’s institutional clients
are moving away from market-based weightings in some part of
their holdings, London-based Redmond said in a telephone
interview Dec. 12.  Over time, investors will realize the benefits of the new
approach, according to Chris Orndorff, a senior money manager
for Pasadena, California-based Western Asset Management Co.  “The industry is in a transition phase currently, but
clearly moving away from market-cap weighted benchmarks,”
Orndorff, whose firm oversees about $460 billion in assets, said
in an e-mail Dec. 20. “The full evolution may take a decade to
be realized.”  So far, the U.S.,  Europe , Japan or the U.K. haven’t been
hurt by the changing allocations. They all have reserve
currencies and central banks that have bought more than $5.3
trillion in bonds since 2008 to drive down interest rates and
support their economies, according to Bianco Research LLC.  Record Low  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes reached a record low in
July of 1.379 percent, those on Japan’s benchmark bonds were a
nine-year low of 0.685 percent in December and U.K. gilts
dropped to a record low of 1.41 percent in July, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. 10-year yields were at 1.87 percent as of 6:49 a.m. in
New York, from 1.84 percent at the end of last week. They
reached 1.97 percent on Jan. 4, the highest level since April.
Japan’s five-year rate touched 0.14 percent today, the least
since the government started selling the debt in 2000. Ten-year
gilt yields were little changed at 2.05 percent.  Returns have started to decline with yields so low.
Treasuries are down 0.37 percent this month after gaining 2.2
percent last year, below an average of 3.8 percent in the prior
three years. Bunds lost 1.4 percent in January. Bonds measured
by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index
dropped 0.17 percent this month after returning an average of
5.3 percent over the past four years.  Sales Soar  Sales of U.S. corporate and sovereign issues reached $1.1
trillion in 2012, up from $962.8 billion the year before. GDP
growth is expected to slow to 2 percent in 2013 from 2.3 percent
last year, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Japan’s economic growth is expected to
slow to 0.7 percent in 2013 from 2 percent in 2012, a separate
survey shows.  By contrast, Mexico sold 209.4 billion Mexican pesos ($16.5
billion) of government and non-government bonds last year,
almost 3 percent less than in 2011. The country’s economy
probably grew 3.8 percent in 2012, Bloomberg data show.  Movement away from capitalization-based bond benchmarks may
cause higher borrowing costs for countries with elevated  debt  to
GDP over the next few years, Jeffrey Frankel, a professor at
Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, said in a
telephone interview Jan. 2.  “If a lot of investors move in that direction, it will
increase the premium that high-debt countries are forced to
pay,” said Frankel, who sits on advisory panels for the Federal
Reserve Banks of  Boston  and New York.  Norway Switches  Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global, the world’s
largest sovereign-wealth fund, started weighting its euro
government bond holdings in 2011 using GDP, and in July
implemented a new benchmark for all of its sovereign-debt
holdings.  Bill Gross , Pimco’s founder and co-chief investment
officer, received a patent last year for the methodology behind
a global index developed in 2009 that weights countries by the
size of their economy rather than indebtedness. The company
developed the gauge to reflect its outlook for a prolonged
period of subdued returns in developed nations.  Pimco’s Total Return ETF (BOND)  has gained 12.3 percent since it
started trading March 1, 9 percentage points more than the
Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index.  BlackRock Index  Even as it increased Mexican holdings and reduced the share
of Treasuries, the fund’s dollar amount of U.S. debt increased.
The ETF follows a similar strategy to the $285 billion  Pimco
Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest bond fund.  BlackRock’s Sovereign Risk Index , which was created in June
2011, evaluates countries based on their likelihood of default,
devaluation or above-trend inflation, Thomas Christiansen, a
strategist at the BlackRock Investment Institute in  London , said
in a telephone interview Dec. 13. The measure takes into account
willingness to repay loans and the term structure of the debt,
he said.  The New York-based firm uses the index to reduce exposure
to countries most in danger of default, such as Greece, Portugal
and  Egypt , rather than as a proxy for how to build and weight a
fund, according to Christiansen.  “It’s gaining a lot of traction,” Christiansen said. “We
realized market-cap weightings essentially reward failures.
Hopefully the longer-term implications are that some of these
countries become more fiscally responsible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net 
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  