-- Poland Needs Rate Cuts to Avoid Stagnation: Bratkowski
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-01-22T14:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/poland-needs-rate-cuts-to-avoid-stagnation-bratkowski.html
Poland’s central bank should cut its
 benchmark   interest rate  by another percentage point in the
coming months to keep the European Union’s largest eastern
economy from stagnating, policy maker Andrzej Bratkowski said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski has reduced the main rate by a
combined 75 basis points to 4 percent since November, a cycle
that began one year after the  European Central Bank  started
lowering borrowing costs and five months after peers in the
 Czech Republic . After the latest rate cut Jan. 9, Governor  Marek
Belka  said that a “certain round” of monetary-policy easing
may be coming to an end.  “Without further easing to 3 percent, the economy will
stagnate at zero or 0.5 percent growth,” Bratkowski, a member
of the central bank’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Council, said
in an interview in Warsaw yesterday. “We’re late with cuts
already, so there’s no time for any pause or for awaiting the
results of previous reductions.”  Even with continued rate cuts, economic growth will slow to
1.5 percent this year, the least since 2002, “without any
inflationary impulses,” he said. Price growth will decelerate
to between 1.7 percent and 1.8 percent this month, the lowest
since August 2007, and to 1 percent later this year, Bratkowski
said.  The zloty traded unchanged at 4.169 per euro at 2:20 p.m.
in Warsaw, after weakening 2 percent since the start of the
year. The yield on the government’s 10-year bond was down one
basis point to 3.94 percent.  Rate Increase  Poland ’s central bank, seeking to tame  inflation  exceeding
its 2.5 percent target, was the only one in the 27-nation EU to
raise rates last year. Price growth slowed to 2.4 percent last
month, below the goal for the first time in 27 months.  Industrial  production  declined 10.6 percent in December
from a year earlier, the biggest plunge in almost four years.
Bratkowski said he hoped it didn’t mark “the start of a new
trend showing the economy is getting even worse.”  The output report showed that the Polish economy “took one
step toward a recession,” making a rate cut in February “a
done deal,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at Warsaw-based
BRE Bank, said in an e-mailed note.  Inflation Projection  MPC member  Adam Glapinski  was cited by PAP newswire
yesterday as saying that the easing cycle should end after a cut
in February. Another council member,  Jerzy Hausner , was also
cited by PAP as saying a rate reduction will come either in
February or March and that the next inflation projection, due in
March, “may support future cuts.”  Should the economy’s performance in the first quarter this
year prove “as bad as December, a cut by another 100 basis
points” to 2 percent “may be needed,” Bratkowski said, adding
that he doesn’t expect such a scenario.  That’s the lowest rate Bratkowski has called for since the
Polish economy began to slow in the first quarter of last year
as exports to the crisis-hit euro area declined. He and Elzbieta Chojna-Duch were the only members of the 10-person MPC to object
to the rate increase in May. Since then, he has called for
reductions deeper than a quarter point each.  “Only Bratkowski and Chojna seem to support rates going to
3 percent,” Jaroslaw Janecki, a Warsaw-based economist at
 Societe Generale , said by phone. “A 3.5 percent rate is the
most likely scenario at the moment.”  Gross domestic product grew a bit less than 1 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier, down from 1.4 percent in
the previous three months, Bratkowski said. GDP will expand just
below 1 percent in the first quarter of 2013 and start rising
“slowly and slightly” through the year on a recovery in the
17-nation euro area, which buys more than half of the nation’s
exports, Bratkowski estimated.  “For now, I don’t see the risk of a recession,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  