-- Portugal Wine Sales Rise as Asia, Ex-Colony Demand Grows
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/portugal-wine-sales-rise-as-asia-ex-colony-demand-grows.html
On the top floor of Angola’s tallest
building, overlooking the bay of the capital Luanda, a
relatively unknown bottle of Benfeito Portuguese wine sold for a
record $21,600 at an auction.  In  Sao Paulo , Brazil, a 2000 Barca Velha red, produced more
than 5,000 miles away from the steep, rocky vineyards of
Portugal’s Douro Valley, costs 2,400 reais ($1,175) at
Restaurante  A Bela Sintra  -- more than four times its cost at
Portuguese retailer  Winept.com . It’s often sold out.  “Portuguese wines are making a comeback,” Frederico Falcao,
president of Portugal’s  Vine and Wine Institute , said in an
interview. “Part of the reason is that consumers in  emerging
markets  such as  China , Angola and Brazil are evolving and buying
more old-world wines.”  Wine exports from Portugal, including port and table wine,
rose 7.6 percent in the first 11 months of 2012 to 648 million
euros ($862 million) from the same period a year earlier,
according to the country’s  National Statistics Institute . The
sales are boosted by demand from the former Portuguese colony of
Angola, China and some South American countries.  One of the biggest challenges facing local winemakers is
not being able to increase output fast enough to meet growing
demand from abroad, said Alexandre Soares dos Santos, chairman
of the Jeronimo Martins retailer that owns a supermarket chain
in Portugal and  discount stores  in  Poland .  Bigger Scale  “If we want to be serious about increasing our exports then
we need to produce wine on a much bigger scale,” he said.  That means winemakers need to merge and invest in state-of-
the-art equipment to crush their grapes instead of treading them
underfoot in large vats called lagares, said Jose Hermoso, an
analyst at the International Wine & Spirit Research.  “The fact that most of the wine companies in Portugal are
family-owned may work against further consolidation but it has
to happen,” Hermoso said in an interview.  Sogrape , Portugal’s biggest wine exporter, has been leading
the way in terms of mergers.  After starting out as a wine bottler and distributor in
Portugal in the early 1940s, the family-owned company began
buying up estates in the Douro -- the world’s oldest designated
wine region -- to create some of the country’s best known wine
brands, including Mateus Rose, Barca Velha and Sandeman.  Sweet Ports  “It’s so sweet,” said Kasumi Imai, a 73-year-old Japanese
woman after tasting several ports during a tour of Sogrape’s
Port Sandeman wine cellar in Vila Nova de Gaia, northern
Portugal.  Sogrape is also investing abroad. The Oporto, northern
Portugal-based company has acquired Bodegas LAN, a Spanish
winery famous for producing high-quality wines. Sogrape also
owns wineries in  Argentina ,  Chile  and  New Zealand .  Sogrape’s Chief Executive Officer Salvador Guedes’s drive
to increase exports has paid off. Sogrape wine sales are
forecast to rise to 210 million euros last year from 179 million
euros a year earlier, according to Guedes.  Other producers are joining forces to promote their
different brands of wines in markets as far away as China, where
Portuguese wine sales increased 18 percent last year in the
period through October, according to Portugal’s statistics
office.  Vintage Academy  Adrian Bridge, managing director of a 320-year-old family
business that makes Croft, Fonseca and Taylor ports from
vineyards in Portugal’s Douro region, formed a partnership with
his main competitor in Portugal, the Symington Group, three
years ago to set up a vintage port academy in China, where the
name  Portugal  means “grape teeth.”  “Everybody wants to talk about China but for us it is a
market that is going to take some time to develop,” Bridge said
in an interview from his family’s  Yeatman Hotel , overlooking the
city of Oporto. “We’re taking a long-term view that we have to
develop that market through education.”  The  Douro Boys  are doing the same. They are five of the
Douro region’s top winemakers: Dirk van der Niepoort from
Niepoort Vinhos, Miguel Roquette from Quinta do Crasto,
Francisco Olazabal from Quinta Vale Meao, Joao Alvares Ribeiro
from Quinta do Vallado and Cristiano van Zeller from Quinta do
Vale Dona Maria.  “We formed a partnership about 10 years ago to promote our
wines and the Douro region in foreign markets,” Cristiano van
Zeller said in a telephone interview. “We’ve managed to put
Douro on the map. It’s been a huge success.”  Former Colony  Yet some winemakers have remained successful going at it
alone in key markets such as  Brazil . Piriquita red, a table
wine, is today the bestselling European wine in the former
Portuguese colony, according to Antonio Soares Franco, whose
family-owned company Jose Maria da Fonseca produces the wine
from grapes that grow in the plains of Southern Portugal.  “It’s our best export market,” Soares Franco said.  Others prefer to ride on the coattails of the bigger
companies who spend millions of dollars promoting their wines in
foreign markets such as Brazil, China and Angola as opposed to
merging with these bigger companies.  Pedro Tamagnini, whose  Quinta dos Avidagos  estate produces
just 80,000 bottles a year, sends international wine brokers
video footage of his green-terraced vineyards along the Douro
river to explain his production process and increase sales.  “The trick is to be creative when you have a limited
budget,” Tamagnini said.  Ricardo Guerra, the entrepreneur who helped produce and
sell the bottle of Benfeito wine in Luanda in 2011 for a record
price, is another case in point. After the auction, he set up
his own wine distributor in  Angola , which last year bought more
Portuguese wine than any other country except for  France ,
according to the statistics office in Portugal.  “Business is going well,” the 32-year-old Guerra in a
telephone interview from Luanda. “People still refer to me as
the guy who sold the $20,000 bottle of wine.”  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Warwick Thompson  on  London  theater,  Erika Lederman  on London
going out and  Shaun Walker  on the Bolshoi ballet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 