-- Use Profit Motive to Improve Health Care
-- B y   D a v i d   G o l d h i l l
-- 2013-01-21T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/profit-driven-medicine-offers-better-safer-care.html
The fundamental problem with the
U.S. health-care system, many  people argue , is that medicine
can’t operate well on the profit motive. It is a social good,
and profit-driven behaviors undermine efforts to provide high-
quality care.  It’s true that our private health-care system provides care
that is extraordinarily expensive, excessive, wasteful, patient-
unfriendly and often dangerously sloppy. But the problem with
this argument is that for-profit and nonprofit providers alike
produce the same bad result. The profit motive itself doesn’t
seem to be the differentiator.  Federal tax data show that for-profit hospitals actually
provide more charitable care than nonprofits do. Nonprofits
performed no better -- in some cases much worse -- than
comparable for-profits on  safety scores  recently assigned by the
Leapfrog Group, a health-care research organization. For
patients, it’s almost impossible tell the difference between
nonprofit and for-profit hospitals.  Nevertheless, it is true that the profit motive -- and for
that matter the nonprofit motive -- is failing us in health
care. Why does no one in this industry compete to be the low-
priced leader? To be the provider with the best outcomes for
specific illnesses? To be the service and efficiency king? To be
the safest hospital in your town?  Bad Incentives  Because none of these social benefits drives profits in the
health-care business. Successful business models depend on
completely different factors -- the amount of excess care for
which you can win reimbursement, your ability to prove your
costs are high, your savings from avoiding investments in
service and safety, mind-bending complexity that makes
straightforward accountability impossible. These are the
incentives in our system and, unfortunately, our providers
respond to them perfectly.  But perverse incentives are no more inevitable in health
care than in any other industry. They’re a direct consequence of
government intervention in the market. Medicare is an
entitlement -- it will pay for all needed care for people who
qualify -- so the industry responds by endlessly expanding the
definition of need. We invest almost nothing in oversight
(Medicare’s low spending on this is often cited as one of its
advantages -- as if banks without security guards would be more
efficient), allowing a flood of excess treatment and haphazard
care that represents a true assault on beneficiaries.  Medicaid reimburses providers at extremely low levels for
almost all services -- far below the private market -- so its
beneficiaries get very little time-intensive primary care and
lots of the tests and procedures that produce profits at high
volumes.  Even presumably private markets are dominated by perverse
incentives driven by government policy. Our  tax code  favors
employer-provided private insurance to the detriment of any
other way of paying for medical treatment. To preserve this
competitive advantage -- and reduce their accountability to
employer-purchasers -- insurers have implemented an impossibly
opaque payment system that bars any competing form of finance.  I recently asked the cash price for my son’s surgery; the
ensuing disbelief and confusion could not have been greater if I
had told them I was wearing an explosive vest and demanding free
care.  Finally, there’s us, the patients. Government policy --
culminating in the 2010 Affordable Care Act -- has been to shift
our own financial contributions from direct payment for care to
insurance premiums and taxes. As a result, our out-of-pocket
payments now represent only 11 percent of our spending on health
care -- one of the lowest shares in the world. That’s not a
misprint.  Even as our nation’s medical bill rises inexorably, we the
patients are further shielded from the financial consequences of
our decisions. In theory this is for our own benefit, but in
reality it means we never act on our natural skepticism about
the need for, or safety of, suggested treatments and tests.  Economic Considerations  In talking about health care, we seem to forget what
profits are: the return on capital employed in an activity. In
the nonprofit world, this return may be called surplus, but
there’s no escaping the need to service the capital employed in
buildings, equipment, training and even labor. So nonprofits’
performance is, roughly, the same as that of for-profit
providers.  Yes, we could have the government take over private
functions in health care and benefit from a lower cost of
capital (especially since government is so good at disguising
that it has an actual cost of capital, as the bank bailouts
illustrated).  But regardless of who provides the care, most of the costs
involved -- time spent by doctors, nurses, and orderlies;
building construction; equipment and supplies -- are still going
to be set by private parties. The 15 million people who work in
the health-care industry, and all of its outside vendors, will
continue to be motivated by economic considerations.  Which is why abandoning the profit motive in health care
would be such a waste. We rely on it to make almost all of
life’s other essentials cheaper and better.  Yes, private actors require a little more return on capital
than governments do; but their competition with one another
produces better results and more innovative services that
usually overwhelm this small government advantage. Our health-
care mess actually proves that the profit motive is working in
health care, even if it is in response to perverse incentives.  Let’s restructure those profit incentives to better match
our social needs -- so that providers of more appropriate care
with better prices, safety and  customer service  earn more,
rather than less. We’ll get much better results.  (David Goldhill, the president and chief executive officer
of the cable TV network GSN, is the author of “ Catastrophic
Care: How American Health Care Killed My Father -- and How We
Can Fix It .” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Goldhill at  dgoldhill@gsn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 