-- Rajoy Orders Audit of PP Finances to Stem Corruption Scandal
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-01-21T16:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/rajoy-orders-audit-of-pp-finances-to-stem-corruption-scandal.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
ordered an internal and external audit of the ruling  People’s
Party ’s finances as he tries to stem the fallout from
allegations of kickbacks being paid to top officials.  The probe will go back to the founding of the People’s
Party in 1989 and the results of the investigation will be made
public, Maria Dolores de Cospedal, the party’s deputy leader,
said at a press conference in Madrid today.  “We’re going to look at everything, everything,” Cospedal
said today. “We have already started and this will happen
quickly.”  Rajoy’s party has been rocked by a series of reports in the
past week that risk undermining the government’s credibility as
it enacts the harshest austerity program in history. Newspaper
El Mundo has published stories alleging that the party’s former
treasurer, Luis Barcenas, was making cash payments to senior
party officials.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
debt instead of similarly dated German bonds rose 4 basis points
to 356 at 5 p.m. in Madrid. The Ibex-35 index gained 0.5
percent.  “Calm in the Spanish stock market and the  risk premium 
after the weekend corruption scandals,” Jose Carlos Diez, chief
economist at Madrid-based brokerage Intermoney SA, posted on
Twitter today. “If this isn’t cleared up it will have an impact
in the end.”  Cash Payments  Rajoy ordered Barcenas to stop monthly cash payments of as
much as 15,000 euros ($19,980) using illegal contributions from
construction firms in 2009, El Mundo newspaper reported Jan. 18.
Rajoy never received illegal payments, it said, citing five
people from successive leadership teams without naming them.  Former PP lawmaker Jorge Trias Saigner was quoted in an
 article  in El Pais newspaper today as saying he knew of party
officials receiving envelopes containing up to 10,000 euros in
cash. He said most lawmakers and activists didn’t receive
payments.  “I give him the credit of someone who says they know
something because they’ve been told it,” Cospedal said today.
“He hasn’t proved anything.”  Prosecutors have discovered that Barcenas had moved more
than 20 million euros through Swiss bank accounts. His lawyer
Alfonso Trallero said in a television interview last week that
the funds were his from investments in  Latin America  and the
money wasn’t used to finance bonus payments to PP officials.  The PP has no responsibility for the offshore bank accounts
of individuals, Cospedal said today.  Protests  The revelations have prompted protests outside the PP’s
headquarters in Madrid and come at a time when the party’s
popularity was already slumping. Support for the PP dropped to
30 percent from 46 percent a year earlier in a Metroscopia poll
published in El Pais on Jan. 13.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro was dragged into the row
after Europa Press reported Barcenas took advantage of the
government’s tax amnesty to repatriate 10 million euros last
year. The Budget Ministry published two statements last week
rejecting the claim. Montoro will testify in Parliament about
Barcenas and the tax amnesty, Cospedal said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  