-- Ravens, 49ers Set Up NFL Super Bowl Meeting of Harbaugh Brothers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-21T05:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/ravens-49ers-set-up-nfl-super-bowl-meeting-of-harbaugh-brothers.html
The  Super Bowl  will be a family
reunion for the Harbaughs.  The Baltimore Ravens, coached by  John Harbaugh , reached the
 National Football League ’s title game with a 28-13 victory
against the  New England Patriots  in the American Football
Conference championship game. The San Francisco 49ers, coached
by younger brother Jim Harbaugh, erased a 17-point deficit in
rallying for a 28-24 win against the Atlanta Falcons in
yesterday’s National Football Conference championship game.  When the Ravens (13-6) and 49ers (13-4-1) meet Feb. 3 in
New Orleans, the Harbaughs will be the first brothers to oppose
each other as coaches in the Super Bowl’s 47-year history.  “I don’t know if we had a dream this big,” John Harbaugh
said at a news conference. “We had a few dreams, we had a few
fights, we had a few arguments, just like all brothers. We’ll
try to stay out of that business. We’ll let the two teams duke
it out as much as possible.”  The 49ers have a 5-0 record in the Super Bowl, with their
last appearance after the 1994 season. The Ravens won their only
previous Super Bowl trip 12 years ago as All-Pro linebacker  Ray Lewis , who is retiring from the NFL after this season, won the
Most Valuable Player award.  The Harbaughs last year became the first brothers to face
each other as opposing coaches in a regular-season NFL game,
with John and the Ravens emerging with a 16-6 win in Baltimore.  The 49ers are four-point favorites this time, according to
Las Vegas oddsmakers, who have sided with 33 of the previous 46
Super Bowl champions.  49ers’ Quarterback  With back-to-back playoff wins, second-year quarterback
Colin Kaepernick has validated Jim Harbaugh’s decision to make a
midseason change after an injury to  Alex Smith , who was sacked
nine times in last season’s loss to Baltimore.  Kaepernick rushed for an NFL quarterback record 181 yards
in a playoff win against the  Green Bay Packers  two weeks ago and
yesterday passed for 233 yards and a touchdown to help the 49ers
come back from a 17-0 first-half deficit in Atlanta, the largest
rally in an NFC championship game.  “I couldn’t be more proud of Jim,” said John Harbaugh,
who at 50 is the older sibling by 13 months. “Watching that
team play, they do reflect his personality. They have physical
players, they run the ball, they throw the ball, they have a
quarterback making plays all over the place and a roughhouse
defense. I’d like to think our two teams are very similar.”  While the 49ers became the third straight visiting team to
win the NFC championship, the Ravens ended a six-game winning
streak by home teams in the AFC title game by outscoring the
Patriots 21-0 during the second half in Foxboro, Massachusetts.  Outplaying Brady  Ravens quarterback  Joe Flacco  outplayed Patriots
counterpart  Tom Brady , who had a record 17 postseason wins, by
throwing for 240 yards and three second-half touchdowns. Brady
was intercepted twice as the NFL’s highest-scoring offense was
shut out during the second half. Flacco now has an NFL-record
six postseason road wins.  “The bigger the situation, the bigger he plays,” Ravens
receiver Anquan Boldin, who caught two touchdown passes, said of
Flacco. “He’s proven that time and time again.”  It marked the first time in 68 games the Patriots lost at
home when leading at halftime with Brady at quarterback. They
had a 72-1 home record under coach  Bill Belichick  when taking a
lead into the second half.  “We just couldn’t string together enough good plays to get
the ball in the end zone,” said Brady, who completed 29 of 54
passes for 320 yards and a touchdown. “If you don’t execute
very well against a good team, you’re not going to come up on
the winning end. They kept the pressure on and we didn’t really
stand up to the challenge.”  Patriots’ Lead  The Patriots led 13-7 at halftime behind Brady’s one-yard
touchdown pass to Wes Welker and a pair of field goals by
 Stephen Gostkowski . The Ravens, who got a two-yard touchdown run
from  Ray Rice  during the second quarter, took control with 21
unanswered points after halftime.  Baltimore, which was a 7 1/2-point underdog, took a 14-13
lead on Flacco’s five-yard touchdown pass to Dennis Pitta midway
through the third quarter.  Flacco then threw scoring passes of three and 11 yards to
Boldin on consecutive drives to start the fourth quarter.
Baltimore’s defense intercepted Brady with six minutes, 49
seconds left and again with 1:06 remaining.  “We didn’t come all the way here to play it safe and hope
to win,” Flacco said. “You have to play to win. Our guys made
plays. Everybody came up big when we needed to.”  49ers Rally  In Atlanta, the 49ers rallied to end a five-game road
losing streak in the playoffs after falling behind 17-0. The
biggest previous comeback to win an NFC championship was by the
Falcons, who recovered from a 13-point deficit to beat the
Minnesota Vikings 30-27 on Jan. 17, 1999.  After  Matt Ryan  threw a pair of touchdown passes to Julio Jones for the Falcons,  LaMichael James  scored on a 15-yard run
and Kaepernick threw a four-yard touchdown pass to  Vernon Davis 
to pull the 49ers within 17-14. Ryan then threw his third
scoring pass, a 10-yarder to Tony Gonzalez, to put Atlanta ahead
24-14.  San Francisco again responded, with  Frank Gore  scoring on a
five-yard run less than five minutes into the third quarter to
again cut the deficit to three. The 49ers then missed a pair of
scoring opportunities, as  David Akers  bounced a 38-yard field
goal attempt off the left upright and  Michael Crabtree  fumbled
at the Falcons’ 1-yard line.  Like the Patriots, the Falcons failed to score at home
during the second half and Gore gave the 49ers their first lead
by scoring on a nine-yard run with 8:23 left.  “We rose up at the end,” said  Jim Harbaugh , who played
quarterback in the NFL for 14 seasons and will now be appearing
in his first Super Bowl as a player or coach. “It was a great
finish by our defense.”  The NFL season began with some envisioning a Super Bowl
quarterback matchup of the Manning brothers in their hometown of
New Orleans, with Eli leading the defending-champion  New York 
Giants and Peyton in his first season with the Denver Broncos.
Instead, the season will end with the Harbaugh brothers on
opposing sidelines at the Louisiana Superdome.  “It’ll be a great football game -- I guarantee it will be
these guys going against their guys,” John Harbaugh said,
gesturing to his players as he received the AFC championship
trophy. “It’s two great teams squaring off. I can’t wait.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  