-- RBC Stock Poised for Record as Banks Rally
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-01-21T21:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/rbc-stock-poised-for-record-as-banks-rally.html
Royal Bank of Canada  shares are
poised to reach a record high, leading a rally in bank stocks as
wealth-management activity boosts profit, say investors such as
Baskin Financial Services Inc.’s  Barry Schwartz .  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender,  rose  0.4 percent to
C$61.96 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, approaching its C$62.42 peak of
May 3, 2010. Shares in the Toronto-based bank have risen 12
percent since Nov. 15, the best-performing bank stock in the
eight-member  Standard & Poor’s /TSX Commercial Banks Industry
 Index (STCBNK) , which has gained 9.6 percent over that period.  Banks have “had no losses on loans whatsoever and wealth
management is starting to move at a nice clip because stock
markets have done well,” said Schwartz, who helps oversee C$475
million ($478 million) at Toronto-based Baskin.  Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest for five
straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum , posted
record  profit  last year, with growth partly lifted by trading
and gains from  investment banking . The S&P/TSX composite  index 
has rallied 2.9 percent this year compared with a 4 percent gain
for all of last year.  Royal Bank may push past record territory, said  Bob Decker ,
a Toronto-based  fund manager  with Aurion Capital, which oversees
C$6 billion in assets.  “My return expectation for this company is that it can get
into the low C$70s in a year,” Decker said. “It’s a Steady
Eddy.”  May ‘Fizzle’  The banks  index (BKX)  closed today at its  highest  level since
April 6, 2011, after outperforming Canada’s  benchmark  index with
an 11 percent return in 2012. While the Canadian bank index has
outperformed the broad Canadian stock gauge, it has
underperformed relative to U.S. banks. The 24-company KBW Bank
Index of U.S. lenders rose 30 percent in 2012.  The Canadian bank rally may “fizzle” by April as the
broader stock market eases and  Canada ’s economy slows, said
Shailesh Kshatriya, a Toronto-based senior investment analyst
with Russell Investments Group, which manages C$11 billion in
Canada.  “We’re definitely more cautious on the Canadian economy,
and that filters down to the banks as well,” Kshatriya said.
“The banks are the pulse of what’s going on in the broader
economy.”  The Canadian economy will slow to a 1.8 percent rate of
growth in 2013, from 2 percent last year and 2.6 percent in
2011, according to the median estimate of 29 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. That would be the weakest annual pace since the
recession of 2009 and below economists’ estimates for 2 percent
growth in the U.S. this year.  Housing Market  Bank executives have warned about a slowdown in  consumer
lending  amid government efforts to cool Canada’s housing market
and discourage household spending. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
has tightened mortgage lending rules four times to stop the
country’s home market from overheating.  Canadian banks will see profit growth slow this year
compared to the past two years, with lenders expected to post
adjusted per-share earnings of 3 percent for 2013 and 6 percent
in 2014, RBC Capital Markets analyst Andre-Philippe Hardy said
in a Dec. 13 note. He anticipates earnings will shift more to
commercial lending, wealth management and capital markets as
consumer loan growth slows.  Wide Premium   Royal Bank’s  premium  to the Canadian banks index was at its
widest last week since October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’re getting to a point where a lot of the upside has
already been priced into Royal Bank,”  John Aiken , a Barclays
Plc analyst who rates the stock underweight, said in an
interview.  Royal Bank  shares  have 10 buy recommendations, eight holds
and two sells according to ratings compiled by Bloomberg.  Katherine Gay, a Royal Bank spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Aurion Capital’s Decker says it may be too late for
investors to take advantage of the surge among Canadian banks.  “The bank rally is far from over in a three-month context,
but I think it’s late in the game to be chasing them,” said
Decker, who’s firm is paring bank stocks for laggards such as
materials and energy.  “We’re optimistic that earnings will grow through 2013,
just not at the same pace as we’ve enjoyed over the last couple
of years,” Aiken said. “So investors are going to have be
satisfied with lower returns, both on  capital gains , as well as
slower growth on the dividend.”  ‘Some Upside’  Bank shares should trade at 12 times to 13 times per-share
earnings during “good times”, according to Schwartz, leaving
“still some upside to come” for Canada’s lenders.  Royal Bank’s price-to-earnings ratio, a measure of how
expensive the stock is, is the highest among Canada’s six-
largest lenders. Royal Bank shares are trading at 12.8 times
per-share earnings, compared to 12.4 for  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and
11.3 for  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   National Bank of Canada (NA)  is the
cheapest among Canada’s six-biggest lenders, trading at 8.8
times earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  