-- Resolution Names Williamson to Replace Biggs as Chairman
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-01-21T07:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/resolution-names-williamson-to-replace-biggs-as-chairman.html
Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , the insurance
buyout firm founded by  Clive Cowdery , said former Standard
Chartered Plc Chief Executive Officer Malcolm Williamson will
replace Mike Biggs as chairman later this year.  Williamson, 73, will lead the firm once it has simplified
its governance structure and unified the boards of holding
company Resolution Ltd. and subsidiary Friends Life Group, it
said today in a statement. Williamson was deputy chairman of
Cowdery’s former insurance buyout venture, also named
Resolution, between 2005 and 2008.  Resolution is ending a governance arrangement where it
outsourced the management of the firm to a privately held
company named Resolution Operations LLP, also owned by Cowdery,
who set up the publicly listed firm in 2008 to buy ailing U.K.
life insurers. The  Financial Services Authority  last year warned
that so-called externally managed companies may lose their right
to a listing on the stock exchange if they fail to change their
management structure.  Williamson’s “experience as a chairman, as well as his
understanding of the group’s operations, its people and its
regulatory and governance framework, will equip him well to lead
the company in the future,” Biggs said in the statement.  Biggs, 60, has been chairman of Resolution since 2008 and
last year took up the same role at  Direct Line Insurance Group
Plc (DLG) , leading the U.K.’s biggest home and auto insurer through an
initial public offering.  Resolution has  dropped  by almost a third since it was
founded after the market rallied in 2009, making it more
expensive for the firm to make acquisitions. The company has
said doesn’t intend to make further purchases after buying
 Friends Provident ,  Axa SA (CS) ’s U.K. life business and Bupa Health
Assurance Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 