-- Richemont Declines as Sales Miss Analyst Estimates on Asia
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-01-21T11:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/richemont-third-quarter-sales-growth-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
owner of the Cartier brand, fell the most in a year in Zurich as
Asian revenue stopped growing in the third quarter and the
jewelry unit’s sales slowed.  The shares fell as much as 7.3 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since September 2011. Revenue rose 5 percent
excluding currency shifts in the three months through December
as Asia Pacific sales didn’t rise in the period for the first
time in four years, according to a statement from the Geneva-
based maker of IWC watches. The average of 13 analysts’
estimates was for growth of 8.9 percent.  Decelerating growth in  China  is a concern for luxury
companies. Chinese buyers account for 25 percent of global
luxury spending, according to a September HSBC Global Research
report. Sales of Cartier timepieces probably declined as Asian
buyers switch to models that don’t use batteries and cost more
to make, said  John Guy , an analyst at Berenberg Bank.  “Cartier watches is an area of underperformance,” he said
by phone. “Asian buyers’ tastes are changing, and they need to
invest more in the automatic, manual-winding segment.”  Revenue from the company’s jewelry unit, which includes
Cartier, slowed to 8 percent in the third quarter from 20
percent in the first half. The gross margin of a stainless steel
quartz Cartier watch, which uses a battery, is 80 percent,
compared with about 65 percent for a gold, automatically-winding
watch from the same brand, he estimates.  Gift Slowdown  Retailers in  Hong Kong  and mainland China became more
“cautious,” and it’s unclear how revenue in the region will
evolve, Richemont said.  China’s economy  expanded 7.8 percent last year, the slowest
pace since 1999. Chinese consumers often buy watches in Hong
Kong or  Europe  to avoid mainland China’s taxes. Hong Kong watch
and jewelry retail sales fell for the first month in three years
in August.  “There are little clouds on the horizon, and there’s going
to be a period where the data are fragile,” said Jon Cox, head
of Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  Watches are often given as business gifts in China, and
purchases may be delayed ahead of the transition in the
country’s leadership, which began in November and will be
completed in March, Cox said. The timing of the Chinese New
Year, which is in February this year and was in January in 2012,
may have also delayed some sales, he said.  Baume Alliance  Richemont’s Baume & Mercier brand agreed to form a joint
venture in mainland China with  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group
Ltd. (1929)  to distribute the Swiss brand’s watches, the Chinese
jeweler said Jan 19. Chow Tai Fook is the world’s largest
jewelry chain by market value.  Richemont’s  stock traded  5.3 percent lower at 74.50 Swiss
francs at 12:23 p.m. local time. The stock has gained 41 percent
in the past 12 months and traded at a record 81.45 francs Jan.
18.  Revenue from Richemont’s watch division gained 9 percent
excluding currency shifts, below the average analyst estimate of
11 percent growth. Watchmakers including Jaeger-LeCoultre and
Lange & Soehne timepieces generated about a quarter of
Richemont’s sales in the three months through December.  Sales at Richemont’s jewelry unit increased 4 percent at
constant exchange rates, trailing the 10 percent expected by
analysts. The division generates about half of the company’s
sales. Richemont also gets revenue from businesses including
online fashion retailer Net-a-Porter and  Alfred Dunhill , the
London-based maker of  leather goods , fashion and lighters.  Swatch Sales  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest maker of Swiss
watches, said Jan. 10 that it expects “healthy growth” this
year after gross revenue in 2012 climbed 14 percent to 8.14
billion francs ($8.7 billion).  “Richemont has been more affected than Swatch by the
slowdown because it has higher exposure to the high-end
segment,” said Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in
Zurich. “Swatch has more exposure to the mid-range segment,
which is still doing well.”  Richemont has named Bernard Fornas, who previously ran
Cartier, to join Deputy Chief Executive Officer Richard Lepeu as
joint chief executive officers from April. Chairman Johann
Rupert, who founded the company, is giving up the CEO position
then.  Richemont doesn’t report third-quarter profit. The company
in November reported a 53 percent gain in first-half profit as
revenue increased 12 percent excluding currency shifts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  