-- Riksbank Rate Policy Is Propping Up Krona, Sweden’s Borg Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-01-21T10:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/riksbank-rate-policy-is-propping-up-krona-sweden-s-borg-says.html
Sweden ’s Finance Minister Anders Borg said the Riksbank’s monetary policy is propping up the
krona and preventing the exchange rate from helping to sustain
an expansion in the largest Nordic economy.  Because of high consumer debt levels “monetary policy in
Sweden as a whole perhaps is a little bit tighter than in other
countries and it’s clear that this supports the exchange rate,”
Borg said in Stockholm today. “Given the weak economic
development it would have been an advantage if the krona had
weakened somewhat, that’s clearly the case.”  Sweden’s $500 billion economy is stalling as some of the
biggest companies, including TeliaSonera AB, have cut thousands
of jobs to adjust to a plunge in demand from the debt-burdened
euro area. Sweden emerged as a haven last year from the debt
crisis, boosting the krona to a 12-year high versus the common
currency in August. Over the past 12 month, it’s up 0.75 percent
against the euro and 3.7 percent against the dollar.  The krona slid 0.4 percent to 8.7131 per euro and weakened
0.5 percent to 6.5499 per dollar as of 11:27 a.m. in  Stockholm .
The krona has lost 1.5 percent this year against the euro.  Sweden’s central bank last month cut its  repurchasing rate 
for a fourth time in a year, bringing it to 1 percent, and
indicated it has finished easing policy. The European Central
Bank’s rate is 0.75 percent, while the Federal Reserve’s
benchmark hovers close to zero.  Economic Outlook  Swedish central bank Deputy Governor Lars E. O. Svensson,
who has called for deeper rate cuts, said this month that easing
policy would have the benefit of weakening the currency.  “If the krona is strong, all else equal, that’s yet
another reason to lower the rate,” while inflation and
unemployment remain the important arguments for further cuts,
Svensson said on Jan. 16. “It’s obvious that the economy would
manage better in this very difficult, weak economy with a lower
rate and a weaker krona.”  Borg last month cut his economic outlook for this year to
1.1 percent, versus an earlier estimate for 2.7 percent. He said
today that the government has room for a more expansionary
fiscal policy this year and next as growth will be “very
weak.”  Sweden will post a 1.3 percent deficit of  gross domestic
product  this year, more than double its previous estimate, it
said last month. The government in September said it will spend
about 0.7 percent of gross domestic product on new initiatives
this year including infrastructure, research and a corporate tax
cut to 22 percent from 26.3 percent.  Riksbank policy makers, including Governor Stefan Ingves,
have warned that domestic credit growth poses a risk to the
economy. Household debt has risen to a record 173 percent of
disposable incomes last year from 90 percent in the mid-1990s to
finance rising property prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  