-- Roger Dubuis Seeks Recovery With $155,000 King Arthur Watches
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-01-21T07:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/roger-dubuis-seeks-recovery-with-155-000-king-arthur-watches.html
Roger Dubuis, a Swiss watchmaker
 Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  bought in 2008, aims to help fuel a
recovery with a 145,000 Swiss franc ($155,000) King Arthur watch
and the first timepiece encased in light-weight silicon.  The brand is targeting high-end luxury consumers with its
Table Ronde timepiece, which depicts the round table and has a
knight figurine at each five-minute marker, Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Marc Pontroue said in an interview. Roger Dubuis
will also display the Excalibur Quatuor, a model which will have
3 units encased in silicon, at Geneva’s  watch fair , which starts
today. Those will cost 1 million francs each.  “We have changed more or less everything over the last two
years, and we’ve seen increased sales and brought confidence
back to customers,” Pontroue said at  Roger Dubuis ’s
headquarters in Geneva. “We still have room for improvement,
but we’re on a good track to improve our profitability.”  Richemont has overhauled the brand by cutting about 70 jobs
in 2009, reducing the number of product lines, redesigning its
boutiques to include lounges for customers and expanding the
distribution network. Roger Dubuis will have 22 boutiques by the
end of this year, double the number it had at the end of 2011.  The Swiss watch industry slowed in the second half of 2012
as sales of timepieces and jewelry in  Hong Kong , the biggest
market for Swiss watchmakers, declined in August and October.
Swiss watch exports rose 4.5 percent in November, compared to
the 13 percent growth rate in the first 11 months of 2012, the
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry  said .  Asia Slowdown  Richemont doesn’t break down sales or profit for each of
its watch brands, though revenue from the group’s watchmaking
unit climbed 13 percent to 784 million euros ($1 billion) in the
three months through December, the company said today.
Richemont’s total sales growth in the quarter missed analyst’
estimates as third-quarter Asian Pacific revenue excluding
currency shifts was unchanged for the first time in four years.  Roger Dubuis probably had sales of about 35 million euros
last fiscal year, Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel,
estimates.  Roger Dubuis’s watches bear the Geneva Seal, a 127-year-old
accolade from the Geneva Watchmaking School. It’s one of the
industry’s most difficult designations to obtain as it requires
all components of timepieces, including the screws, to be
engraved or decorated and the watches must meet performance
standards.  Brand Revamp  The world’s second-biggest luxury goods maker has re-
engineered Dubuis’s range of watch mechanisms after a series of
technical problems and developed new ones. Output will rise to
4,500 watches this year from 4,000 in 2012, according to
Pontroue. The brand’s lowest prices have dropped to about 12,000
Swiss francs from 20,000 francs, Vontobel’s Weber estimated.  “Roger Dubuis had big issues when Richemont acquired it,
but there’s clearly much more of a focus now,” Weber said.
“They’re probably close to break-even.”  The brand was set up in 1995 by founder and namesake Roger
Dubuis, a former designer at luxury watchmaker Patek Philippe
SA. He returned to the brand last year to work with key
customers.  “The brand was in a critical situation four years ago and
without the purchase by Richemont, it wouldn’t exist today,”
said Pontroue, who previously ran product development for
Richemont’s Montblanc pen brand in  Germany .  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss timepieces,
last week agreed to buy the Harry Winston watch and jewelry
brand for about $1 billion, to better compete with Richemont’s
Cartier brand.  Roger Dubuis is also seeking to sell 88 units of a rose-
gold version of the Excalibur Quatuor for 380,000 Swiss francs
each. Excalibur Quatuor watches won’t be sold in Roger Dubuis
boutiques and collectors interested in buying them will be flown
first-class to Geneva and shown the watches at the brand’s
headquarters, according to Pontroue.  “We are not a typical brand --- our customers like private
one-to-one presentations like collectors’ dinners and meetings
with Monsieur Dubuis himself,” Pontroue said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  