-- Rona Gains After Quebec Retailer Revamps Board: Montreal Mover
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-01-21T17:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/rona-gains-after-quebec-retailer-revamps-board-montreal-mover.html
Rona Inc. (RON)  jumped as much as 3.2
percent after the  Quebec  home-improvement retailer agreed with
its two largest shareholders on a series of board changes that
includes the hiring of a new executive chairman.  Rona gained 2.6 percent to C$11.80 at 11:32 a.m. in
Toronto, after rising to C$11.87 earlier. The stock has risen
five days in six and is the second biggest gainer today in
Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index. (SPTSX)   Robert Chevrier, who until today served as chairman and
director of Richelieu Hardware Ltd., is now Rona’s executive
chairman, the Boucherville, Quebec-based company said today in a
statement. Four new directors, including Bernard Dorval, former
group head of insurance at Toronto-Dominion Bank, will
immediately join the board under an agreement reached with
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec and Invesco Canada Ltd.,
the retailer said.  The shuffle comes two months after the departure of Chief
Executive Officer Robert Dutton. Dutton was at the company’s
helm when Rona rejected a C$14.50-a-share offer from  Lowe’s (LOW) 
Cos., the second-biggest U.S. home-improvement chain. Invesco
Canada last year backed Lowe’s in its bid for Rona.  Today’s announcement “suggests greater support by the
board to proactively enhance  shareholder value ,” Jim Durran, an
analyst at Barclays Plc’s investment bank unit in Toronto, said
in a note to clients. “Given the support by Invesco and the
Caisse, the changes could result in more receptive dialog
regarding potential divestitures, or an outright sale of the
company, in our opinion.”  Strategic Update  Invesco Canada  owns  10.2 percent of Rona’s outstanding
shares, second only to the Caisse, which controls about 15
percent. Both investors have indicated they will support the
election of the company’s full slate of director nominees at the
next annual general meeting of shareholders on May 14, Rona said
in today’s statement.  Rona also said today it will provide a detailed update of
its “strategic priorities,” including specific action plans
and key metrics, on its fourth quarter earnings presentation
Feb. 21. The company hired an unidentified global management
consulting firm to “accelerate progress” on the initiative.  The retailer plans to provide an update on its search for a
new CEO before the end of next month. Chief Financial Officer
Dominique Boies is now acting CEO.  Besides Dorval, new members of Rona’s board include Wesley Voorheis, partner at Voorheis & Co.; Guy Dufresne, former
President and CEO of ArcelorMittal Mines  Canada  Inc.; and Barry
Gilbertson, principal with Barry Gilbertson Consultancy. Alain
Michel and Patrick Palerme quit the board, effective
immediately, “to allow for its reconfiguration,” Rona said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  