-- Russia Yields Rise First Day in Three on Slowing PPI, Rate Bets
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-01-21T15:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/russia-yields-rise-first-day-in-three-on-slowing-ppi-rate-bets.html
Yields on  Russia ’s ruble bonds rose
for the first time in three days as producer-price growth slowed
and a senior cabinet member urged interest-rate cuts.  The yield on Russia’s ruble notes due July 2022 rose two
basis points to 6.740 percent. The yield on government ruble
bonds maturing in February 2027 climbed three basis points to
7.010 percent. The ruble slid as much as 0.2 percent against the
dollar before trading little changed at 30.2655 by 7 p.m. in
Moscow.  The government is trying to persuade the central bank to
cut borrowing costs for banks and companies as economic growth
slows, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in a Jan.
18 interview. Russia’s producer price index fell 1.1 percent in
December from a month earlier and rose 5.1 percent from the same
period a year before, Statistics Service data showed today.
Economists polled by Bloomberg forecast 6.8 percent growth.  “Broad weakness in PPI further highlights lack of any
inflationary pressures and general weakness of any demand,”
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in Moscow, said by e-mail today. “Signs of weak
inflationary pressures will likely be marginally negative news
for the ruble, as they continue to build a case for monetary
easing by the central bank.”  Monetary-policy makers left borrowing costs unchanged this
month after unexpectedly raising them in September. They removed
a phrase from their statement that market rates were acceptable
for the “nearest future,” which central bank First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said opens the door for increases or
decreases as soon as next month.  Growth Slows  “We’re trying to persuade them, always, that now they need
to reduce the rate,” Shuvalov said in the interview. “And they
say, not yet. We think they could.”  Russia’s  real GDP  growth slowed down to 2.9 percent in the
third quarter from 4.0 percent in the previous quarter.
Economists polled by Bloomberg forecast further growth slowdown
to 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter.  Crude oil, Russia’s biggest export, fell by 0.4 percent to
$95.19 a barrel in  New York  trading. The ruble climbed less than
0.1 percent to 40.3135 against the euro, leaving it steady at
34.7871 against the central bank’s target dollar-euro basket.  The extra yield investors demand to own Russia’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points to 163,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  