-- Russia-Cyprus Money Flows Imply Laundering, Schaeuble Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-01-21T16:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/russia-cyprus-money-flows-imply-laundering-schaeuble-says.html
Two-way investment flows between
 Russia  and Cyprus creates suspicion that  money laundering  may be
behind the transactions, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  “Suspicion arises -- and it’s plain to see -- because
Russian investment in Cyprus is so high and at the same time
Cypriot investment in Russia is high,” Schaeuble said today on
 Germany ’s ARD television 2+Leif program. “You may ask why
Cyprus is the second-largest foreign investor in Russia and we
need clear answers to that.”  Comments today by Schaeuble and Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  underline calls for Cyprus to take action on
money laundering as a condition for potential aid. A German
secret service report on Cyprus that was sent in November to
federal lawmakers said Russians deposited 26 billion euros
($34.6 billion) -- more than the size of Cyprus’s economy -- in
Cypriot banks over an unspecified timeframe, according to Priska Hinz, a Green party lawmaker, who read the secret report.  While a report on the financial health of Cyprus by the so-
called troika -- the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  -- and a February
election in the country are set to delay decisions on aid,
Germany is already outlining caveats it views as necessary
conditions, including bank transparency and the primacy of
first-stop help from Cypriot banks’ creditors and the government
over aid from euro-area funds.  Money Laundering  Cyprus needs to “play by the rules we have on money
laundering in Europe, sign the same rule book,” said Michael Meister, the ruling Christian Democrats’ finance spokesman in
parliament, in an interview today. “Only if bank creditors and
the Cypriot state are unable to help can the euro area step
in.”  Schaeuble said Russia needs to tighten its financial market
rules that have fostered money laundering, saying that he had
asked Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov to consult with
President  Vladimir Putin  over such a move.  Russia may be asked to contribute to a Cypriot bailout
plan, Schaeuble told German lawmakers on Jan. 15. Cyprus may
need as much as 17.5 billion euros to pay its bills and
recapitalize its banks, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said in
November. The government says it has enough cash to last through
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  