-- Schaeuble Says Cyprus Aid Requires Evident Threat to Euro
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-01-21T19:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/schaeuble-says-cyprus-aid-requires-evident-threat-to-euro.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said euro-area finance ministers may hold off on
approving aid for Cyprus until there’s a more imminent threat to
the currency bloc.  Rescue rules require there to be “a danger for the
stability of the euro zone as a whole,” Schaeuble told
reporters in Brussels today before a meeting of euro finance
chiefs. “This has to be met. We will see.”  Schaeuble signaled that any decision would wait for the
outcome of a Cypriot presidential election in February. He said
it seemed impossible to reach agreement with outgoing President
Demetris Christofias, given the communist leader’s opposition to
privatizing state-owned assets.  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said ministers
will keep discussing how to work with Cyprus while they gather
more information. “We will have to deal with this problem and
we will take it seriously,” he said in Brussels today.  Talks between Cyprus, European authorities and the
 International Monetary Fund  have been bogged down for seven
months since the island nation’s June announcement that it would
seek aid. Negotiations have focused on the size and terms of a
rescue for the government and lenders weakened by their exposure
to the  Greek economy .  Cypriot financial institutions such as  Bank of Cyprus Plc 
and Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl lost more than 4 billion euros ($5.3
billion) in a Greek debt restructuring that was part of a second
international rescue of  Greece  last year.  Big Stake  Cyprus probably won’t reach agreement with European
authorities on a rescue package until the new government is in
place, an EU official told reporters in Brussels last week. The
official said Cyprus is financed “comparatively easily”
through March.  Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said today that
 Russia , which has a big stake in the wellbeing of Cypriot banks,
might be able to help the euro zone defray the cost of a rescue.  “The hope is that Russians could participate in financing
Cyprus,” Urpilainen told reporters. “My colleagues agree on
this quite widely.”  Russian First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in a
Jan. 18 interview that his government isn’t prepared to write
off a 2.5 billion-euro loan to Cyprus given in 2011. “We need
to be very frugal at the moment, very conservative,” he said.  “I don’t want to provide any money for Cyprus,” Shuvalov
said, adding that Russia hadn’t yet responded to a request from
the island for a new loan. “We have so many friends and
partners who would like to receive some loans from us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  