-- Consumer Shares From Souza Cruz to Natura Leading Rally
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2013-01-21T13:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/shopping-and-smoking-returns-top-power-corporate-brazil.html
Cigarettes, cosmetics and credit
cards are handing investors in  Brazil  their best returns.  Credit-card processor Cielo SA, tobacco producer Souza Cruz
SA and cosmetics maker Natura Cosmeticos SA are offering the
Bovespa index’s highest returns on common equity, a measure of
the ability to generate profits from shareholder cash, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Cielo posted a third-quarter return
of 135 percent. Souza Cruz and Natura each had a 89 percent
return, topping the 12 percent average for all Bovespa stocks.  Record-low interest rates, falling unemployment and
expanding access to credit are fueling a surge in spending in
the world’s second-largest emerging economy. The consumer sector
is giving investors a refuge from government interference that
dragged down banking, utility and telephone stocks last year,
said Catarina Pedrosa, an analyst at BES Securities.  “In terms of risk and return, the retail and consumer
sector will continue to be attractive amid less government
interference,” said Julia Monteiro, an analyst at Caixa Geral
de Depositos in  Rio de Janeiro . “We have seen that the stocks
are resilient. Any stock linked to the domestic market will
continue at various levels being protected.”  AmBev, Hering  Seven of the top 10 companies offering the best returns on
equity are consumer stocks, including brewer Cia. de Bebidas das
Americas and retailers Lojas Americanas SA, Cia. Hering and
Lojas Renner SA, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA and builder
Gafisa SA had the worst returns on equity at negative 61 percent
and negative 33 percent, respectively.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  used interventionist
policies last year to try to spur a rebound in the economy. She
ordered power utilities and phone companies to reduce prices,
capped auto imports from  Mexico  and cut taxes on  consumer goods .
Growth probably slowed to 1 percent in 2012, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, from 2.7 percent in 2011 and
7.5 percent in 2010.  Consumer stocks “are areas that the government and the
external market weren’t able to reach,” Pedrosa said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “That’s why these companies
did better.”  Cielo, based in Barueri, Brazil, probably will post a
record quarterly profit of 622.1 million reais ($304.7 million)
in the three months through December, up 27 percent from a year
earlier, according to the average of seven analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Growth Profile’  AmBev,  Latin America ’s largest brewer, surpassed Petroleo
Brasileiro SA as the region’s largest company by market value in
November after the state-run oil producer posted its first net
loss in 13 years in the second quarter.  “Last year, part of the upside here had to do with
investors looking for defensive companies,” said Lauren Torres,
an equity analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York . “These
types of industries do offer the growth profile that investors
like during market volatility.”  AmBev rose 27 percent in 2012, compared with a 7.4 percent
gain for the Bovespa index and a 9.2 percent drop for Petrobras.
Oil startup OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA plunged 68
percent and Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA, the government-
controlled utility known as Eletrobras, declined 61 percent.  A rally in consumer stocks has driven up price-to-earnings
multiples.  Lojas Americanas (LAME4)  trades at 30 times estimated 2013
earnings, while Souza Cruz’s multiple is 25 and Natura’s is 23.
That compares with a median of 15 for Bovespa stocks.  Lojas Americanas fell 0.4 percent to 17.88 reais at 11:24
a.m. in Sao Paulo trading. Souza Cruz fell 0.8 percent to 32.08
reais, while Natura rose 0.2 percent to 55.69 reais.  ‘Expensive Multiples’  “Shares have more expensive multiples, but in many cases,
it is warranted,”Will Landers, a portfolio manager of Latin
American equities at New York-based BlackRock Inc., said in a
written response to questions.  Many of the gains in the consumer sector last year were
cyclical and not structural, said Marco Freire, head of fixed
income at Franklin Templeton Investimentos.  “Consumers have returned and part of industrial production
has also returned,” he said in an interview in  Sao Paulo .
“Whether investment will improve to the extent that’s needed
for Brazil in the long run to have sustainable growth, I’m more
skeptical. I think that, yes, there will be an improvement in
consumption, in investment, but whether it’s enough, I don’t
know. Brazil doesn’t have the incentives to invest.”  Decelerating Growth  While companies focused on local consumption will continue
to be strong bets this year, they may not post the same returns
as last year, Caixa Geral’s Monteiro said. Companies will open
fewer stores in 2013 than originally expected, she said.  “There is still a lot of space for these companies to do
business,” Monteiro said. “The domestic market will
decelerate, but will still grow at a positive rate.”  Even with weaker-than-expected economic growth in 2013,
retailers and consumer-products makers should still rally,
Landers said.  “My expectation that we could see a positive surprise in
growth this year is losing strength,” he said. Still, “I
continue to be positive on the domestic sector -- lower  interest
rates  the whole year, lower bank spreads, full employment,
salaries increasing in real terms -- all of this indicates that
domestic consumption should be better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  