-- Singapore Announces S$2 Billion Package to Increase Population
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-01-21T08:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/singapore-announces-s-2-billion-package-to-increase-population.html
Singapore  will increase spending on
population-growth measures by 25 percent, rolling out incentives
ranging from government-paid time off for adoption and paternity
leave to funding for fertility treatments.  An annual budget of S$2 billion ($1.6 billion) will be set
aside for measures including state-funded childcare leave,
healthcare costs and financial support for housing to married
couples, the government said in a statement today. That’s an
increase from S$1.6 billion in the last package in 2008, it said.  “The enhanced package aims to provide more comprehensive
support for Singaporeans in getting married and starting their
families,” the government said in the statement. “Addressing
our falling birth rate requires a concerted effort beyond
government initiatives.”  Declining birth rates could undermine Singapore’s ability
to sustain growth levels achieved by embracing free trade,
fostering higher-value manufacturing and nurturing services
industries such as gambling and health care. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in November that he plans to unveil a package
of measures aimed at boosting the fertility rate from about 1.2
per woman.  The government said it will pay 75 percent of the cost of
reproduction technology treatments for couples, or as much as
S$6,300 per cycle. Those with more than one child will also be
eligible for the funding, it said.  Medical Accounts  Newborns will be granted S$3,000 in their medical accounts
to help parents in health-care planning, the government said. It
will also provide S$6,000 for the first two births and S$8,000
each for the third and fourth.  Singapore will also provide four weeks of government-paid
leave for working mothers of adopted children in the first year,
it said. The government also introduced a week of paternity
leave for fathers.  Singapore’s citizen workforce will begin shrinking in 2020
for the first time in its history while land and labor limits
will “increasingly constrain” its economic growth, Defence
Minister Ng Eng Hen said Jan. 14 in Parliament.  Singapore’s fertility rate rose to between 1.28 and 1.3 in
2012 from 1.2 the year earlier, Channel NewsAsia reported.  The median age of Singaporeans will rise to 43.1 in 2020
from 37.6 in 2010, Bank of America Corp. analysts estimated in
an April report. That compares with 23.9 in the  Philippines , 31
in  Indonesia  and 28.4 in  Malaysia  at the end of this decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua in Singapore at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  