-- Sony to Introduce Xperia Tablet Challenging Apple, Samsung
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-01-21T10:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/sony-will-introduce-xperia-tablet-to-challenge-apple-samsung.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the electronics maker
struggling after four straight annual losses, will introduce a
new tablet computer in  Japan  this year as it tries to lure
customers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  The Xperia Tablet Z will be 6.9 millimeters (.27 inches)
thick, weigh 495 grams (17 ounces) and have a 10.1-inch (26-
centimeter) display, Sony said in a statement today. The
waterproof device may debut in Japan as soon as March before
appearing elsewhere, Noriko Shoji, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman,
said by phone. The price hasn’t been decided, she said.  Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  is focusing on
mobile devices to revive the company, whose TV unit has been
unprofitable for eight straight fiscal years. The Tokyo-based
company debuted its first tablet in 2011, making it the last of
the world’s top 10 laptop makers to tap surging demand triggered
by Apple’s iPad.  “It’s a rational strategy for Sony to focus on mobile
devices including tablets as its TV business is no longer a cash
cow,” said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “Still, the tricky part of the tablet business is
that products can conflict with  laptop computers  on one hand and
smartphones on the other.”  Sony rose 3.3 percent to 1,187 yen at the close of trading
in  Tokyo , compared with a 1.5 percent decline for the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The  company  has risen 24 percent this
month.  Tablet Demand  Worldwide tablet shipments probably totaled 120 million
last year and may reach 340 million by 2016, market researcher
IHS Inc.’s iSuppli said in December.  In October, Apple introduced a smaller version of the iPad
with a 7.9-inch screen and prices starting at $329. Sony also
faces competition from Amazon.com Inc.’s updated Kindle Fire and
Google Inc.’s Nexus 7.  Sony got 18 percent of sales from mobile products and
communications in the quarter ended September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It bolstered the division by buying out
Ericsson AB’s stake in a venture making mobile phones last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 