-- Sorouh Rallies as Aldar Plunges on Merger Terms: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-21T09:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/sorouh-rallies-as-aldar-plunges-on-merger-terms-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  headed for
the highest close in more than two years as the terms of a
merger to create the  Middle East ’s third-largest publicly traded
developer favored its shareholders over  Aldar Properties PJSC. (ALDAR)   The  shares  jumped 5.5 percent to 1.72 dirhams, set for the
highest close since December 2010, at 12:16 p.m. in Abu Dhabi.
Aldar shares dropped 9.2 percent, poised for the largest
decrease in almost two years, to 1.48 dirhams. Abu Dhabi’s
benchmark ADX General Index rose less than 0.1 percent.  Aldar will offer 1.288 shares for every Sorouh share in a
government-backed acquisition that will create a group with
assets of about $13 billion, according to a joint statement
today. The two companies first announced the plans to merge last 
March, driving the shares to trade at 1.22 dirhams on March 11. 
Until today, the stocks had surged in tandem by 34 percent
since then.  “We did expect that the share swap will work better for
the Sorouh shareholders,” Tariq Qaqish, a Dubai-based  fund
manager  at Al Mal Capital PSC, said by e-mail today. “Investors
are punishing Aldar, although this will adjust with time.”  The merger comes as  Abu Dhabi ’s government tries to revive
a real estate market where values have fallen by more than 50
percent since the onset of the global credit crisis in 2008. The
government of the United Arab Emirates capital, which encouraged
the transaction, paid $9.8 billion to bail out Aldar in 2011. It
has also resumed stalled projects, bought struggling
developments and commissioned new ones.  The merged entity, to be called Aldar Sorouh Properties
PJSC, was unanimously recommended by both boards and is subject
to shareholder approval, according to the statement today. Once
complete, Aldar will own 54.7 percent and Sorouh 45.3 percent of
the combined entity, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  