-- Standard Chartered in Creative Private Equity Exits on Slump
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-21T09:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/standard-chartered-in-creative-private-equity-exits-on-slump-1-.html
Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN) , the British
bank that earns most of its profit in Asia, said its private
equity business is exploring “creative” exit options in the
Middle East and North Africa after share markets slumped.  “We don’t want to be in a position where we are six or
seven years into an investment and there is no exit in sight,”
Taimoor Labib, Standard Chartered’s Dubai-based head of MENA
private equity, said in an interview on Jan. 17. For companies
where an IPO or a sale to another company isn’t possible, the
bank may propose a sale back to the company or a conversion of
equity into debt or a preferred dividend, he said.  Middle East and North Africa private equity exits have been
hurt by a slump in initial public offerings after Arab uprisings
toppled leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt , Libya and Yemen and because
of the debt crisis in Europe. Money raised from regional IPOs
reached $2 billion in 2012, Ernst & Young International said
last month. That compares with the more than $80 billion of IPOs
that were announced in 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Standard Chartered is looking to buy minority stakes in mid
to large-sized companies in countries including Saudi Arabia and
the United Arab Emirates, the two biggest Arab economies, Labib
said at the bank’s regional headquarters in Dubai.  The bank’s goal “is to do two or three deals a year with
its core clients” and it is looking at companies that can list
in two years or where it invests through a blend of debt and
equity financing with a clear exit path, he said.  Fundraising  Fundraising by MENA private equity firms in 2011 fell to
the lowest level since 2004 as regional unrest and  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis eroded investor appetite. Companies raised
$672 million in 2011, compared with $1.5 billion in 2010, the
MENA Private Equity Association said in June.  Standard Chartered’s private equity business has completed
two MENA deals so far. In August 2011 it bought a $75 million
stake in  Construction Products Holding Co. , a unit of the Saudi
Binladin Group and Saudi Arabia’s biggest manufacturer of
building materials like cement and tiles. Earlier that year, it
completed a $75 million mezzanine investment in Bahrain-based
retailer Hassan Mohammed Jawad & Sons BSC to help it expand.  Investors are looking to invest in Dubai’s consumer
industry, including restaurants and hotels, to take advantage of
the boom in the emirate’s tourism industry and rising consumer
spending, Labib said. The lack of IPOs in the emirate is the
“biggest constraint to the Dubai PE market,” he said. Consumer
finance, construction and food are attractive industries in
Saudi Arabia, where the IPO market is growing, he said.  “If you look at private equity in the Middle East, there
is no reason why there can’t be $1 billion to $2 billion of
equity invested per year in 10 to 15 cheques,” Labib said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  