-- Statoil Shift to U.S. Shale Seen Deepening After Algeria Attack
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-01-21T15:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/statoil-shift-to-u-s-shale-seen-deepening-after-algeria-attack.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest energy
explorer, could accelerate a shift toward U.S. shale investments
and  Brazil  after last week’s terrorist attack in Algeria that
left five of its employees missing, analysts said.  Poor security in North Africa could prompt the Stavanger-
based company to focus even more on shale oil and gas in the
U.S. and deepwater fields off Brazil, where most of the
company’s production growth is expected to occur in this decade,
said Trond Omdal, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA.  “Statoil is in a shift away from high-risk areas,” he
said in a phone interview last week from Oslo. “It will
reinforce a trend, but a lot of this is already driven by
macroeconomic factors such as a high oil price and technological
advances.”  The 67 percent state-owned Norwegian company is expanding
abroad to compensate for falling production from aging fields in
the  North Sea  and to increase its production to 2.5 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2020 from about 2 million.
Relying mostly on so-called unconventional resources, Statoil
plans to increase output in the U.S. to 500,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the same period, from 166,000 barrels in the
third quarter this year.  “We neither will or can let terrorism dictate our strategy
or our choices,” Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  told a
press conference in Stavanger today. “We have a responsibility
to run our business and support daily operations.”  Investment Guidelines  “Much of the growth in Statoil will in the future come
from  North America , and maybe Norway to some extent,” Teodor Sveen Nilsen, an analyst at Swedbank First Securities, said in a
phone interview. Although Statoil is present in seven African
countries, including Libya, Angola and  Nigeria , it isn’t
planning major investments on that continent compared with other
markets such as the U.S., he said.  Terrorist attacks such as the one on its In Amenas gas
facility, in which at least 23 hostages were killed according to
local authorities, may lead Statoil to change its investment
guidelines by increasing risk premiums when evaluating
opportunities in African countries, Sveen Nilsen said.  Statoil operates the In Amenas and In Salah gas fields in
joint ventures with BP Plc and  Algeria ’s Sonatrach.  The attack will also highlight the comparative value and
increase the attractiveness of assets in more “stable”
countries such as Norway and the U.S., the analyst said. Statoil
produced 1.165 million barrels of oil equivalent in Norway in
the third quarter, which amounts to almost two thirds of the
company’s total output.  Maintain Presence  Statoil probably won’t withdraw from Algeria or other
countries in the region based on the In Amenas attack, both
Omdal and Sveen Nilsen said.  Norwegian companies won’t shy away from engaging in foreign
business, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said in Stavanger.  “We will never abandon international activities as a
result of terrorist attacks. On the contrary,” he said.  While Statoil has probably done its best to prepare, the
company must now review all security and emergency provisions in
high-risk countries where it’s present, the SAFE union said
today.  “It has to lead to several concrete measures,” SAFE
leader Hilde-Marit Rysst said in a mobile phone interview.
“From the pictures in the media, there seems to be potential
for improvements” in terms of outsiders’ access to the
facilities.  The terror attack may also make it more difficult for
Statoil to recruit Norwegians for positions in risk-areas, said
another union, Tekna. The company will need to train and rely
more on local labor, union leader Marianne Harg said in an
interview with  Verdens Gang .  “More people may choose to turn down such opportunities,”
Rysst said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  