-- Structured Note Investors Seek Longer Maturities to Boost Yields
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-01-21T13:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/structured-note-investors-seek-longer-maturities-to-boost-yields.html
Banks are selling more longer-dated
structured notes as investors accept greater risks in a bid to
boost returns that have been hurt by  interest rates  close to
zero and declining funding costs for lenders.  Banks led by DZ Bank AG and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  sold $3.47
billion of notes with maturities exceeding five years this
month, or 87 percent of the $3.97 billion of global issuance,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes U.S.
securities and those where the principal returned can vary. That
compares with 68 percent for 2012 and 54 percent for 2011, the
data show.  Investors can receive higher returns by locking up their
money for longer periods. The option has become attractive as
credit-default swaps for European and U.S. banks, the main
sellers of structured notes, declined to their lowest level in
as much as 21 months in January, curtailing the extra returns
investors can achieve from buying the notes of riskier issuers.
Low rates in  Europe  and the U.S. have also damped yields.  “There is no yield in shorter tenors,” said Sharif Nahas,
vice president of structured products sales at ING Groep NV in
 Frankfurt . “The funding of banks is higher in longer tenors,
and so yield levels are normally also higher.”  DZ Bank AG, the largest issuer of structured notes this
year, sold 50 million euros ($66.6 million) of eight-year
callable step-up coupon securities on Jan. 2 that initially pay
1.4 percent annually, then increase to a final rate of 2
percent. The Frankfurt-based lender also issued a similar 10-
year note on the same day that pays a final coupon of 2.6
percent, Bloomberg data show.  Rate Volatility  Interest rate volatility is almost at a two-year low, which
has also cut potential returns on notes, encouraging investors
to seek longer maturities, said Phil McCabe, who is responsible
for structured notes at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London  and
heads collateral and repo trading.  The so-called 3m10y swaption rate, a measure of volatility
in three-month options for 10-year euro  interest-rate swaps ,
stands at 64.1 basis points today, having hit 57 on Dec. 6, the
lowest point since April 2010.  In addition, insurance companies in Germany and Taiwan are
among the main buyers of global structured notes and prefer
longer-dated notes, said Amaury Gosse, a London-based medium-
term notes trader at Citigroup Inc.  Elm BV, an Amsterdam-based special purpose entity, sold the
note with the longest maturity this year, Bloomberg data show.
The callable 30-year security, which was issued on Jan. 14, is
tied to a French government bond and will pay a maximum return
of 370.25 percent if not redeemed early. UBS AG arranged the
sale.  The average years to maturity of company bonds from the
U.S. to Europe and  Asia  hit a 12-year high of 8.54 on Aug. 2,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Corporate
Index. Today the measure stands at 8.37 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  