-- Swiss Banks Vie for Declared American Assets Amid Probe
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-01-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/swiss-banks-vie-for-declared-american-assets-amid-u-s-tax-probe.html
Swiss wealth managers are resuming
the fight for American clients four years after the U.S. sued
 UBS AG (UBSN)  in a case that undermined banking secrecy and triggered
the withdrawal of billions of dollars from Zurich and Geneva.  UBS expects to report assets at its Securities and Exchange
Commission-registered business rose 20 percent to $4.6 billion
last year, even as more recent market entrants, including Syz &
Co. Group and Reyl Group, vie with Switzerland’s biggest bank
for Americans who can prove their funds are declared.  SEC-registered banks are competing for $40 billion of
American assets in the Alpine country as a U.S. Department of
Justice tax-evasion probe embroils at least 11 Swiss firms.
Wegelin & Co., which two years ago said American clients risked
becoming “pariahs” because of tougher asset-disclosure rules,
is closing after the U.S. indicted the oldest Swiss bank for
helping customers hide money from the Internal Revenue Service.  “Some have been sailing a little close to the wind,” Eric Syz, a managing partner of Syz & Co. Group, said in an interview
from his office on Rue du Rhone, Geneva’s priciest shopping
street. “We’re starting on a clean slate.”  While profit margins on SEC-regulated assets are smaller
than on traditional offshore funds, the U.S. retains its
importance as the largest asset management market in the world,
said Syz. The firm, which began servicing Americans last year,
predicts its Syz Swiss Advisors SA business will boost client
assets eightfold to $900 million in five to seven years.  UBS Growth  UBS’s predicted asset growth should consolidate the top
ranking of its SEC-registered business, ahead of Pictet & Cie.,
which had $3.3 billion at the end of 2011. Zurich-based UBS has
more than 1,500 clients at its SEC unit.  Switzerland attracted $2.1 trillion to cross-border
accounts during an era of undeclared money that started to
crumble when the DoJ sued UBS in 2009 for helping Americans
dodge taxes. UBS resolved that matter by paying a $780 million
fine, admitting it helped foster tax evasion and handing over
client names to the U.S.  Pictet, Geneva’s largest private bank, saw net inflows at
its SEC-registered business, which was “one of the most
important growth segments” over the past few years, Senior
Partner Jacques de Saussure said in November. The DoJ conducted
a “general inquiry” into Pictet’s U.S. wealth management
business, the bank said that month.  North American offshore assets in Switzerland have slumped
70 percent since 2009 and only a third of the remaining assets
may be managed by SEC-registered advisers, according to Boston
Consulting. Worldwide North American millionaires’ wealth will
surge to $41.5 trillion by 2016, according to the Boston-based
firm.  Releasing Assets  The growth in SEC-registered business comes as other banks
release their U.S. assets to avoid the associated legal and
compliance costs.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
dissolved its U.S. cross-border business last year and  Julius
Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  ended all relationships with U.S. offshore
clients between 2009 and 2011. Both Zurich-based banks are part
of the DoJ investigation.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of Singapore
Ltd. said they have rejected Americans looking for non-resident
services outside the U.S.  With some firms shunning Americans, Reyl Group aims to
double its $100 million of U.S. client funds by 2015, Chief
Executive Officer Francois Reyl said.  “We check to within an inch of a doubt that our potential
clients are fully declared,” said Reyl. “Once that’s done,
whether or not the account comes from a bank that may have had
problems with the U.S. authorities is irrelevant.”  Wholesale Exodus  The SEC-registered advisers are targeting Americans who
have banked abroad while working in different locations for
multinational companies and wealthy U.S. residents who want to
diversify their investments.  “Some banks servicing U.S. clients were both unaware of
their clients’ tax status and their own regulatory obligations
under the SEC,” said Curtis Childs, managing partner at
Bellecapital International AG in Zurich. “Now there’s a
wholesale exodus of banks from the market because the risks of
non-compliance are very clear.”  Under the SEC-registered regime, foreign advisers follow
U.S. rules on providing investment advice so they don’t arouse
scrutiny from the authorities or risk being detained as they
enter the country to visit customers. Switzerland is also poised
to implement the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or FATCA, a
U.S. anti-tax-evasion law that forces banks to share information
on client assets with the IRS.  Saturation Point  Bellecapital boosted its U.S. assets by 74 percent to $245
million in the nine months through 2012, Childs said.  Maseco Private Wealth AG, which is based in Geneva and
Zurich and has doubled its assets under management from the $214
million reported March 30, expects the SEC-registered adviser
market will reach saturation point this year, prompting a period
of consolidation for smaller rivals.  “It’s a daunting process for some of the newcomers,” Yann
Rousset, CEO of Maseco in Switzerland, said in a telephone
interview. “It will be interesting to see who has the guts to
remain in this niche market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  