-- Swiss Stocks Fall as Franc Gains; Richemont, Swatch Slide
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-01-21T12:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-richemont-shares-decline.html
Swiss stocks  fell for a second day,
paring three weeks of gains in the benchmark index, as Cie.
Financiere  Richemont (CFR)  SA slumped the most in more than four
months and the franc gained against the euro.  Richemont tumbled 5.6 percent, for the largest decline on
the Swiss Market Index, after the world’s second-biggest luxury-
goods company reported sales that missed estimates.  Flughafen
Zuerich (FHZN)  AG dropped 3.6 percent after Nomura Holdings Inc.
downgraded its recommendation for the stock.  The SMI slid 0.4 percent to 7,340.38 at 1:12 p.m. in
Zurich, for the first back-to-back losses since the start of the
year. The gauge has still rallied  7.6 percent  in 2013, the best
start to a year since the measure was formed in 1988. The
broader Swiss Performance Index slipped 0.4 percent today.  “The SMI had a strong start to the year,” said  Reto Huenerwadel , senior economist at UBS AG in Zurich. “To the
extent that market participants are willing to take more risk,
we’ve seen the franc depreciating against the euro and a rally
in Swiss stocks. But it’s difficult to see how the rally could
go on at this pace.”  The franc rose for a second day, gaining 0.3 percent
against the euro. The Swiss currency last week depreciated to
the lowest level since the country’s central bank imposed a
exchange-rate cap in September 2011.  Bailout Funds  Euro-area finance ministers, gathering in Brussels today,
will begin talks on how to channel rescue funds directly to
banks. Policy makers are likely to clash over how and when the
500 billion-euro ($666 billion) European Stability Mechanism can
bypass governments. An assessment of Spain, Cyprus and  Greece  is
also expected to feature.  Richemont slid 5.6 percent to 74.30 Swiss francs,
contributing the most to the  SMI (SMI) ’s decline. The owner of the
Cartier brand reported third-quarter revenue growth that missed
analysts’ estimates as demand in the Asia-Pacific region slowed.  Revenue rose 9.3 percent to 2.86 billion euros in the three
months through December, the Geneva-based company said today.
The 5 percent growth excluding currency shifts missed the 8.9
percent average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest maker of Swiss
watches, retreated 2.5 percent to 507 francs.  Flughafen Zuerich fell 3.6 percent to 400.25 francs as Mark
McVicar, an analyst at Nomura, cut the stock to reduce from buy,
meaning investors should sell the company’s shares.  The  volume of shares  changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 5.6 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  