-- U.K.’s Prince Harry Says He Killed Taliban in Afghanistan
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-22T00:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/u-k-s-prince-harry-says-he-killed-taliban-in-afghanistan.html
Prince Harry, the third in line to
the British throne, who has just ended a deployment with the army 
in  Afghanistan , said he killed Taliban fighters there, to “take a 
life to save a life.”  The prince, 28, a gunner in Apache helicopters, said he had
taken the enemy “out of the game” during his stint. He served in 
Helmand province in southern Afghanistan, supporting allied 
troops fighting the Taliban at close quarters and accompanying 
British Chinook and U.S. Black Hawk helicopters on casualty 
evacuation missions.  “Yeah, so lots of people have,” he told reporters after
being asked if he had killed in action, in remarks distributed
yesterday by the Press Association newswire.  “Take a life to save a life,” the prince said. “That’s
what we revolve around, I suppose. If there’s people trying to
do bad stuff to our guys, then we’ll take them out of the
game.”  He said killing the enemy was not what motivated him to
become an attack helicopter pilot. Serving with British forces
in Afghanistan made him the first royal to fight in a war zone
in more than 25 years.  “It’s not the reason I decided to do this job,” the
prince said. “The reason to do this job was to get back out
here and carry on with a job.”  Tabloid Headlines  Harry, the second son of Prince Charles and the late
 Princess Diana , made tabloid headlines when younger as a serial
partygoer, clashing with paparazzi photographers outside
nightclubs in 2004 and turning up at a costume affair in a Nazi
uniform. Pictures from that event drew condemnation from
politicians inside and outside Britain.  The prince said in the remarks released yesterday he had
“let himself and his family down” when in August a U.S.
website published photographs of him naked with friends in a Las
Vegas hotel room. Harry was pictured wearing only a medallion
and a wristband, with a naked woman in each shot.  Life in the army is “as normal as it’s going to get,” he
said, adding he relishes having the chance to muck in as “one
of the guys.” He complained about how the media handle
reporting of the royal family, calling it “rubbish,” adding
that he hopes his sister-in-law, Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, is left alone to enjoy her pregnancy.  Harry, who was in Afghanistan when it was announced that
his elder brother,  Prince William , and his wife are expecting a
baby in July, said he is “thrilled” for the couple and “can’t
wait to be an uncle.”  Harry was given no special treatment during his tour, and
he worked, rested, ate and slept in the same conditions as the
other pilots in his squadron. He flew in support of the NATO-led
 International Security Assistance Force , Afghan National Army
and Afghan National Police fighters. The U.K. is due to end
combat operations in Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  