-- U.K. Stocks Advance as Euro-Area Finance Ministers Meet
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-21T16:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/u-k-stocks-gain-before-euro-area-finance-ministers-meet.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for a third day
as Republicans said they would hold a vote on extending the U.S.
government’s authority to borrow, while euro-area finance
ministers met for the first time this year.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and  Centamin Plc (CEY)  led a rally by mining companies
as they each gained more than 3 percent. Admiral Group Plc
surged the most in three months after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended that investors buy the shares. Pearson Plc dropped
2.9 percent after the publisher said earnings in 2012 will fall
short of its previous forecast.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  added 26.57 points, or 0.4 percent, to
6,180.98 at the close in London, for its longest winning streak
in a week. The equity benchmark has gained 4.8 percent so far
this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also advanced 0.4 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.1 percent.  “Investors are clearly struggling to discount the
forthcoming debt-ceiling negotiations, so the prospect of a
further deferral is positive,” said Guy Foster, head of
portfolio strategy at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. in London.
“The general theme of the U.S. earnings season has also been
positive. Beats on the revenue figures are just what the market
needed, given the concern about faltering growth.”  Debt Ceiling  In the U.S.,  House Republicans  plan to vote on Jan. 23 on
extending the country’s borrowing authority by three months.  “We are going to pursue strategies that will obligate the
Senate to finally join the House in confronting the government’s
spending problem,” Speaker  John Boehner  said at a private
policy retreat for the party near Williamsburg, Virginia, after
European markets closed on Jan. 18.  Euro-area finance ministers met in Brussels today to
discuss how and when the 500 billion-euro ($666 billion)
European Stability Mechanism can bypass governments and provide
direct assistance to banks. They will also assess the economies
of Spain, Greece and Cyprus.  The U.K.’s financial industry will eliminate 18,000 jobs in
the first quarter of the year, the  Confederation of British
Industry  forecast in a report today. Banks, insurers, asset
managers and other finance companies probably cut 25,000
positions in the last three months of 2012, according to a study
by Britain’s biggest business lobby group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Mining Companies  A  gauge of mining shares  in the FTSE 350 Index increased
1.3 percent. Centamin climbed 4.2 percent to 57.8 pence, while
Lonmin, which mines platinum in South Africa, advanced 3.1
percent to 342.9 pence.  Admiral (ADM)  surged 4.9 percent to 1,211 pence, its biggest gain
since Oct. 16, as Goldman Sachs raised its recommendation on the
shares to conviction buy, from neutral. The brokerage said the
value of insurance claims may increase at a slower pace than
analysts had predicted.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  climbed 2.3 percent to
366.9 pence after  Sky News  reported on its website on Jan. 19
that the lender plans to split its markets and international
banking division into separate units. The website did not say
where it got the information.  Afren Plc (AFR)  gained 2.7 percent to 138.7 pence after saying
revenue will probably rise in 2013 as production increases in
Iraq’s Kurdistan region. The U.K.-based explorer focused on
Nigeria and Iraq said in a statement that sales probably more
than doubled to about $1.5 billion last year.  Pearson Drops  Pearson (PSON)  declined 2.9 percent to 1,202 pence after the owner
of the Financial Times newspaper lowered its earnings projection
for 2012 to about 84 pence from a previous estimate of 84.9
pence. The company said in a statement that difficult market
conditions will continue into 2013.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the  U.K.’s biggest luxury-goods maker ,
slipped 1.4 percent to 1,367 pence.  The Stoxx 600 Personal & Household Goods Index dropped 0.5
percent today as Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the world’s
second-largest maker of  luxury goods ,  reported  third-quarter
revenue that missed analysts’ estimates.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the FTSE 100 was 30 percent lower than the average of the last
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. markets
are closed today for Martin Luther King Jr. Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  