-- Huawei Open to IPO After Probably Surpassing Ericsson in Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-21T06:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/huawei-sales-jump-8-on-smartphones-probably-topping-ericsson.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of telecommunications equipment, said it has an
“open mind” about offering shares to the public after posting
sales that probably surpassed  Ericsson AB. (ERICB) ’s.  A decision to hold an initial public offering would depend
on shareholders’ interests, as the company has no immediate need
to raise funds, Chief Financial Officer Cathy Meng Wanzhou said
today at a briefing in Beijing. The company expects sales to
rise as much as 12 percent this year following an 8 percent
increase last year, she said.  An IPO may help closely held Huawei expand overseas by
boosting transparency and reducing security concerns, said
 Pierre Ferragu , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst. The U.S.
House Intelligence Committee in October recommended that local
companies avoid equipment made by Huawei, whose founder served
in the Chinese military, citing concerns the communist nation
could install malicious hardware or software in U.S. networks.  “Perception is a major issue here,” said London-based
Ferragu. “A listing would be a strong help, but I doubt the
company is ready for this given the implications on the
governance and management model.”  It may take about a decade for Huawei to be perceived as
“a normal company” worldwide, he said. The House Intelligence
Committee also said U.S. companies should steer clear of another
Chinese maker of telecommunications equipment,  ZTE Corp. (000063)   Profit Surge  Huawei’s sales last year rose to 220 billion  yuan  ($35.4
billion), helping boost net income 33 percent to 15.4 billion
yuan, Meng said. The event was the first media briefing for the
40-year-old CFO, who is the daughter of Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei.  The equipment-maker had $4.5 billion of working capital at
the end of last year, on record cash flow of $12 billion, Meng
said. It also has credit lines totaling $33 billion, 77 percent
of which comes from banks outside of China.  “As to whether or not we will go public, in Huawei we have
kept an open mind toward this issue,” she said. “No matter
whether we go public or not, we will always honor our commitment
to openness and transparency. We will refer to the standards of
listed companies to improve ourselves.”  Huawei is employee-owned, with about 65,000 staff members
holding shares, Meng said. Her father controls about 1.4
percent, she said. Ren, 68, set up Huawei in 1987 after retiring
from the Chinese military in 1983.  Surpassing Ericsson  Huawei’s sales have climbed as it adds smartphones, tablets
and cloud-computing services, and benefits from investment in
mobile-phone equipment in  emerging markets , Meng said. Ericsson,
the world’s biggest maker of wireless  network equipment  by
revenue, is predicted to report sales that are little changed
from a year earlier because of its exit from a mobile-phone
venture with Sony Corp. and a Euro zone debt crisis that has
damped spending in  Europe .  Huawei will probably “grow faster than Ericsson in the
next couple of years,” Mirko Maier, an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany , said before the
Chinese company released its earnings. “They are entering new
markets next to their core competencies and they are addressing
new customer segments. That is not the case with Ericsson.”  The Stockholm-based company will report 2012 sales of 226.9
billion kroner ($34.8 billion), based on the average of 17
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings are due Jan.
31.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  