-- Turkey Yields Decline to Month-Low, Lira Falls on Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-21T16:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/turkish-yields-head-for-month-low-lira-falls-on-rate-cut-bets.html
Turkish bond yields fell to the
lowest level in more than a month and the lira weakened on bets
the central bank will cut  interest rates  at a meeting tomorrow
to curb the currency’s gains this year.  Yields on two-year notes slid three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 5.93 percent by the 5 p.m. close in
Istanbul, the lowest level since Dec. 19. The lira depreciated
0.2 percent against the dollar to 1.7637 in its second day of
declines.  The lira has strengthened 1.1 percent this year, the
second-biggest advance among emerging-market currencies in
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  after the Romanian leu,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank’s real
effective exchange rate index was at 118.3 in December, close to
its 120 reading which Governor Erdem Basci said in November
would prompt the policy makers to clip any unwarranted currency
gain. The gauge measures the lira’s purchasing power relative to
those of  Turkey ’s main trading partners.  The central bank has previously said it deems the index’s
120 level as overvalued for the currency, Sercan Kiliclar, a
fixed-income trader at  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , which indicate investor
expectations of borrowing costs, fell one basis point to 6.47
percent today.  The lira strengthened to 1.7530 a dollar on Jan. 17, the
strongest level since Feb. 29, on bets Moody’s Investors Service
will raise Turkey’s credit rating to investment grade. Moody’s
said in November the country was the only nation in Europe it
rated with a positive outlook.  ‘Systemic Risk’  Excessive currency appreciation increases “ systemic risk 
and can have a damaging effect on macroeconomic and financial
stability,” Basci said Dec. 25. The governor has used a rates
corridor that allows him to raise or lower the cost of funding
to banks daily to control the flow of money and curb the
current-account deficit. The central bank lowered the  benchmark
repurchase rate  in December by 25 basis points to a record 5.5
percent.  Four out of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
central bank to lower its overnight rate, while seven forecast
the measure will stay at 5 percent.  Renewed appreciation pressure on the lira could prompt the
central bank to cut its overnight rate by 25 basis points, while
keeping the repurchase rate unchanged, according to an e-mailed
note from Istanbul-based BNP Paribas analysts Emre Tekmen and
Selim Cakir.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  