-- Vacheron Constantin Defies Asian Slowdown With China Expansion
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-01-21T14:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/vacheron-constantin-defies-asian-slowdown-with-china-expansion.html
Vacheron Constantin , the oldest
Swiss watchmaker in continuous operation, plans to expand its
sales network in China this year even as demand in the Asia
Pacific region industrywide shows signs of easing.  The company, which has been in business for more than 250
years and is part of  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , plans to open
two boutiques in Shanghai and Beijing this year, expanding its
network in China to 12 boutiques, Chief Executive Officer Juan- Carlos Torres said in an interview today at Geneva’s watch fair.
Vacheron Constantin will also open two smaller points of sale in
the country in 2013, he said.  Richemont said today its revenue excluding currency shifts
in Asian and Pacific markets stopped growing in its fiscal third
quarter because of easing wholesale demand. It was the first
time in four years that sales in the region didn’t increase in
the final part of the calendar year. While some Chinese are
opting to buy during trips abroad, Vacheron Constantin’s
Patrimony range of products are still “selling like crazy” in
 China , according to Torres.  “In the top segment in China, we are the leader and we
continue to grow,” he said, without providing details. The
brand faces a delivery backlog worldwide of six to seven months,
according to Torres.  Even if more Chinese consumers are buying abroad, boutiques
on the mainland give shoppers a chance to examine models and a
way to have watches serviced, he said. Geneva-based Vacheron
Constantin started to build up a team of watchmakers in China 10
years ago, Torres said.  Enamel Watches  Vacheron Constantin is bringing out new models from the
Patrimony range of watches at this year’s Geneva show, including
a ladies’ model decorated with diamonds that will retail for
650,000 euros ($865,000) before tax. The brand will also
introduce a range of enamel-decorated pieces for women.  Vacheron Constantin’s output will probably rise to about
25,000 pieces this year, compared with about 22,000 timepieces
in 2012, Torres said. The brand is expanding its manufacturing
facilities and aims to make all of its own movements, the
mechanisms that make watches run, by 2016. Vacheron Constantin
makes about 75 percent at present, he said.  Richemont doesn’t disclose sales for each watch brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  