-- Vodacom Concerned Over Tanzania’s Planned 69% Mobile-Fee Cut
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-01-22T15:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/vodacom-is-concerned-over-tanzania-s-proposed-69-mobile-fee-cut.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) ’s Tanzanian unit
said it’s concerned that a proposed reduction in interconnection
fees may curb investment in telecommunications infrastructure in
the East African nation.  The  Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority  said on
Jan. 18 it may lower the rate that mobile-phone companies charge
each other for calls across networks by as much as 69 percent to
34.92 shillings (2 U.S. cents) a minute from March 1 to boost
competition. The regulator will decide on the magnitude of the
reduction this month, according to spokesman Innocent Mungy.  “We have raised concerns with the significant reduction
proposed in March 2013 and the basis by which the reduction has
been proposed,” Vodacom Tanzania Ltd. Managing Director Rene Meza said in e-mailed responses to questions yesterday from  Dar
es Salaam , the country’s commercial hub. “It is important that
interconnect charges are designed to reflect the actual costs of
mobile operators and the impact that the reduction will have on
investment plans by Vodacom and other national operators.”  Tanzania has 46.8 mobile subscribers per 100 people,
compared with an average of 61.6 in neighboring  Kenya  and 100.5
in  South Africa , the continent’s largest economy, according to
data published on the  website  of the Geneva-based International
Telecommunications Union. Tanzanian subscribers spend an average
of 56.7 minutes on domestic calls a month, while Kenyans use
84.4 and South Africans use 137.9, the data shows.  Competition  Vodacom Tanzania is the country’s biggest mobile-phone
operator with 9.2 million subscribers, according to Meza. The
company began an 18-month, 100 billion-shilling investment
program in December 2011. Its competitors include  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI) ’s subsidiary, with 6.4 million customers, and  Millicom
International Cellular SA (MIICF) ’s unit, known as Tigo Tanzania, with 5
million, according to the TCRA.  The regulator said the planned reduction is based on a cost
survey it commissioned auditing firm PWC Tanzania Ltd. to
conduct among telecommunications companies operating in  East
Africa ’s second-biggest economy.  “We are doing this to encourage competition in the sector,
and to ensure calling is affordable to consumers,” Mungy said
on Jan. 18. The TCRA has reduced interconnection rates from the
equivalent of 7.32 U.S. cents in 2010 to their current level,
according to data on its website.  Meza said Vodacom Tanzania is also in talks with the
regulator about plans to introduce number portability in
Tanzania, a system in which mobile-phone owners can retain the
same phone number when switching operators.  Complex Process  “Our experience with mobile-number portability is that it
is a complex process and if rushed, and not done in a structured
and planned way, will have negative impact on the customer
experience and industry,” Meza said. “Our focus is work with
TCRA and industry to do this in a structured and planned way.”  The regulator is discussing number portability and expects
progress on the policy this year, according to Mungy.  Beatrice Singano, communications manager at Airtel
Tanzania, said she couldn’t immediately comment. Calls to Tigo’s
offices seeking comment weren’t answered.  Vodacom Group, based in Johannesburg, is the largest
provider of mobile-phone services to South Africans. The company
is 65 percent owned by Newbury, England-based  Vodafone Group
Plc. (VOD)  Vodacom’s shares climbed 0.2 percent to 125.06 rand in
Johannesburg. The stock has risen 0.9 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 