-- Wheat Rises in Paris as U.S. Drought May Cut Global Grain Supply
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-21T17:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/wheat-rises-in-paris-as-u-s-drought-may-cut-global-grain-supply.html
Wheat rose in Paris on speculation
global grain supplies will shrink as drought threatens to reduce
crops in the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter.  No significant rain was expected in the central and
southern U.S. Great Plains over the next 10 days, forecaster DTN
said in a report Jan. 18. All of Kansas and  Oklahoma , the
biggest U.S. wheat growers, were experiencing severe to
exceptional drought as of Jan. 15, according to the U.S. Drought
Monitor, a gauge compiled by government and academic groups.
U.S. winter-wheat crops will be dormant until about March before
the  harvest  starts in June.  “The long-discussed subject of the drought is now
increasingly unsettling the markets again,”  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a report today.
Wheat futures bought and sold on the  Chicago  Board of Trade
jumped the most since July last week.  Milling wheat for delivery in March traded in Paris on NYSE
Liffe climbed 1.4 percent to settle at 251.50 euros ($334.85) a
metric ton. The grain rose 1.8 percent in the previous two
weeks. Agricultural markets in Chicago are closed today for
Martin Luther King Jr. Day.  “There is still no end in sight to the dry conditions in
the key growing areas of the U.S. Great Plains, which therefore
threatens to significantly reduce the 2013-14 season harvest,”
Fritsch said.  Winter grain  crops  in the European Union probably won’t
experience damaging frost through at least the end of this
month, the bloc’s Monitoring Agricultural Resources unit said
today. Hardening of winter crops is “well advanced,” meaning
plants are dormant and able to withstand lower temperatures,
according to the report.  Rising demand also is supporting prices, Fritsch said. In
the week ended Jan. 10, U.S. exporters sold 536,166 tons of
wheat for delivery this marketing year, more than twice the
prior week’s amount, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
Jan. 17.  Rapeseed futures for May delivery rose 0.6 percent to 457
euros a ton in Paris, climbing for the fifth time in six
sessions. Maize, or corn, futures for March delivery advanced
0.7 percent to 243.25 euros a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  