-- World’s Cheapest Oil Crimps Alberta Budget With Price Gap
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-01-21T20:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/world-s-cheapest-oil-crimps-alberta-budget-with-price-gap.html
Alberta , Canada’s wealthiest
province, will issue more debt and dip into savings to overcome
reduced revenue tied to the price gap between the oil it
produces and world crude prices.  Alberta will probably borrow more this year, taking
advantage of the province’s AAA rating and low interest rates,
Finance Minister Doug Horner said in a Jan. 18 interview. The
province will also tap its sustainability fund to help offset
lower revenue from the world’s cheapest oil, he said.  “We’ll probably be going to the markets a little more this
year,” Horner said in Calgary. There is “excitement” about
the fact that “Alberta is entering some markets that we’ve not
been in before,” he said, without elaborating.  Alberta relies on royalties and taxation of the oil and
natural gas industry for almost one-third of its revenue. A 35
percent  drop  over the past four months for the price of Western
 Canada  Select, the benchmark Canadian crude that  averaged
$71.80 last year, has widened  the gap  relative to world oil
prices and forced Horner’s government to find ways to make up
for the shortfall. The  finance ministry   predicted  Canadian crude
price of C$83.28 ($83.99) for the fiscal year that began in
April.  “The reality is that we should be trading on par with
Mayan crude at about $94 a barrel,” said Horner. “That has an
enormous impact of the province’s finances and every province in
Canada’s finances as well as the Canadian government.”  Spending Corrections  Alberta’s 2013-2014 budget “is not going to be fun” and
the province needs “to make corrections to our spending,”
Horner told the Calgary Chamber of Commerce today. The budget
will be made public March 7.  With Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Calgary’s
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and rivals making investments expected to be
worth about C$23 billion this year, the province’s energy sector
is attracting job seekers and boosting a population forecast to
reach 5 million in the coming two decades from 3.7 million now.
To keep up with growth, Premier Alison Redford’s Progressive
Conservatives promised in last year’s election campaign to spend
almost C$4 billion on 50 new schools, 140 medical clinics and
post-secondary education, a pledge based on growing oil sands
royalties.  The volume of debt issued will depend on the government’s
plans for infrastructure, Horner said. The ministry expects
about C$5 billion to C$6 billion in infrastructure investments
annually in the coming years, he said.  Tough Decision  The lower revenue means “tax increases are going to have
to come,” said George Gosbee, chairman of Calgary-based
investment-banking company AltaCorp Capital Inc. in a Jan. 17
phone interview. “This is going to be a tough political
decision.”  Western Canada Select  traded  $42.50 a barrel less than U.S.
crude on Dec. 14, the most since Bloomberg began keeping
records. Canadian companies are forgoing about C$2.5 billion a
month because of the lower prices, according to an estimate by
Houston-based investment bank PPHB Securities LP. The
differential is costing the Canadian economy C$27 billion a
year, Horner said.  “There’s no question that there’s concern about the price
differential, but it’s not a factor that’s having an impact on
business right now,” said John Beck, chief executive officer of
Aecon Group  Inc., a construction and engineering company, in a
Jan. 16 interview. “There’s cautious optimism right now.”  Keystone Pipeline  If  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline to the  Gulf
Coast  were approved, that would be “an important step” to
connect Alberta to international markets and help reduce the
discount for Western Canada Select, said Ken Hughes, Alberta’s
energy minister who also participated in the Jan. 18 interview.  “It is a strategic imperative, it is in Alberta’s
interest, in Canada’s interest, that we get access to tidewater,
whether that’s east, north or west, to diversify away from the
single continental market and be part of the global market,”
Hughes said.  “This is not something we’re going to solve in a year or
two,” the minister said. “It might resolve itself over a
three- to five-year period.”  The western province has C$16.2 billion in outstanding
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, with about C$3.3
billion of that due in 2013. Alberta’s debt is rated AAA, the
highest level, by  Standard & Poor’s .  Stabilization Fund  While the province’s “continuing deficits have not
translated into an increase in debt and debt burdens, Alberta’s
cash and investment holdings have been declining,” wrote S&P
credit analyst Stephen Ogilvie in an Oct. 25 report.  The so-called fiscal stabilization fund that the government
uses to manage the budget was worth about C$7.5 billion as of
March 31, 2012, down from C$15.0 billion two years earlier, S&P
said.  “By this time next year, the differential should have
shrunk significantly because of the Seaway pipeline, the
southern leg of Keystone and other ongoing incremental
improvements to the North American pipeline systems,” said
Michael Tims, chairman of Calgary-based investment bank Peters &
Co., in a Jan. 18 interview.  “The province is in a period of considerably lower natural
gas revenues, while rising oil sands revenues are still ramping
up. At the same time, the population and economy are growing,
and this creates a challenge for budgeting,” Tims said.  There are no plans to raise taxes, or impose a  sales tax ,
Horner said. The province will instead use more debt and attract
sovereign wealth funds to invest in public-private
infrastructure projects, the finance minister said.  “We are going to use all the tools in our toolbox,” he
said. “Does that mean we will go to the markets? Yes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  