-- Yen Advances as BOJ Delays Open-Ended Asset Buying
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-01-22T13:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-21/yen-snaps-rally-from-2-1-2-year-low-before-boj-policy-decision.html
The yen rose by the most in eight
months against the dollar after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said it will
conduct open-ended asset purchases from 2014, disappointing
investors who expected bolder action sooner.  Japan’s currency advanced from near its weakest level
against the dollar since June 2010 as the BOJ said it will buy
about 13 trillion yen ($146.6 billion) in assets per month from
January 2014 and set a 2 percent inflation target. The euro rose
for the first time in three days versus the dollar after German
investor confidence in January increased to the highest in 2 1/2
years, adding to signs that Europe’s largest economy is
gathering momentum.  “The timing is the factor that caused the market to be a
little disturbed,” said Jeremy Stretch, head of foreign-
exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London, referring to the decision to buy assets from next
January. “We haven’t seen the big bazooka being taken out in
terms of the weakening of the yen, which is implicit in getting
anywhere near that inflation target.”  The yen gained 1 percent to 88.69 per dollar at 7:58 a.m.
 New York  time, after jumping by 1.4 percent, the most since May
17. It reached 90.25 yesterday, the weakest since June 23, 2010.
Japan’s currency gained 1 percent to 118.15 per euro, after
appreciating by as much as 1.7 percent. The 17-nation common
currency rose 0.1 percent to $1.3323.  “In order to overcome deflation early and achieve
sustainable economic growth with price stability, the Government
and the Bank of Japan will strengthen their policy
coordination,” the BOJ said in a statement today. The central
bank said it will pursue monetary easing and aim to achieve the
2 percent inflation target at “the earliest possible time.”  Weidmann Warning  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s drive for looser monetary
policy and a weaker yen may put the BOJ’s independence at risk
and increase tensions with trading partners, according to
European Central Bank governing council member Jens Weidmann. In
a speech in Frankfurt yesterday, Weidmann warned against
“politicizing” the yen exchange rate and interfering in
monetary policy.  Japan’s currency has tumbled 11 percent in the past three
months, the biggest decline among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The yen is down 9.9 percent against the greenback in the same
period.  German Confidence  “With the Abe effect and the fact that the BOJ is
gradually losing independence with the government executing
harsh pressure on how aggressive monetary easing is supposed to
be, there’s still a way for dollar-yen to go,” said Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based strategist at Commerzbank AG. “The
expectations were so extreme that the BOJ couldn’t meet them.
It’s a short-term correction” and the Japanese currency may
weaken to 96 by year-end, she said.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
to 31.5 from 6.9 in December, the highest since May 2010.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a gain to 12.  The single currency also rose after a Bundesbank spokesman
denied speculation Weidmann planned to step down as president of
Germany’s central bank.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.4 percent to 79.748.  Sales of existing homes in the U.S. climbed 1.2 percent to
a 5.1 million annual rate last month, the strongest since
November 2009, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the National Association of
Realtors publishes the figures today. Another report this week
may say new-home sales picked up to a 385,000 annual pace, the
best showing since April 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  