-- Abbott Publishes Draft Legislation to Abolish Carbon Pricing
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-10-15T05:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/abbott-publishes-draft-legislation-to-abolish-carbon-pricing.html
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott’s government published  draft legislation  to abolish
carbon pricing and called on the opposition Labor party not to
block the bill in parliament.  Labor “must listen to the clear message that the
Australian people sent at the last election,” Abbott, whose
Liberal-National coalition won the Sept. 7 ballot, said in a
statement.  The Carbon Price Mechanism passed by former Prime Minister
Julia Gillard in 2011 requires more than 300 of  Australia ’s
largest emitters to pay about $24.15 a metric ton for greenhouse
gases this year, the highest price in the world. While Abbott’s
coalition has a majority in Australia’s lower house of
parliament, it doesn’t control the upper house Senate, which has
the power to block his attempt to repeal the legislation.  Labor’s new leader Bill Shorten has indicated the party
won’t support Abbott’s plans to scrap the so-called carbon tax
from July 1, 2014.  The Greens party, which supports carbon pricing, holds the
balance of power in the 76-member Senate until July 1. After
that, the coalition will be forced to negotiate with smaller,
mainly center-right parties, including mining magnate Clive
Palmer’s party to pass legislation in the upper house.  Abbott told reporters today that companies would have to
pay their carbon price liabilities until the end of this
financial year and that the repeal wouldn’t be retrospective.  Public consultation on the draft legislation will be open
until Nov. 4 and the new parliament will sit for the first time
since the election on Nov. 11, Abbott said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  