-- Abe Aide Urges BOJ Law Revision to Boost Inflation Expectations
-- B y   C h i k a k o   M o g i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-10-15T05:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/abe-aide-urges-boj-law-revision-to-boost-inflation-expectations.html
Japan should revise its central bank
law to make it accountable for job creation and ending
deflation, said Etsuro Honda, an economic adviser to Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe.  “Monetary policy has the biggest impact when it creates
expectations,” Honda, 58, said in an interview last week at the
Prime Minister’s Office in  Tokyo . “To ensure expectations are
formed, the BOJ’s purpose needs to be legally documented.”  Abe said this year that the law could be revised if the
central bank fails to “take responsibility and produce
results,” while Deputy Governor Kikuo Iwata has also advocated
a change. Honda’s comments suggest that a more aggressive
approach may be needed to ensure the end of more than a decade
of deflation.  Honda said the law needs to be changed to make the bank
accountable for creating jobs, in addition to its current
responsibility of price stability, similar to the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s so-called dual mandate. The governor and other
executives should also be made to explain their actions under
the law, he said, while they are not required to now.  A former Finance Ministry bureaucrat who has known Abe for
about 30 years, Honda toured the country last year making
speeches about the benefits of reflation and impressed Abe
enough to be made a special adviser.  Stronger Commitment  Abe will speak in parliament today at the start of a
legislative session in which bills will be discussed to boost
investment, wages and corporate earnings. Honda said Abe’s
growth strategy will have little effect as long as deflationary
pressures persist, and a revision of the law would deliver a
stronger commitment to boosting prices.  The change should be made before the sales tax is increased
in April, he said, while adding this would be unlikely.  The 1998 Bank of  Japan  Law strengthened the bank’s
independence by ending the government’s authority to dismiss the
governor and deputy chiefs and its right over supervising BOJ
operations. It states the bank should strive to achieve “price
stability, thereby contributing to the sound development of the
national economy.”  The central bank will wait until after April to add to its
unprecedented easing because recent economic data have been
strong, Honda said.  Machine orders jumped in August to the highest since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 and  business
sentiment  rose last quarter to the most in six years.  “Preemptive monetary easing is difficult to justify when
the numbers are good,” Honda said. “But when Abenomics loses
momentum, so will these economic numbers.”  “I want the BOJ to constantly take a fighting pose as it
takes time for the effects of monetary policy to be felt,” he
said.  Honda said he expects the BOJ will gradually shift to
buying more riskier assets such as exchange-traded funds as the
scope for purchasing more Japanese government bonds is limited.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chikako Mogi in Tokyo at 
 cmogi@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  