-- Taiwan Premier Survives Legislative No-Confidence Vote
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-10-15T04:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/taiwan-premier-survives-legislative-no-confidence-vote.html
Taiwan Premier Jiang Yi-huah
survived a no-confidence vote brought by opposition lawmakers
who accused him of violating the constitution over attempts to
oust the leader of parliament.  Forty-five lawmakers voted in favor of the motion, falling
12 votes short of the 57 needed for it to pass, according to a
broadcast on the legislature’s website. The result had been
expected because the opposition  Democratic Progressive Party  has
40 seats in the 113-seat legislature.  The vote is the latest display of protest by the DPP
against President Ma Ying-jeou for allegedly breaching due
process in an attempt to expel legislative leader Wang Jin-pyng
from the ruling Kuomintang party. Ma said last month that phone
tap evidence showed Wang tried to interfere in the prosecution
of an opposition lawmaker.  An appeals court last month upheld a temporary halt on
Wang’s expulsion, preserving his position as leader of the
legislature.  The DPP argues Jiang interfered with the judicial process.
“He was present during the public humiliation of the
legislative speaker, and he also further made use of his role as
supervisor to make irresponsible remarks against the speaker,”
DPP Chairman Su Tseng-chang said at a briefing Oct. 10.  Ma is seeking to get past a string of scandals, including
the death of a military conscript and plagiarism claims, that
resulted in the resignations of 10 cabinet-level officials this
year and pushed his approval rating to less than 10 percent. DPP
Chairman Su Tseng-chang said Sept. 30 his party may also try to
recall or impeach Ma.  Taiwan lawmakers have brought three no-confidence votes
against sitting premiers. Sean Chen survived one in 2012, as did
Vincent Siew in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  