-- Power Outage at Tigers-Red Sox Blamed on ‘Random Cable Failure’
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/al-championship-series-game-halted-in-detroit-as-lights-go-out.html
The Detroit utility responsible for
electricity at the Tigers’ baseball stadium said an outage that
interrupted yesterday’s playoff game against the  Boston Red Sox 
was isolated and that it doesn’t expect another incident.  The American League Championship Series game at Comerica
Park was halted for 17 minutes after lights went out during the
middle of the second inning. The interruption of play briefly
quieted a crowd cheering its baseball team as Detroit endures
the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.  “This was just a random cable failure,” Steve Kurmas,
president and chief operating officer of DTE Electric Co., a
unit of  DTE Energy Co. (DTE) , said yesterday by telephone. “It’s
unfortunate that it occurred during a big ballgame, but it’s not
a sign of any larger problem or in any way related to the city’s
financial situation.”  The Tigers lost 1-0 in  Detroit ’s first home game of the
best-of-seven Major League Baseball series, putting them behind
two games to one. Winning the ALCS would put the Tigers in the
 World Series  for a second straight season and offer a reprieve
for a city that filed an $18 billion bankruptcy in July.
Detroit’s financial crisis has put workers’ pensions, city parks
and the museum’s art collection at risk.  Game four of the series is scheduled for tonight in Detroit.
Yesterday’s contest started just after 4 p.m. and was scoreless
in the middle of the second inning when power went out on the
scoreboard and light towers around the stadium.  Verlander’s Strikeouts  The delay didn’t seem to have any effect on Tigers starter
 Justin Verlander . He struck out three batters in the second
inning before the failure, and then struck out the side again in
the third inning -- giving him six straight strikeouts. He did
not allow a hit in the first three innings.  “I wasn’t happy about it, obviously, I was in a groove,”
Verlander told reporters after the game. “But it had no effect.
I just treated it like a long inning.”  The power failure was the second at a major sporting event
this year. The  Super Bowl  in February was delayed 34 minutes at
the Superdome in  New Orleans  because of a power failure. It was
caused by an electrical relay installed to regulate the flow,
according to  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , which owns the utility that supplies
power to the city.  A Monday night football game in San Francisco in December
2011 was twice delayed by power failures at  Candlestick Park .
The start of that game was delayed 20 minutes after the lights
went out, and play was halted for about 16 minutes during the
second quarter by another failure, which the 49ers said was
caused by offsite transformer problems.  Street Lights  Broken street lights, long waits for police and ambulance
services and unreliable buses are among the challenges plaguing
Detroit, which received a commitment for $320 million of federal,
state and private aid last month during a visit by top White
House officials.  The city’s former mayor, Kwame Kilpatrick, 43, was
sentenced this month to 28 years in prison after being convicted
of 24 counts of racketeering, conspiracy, extortion, bribery and
 tax evasion . He was mayor from 2002 until 2008.  The U.S. alleged that his conduct worsened Detroit’s fiscal
woes a half-decade before it filed for bankruptcy.  Yesterday’s power cable failure was in the vicinity of
Comerica Park and compromised the feed to the stadium, causing
its equipment to fail, Vanessa Waters, a DTE spokeswoman, said
by telephone.  DTE positions underground and above-ground emergency crews
near the ballpark in case of problems, and those staff were
present for the game last night, said Kurmas, the COO.  “If there is an interruption, we can get it restored as
quickly as possible and make the city look as best as we can and
serve our team,” he said. “Go Tigers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  