-- Malawi’s President Banda Grapples With ‘Cash-Gate’
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-10-15T13:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/malawi-s-president-banda-grapples-with-cash-gate-.html
Malawian President Joyce Banda is
struggling to assuage donor and public demands for a crackdown
on corruption that may tarnish members of her  People’s Party  and
undermine her chances in May elections.  The European Union has threatened to withhold the release
of a 29 million-euro ($39 million) aid payment in December
unless the government deals with corruption allegations, dubbed
“cash-gate” by Malawi’s media. While Banda, 63, has set up a
special unit of police and government officials to audit state
finances, she hasn’t agreed to calls by donors, which fund about
40 percent of the budget, to enlist foreign investigators.  “She may have to capitulate on foreign auditors to placate
donors, and that may weaken her chances if party members are
implicated,” Simiso Velempini, a southern African analyst at
Control Risks Ltd., said yesterday in an interview from  London .  Banda,  Africa ’s second female president after Liberia’s
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, dissolved her cabinet Oct. 10 to deal
with the controversy. The previous month, her budget director,
Paul Mphwiyo, was shot and wounded in an apparent attempt to
stop him from investigating graft, she said.  “It is obvious that huge amounts of public funds have been
lost through corruption and theft within the public service, and
regrettably this still continuing,” Banda said in a speech
announcing the cabinet dismissal.  Banda appointed a new 32-member cabinet today, naming
Maxwell Mkwezalamba as Finance Minister, Sosten Gwengwe as
Ministry of Industry and Trade and Fahad Assani as Minister of
Justice.  Tobacco Producer  Malawi is Africa’s top exporter of burley tobacco, a low-grade variety of the crop, and Limbe Leaf Tobacco Co., a unit of
U.S.-based Universal Corp.,  Alliance One International Inc. (AOI)  and
 Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are among buyers in the country. About half
of the population of 15 million live on less than $1 a day,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Banda, the former vice president, became Malawi’s leader
last year following the death of President Bingu wa Mutharika.
She devalued the kwacha and raised fuel prices a month after
taking office, unlocking aid from donors such as the U.K. and
the IMF and sparking nationwide protests over rising prices.  In May, Banda and her party will contest presidential,
parliamentary and local government elections against Peter
Mutharika’s main opposition  Democratic Progressive Party , the
United Democratic Front and the Malawi Congress Party.  John Kapito, executive director of the Consumers
Association of Malawi, called on her to resign over the
corruption scandal.  Officials Arrested  As many as 10 government officials have been arrested on
charges on  money laundering , abuse of public office and
corruption, while nine senior police officers were jailed last
month for their role in a $164,000 fraud.  The deputy head of the state Anti-Corruption Bureau, Victor
Banda, said the body has failed to make much progress in graft
investigations “because most of those arrested on corruption
charges have opted to remain silent.”  The EU ambassador to Malawi, Alexander Baum, has said
foreign auditors are needed to investigate pilfering of state
funds.  “All this massive looting was happening under the nose of
the Auditor General’s office and the malpractice was not
detected or dissolved,” he told reporters on Oct. 11. “The
integrity of the institution is already under question and if
the government wants results of the forensic audit to be wholly
accepted by the donors and Malawians, then external auditors
need to be taken on board.”  “Cash-gate” may define Banda’s presidency, said Velempini
of Control Risks.  “If she doesn’t act against corruption swiftly, she risks
being seen as a weak leader,” Velempini said. “Banda’s future
depends on how she handles this scandal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  