-- Alcatel Workers to Protest Job-Cuts Plan Union Calls ‘Avoidable’
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2013-10-15T06:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/alcatel-workers-to-protest-job-cuts-plan-union-calls-avoidable-.html
Alcatel-Lucent workers will take to
the streets today to protest the company’s job-cuts plan, which
union official Herve Lassalle called both “avoidable and
amendable.”  The telecommunications-equipment maker said Oct. 8 that it
will eliminate 10,000 jobs globally, including 900 in  France .  “We deplore the absence of vision in the management
suite,” Lassalle said on France Inter radio.  Alcatel-Lucent is speeding up a turnaround bid after
thousands of earlier job cuts, restructuring and asset sales
failed to stem losses. Pressure on equipment prices and slower
investment from European carriers, along with competition from
 China ’s Huawei Technologies Co., are forcing Alcatel-Lucent and
rivals such as  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s network-gear unit to reduce staff.  “The company and its employees are going through a
difficult period,” Alcatel Chief Executive Officer Michel Combes said on Europe 1 radio this morning. He said ensuring the
company’s survival is his “top priority.”  The executive said he has put forward a plan that “gives
the company a chance to revive itself,” adding that he’s
starting a “social dialog” with unions and workers today.  Lassalle said the French government needs to step in and
help protect what he called a “French crown jewel.”  “The government should be protecting us,” he said. “We
have to expect something from the government.”  For his part, Combes said the state can help by
“encouraging investment in the telecommunications industry.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   ALU FP <Equity>  NI BUSINESS
NI COS
NI EMC
NI EUROPE
NI FRA
NI MSCIDVEUR
NI MSCIWORLD
NI TEC
NI TEL
NI TLS  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  