-- Alitalia Rescuers Seek to Sway Air France to Buy More Stock
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-15T09:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/alitalia-investors-approve-rescue-package-with-capital-increase.html
The head of  Italy ’s postal service,
which is helping bankroll an Alitalia SpA rescue, plans to meet
his counterpart at  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group to sway the Italian
carrier’s biggest investor to buy into a capital increase.  Alitalia shareholders approved a 300 million-euro ($477
million) capital increase as part of a 500 million-euro bailout,
Alitalia said today after a board meeting that dragged into the
night.  Poste Italiane  SpA Chief Executive Officer Massimo Sarmi
will discuss the Alitalia business plan with Alexandre De Juniac
at Air France-KLM today in Paris,  Corriere della Sera  reported,
without saying where it got the information.  While Air France-KLM, which holds a 25 percent stake,
backed the plan, the carrier is reluctant to participate, three
people close to the talks said. The Franco-Dutch company has
shown little appetite to commit fresh funds to an Alitalia
rescue while itself undergoing a revamp that includes thousands
of job cuts and a smaller regional base in  France .  “Air France-KLM can ill afford to inject substantial cash
into the struggling Italian business and is certainly in no
position to have management distractions,” said  Andrew Lobbenberg , a London-based analyst at HSBC Bank Plc.  Decision Time  Air France-KLM rose as much as 11 cents, or 1.4 percent, to
7.54 euros and traded at 7.45 euros as of 11:42 a.m. in Paris.
The stock has gained 5.9 percent this year. The company had no
comment on its involvement in the Alitalia rescue, a spokesman
said yesterday.  Investors have a month from Oct. 16 to decide whether to
buy new stock. In light of a possible change in the shareholder
structure after the capital injection, “board members offered
irrevocable resignations” effective at an investors meeting
that will be scheduled after the execution of the capital
increase, the company said.  Air France paid 323 million euros for its  Alitalia  stake in
2009. Investors agreed to value the entire Italian airline at 50
million euros, excluding debt, the Wall Street Journal said
today, citing a person it did not identify.  New shares of the airline, which is losing more than 1.5
million euros a day, will be offered to existing shareholders.
Air France-KLM would see its 25 percent stake in Alitalia drop
to about 11 percent if it doesn’t buy into the capital increase.  Competition Concerns  The Alitalia rescue has also encountered opposition in
 Europe , with British Airways-parent  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG)  saying the European Commission should block
the investment by the Italian state-owned postal service.  “We would urge and expect the EU Commission to take
interim measures to suspend this manifestly illegal aid,” IAG
said in a statement yesterday. “It’s protectionist, undermines
competition and favors failing airlines that have not got to
grips with economic reality.”  Antoine Colombani, spokesman for Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia , said the panel can assess the measures only
once they have been submitted by the Italian authorities.  Protectionism is not driving the Alitalia rescue plan, with
Italy seeking to find an international partner for the airline,
the country’s Finance Minister, Fabrizio Saccomanni, told
reporters today in Luxembourg.  Bank Backing  The intervention of the government to rescue the airline
for the second time in five years comes as Italy, the euro
region’s third-largest economy, struggles to emerge from the
worst economic slump since World War II and at the same time
meet the European Union budget-deficit target of 3 percent.
Alitalia’s resources have been depleted by mounting losses and
competition from low-cost carriers including  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)   Poste Italiane agreed to contribute 75 million euros for
Alitalia, while the country’s two biggest banks --  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  -- will guarantee as much as 100 million
euros for eventual unopted rights in the capital increase. They
will also provide a 100 million-euro bridge-to-equity loan,
according to a statement Oct. 11.  Alitalia, which employs about 14,000 people, has been on
the brink of collapse before. The airline was put into
bankruptcy in 2008 after political and labor opposition thwarted
attempts to sell the company, which was almost 50 percent state-owned at the time. Former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  campaigned
then to keep the airline Italian after Air France withdrew its
acquisition offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  