-- Allianz CEO Says U.S. Yields Underprice Default Risk
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-10-15T18:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/allianz-ceo-says-u-s-yields-underprice-default-risk.html
Treasury yields that rose a
percentage point this year still fail to reflect the risk that
the government of the world’s largest economy may default, said
Michael Diekmann, chief executive officer of  Allianz SE. (ALV)   “They’re already paying a price, but it’s much too low,”
Diekmann, 58, said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. The U.S. Treasury is paying about 60
extra basis points, or 0.60 percentage point, to borrow money,
stemming from concern the U.S. won’t have money to meet its
obligations, said Diekmann, who heads Europe’s biggest insurer,
which owns Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
largest manager of bond funds.  Lawmakers in  Washington  are locked in a dispute about
spending and President  Barack Obama ’s health care reform law
that’s shuttered the government and prevented an increase in the
nation’s $16.7 trillion debt limit. Without action, the U.S.
would run out of borrowing authority Oct. 17, threatening the
ability to meet obligations including interest payments.  “Everybody is looking at the U.S. and saying ’wow, we
don’t get it, these guys have all the means to get out of this
whole trouble,’” Diekmann said. “So why do the politicians
play this game? People don’t understand that.”  Yields on benchmark Treasury  10-year (USGG10YR)  notes rose three basis
points to 2.72 percent at 12:48 p.m. in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield traded as low as 1.61
percent this year.  Global Bonds  The U.S. pays more than 13 developed nations to borrow
money for 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Japan  pays the least at 0.66 percent, while the U.S. pays just
more than  Belgium , which pays 2.64 percent and just less than
the U.K. at 2.80 percent.  During the past year, U.S. 10-year yields have traded lower
than all except five of the developed nations, the data show.  Allianz has an investment portfolio of 504.1 billion euros
($680.4 billion), with 90 percent in bonds as of June 30. About
5 percent of Allianz’s 169.6 billion euro  portfolio of
government debt  is invested in the U.S., according to the
company’s second-quarter earnings presentation. About a fifth is
in French debt, and 16 percent in German bonds.  Diekmann said fiscal imbalances in the U.S. are unlikely to
be resolved even if Congress reaches a short-term compromise
this week.  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, has said investors should buy
shorter-maturity Treasuries as an opportunity to profit from
default concern.  Bill Rates  Rates on Treasury bills due through the end of the year
dropped after hitting highs last week, while those maturing in
February rose.  The rate on bills due Oct. 31 fell four basis points to
0.28 percent after rising to 0.37 percent on Oct. 10. It has
averaged 0.05 percent this year. The rate on bills due Feb. 20
rose nine basis points to 0.12 percent compared with 0.02
percent a week earlier,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Fidelity
Investments have said their money funds are free of U.S.
Treasury maturities that may be affected by a U.S. default.
Money-market funds are a low-risk parking spot for cash, and
typically invest in short-term obligations.  “Their selling begets opportunistic buying on the part of
Pimco,” Gross said in an Oct. 10 interview on Bloomberg
Television. “We’re picking up pennies on the street. This is a
particular penny that we think is risk-free.”  Debt Deals  An emerging agreement would suspend the U.S. debt limit to
Feb. 7, fund the government through Jan. 15 and require a House-Senate budget conference by Dec. 13, according to a person
familiar with the talks.  “They don’t resolve it, the problem stays,” Diekmann
said. “Then it’s prolonged until February.”  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid rejected a House plan to
halt the fiscal impasse, as he sought to build support for a
Senate agreement. The House proposal, which Republican leaders
detailed to their members earlier today, “can’t pass the Senate
and won’t pass the Senate,” said Reid, a Nevada Democrat.  A “serious default” in which the U.S. doesn’t pay its
debt for months would create risks that are difficult to manage,
Diekmann said. Allianz can’t avoid holding Treasuries because
they act as “anchor investments,” he said.  “Frankly, if there would be a serious default situation in
the U.S., it’s just as unmanageable as a serious default
situation in  Germany ,” Diekmann said. “All the risk management
actions you can take are not going to work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  