-- AMP Says NZ Companies Must Grow Earnings to Justify Share Prices
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-15T04:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/amp-says-nz-companies-must-grow-earnings-to-justify-share-prices.html
New Zealand’s listed companies need
to improve their earnings to justify current share prices,
according to the country’s biggest non-government fund manager.  AMP Capital Investors is “conservatively concerned” about
current valuations, Guy Elliffe, head of New Zealand equities at
AMP, said at a press briefing in Wellington today. “We need to
see earnings growth now to justify the valuations of companies
in the market,” he said.  The recent reporting season provided evidence that earnings
are coming through to support the run-up in share prices, AMP
said in its quarterly strategic outlook. Earnings-per-share
growth for the full year was around 10 percent for the companies
reporting, excluding the listed property sector, it said.  The NZX 50 Gross Index hit its most expensive valuation in
six years in May and approached those levels again this month
amid a 17 percent rise in the benchmark year to date, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s not that we think the market is terribly overvalued
and we think investors should get out of equities, we’re not
really saying that,” Elliffe said. “We’re just saying we don’t
expect the sort of returns we’ve seen in the last three years to
continue into the near future.”  The enterprise value of stocks in the benchmark rose to
9.38 times analysts’ estimates of earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization on Oct. 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has only been more expensive on 11
trading days over the past 10 years, the data show, once on May
13 this year and 10 other times during May and June of 2007, the
data show.  Asset Sales  New Zealand shares returned 23.5 percent in the year
through September, according to AMP. Elliffe said another reason
to be cautious about returns going forward is the swelling
supply of equities in New Zealand.  The government has embarked on an assets-sale program and
is currently seeking to raise about NZ$2 billion ($1.7 billion)
from the sale of as much as 49 percent of Meridian Energy Ltd.,
the nation’s largest power generator.  “We’re obviously looking at a very large offering with
Meridian, and there’s another 10 or so capital raising
opportunities that I’m aware of,” he said. “So in addition to
the pressures on earnings growth, we have got a supply of
equities to absorb in the market.”  Elliffe said demand for Meridian shares, which are due to
list on Oct. 29, appears to be better than he’d expected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  