-- Manchester Clubs Target Iniesta, Express Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-15T09:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/manchester-clubs-target-iniesta-express-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Iniesta Interest  Manchester United  and  Manchester City  are interested in
signing Barcelona midfielder  Andres Iniesta , who is in talks
with the Spanish champion about a new contract, the  Daily
Express reported .  The Premier League rivals will try to take advantage of the
delay in Iniesta’s contract renewal by tempting the 29-year-old
to leave the Camp Nou, the Express added.  Remy Deal?  Queens Park Rangers striker Loic Remy may complete a 6
million-pound ($9.6 million) permanent move to  Newcastle United 
in January, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The transfer fee would be on top of the 2 million pounds
Newcastle is already paying to take the French forward on loan,
and the Magpies can meet Remy’s wage demands, the Mirror added.  Vermaelen’s Future  Arsenal defender  Thomas Vermaelen  said he may have to leave
in January if he can’t win back his starting place as he seeks a
spot on Belgium’s  World Cup  squad, the  Daily Mail reported .  “I’ll have to think about that when it’s necessary,” the
Mail cited Vermaelen as saying. “January is still a few months
ahead. Of course, never playing will not be the ideal situation
for me to go to the World Cup, that’s for sure.”  Rivals on Alert  Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur are alert to the potential
availability of Brazil midfielder Hernanes, who’s unlikely to
extend his contract with Italy’s Lazio, the  Daily Star reported .  The London rivals are both considering January bids to
tempt Lazio to sell Hernanes or face losing him for a cut-price
fee when his current deal expires next season, the Star added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  