-- Manufacturing in New York Area Cools as Sales, Hiring Slow
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-15T12:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-cools-as-sales-hiring-slow.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
grew at a slower pace than projected in October as sales and
hiring cooled.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index fell to 1.5, a five-month low, from 6.3 in September.
Positive readings signal expansion in New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The median estimate in a
Bloomberg  survey  of economists called for a reading of 7.  The gauge dropped even as orders climbed to the highest
level in seven months, indicating production will probably pick
up next month. The budget and debt-ceiling standoff in
 Washington  may have shaken confidence within manufacturing,
which makes up about 12 percent of the economy.  “A lot of manufacturers’ uncertainty can be blamed on the
fiscal brinkmanship, rather than a deterioration in
fundamentals,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester , Pennsylvania, who projected the
index would drop to 1. “The improvement in new orders is reason
for optimism.”  Stock futures were little changed, after a four-day rally
took the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a three-week high, as
investors weighed budget-talk developments. The contract on the
 S&P 500  maturing in December dropped less than 0.1 percent to
1,703 at 8:55 a.m. in New York.  Survey Results  October’s estimates for the so-called Empire State index in
the Bloomberg survey of 51 economists ranged from minus 2 to 10.
The headline reading is a separate question rather than a
compilation of subcomponents and is therefore sometimes
considered a gauge of underlying sentiment.  The measure of  new orders  increased in October to 7.8, the
highest since March, from 2.4 the previous month. A gauge of
 shipments  declined to 13.1 from a 16-month high of 16.4 in
September. Factory managers said inventories were little changed
this month after climbing in September for the first time in
more than a year.  “Stronger orders and weaker inventories is not exactly a
bad combination for the production outlook,” Neil Dutta, head
of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research LLC in New York,
said in a report.  The index of prices paid was little changed at 21.7
compared with 21.5, while prices received decreased to 2.4 from
8.6. A measure of factory employment weakened to 3.6 from 7.5.  Factory executives in the New York Fed region viewed the
future with a bit more optimism. The  barometer  of their outlook
six months from now rose to 40.8, the highest since April 2012,
from 40.6.  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due on Oct. 17, for clues about the Institute
for Supply Management figures on U.S.  manufacturing. (EMPRGBCI)  The
national report is scheduled for release Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Ben Schenkelin Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  