-- Apollo Denies ‘Buyer’s Remorse’ in Cooper Tire Buyout
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-10-15T14:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/apollo-denies-buyer-s-remorse-in-cooper-tire-buyout.html
Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY)  denied having
“buyer’s remorse” in a proposed $2.5 billion buyout of  Cooper
Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)   Cooper, based in Findlay,  Ohio , said June 12 it would be
bought by Gurgaon, India-based Apollo for an agreed-on $35 a
share. When Apollo failed to close the deal as scheduled Oct 4,
Cooper sued in Delaware Chancery Court to enforce the buyout and
Apollo suggested a price-reduction.  “Almost immediately after the merger agreement was
announced, Apollo showed signs of buyer’s remorse,” Cooper
claimed in its complaint. “Analysts immediately criticized
Apollo for agreeing to take on too much debt for the
transaction, and having overpaid,”  Apollo responded in a filing made public today.  “This is not a case of buyer’s remorse,” the company
said. “Apollo has long seen the strength of the strategic fit
between Apollo and Cooper. It still sees that fit, and it is
committed to acquiring Cooper.”  Apollo is allegedly trying to get a lower price by
dragging its feet in negotiating an agreement with United
Steelworkers unions, Cooper contends in court papers, and must
deal with a strike involving a Cooper joint venture with China’s
Chengshan Group Co.  The parties have agreed to hold a trial next month on the
transaction, which would make Cooper part of the world’s
seventh-largest tire company. The trial will be from Nov. 5 to
Nov. 7 before Chancery Judge Sam Glasscock III, according to
court papers.  Glasscock granted the case fast-track status Oct. 9 in a
telephone hearing from Georgetown,  Delaware .  The case is Cooper Tire v. Apollo, CA8980, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  