-- Mark Cuban’s Desire to Win Led Him to Break Law, SEC Says
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/mark-cuban-defense-rests-in-sec-s-insider-trading-lawsuit.html
Mark Cuban ’s “desire to win, that
competitive edge that makes him successful,” led the
billionaire owner of the  Dallas Mavericks  to illegally sell
stock on an insider tip, a U.S. lawyer told a federal jury.  Jan Folena, an attorney with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, summed up the government’s case against Cuban by
telling jurors, “We’re going to end this trial right where we
started it, with the words of Mark Cuban: ‘Now I’m screwed. I
can’t sell.’”  Cuban “knew he was screwed,” Folena said yesterday in
federal court in  Dallas , reciting testimony from a government
witness. “He knew he couldn’t sell but he did it anyway.”  The seven women and two men on the jury will begin
deliberations today. They will decide whether Cuban must give up
the $750,000 he allegedly spared himself from losing in 2004
with the sale of his 6.3 percent stake in Mamma.com, a Canadian
 Internet company .  The agency also seeks other unspecified penalties.  Cuban made the sale after learning allegedly non-public
information in a phone call from Guy Faure, the company’s chief
executive officer, about a private placement plan that would
have diluted the value of his shares, the SEC said.  Cuban, 55, who also owns the high-definition television
network HDNet and the Landmark Theatre cinema chain, has denied
the allegations. Before selling his shares, he had been the
biggest investor in Montreal-based Mamma.com, which is now known
as Copernic Inc.  Recorded Testimony  In a recording played for the jury, Faure testified that he
told Cuban the information was confidential and also testified
that the billionaire was upset at the end of their eight-minute
conversation, telling him that now he was “screwed.”  “We have proven in this case through the testimony of Guy
Faure that Mark Cuban made that statement,” Folena said.  She told the jury Cuban failed to play by the rules.  “Find Mark Cuban liable,” Folena said. “His trade was
downright illegal. Of all the investors in the market, Mr. Cuban
knew better.”  Cuban’s attorneys rested their case yesterday after the
testimony of their final witness,  Erik Sirri , who led the SEC’s
division of market regulation and trading from 2006 to 2009.  “My opinion is the information about the PIPE was public
before Mr. Cuban traded,” said Sirri, who was testifying as a
defense expert, referring to private investment in public
equity.  Defense attorney Thomas Melsheimer echoed Sirri’s testimony
in his closing argument.  ‘No Agreement’  “The information about the Mamma.com PIPE was public,” he
said. “Mr. Cuban made no agreement to keep anything
confidential. Mr. Cuban made no agreement not to sell his stock.
Mr. Cuban disclosed his intent to sell his stock.”  The Mavericks owner behaved as though he had nothing to
hide because he had nothing to hide, Melsheimer said.  Melsheimer urged the jury to give little weight to Folena’s
recital of Faure’s testimony about Cuban’s comments.  “Saying it over and over again does not make it true,” he
said.  The defense lawyer exhorted the jury to “stand up to the
government,” telling them only they could tell the SEC it’s
wrong.  “Refuse to be ground down in the cog of a machine like the
SEC that grinds on even when the federal government is shut
down,” Melsheimer said.  Ten jurors were initially empaneled for the trial that
began Sept. 30. One of the three men on the jury was excused
because of illness, U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater said
in court yesterday.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-02050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas federal court at
 tkorosec@texaswordworks.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  