-- Harper Puts Focus on Phone Bills as Canada Economy Slows
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/harper-puts-focus-on-phone-bills-as-canada-economy-slows.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper is turning his government’s focus to consumer issues such
as the cost of telephone and cable TV as he prepares to outline
his agenda for the last two years of his mandate amid a slowdown
in economic growth.  Harper, who secured his first majority government in 2011
elections, will give a mid-term update of his government’s plans
in a so-called  Speech  from the Throne tomorrow that marks the
opening of a new legislative session in Ottawa.  While balancing the  budget  and sustaining the expansion
will be a priority, the government will emphasize consumer
issues in the country’s phone and cable industries -- which is
dominated by companies such as BCE Inc. and  Rogers (RCI/B) 
Communications Inc. -- Industry Minister James Moore said in a
series of interviews since the weekend.  “When we put together a list of things that frustrate
consumers on which the government can take action, the list gets
long very quickly,” Moore told CTV Television in an  interview 
Oct. 13.  Moore said the government’s initiatives will include
changes to cable television rules that force consumers to pay
for packages of channels rather than individual ones, as well as
lowering domestic roaming fees for wireless phones.  The government has fought a public relations battle with
the largest phone companies this year over its plans to limit
the amount of new wireless spectrum on auction that the dominant
firms can buy in an attempt to spur competition.  Shares of Montreal-based  BCE (BCE)  have fallen 7.8 percent since
hitting a peak May 22, partly over concern that the government
is trying to increase competition in the industry. Rogers of
Toronto has seen its stock fall 12.9 percent from its high this
year on April 10.  Lacking Momentum  Harper’s focus on consumer issues comes as the world’s 11th
largest economy struggles to build momentum. Canada has averaged
annualized quarterly growth  rates  of 1.3 percent since the start
of 2012, down from 3 percent in 2010 and 2011, according to
Statistics Canada data. The economy has added 113,100 jobs so
far this year, on pace for its second worst annual result in the
past decade.  The nation’s currency has fallen about 8 percent against
the U.S. dollar since Harper won the 2011 elections. Over that
time, Canada’s benchmark stock index has lost 7.5 percent,
versus a 26 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  In addition to consumer issues, Harper’s speech tomorrow
will probably focus on many of the same themes as his 2011
election platform, when he pledged to eliminate the country’s
deficit, diversify  trade  away from the U.S., develop resource
infrastructure, make the labor market more flexible, and attract
more foreign capital to fuel business investment.  Slow Payoff  Many of the government’s initiatives to promote growth
aren’t likely to pay off until well after he leaves power, said
 Eric Lascelles , chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Global Asset Management.  “I think this government has done several quite
constructive things towards maximizing long-term growth,”
Lascelles said in an Oct. 10 interview in  Washington . “But
these things play out over the span of five or 10 years. They
are not going to materially alter the trajectory over the next
few years.”  At stake for Harper is his reputation as a competent
manager of the economy, an advantage he holds over his rivals.
Even as his Conservatives have suffered in the polls amid an
expenses scandal implicating some of his lawmakers, Harper
continues to have an edge on economic issues, those surveys
 show .  Keystone’s Fate  His efforts to encourage resource infrastructure projects,
in part by expediting environmental reviews, has faced
opposition from environmentalists and aboriginal leaders, as
well as some provinces. The fate of the Keystone XL pipeline --
one of the most significant projects -- remains in the hands of
President  Barack Obama , years after the pipeline’s plans were
first submitted for approval.  Free trade negotiations with the European Union -- Harper’s
signature trade initiative -- have dragged into a fifth year.  At the same time, the nation’s businesses haven’t ramped up
investments and found new export markets to take over as lead
drivers of growth from indebted consumers and governments.  Capital spending  by businesses outside of residential
investments has been little changed since the second quarter of
last year. Exports are down 1.2 percent since the end of 2011
and 6.5 percent below pre-recession levels.  Export Share  The nation’s share of world exports has fallen to about 2.5
percent, from about 4.5 percent since 2000, according to Bank of
 Canada   estimates .  Slowing growth is being exacerbated by the government’s
efforts to eliminate the nation’s deficit before the 2015
election. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty’s last budget plan,
delivered March 21, seeks to limit spending growth over the next
five years to the rate of inflation, which if successful, would
be the slowest pace since the country last eliminated the
deficit in the 1990s.  “We will balance the budget in 2015,” Flaherty told
reporters in Washington on Oct. 11, where he was attending
meetings of the International Monetary Fund. “Our plan was
always to get back to balanced budgets.”  With longer-term reforms moving slowly, Harper’s plan will
stress consumer issues in the short term. Other areas where the
government may act include credit card fees and the practice of
airlines overbooking flights, Moore told CTV.  Harper should be careful not to veer too much of his
attention off core economic issues, said  Nik Nanos , an Ottawa-based pollster.  “The Conservatives have to remember that their brand and
success was built on fiscal and economic stewardship and they
have to make sure that has to remain the key marquee theme out
of the throne speech,” Nanos, chairman of Nanos Research, said
in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  