-- Harrisburg’s Parking Bond Sale Avoids Chicago Regret
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-10-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/harrisburg-s-parking-bond-sale-avoids-chicago-regret.html
Harrisburg is set to be the first
U.S. city in three years to lease its parking operations, part
of a plan to rid  Pennsylvania ’s insolvent capital of $363
million of debt from an ill-fated incinerator project.  The deal is slated to move forward next month with the sale
of about $285 million in bonds backed by parking revenue, said
Steven Goldfield of Public Resources Advisory Group, which is
working for the receiver charged with stabilizing Harrisburg’s
finances. Bond proceeds will retire parking-authority debt and
repay creditors of the incinerator venture, which hasn’t
generated sufficient revenue to cover debt costs.  Officials in the city of 50,000 say they’ve learned from
 Chicago , which in 2008 agreed to a 75-year parking-meter lease
for a $1.15 billion upfront sum amounting to about a 10th of the
potential profit. Harrisburg, which would see rates as much as
double next year, would earn annual revenue, letting it benefit
from gains in collections during its 40-year lease. That could
be a model for other localities considering consigning assets to
private operators, said Howard Cure at Evercore Wealth
Management LLC.  “Cities are struggling still,” said Cure, head of
municipal research at the New York-based firm, which manages
about $4.7 billion. “These types of transactions are going to
be scrutinized.”  Recovery Key  U.S. cities’ revenue is projected to rise this year for the
first time since 2006, as they repair their finances following
the longest recession since the 1930s, according to a survey by
the Washington-based  National League of Cities . The collections
still can’t keep up with outlays for pensions and health care.  For Harrisburg, the deal is key to recovery, as the
incinerator debt burden is about seven times the general-fund
budget, according to William B. Lynch, the state-appointed
receiver.  The community guaranteed debt for the overhaul and
expansion of the plant in 2003. A fiscal crisis developed after
the facility, originally built in 1972, didn’t produce enough
revenue for the obligations. Harrisburg started skipping
payments and in 2011 its city council filed for  bankruptcy
protection . A federal judge threw the case out after concluding
it wasn’t authorized. Harrisburg has been under receivership,
the state’s only one for a municipality, since 2011.  Ripple Effect  Harrisburg’s lease would be the first parking deal for a
U.S. city since Indianapolis in 2010, according to  Xerox (XRX)  Corp.’s
Parking Solutions unit and Walker Parking Consultants, the
largest parking consultant by revenue. Cincinnati also intends
to lease its system.  The paucity of municipal parking transactions shows the
lingering effects of Chicago, whose meters may earn a Morgan
Stanley-backed partnership $9.58 billion in profit, according to
a Chicago Parking Meters LLC document.  “There was a lot of backlash over the Chicago deal that
scared government officials in cities who didn’t want to have
the same thing happen to them,” said David Cummins, senior vice
president of Parking Solutions in  Washington  for Xerox. The
company provides parking services in 30 U.S. cities and about
100 municipalities in the U.K.  The approach in Cincinnati and Harrisburg would accelerate
efforts by other cities to relinquish their parking operations,
Cummins said.  Xerox Meters  “You won’t have the concern that a private entity would
try to gain more profits on the backs of the citizens,” he
said. He said he expects four or five parking deals from cities
and universities next year. Xerox manages the Indianapolis
system and would assume Cincinnati’s meters under the city’s
proposal.  Cincinnati officials also applied lessons from Chicago by
detailing rate increases upfront, said Meg Olberding, a city
spokeswoman.  “We had a whole comparative chart of how this is not
Chicago,” she said. “We’re the next generation.”  Some municipal investors don’t see a trend taking hold.  “A handful of one-off deals is about all you will see,
because too many things need to fall in place,” said  John Donaldson , who helps manage $750 million in munis at Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co. He said potential buyers
prefer assets that don’t need a turnaround, and those systems
make up a short list.  Garage Takeover  Under Lynch’s court-approved blueprint, the Pennsylvania
Economic Development Financing Authority would take over
Harrisburg’s 9,100-space parking system, including garages and
lots, under a lease from the Harrisburg Parking Authority, the
city agency that owns them. Next year, hourly meter rates would
double to $3 from $1.50, and two hours in most garages would
cost $7, up from $5.  The state authority would sell about $285 million in tax-exempt revenue bonds to retire about $100 million of debt from
the Harrisburg parking agency and pay creditors of the
incinerator project.  The extra yield that investors demand on some securities
that are about to be retired at par or greater has declined in
the past few months.  Harrisburg Parking Authority bonds due in September 2027
traded Oct. 4 at an average yield of 5.97 percent, or 2.7
percentage points above benchmark debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s down from a spread of about 3.4
percentage points in May, three months before the receiver
submitted his rescue plan for court approval.  Gain Seen  The city would receive annual revenue from parking starting
with at least $5.2 million in 2014 and reaching $21.6 million in
2053, based on current projections, according to Goldfield. It
would collect more if cash is available after other needs are
met. Harrisburg’s general-fund budget is about $53 million this
year.  Lynch said the revenue stream is essential for Harrisburg,
where more than a third of residents live in poverty.  Instead of “a slug of money that when it’s gone, it’s
gone,” stable payments provide income, he said. Chicago planned
to use some proceeds for fiscal needs such as boosting reserves
and shoring up its budget.  Indianapolis maintained a share of parking revenue when it
handed over operations of its meters, garages and lots in 2010
in a 50-year contract with Xerox. Cincinnati’s proposal for its
7,428-space system has the same goal.  Injunction Sought  Taxpayers Thomas Brinkman and  Mark Miller  sued the  Ohio 
municipality last month, seeking to block the lease, contending
the terms signed by the city manager in June differ from those
authorized by the city council. The men are scheduled to ask a
state court judge for a temporary injunction on Oct. 24.
Cincinnati has moved to dismiss the suit.  The board of the Port of Greater Cincinnati Development
Authority may decide this month whether it can proceed with the
sale of about $130 million in revenue bonds to finance the lease
with the city amid the pending litigation, said Gail Paul, a
port spokeswoman.  Issuers from  Maine  to  California  are set to offer about
$4.9 billion in long-term debt this week, the most since the
period through Sept. 27. They’re issuing with benchmark yields
at the highest level in three weeks.  The $3.7 trillion muni market was closed yesterday for the
U.S. Columbus Day holiday. The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year
munis is  2.78 percent , the highest since Sept. 23, Bloomberg
data show. That compares with a  2.69 percent  yield on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Above Average  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 103 percent, compared with an average of 94 percent since
2001. It has remained above 100 percent since June 24. The
higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal
securities.  The Ohio case is City of Cincinnati ex. rel. Brinkman v.
The City of Cincinnati, A1305947, Hamilton County, Ohio, Court
of Common Pleas (Cincinnati).  The Pennsylvania receivership case is Walker v. Harrisburg
Authority, 569-MD-2011, Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  