-- Tartt Plants Bomb at the Met, Tracks Stolen Art to Vegas
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-10-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/tartt-plants-bomb-at-the-met-tracks-stolen-art-to-vegas.html
Donna Tartt’s long-awaited new
novel, “ The Goldfinch ,” is an out-and-out dazzler -- a
thrilling reminder of how intellectually stimulating first-rate
storytelling can be.  Populated by orphans, crooks and fragile beauties, the book
is propelled by a narrative verve that compares to Dickens. The
narrator is Theo Decker, whose world is blown apart one showery
morning when he’s 13 as he and his mother seek shelter in the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  Theo doesn’t want to be there. While they weave through the
galleries, he’s more captivated by a skinny red-haired girl
carrying a flute case and accompanied by an old man.  Moments after the Deckers pause to admire a painting called
“The Goldfinch” -- a  real masterpiece  by the underappreciated
Dutch master Carel Fabritius -- a terrorist bomb goes off. Theo
is knocked out and his mother is killed.  By the time Theo comes to, reports of a second device have
cleared the building. In the eerie stillness, he comforts the
dying old man, who presses a ring into Theo’s palm and repeats a
downtown address. He also tells Theo to take the Fabritius
painting.  “The Goldfinch” is many books in one. A noirish thriller
and an epic love story, a philosophical inquiry into the value
of art and a brooding meditation on loss, addiction and the
uselessness of being true to one’s self when that self turns out
to be significantly flawed.  NYC Novel  It’s also a great  New York  novel, capturing the city’s
fickleness and constancy, its moods, people and extremes. At
Theo’s apartment building, the Spanish-speaking doormen each
have their own particular style -- Goldie with his pouchy face
and quick feet, buoyant Jose.  What unites them is their unspoken disapproval of Theo’s
father, an alcoholic failed actor who hasn’t been seen in
months. Sent to stay with a Waspy school friend, Theo finds
himself adrift in utterly glacial Park Avenue splendor.  When he looks up the address that came with the ring, he
enters a labyrinthine West Village antiques store. It’s there
that he meets Hobie, a shambling furniture restorer who is one
of the novel’s most powerfully good figures. He also finds the
girl.  Theo’s Painting  As for the painting, though Theo always intends to return
it, it’s an indelible link to his dead mother.  In  Las Vegas , where he eventually goes to live with his
shifty father in a house so bleak he leaves the closet door open
to lessen the emptiness, he nearly gasps with pleasure when he
unpacks the painting: “The atmosphere it breathed was like the
light-rinsed airiness of a wall opposite an open window.”  The story loiters in Vegas for a good chunk of time, during
which Theo falls in with a wild Russian kid and spins downward
in a trippy spiral of neglect. Again and again he makes choices
he knows are wrong, nurturing a dark, drug-addled nihilism.  Yet for all the distress and squalor of Theo’s fate, this
is a novel through which guardian angels flit. There’s a
lingering innocence communicated, for instance, by its vast
menagerie of animal metaphors. Hobie alone resembles both “a
good-natured draft horse” and “an elegant but mistreated polar
bear.”  Beautiful Objects  It’s Hobie who instills in Theo a sense of the “creaturely
quality of good furniture,” and the material world emerges as
one of Tartt’s most intriguing and persistent preoccupations.  Far from being ephemeral, objects of beauty tend to endure.
The painting of the goldfinch, for instance -- which will be on
temporary display at the  Frick Collection  beginning October 22
-- survived a studio fire that claimed Fabritius’s life and most
of his work.  The rescued painting ultimately offers Theo the chance to
save himself, bringing the novel to a transcendent, sublimely
satisfying close. Of course, it gets him into a whole lot of
trouble first.  “The Goldfinch” is published by Little, Brown in the U.S.
and U.K. (771 pages, $30, 20 pounds). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining and  Scott
Reyburn  on auctions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 