-- Marubeni, GDF Suez Among Final Bidders for Mongolia Power Plant
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-10-15T03:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/marubeni-gdf-suez-among-final-bidders-for-mongolia-power-plant.html
Mongolia short-listed companies
including  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and  Daewoo Engineering & Construction
Co. (047040)  among the final bidders to build a $1 billion power plant in
the Gobi Desert.  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  also made the short list, along
with a joint bid made by  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and Posco Energy Corp,
according to a statement on the website of the state-owned Tavan
Tolgoi Power Plant. It doesn’t indicate when a winning bidder
will be named.  Coal miners operating in the Tavan Tolgoi coal basin, which
contains 6.4 billion tons of reserves, include state-owned
Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC and Hong Kong-traded  Mongolian Mining
Corp. (975)  The Tavan Tolgoi Power Plant (TTPP) will generate 450
megawatts of power, according to the company website.  Mongolia is in the midst of a resource boom, with billions
of dollars pouring into the country to develop deposits of coal,
gold, copper and other minerals. Road and rail projects are
under way to deliver the minerals to neighboring China while a
coal-fired power plant would help to power the mines and
processing factories, including coal washing plants.  TTPP could also bring domestically generated power to the
$6.6 billion Oyu Togloi copper and gold mine, the  Rio Tinto (RIO) 
Group-controlled mine that is Mongolia’s biggest mining project.  Contractual agreements require Oyu Tolgoi to use energy
produced in Mongolia within four years of commercial production,
which began this year. The mine, which imports electricity from
China, is located 130 kilometers (81 miles) southeast of Tavan
Togloi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  