-- Harvard Investments May Harm Argentine Wetlands, Students Say
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-10-15T15:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/harvard-investments-may-harm-argentine-wetlands-students-say.html
Harvard University investments in
timberland plantations in  Argentina  may be harming the local
environment and undermining community development, according to
a report from a student-led group.  Harvard owns two companies operating plantations in the
Ibera wetlands in northwest Argentina that have abandoned
wildlife corridors and wetland buffers, according to a 28-page
report from the  Responsible Investment at Harvard Coalition .
Most of the plantations are certified by a forestry council that
sets environmental standards, according to the report.  The study from the coalition, which also includes alumni
and faculty, represents the latest effort to influence how the
world’s richest university, with a $32.7 billion endowment,
manages its investments. For the past year, a different student
group has tried to force Harvard to sell shares in publicly
traded fossil-fuel companies, which the group considers the
biggest contributors to  climate change , a campaign dismissed
this month by Harvard President Drew Faust.  “The report contradicts what President Faust and Jane
Mendillo have said about Harvard’s continuing commitment to
sustainable investing,” said Sam Wohns, a senior at Harvard and
lead author of the report.  Mendillo is president and chief executive officer of
 Harvard Management Co. , the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
university’s entity that oversees investments.  Kevin Galvin, a spokesman for Harvard, said he had no
immediate comment.  Community Protests  The Responsible Investment at Harvard Coalition was formed
in 2011, advocating for greater transparency in the university’s
endowment. It has been conducting research in Harvard’s
timberland and natural resource investments in  South America 
this year with support from the  Oakland Institute , a public
policy group based in Oakland,  California , that has sought to
document how institutional investments and large-scale economic
development can harm communities in poor regions, particularly
in  Africa .  The coalition said the investigation is based on interviews
conducted in Argentina with members of the communities near the
plantations, company workers and executives and government
officials.  The two companies,  Empresas Verdes Argentinas  S.A. and Las
Misiones, have also let working conditions deteriorate since
Harvard first invested in the timberlands in 2007 and then
bought them in 2010, the group said in the report. Community
members have tried to shut down roads to protest the increased
use of logging trucks in the area, which is harming local
health, according to the report.  Harvard Funding  Wohns said that he and another student who worked on the
report also got grants from Harvard to help cover travel costs
to Argentina.  Mendillo, who took over as head of the endowment in 2008,
said last year that the university is seeking to increase direct
investments in timberland and other natural resources outside of
the U.S. She has been credited with helping to identify
timberlands in  North America  as a profitable investment for
university endowments in the 1990s after she was hired by
Harvard.  The student coalition said it identified the two companies
in Argentina through Harvard’s annual tax filings, which are
publicly available because the university is a non-profit.
Harvard has about $4 billion of investments in natural
resources, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  