-- Asia Stocks Rally to Highest Since May Amid U.S. Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-15T11:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/asian-stocks-rise-amid-signs-u-s-may-broker-deal-on-debt.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
index rallying to its highest level since May, as U.S. Senate
leaders said they’re making progress in talks to reopen the U.S.
government and avoid a breach of the debt limit this week.  James Hardie  Industries SE, a maker of building materials
that gets about 70 percent of sales from the U.S., increased 2.1
percent in Sydney.  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , Asia’s biggest casino
operator, jumped to a record high after Macquarie Group Ltd.
raised its growth outlook for Macau’s gaming market. Hankook
Tire Co., South Korea’s No. 1 tiremaker, advanced 1.9 percent
after announcing plans to build its first factory in the U.S.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.4 percent to 141.38 as
of 8:16 p.m. in Tokyo, with about five shares rising for every
three that fell. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
“tremendous progress” had been made, though “we are not there
yet.” Leaders are working on a deal to suspend the debt ceiling
through Feb. 7 and fund the government through Jan. 15, a person
familiar with the talks said, speaking on the condition of
anonymity.  “It looks like the door is now open for compromise,”
Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $130 billion,
told Bloomberg TV. “The deadline is nearing and we’ll get
through that. The volatility caused by this debt-ceiling debate
will be with us until next year.”  Regional Gauges  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 1 percent. The
nation’s central bank repeated it retains the option of reducing
 interest rates  as policy makers gauge the impact of
“substantial” stimulus on the economy, minutes of its Oct. 1
meeting showed.  South Korea’s Kospi index gained 1 percent. New Zealand’s
NZX 50 Index added 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose
0.5 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.2
percent. Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  increased less than 0.1 percent, paring
gains of as much as 0.7 percent. Markets in Singapore,
Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines were shut for holidays
today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.3 percent last week
amid optimism U.S. lawmakers were moving closer to resolving the
debt impasse. The gauge is trading at 13.6 times estimated
earnings, compared with 15.5 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 14.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  S&P 500 futures added 0.1 percent today. The  equities gauge
 rose 0.4 percent yesterday amid signs lawmakers may reach a deal
before the government loses its ability to borrow money.  President  Barack Obama  postponed a meeting with
congressional leaders to give lawmakers more time to reach an
agreement. Senate Minority Leader, Republican  Mitch McConnell ,
said he shares Reid’s optimism after talks in Washington.  Senate Delays  The possible deal could face procedural delays in the
Senate and an uncertain path in the Republican-controlled  House
of Representatives , where Speaker  John Boehner  would have to
decide whether to allow a vote or make changes. Should Congress
fail to act, the U.S. government would run out of borrowing
authority in two days and start missing debt payments sometime
between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  “It’s positive to see that they’re negotiating and trying
to come out with some form of a deal,” said Timothy Radford, a
Sydney-based strategist at brokerage Rivkin Securities. “We
should probably get some deal by Thursday. That should provide
some buying support for the market.”  Exporters advanced. James Hardie climbed 2.1 percent to
A$10.72 in Sydney.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , which makes liquid
crystal display screens used in electronics devices, jumped 4.2
percent to NT$10 in Taipei. Techtronic Industries Co., a maker
of power tools that gets about 73 percent of sales from North
America, climbed 4 percent to HK$20.55 in Hong Kong.  Macau Gaming  Casino shares rallied after Macquarie raised its growth
outlook for Macau’s gaming market to 18 percent this year from
13 percent. SJM surged 6.7 percent to HK$24.05. Wynn Macau Ltd.,
a unit of billionaire  Steve Wynn ’s gaming company, jumped 4.6
percent to HK$29.70. Both shares closed at record highs.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  gained 3 percent to 443 yen in Tokyo.
Macquarie raised its rating on the carmaker to outperform from
neutral, saying new models will boost earnings. BNP Paribas
increased its recommendation to buy from reduce.  Hankook Tire rose 1.9 percent to 64,100 won in Seoul. The
company said yesterday it will invest $800 million to build its
first factory in the U.S. as automakers stay on track for a
fifth straight year of growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  