-- Massachusetts’ U.S. House Race Shows Power of the Primary
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-10-15T04:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/massachusetts-u-s-house-race-shows-power-of-the-primary.html
The next U.S. House member from
Massachusetts’ 5th congressional district could be a Democrat
backed by women, or a different one backed by labor, or a third
candidate supported by gay groups. Bottom line, barring an
upset, it will be a Democrat.  Voters today will nominate candidates to fill a seat
vacated by former Representative Ed Markey, a Democrat elected
in a June special election to the  U.S. Senate . It’s a primary
contest with oversized importance and a template for how other
open-seat races will play out this week in  New Jersey  and
 Louisiana , as well as in the 2014 midterm elections.  Of the 18 districts where House members aren’t seeking re-election next year, the outcome in as many as 16 are likely to
be determined in the primary after voters in them showed a
partisan preference by backing a presidential nominee by a
margin of at least 12 percentage points last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Massachusetts, President  Barack Obama  won the 5th
district in 2012 with 65 percent of the vote, and Democrat
 Elizabeth Warren  took 59 percent in winning a U.S. Senate seat.
That Democratic dominance will create a significant disadvantage
for the Republican nominee in the Dec. 10 election to fill
Markey’s seat.  “Instead of the Democrats fighting the Republicans, these
races carve the parties into niche groups to establish bases of
support,” said  David Wasserman , the House editor for the
Washington-based Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan group that
tracks races. “We see few compromise-oriented people emerge
from these types of primaries.”  Little Competition  As next year’s elections near, the number of open House
seat races likely will expand and could include some that are
more competitive. Still, the redrawing of boundaries of the 435
House districts after the 2010 census winnowed the list of swing
districts. About three dozen House seats are competitive at this
time, according to the Cook Report.  The result is that more contests require candidates to
stand out amid a familiar field and build support with intra-party factions to win in the primary rather than reaching out to
independent voters and those from the other party in a general
election.  During a televised debate among five of the seven
Democratic candidates in the current  Massachusetts  race, only
one -- state Senator William Brownsberger, 56 -- said he would
be willing to negotiate with Republicans on raising the federal
debt ceiling and ending the government shutdown.  “When push comes to shove, are you going to let it go over
the cliff?” he asked, referring to the fiscal standoff in
Congress. “I want to be part of the solution. I don’t know what
the solution is. We have to avoid a default.”  No Endorsements  Brownsberger is the only competitive Democratic candidate
in the race lacking a major endorsement from a prominent
Massachusetts office-holder or a national group.  Four other candidates have attracted attention from labor
unions, the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund, top state lawmakers and
EMILY’s List, a Washington-based group that supports Democratic
women who back abortion rights.  “The groups have been in here and they are duking it
out,” said Peter Ubertaccio, a professor of political science
at  Stonehill College  in Easton, Massachusetts.  “The candidates are all going to be voting exactly the
same in  Washington ,” he said. “The question is where will they
put the most time and attention? That is why you see these
groups really interested.”  ‘Tremendous Boost’  EMILY’s List supports state Senator Katherine Clark, 50,
who is leading in the polls. The group’s backing “was really a
tremendous boost,” Clark said in an interview after a campaign
event in Cambridge.  Outside interest groups gravitate to such primaries because
they can have greater impact than in a general election.  “If you only need to get a primary candidate to 30
percent, it’s enough to win,” in a multi-contender race in
states such as Massachusetts without runoffs if none get more
than 50 percent of the vote, said  Nathan Gonzales  of the
Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report, which also tracks
races.  The Progressive Democrats of America, an organization based
in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , is urging candidates to embrace its
anti-war stances and opposition to big corporations.  “We will admit it, we are not the mainstream,” said
Michael Fox, the group’s fundraising director, said in a
telephone interview.  “We were the mainstream in 1968.”  ‘Massachusetts Liberal’  In the 5th district race, the group backs state
Representative Carl Sciortino, 35, who is gay and aired an
attention-getting  ad  in which he “comes out” to his father, a
member of the small-government  Tea Party  movement, as a
“Massachusetts liberal.”  Sciortino, whose contributors include the Washington-based
 Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund , challenged the other candidates to
join him in opposing military strikes in  Syria . He collected an
endorsement from Dennis Kucinich, a former House Democrat from
 Ohio  who in 2002 voted against the Iraq invasion.  State Senator Karen Spilka, 60, touts her 35 labor
endorsements and tells voters about her tough upbringing,
including when her father forced her and her sister into boxing
gloves to settle squabbles.  “That is what has made me a fighter,” she said. “I won’t
back down,” she said to voters at a Columbus Day Breakfast on
Oct. 13 in Revere.  She said today’s victor will go to Washington no matter
which of the three Republican candidates prevail in their
party’s primary. “I do think the outcome of this race will be
the next congressperson,” said Spilka.  New Jersey  One need look no further than New Jersey to see a similar
dynamic. The state’s voters tomorrow are expected to elect
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , a Democrat, to the U.S. Senate, if
public polling and recent history holds. An Oct. 10-12  poll 
released yesterday by  Monmouth University , based in  West Long
Branch , New Jersey, showed Booker, 44, holding a 10-point lead,
52 percent to 42 percent, over Republican Steven Lonegan.  Obama won the Garden State by 18 points in the 2012
election, the president’s ninth-biggest margin of victory among
the 26 states he carried. Democrats have won 13 consecutive
Senate races in New Jersey dating to 1976. The primary contest
in August drew 366,639 Democratic voters, about three times the
128,949 who voted in the Republican primary.  Louisiana Republicans  Thirteen hundred miles (2,091 kilometers) away, Republican
groups are engaging in Louisiana’s 5th congressional district.
Voters will go to the polls Oct. 19 to winnow a field of 14
candidates in an open primary, said John Maginnis, the founder
of  LaPolitics , a Baton Rouge-based political newsletter. Five of
the contenders are Republicans, four are Democrats, and another
five represent third-parties.  Under the Louisiana primary system, any voter, regardless
of party registration, can cast a ballot for any of the 14
candidates. If no candidate wins a majority, the top two vote-getters will face each other in a Nov. 16 runoff between.  “There are three well-financed Republicans who are seen as
fighting for the two runoff spots,” Maginnis said. “The
Democrats have a pretty outside chance of landing a spot.”  Citizens United , A Washington-based group “dedicated to
restoring our government to citizens’ control,” according to
its website, is backing Republican state Senator Neil Riser, 51.
 Phil Robertson , a star of A&E’s Duck Dynasty, a reality
television show about the family operating a Louisiana-based
business catering to duck hunters, supports Republican Vance
McAllister, 39.  “All the Republicans have been running to the right,”
Maginnis said. “The campaign is ’Who can be the most anti-Obama?’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  