-- Tata Consultancy Net Beats Estimates as Outsourcing Orders Climb
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-10-15T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/tata-consultancy-net-beats-estimates-as-outsourcing-orders-climb.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 Asia ’s largest computer-services exporter by market value,
reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates
after winning more information-technology outsourcing orders.  Net income  rose 34 percent to 47 billion rupees ($760
million) in the three months ended September, Mumbai-based Tata
Consultancy said yesterday. That surpassed the 45.3 billion-rupee  median  of 45  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Consultancy joins its closest Indian competitor
 Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  in signaling demand for outsourced software work
has increased. The rupee’s depreciation against the  U.S. dollar 
in the past year is also bolstering the IT industry’s margins
spurring ratings upgrades including at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which on Oct. 2 raised the company’s stock to buy.  “These are superb results; they’ve continued their pace of
revenue growth and their outlook is good,” said Urmil Shah, a
Mumbai-based analyst with Kim Eng Securities Ltd. “TCS is just
winning more large deals than their biggest competition,
including Infosys. They’ve diversified their efforts and are
growing across all industry verticals.”  Shares of Tata Consultancy rose 0.1 percent to 2,215.40
rupees before the earnings announcement yesterday. The stock has
 climbed  76 percent this year, compared with a 5.8 percent gain
for the S&P BSE Sensex and second-ranked Infosys’s 45 percent
advance.  ‘Robust Demand’  “We continue to see a robust demand pipeline across
markets,” Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said in a
statement. The software provider also has “a unique opportunity
to strategically partner and participate with clients as they
reimagine their future.”  Sales climbed 34 percent to 209.8 billion rupees. That
compared with the 207.7 billion-rupee  median  estimate compiled
by Bloomberg.  Worldwide spending  on information technology services is
forecast to grow 3.4 percent this year,  researcher IDC  said on
Aug. 5, lowering its earlier estimate for 3.8 percent growth.  Tata Consultancy  provides  computer services and back office
support to companies including Citigroup Inc. and Scandinavian
Airlines System. The Indian  software company  also completed its
acquisition of France’s Alti SA in July.  The Indian currency fell 5.2 percent against the dollar in
the July-September period helping pare the cost of  India ’s
software services to overseas buyers. Tata Consultancy’s share
of  revenue  from  North America  was 53 percent last year.  Infosys surged to the highest level in 2 1/2 years in
Mumbai trading on Oct. 11 after it raised its annual sales
forecast, citing an increase in demand. The Bangalore-based
software exporter said full-year revenue in dollar terms was
expected to rise by 9 percent to 10 percent from its earlier
projection of 6 percent to 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  