-- Australian Warehouses in Short Supply
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-10-15T06:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/australian-warehouses-in-shorty-supply-real-estate.html
The usually staid market for
Australian warehouses is heating up as investors chase a limited
supply of properties for returns that are beating offices and
malls.  Stockland, the nation’s biggest diversified  real estate
investment trust , plans to double its holdings of industrial
properties within five years.  Goodman Group (GMG) , the world’s second-biggest warehouse developer, raised A$1 billion ($950 million)
for its Australian industrial property fund in the 12 months
ended in June. Australian REITs plan to invest more than A$3
billion in the asset class over the next five years.  Australian REITs, with more financial flexibility after
cutting debt and seeing their share prices rise 46 percent over
the past two years, are looking at warehouses to bolster
earnings as a decline in white-collar jobs weighs on office
demand and retail sales growth slows. Some may come up short as
prime buildings available for purchase are constrained,
according to broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  “There’s a significant number of buyers in the market
chasing a limited amount of product,” said Michael Fenton,
Sydney-based head of industrial property at Jones Lang LaSalle,
who forecasts yields on warehouses could shrink by about 0.25
percent point within a year as prices rise. “A lot of the REITs
will struggle to meet the upper end of their projected targets
for acquisitions over the next year or two. I don’t think
they’ll overpay, but they’ll be operating at the upper end of
the pricing range.”  ‘Most Competitive’  Industrial properties delivered rental returns of 8.6
percent in the year through June, compared with 7 percent for
retail and 7.3 percent for offices, according to the  Property
Council/IPD Australia All Property Index . The value of A-grade
industrial properties rose 4.9 percent as of June 30 from a year
earlier, according to CBRE Group Inc.  Sydney-based  Stockland (SGP) , which earlier said it was looking
to sell industrial real estate, reversed that strategy in May
under new managing director Mark Steinert. The company plans to
raise warehouses to as much as 15 percent of assets from about 7
percent over the next five years, with a goal of holding as much
as A$1.5 billion of the properties.  “We acknowledge that industrial is now the most
competitive part of the market,” said Steinert. “We’ll be very
disciplined in our process.”  Stockland  shares  rose 1.8 percent to A$3.97 at the close of
trading in Sydney, extending gains this year to 12.5 percent,
compared with a 6.7 percent increase in the S&P/ASX 200 A-REIT
Index in 2013. The A-REIT Index has gained 47 percent from a low
in August 2011, compared with a 27 percent advance by the
S&P/ASX 200 Index, a benchmark for Australian equities.  Industrial Land  REIT purchases of industrial properties valued at more than
A$5 million jumped to A$111 million in the three months to Sept.
30 from A$42 million two years earlier and A$71 million a year
ago, data from broker CBRE show.  As REITs compete for modern warehouses, those that already
own industrial land that can be developed will fare better than
those looking to buy existing properties, Simon Hemphill,
Australian research director at broker Savills Plc, said in an
interview in Sydney.  Goodman has A$3 billion of land that could be developed
into buildings with a value of A$10 billion, Chief Executive
Officer Greg Goodman said in a telephone interview.  Online Sales  “There’s more emphasis on modern warehousing, efficient
warehousing, putting a number of operations together or creating
a hub for their activities to get cost efficiencies,” Goodman
said. “The growth in e-commerce is also continuing at a very,
very strong rate.”  Online retail sales  rose 10 percent  in August from a year
earlier, data from National  Australia  Bank Ltd. showed, while
total retail sales rose only 2.3 percent in the same period,
according to the Bureau of Statistics.  Much of the goods purchased online are from overseas,
helping drive a 5.3 percent rise in imports in August from a
year earlier, according to the bureau data.  Goodman has no plans to sell any of its industrial assets
even though it has received unsolicited offers, as it expects
values to rise, Greg Goodman said. The company’s shares rose 0.2
percent to A$4.95 and have gained 14 percent this year.  New REIT  With a limited supply of willing sellers, only A$1.37
billion of industrial properties, including land, changed hands
across Australia as of Sept. 30, compared with A$3.5 billion in
2012, and A$4.3 billion in 2011, according to broker Colliers
International Plc.  Many owners have refinanced debt following the financial
crisis, leased up their warehouses and are reluctant to sell,
Savills’s Hemphill said.  Signaling strong investor interest in industrial
properties, Fife Capital of Sydney is seeking A$129 million
through an initial public offering for an Australian industrial
REIT that will hold seven properties in Sydney and one in
 Melbourne , all fully leased.  Fife’s fully underwritten IPO contrasts with attempted
listings of property trusts with office or shopping center
assets that failed to attract enough interest this year,
including Centuria Property Trust, which had one Sydney office
building, and Pacific Retail REIT.  Failed Takeover  Fife’s REIT, which will start trading Oct. 23, had an
annualized yield of 8.25 percent for the eight months to June 30
and offers 8.5 percent for the six months to Dec. 31, 2014, it
said.  The REIT is a “very good offering,” said Peter Davidson,
Sydney-based head of property securities at BT Investment
Management, who has an overweight rating on Goodman and Dexus
Property Group, Australia’s second-biggest industrial landlord.
“People are spending on the net or in malls, but the product
still has to come through warehouses.”  GPT Group (GPT) , which expects to meet its industrial property
target of 15 percent of assets by developing land it already
owns, may still seek acquisitions for its new unlisted fund,
Chief Executive Officer Michael Cameron said.  The Sydney-based company failed this year in its attempt to
acquire  Australand Property Group’s (ALZ)  commercial property
division, which itself planned to boost warehouses to 70 percent
of properties in five years from 50 percent now.  Supply Shortage  GPT recorded comparable  income growth  of 3.2 percent in its
industrial property division in the six months to June 30. That
beat an increase of 1.5 percent in its retail unit and a 0.7
percent decline in its office business, the company said in
August. GPT  shares  were 1.4 percent higher at A$3.69, and have
risen 0.3 percent this year while Australand shares were up 1.4
percent to A$3.64, extending this year’s gains to 7.1 percent.  Office vacancies jumped to 10.1 percent as of July 1 from
8.4 percent six months earlier, as tenant demand for space fell
to the lowest level in four years, data from the Property
Council of Australia showed. At neighborhood shopping malls --
defined by the council as local centers with one supermarket and
about 35 specialty stores -- vacancy rates jumped to 5.8 percent
in June, from 4.6 percent in March, according to a survey of 100
malls managed by Jones Lang LaSalle.  While industrial properties can typically be built within a
year, compared with about three years for offices, a lack of
available land in areas with access to infrastructure including
roads, rail and ports will keep a lid on supply, said Hemphill
at Savills.  Dexus (DXS) , Australia’s second-largest listed warehouse
developer, generates higher rents and longer leases at a 44-hectare (109-acre) state-of-the-art development 26 kilometers
(16 miles) west of Sydney’s center, than at its other
developments, said Mark Cuddy, head of industrial property at
Sydney-based Dexus.  ‘Sticky’ Tenants  The average size of a property at that development is
16,206 square meters (174,440 square feet), compared with 2,428
square meters at an older industrial estate, and the average
lease term is 10.5 years compared with 4.1 years across all its
industrial properties as of June 30, according to Dexus.  “The location, both near large employment pools and near
major infrastructure, the amount of investment tenants make into
their fitouts, all add to the stickiness of the tenants,” Cuddy
said. “That makes these precincts higher-return investments.”  The company, which completed its exit from U.S. property in
April, has said it aims to have about 20 percent of all assets
in industrial spaces. Dexus  shares  rose 0.5 percent to A$1.065,
extending gains this year to 4.9 percent.  “Industrial property is the sector with the least
headwinds and probably the strongest tailwinds,” said Tony Sherlock, Sydney-based head of property research at Morningstar
Australasia Pty. “You’re going to see some quite respectable
asset value growth over the next one to two years” of as much
as 4 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net  