-- May Says U.K. ‘Plebgate’ Police Should Apologize, Be Disciplined
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-15T16:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/may-says-u-k-plebgate-police-should-apologize-be-disciplined.html
Home Secretary Theresa May and the
U.K.’s police watchdog called for an investigation into whether
police officers set out to discredit former Conservative Chief
Whip Andrew Mitchell.  Mitchell quit his job as a member of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s cabinet a year ago after weeks of pressure over an
alleged verbal attack on police. The opposition  Labour Party  led
calls for him to resign after The Sun newspaper reported that he
called Metropolitan Police officers outside the premier’s
Downing Street office in  London  “plebs” and said they should
“learn their place” because they refused to let him cycle
through the main gate.  Mitchell subsequently met members of the Police Federation,
which represents rank-and-file officers, to “clear the air.”
In a report published today, the Independent Police Complaints
Commission questioned the “honesty and integrity” of the three
officers who met Mitchell after discrepancies in accounts of the
meeting. The IPCC said they should face disciplinary action to
determine whether they acted to deliberately discredit him.  May said the IPCC report made “troubling reading” and
told lawmakers on Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee it would
be “quite wrong” if the officers involved faced no further
action. She also said it would be “appropriate” for the chief
constable of West Mercia Police, whose own investigation into
the events was also called into question by the IPCC, to
apologize.  Cameron’s government is cutting both police numbers and
officers’ pay as it seeks to tackle the  budget deficit . IPCC
Commissioner Deborah Glass put the police’s motivation to
discredit a member of the government down to “a successful,
high-profile, anti-cuts campaign.”  “Pleb” is an abbreviation of the word “plebeian,” an
insult directed at one’s perceived inferior.  A person familiar with Cameron’s thinking said in December
last year the premier may restore Mitchell to office if he is
exonerated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  