-- Balfour Beatty Sees Student Digs as Sweet Spot for Growth
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-16T16:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/balfour-beatty-sees-student-digs-as-sweet-spot-for-growth.html
Britain’s biggest construction
company  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY) , whose shares dropped 6.6 percent in
the past 12 months amid sluggish demand at home, is targeting a
new market to grow abroad: student housing in the U.S.  “Increasingly we are seeing that universities have an
absolute need through their estates to improve the quality of
their accommodation,” Chief Executive Officer Andrew McNaughton, who took over in March, said in an interview at the
company’s London headquarters. Balfour Beatty is in particular
targeting the U.S., where more students live on campus compared
to other markets, he said.  Increasing enrollment numbers have helped university
housing to outperform other types of real estate in the U.S. and
U.K., providing total returns of 11 percent to 15 percent,
according to real-estate services company  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)  Since it moved into that market in 2012, Balfour Beatty has
secured or been named preferred bidder for six developments in
the U.S. and four in the U.K.  “Student housing is attractive because it is backed by
committed spending,” said Andrew Gibb, an analyst at Investec
Securities Ltd. in London. “It seems to be getting a bit more
attention as some of the more traditional sectors provide less
profit. It’s a clear opportunity at a time when there is not as
much opportunity as there was elsewhere.”  New Entrant  Balfour Beatty, which in August reported a 67 percent drop
in first-half operating profit led by weaker performance in the
U.K. and  Australia , has won work this year on U.S. student
housing projects worth about $276 million, including contracts
to develop campus projects for the Universities of Iowa and
 Nevada , Tarleton State University and Texas A&M University. The
company was also named preferred bidder on a $500 million
contract with the University of West Florida.  “We are a new entrant into what is an emerging market,”
McNaughton said. “Student housing sits in the sweet spot of our
business,” he said, adding that “the scale at what we’re
looking at in the U.S. is quite fascinating.”  Demand for those projects is particularly strong in the
U.S. because of the country’s position as the top destination
for international students and the requirement from most
universities for first-year students to live on campus.
Construction projects are often not limited to housing, with
some including retail space and sports facilities.  Education Boom  Global tertiary-education enrollments rose 68 percent
between 2000 and 2011 to about 165 million and are expected to
exceed 263 million by 2025, according to Jones Lang LaSalle.
Universities have struggled to keep up with rising demand for
housing, providing openings for private developers and
institutional investors.  “Student housing is a contained market with a predictable
earnings stream from steady demand,” said Howard Seymour, an
analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. in  London . “Balfour Beatty is
able to build on its experience developing military housing in
the U.S.”  Even as Britain’s economic recovery is now gathering pace
and home prices in the U.K. rose 3.8 percent in August from a
year earlier, McNaughton said it’s not clear yet whether all
parts of the construction industry will benefit.  “It’s disappointing that the government is now heralding
growth in construction as if it’s the whole market, when in fact
it’s only house-building that’s growing,” he said. “I’m quite
cautious at the moment about construction market growth across
the U.K. and I’m concerned at the absence of major
infrastructure.”  Sector Competition  Balfour Beatty shares rose 3.1 percent to 283.40 pence
today. The stock’s 6.6 percent drop in London trading in the
last 12 months compares with a 12 percent gain for the U.K. FTSE
100 benchmark index. SinceMcNaughton, who previously was chief
operating officer and responsible for the global expansion into
higher-growth sectors, took over on March 31, the stock has
climbed 21 percent, valuing the company at 1.95 billion pounds
($3.1 billion).  The U.S. accounted for 36 percent of Balfour Beatty’s
revenue last year compared with 50 percent in the U.K. The CEO
declined to comment on how much the builder generates from
student housing projects.  Balfour Beatty is not the only builder targeting the
lucrative campus housing business.  Investment Trusts  In the student accommodation sector, the company faces
competition from a range of property developers and real estate
investment trusts such as Sydney-based Campus Living Villages
Pty Ltd., which bids for university partnership projects, to
 American Campus Communities Inc. (ACC) , the largest student housing
developer in the U.S.  Other international construction companies such as  Bouyges
SA (EN)  and Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd. also have made moves into the
sector, said  Martin Hadland , an analyst at Jones Lang LaSalle.  “During the recession a lot of the construction companies
had bid teams sitting around doing nothing, so started to focus
on the student accommodation sector as a way of securing
construction work,” Hadland said.  Still, the sector faces threats from government policies
that limit the inflow of new students, such as those that
increase tuition fees or make it difficult for international
students to obtain visas, as well as natural limits to its size.
High demand for student housing will eventually reach a balance
with supply, particularly in smaller markets like the U.K.,
Hadland said.  Wider Strategy  McNaughton, a chartered civil engineer, said the move into
U.S. student housing is part of a wider strategy for
international growth to counter the effect of a slowdown in
government infrastructure orders in the U.K., currently Balfour
Beatty’s biggest revenue market.  The company reduced its full-year forecast for profit in
the U.K. construction business by 50 million pounds in August
after the U.K. order book for the unit fell 6 percent in the
first half, compared with 15 percent growth in the U.S.  “The U.S. is at a different place in the economic cycle
compared to the U.K.,” McNaughton said. “The recovery is not
wholesale across the country, but we are seeing signs of
investment, particularly from the private sector. The country
will be a real root of growth for us over the next few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  