-- Barclays Defends Somali Account Closing on Money-Laundering Risk
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-10-15T14:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/barclays-defends-somali-account-closing-on-money-laundering-risk.html
Dahabshiil Holdings Ltd., a Somali
company that provides access for overseas citizens to send money
there, asked a U.K. court to stop  Barclays Plc (BARC)  from closing its
bank account.  The bank gave a “dearth of detail” on its decision, Alan
Maclean, a lawyer for Dahabshiil, said at a hearing in  London 
today. The bank’s dominant position in the market for
remittances means it will breach competition law if it closes
the account, he argued.  Barclays said in May it would end its business with Dubai-based Dahabshiil, citing the lack of “strong anti-laundering
governance structures.” That date was moved from July 10 to
Aug. 12, and then to Sept. 30, after British lawmakers lobbied
the London-based lender. The account is scheduled to be closed
tomorrow if the injunction isn’t granted.  “This is very important to the community we serve who rely
on sending money to help their family from the U.K. back to
 Africa , especially Somalia,” Abdirashid Duale, chief executive
officer of Dahabshiil, said outside the hearing. “It’s life and
death to those who rely on our services.”  The case has attracted the interest of British Olympic gold
medallist Mo Farah, whose family is from Somalia, and
humanitarian groups such as Oxfam, who have lobbied to block
Barclays from shutting the account.  Potential Fines  The London-based bank said that while it regrets “that any
client has to look for alternative banking arrangements,” it
has to “uphold the law and the regulations.”  “Failure to do so would result in Barclays being
prosecuted by regulators around the world and potentially fined
many hundreds or billions of pounds,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement. “Money transfer businesses are a particular
focus for regulators given the risk of them being used for money
laundering or funding terrorism.”  Barclays handles as much as a third of the $1.5 billion
sent home annually by those living abroad to  Somalia , according
to Dahabshiil.  While the company has opened accounts with another bank,
Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC, it doesn’t cover the breadth of
services it can get with Barclays, lawyers for Dahabshiil said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  