-- Barclays Says Compliance Chief Sants Takes Leave of Absence
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-10-15T16:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/barclays-says-hector-sants-to-take-temporary-leave-of-absence.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  said  Hector Sants , head
of compliance and government, is to take a temporary leave of
absence because of “exhaustion and stress” less than a year
into the job.  Sants, 57, plans to return to work at Britain’s second-largest bank by assets in 2014, a spokesman for London-based
Barclays said by telephone today. The company declined to say
who will fill in for Sants.  Barclays hired Sants, the former chief executive officer of
the Financial Services Authority, in December after the lender
was fined 290 million pounds ($462 million) by regulators last
year for submitting false London and euro interbank offered
rates. He reports to CEO  Antony Jenkins , who is seeking to
overhaul the culture of the bank following scandals including
wrongly sold loan insurance.  Sants has “been busy,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at
Investec Ltd. in London with a buy rating on the stock.
“Barclays has been working its way through a cloud of legacy
compliance agenda.”  Barclays rose 1.1 percent to 279.85 pence in London
trading, valuing the company at about 45 billion pounds. The
shares have gained 15 percent this year.  Sants’s leave comes after  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  CEO
Antonio Horta-Osorio returned from a nine-week absence for
exhaustion in 2011, the same year he took over the helm of
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender.  ‘Ethical’ Decisions  Sants stepped down as head of the FSA in June 2012, 10
months before it was disbanded and its powers given to two
separate regulators. He urged senior bankers to make restrained
decisions on pay and be “ethical” in his final speech as the
U.K.’s top regulator in April 2012.  As head of the FSA, Sants was a key figure in the 2008
negotiations that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and prevented Barclays from buying some of the New
York-based bank’s assets, according to “In Fed We Trust,” a
book by  David Wessel . Before joining the FSA, Sants was an
executive at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , where he led the bank’s
European, Middle East and Asia business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  