-- Belafonte Sues Martin Luther King Estate Over Speeches
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-10-15T22:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/belafonte-sues-martin-luther-king-estate-over-speeches.html
Harry Belafonte sued the estate of
Martin Luther King Jr. saying it’s trying to wrest ownership of
several documents from him, including the draft of a speech
found in the  civil-rights  leader’s suit pocket just after he was
assassinated.  The dispute started when Belafonte, who was close friends
with King and his wife, decided to consign some of King’s papers
for auction at Sotheby’s in 2008, according to a complaint filed
today in federal court in Manhattan.  King’s estate and his daughter, Bernice King, accused
Belafonte of having “wrongfully acquired” the collection and
Sotheby’s has refused since then to return the items to him
until ownership is resolved, according to the complaint.  Among the items in dispute are an outline for a 1967 King
speech called “Casualties of War in  Vietnam ” and a speech to
have been delivered in  Memphis  that Belafonte and Coretta Scott King discovered in the civil rights leader’s pocket when they
were preparing for his funeral in 1968, according to the
complaint. Also at issue is a typewritten condolence letter that
President  Lyndon B. Johnson  sent to the widow after her husband
was killed, Belafonte said.  “Not a scintilla of evidence was ever offered to support
this claim, yet the estate demanded the documents be turned over
to them,” Belafonte said in his complaint.  Miles Alexander, a lawyer for the King estate, declined to
comment on the lawsuit. Eric Tidwell, who handles intellectual
property for the King Center, didn’t immediately respond to a
voice-mail message seeking comment. Bernice King is the chief
executive officer of the King Center.  Belafonte said that during his friendship with King, he had
offered to put up bail money to gain King’s release from jail
after several arrests and that King had stayed at his  Manhattan 
apartment, calling it a “retreat.”  “For more than a decade, Dr. King and Mr. Belafonte worked
at the epicenter of this nation’s historic Civil Rights
movement, a history that is well documented,” Belafonte said in
the complaint. “From Memphis to Birmingham, to  Washington , D.C.
and beyond, Dr. King and Mr. Belafonte worked on strategies and
collaborated on issues that would transform American society.”  Belafonte said that while Mrs. King initially gave the
draft of the Memphis speech to a mutual friend, it was willed to
him after the friend’s death.  In the lawsuit, the singer and activist cited what he said
were other instances where the King estate and Bernice King
overreached and claimed to own items that were given to friends
and supporters by King and his wife. He also argued that the
estate waited too long to contest ownership of the documents. He
seeks a declaration that he’s the rightful owner as well as an
order permanently barring the estate and Bernice King from
asserting title to the items.  The case is Belafonte v. Estate of  Martin Luther King Jr .,
13-cv-07241, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  