-- Bernanke Says Central Bank Independence Promotes Stable Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-15T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/bernanke-says-central-bank-independence-promotes-stable-growth.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy making independence for the central banks
in the U.S. and  Mexico  has helped curb inflation and ensure more
stable economic growth.  “As in Mexico, the benefits of central bank independence
in the  United States  have included low inflation, well-anchored
inflation expectations, and increased policy credibility, which
contribute to a more stable overall economic environment,”
Bernanke said today in remarks in Mexico City.  “Indeed, during the recent financial crisis and the
ensuing recession,  the Fed  has been able to take aggressive
monetary policy actions to help stabilize the economy without
dislodging longer-term inflation expectations,” he said in a
pre-recorded video at a Banco de Mexico conference celebrating
the Mexican central bank’s 20th year of independence.  As central bank chairman since 2006, Bernanke has advocated
keeping the Fed free of political interference while increasing
the information the  central bank  releases on its deliberations
and economic forecasts.  Bernanke has given television interviews and appeared at
town hall-style meetings. He toured a Philadelphia shipyard and
a Tasty Baking Co. cupcake factory in 2010 and traveled to El
Paso,  Texas , in 2011 to speak to soldiers at Fort Bliss. That
year he also began holding press conferences.  “In democratic societies, central bank independence must
be accompanied by accountability to the public and its
representatives,” Bernanke said today.  Economic Outlook  The Fed chairman didn’t discuss the outlook for the  U.S.
economy  or monetary policy in his remarks today.  Bernanke praised Banco de Mexico Governor  Agustin Carstens ,
saying “his leadership in economic policy, in several key
roles, has been instrumental in solidifying the progress that
Mexico has made over the past two decades.”  The independence of Mexico’s central bank allowed it to
respond aggressively to the 2007-2009 financial crisis, Bernanke
said.  “The inflation credibility enjoyed by the Bank of Mexico
allowed it to counter economic weakness by easing monetary
conditions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  