-- Birth Bonanza to Create Economic Edge Over Germany: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-10-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/birth-bonanza-to-create-economic-edge-over-germany-u-k-credit.html
The U.K. may be giving birth to a
stronger economy.  Having had the slowest  recovery  from recession in a
century, Britain is set to outperform the rest of  Europe  as a
rising population fuels growth and helps the country cope with
the looming retirement of “ baby boomers ” born after World War
II, according to  James Knightley , a senior economist at ING Bank
NV in  London .  “The U.K. is going to be an investment destination of
choice if you’re looking for growth,” Knightley said in a
telephone interview. “You’ll have a growing population of
working-age people and the economy will be growing reasonably
quickly, so you know you’ll get your money back.”  Rising numbers of young workers mean more taxes, limiting
the need of future governments to borrow to pay for the
pensions, health care and infrastructure a growing population
requires, according to Knightley. By contrast, Germany, where
the birth rate has slumped, confronts a shrinking workforce and
more retirees. Thirty-year U.K.  government bonds  yield 3.6
percent, 84 basis points more than equivalent debt in  Germany ,
and the gap has been shrinking since July.  “It’s good news for the U.K. tempered by some of the
problems it implies, given there’s not a lot of money around,”
Knightley said. “You’d still rather be in the U.K. situation of
having to deal with a growing economy than be like Germany where
the economy is shrinking and there’s a legacy of  debt .”  Workers Needed  The need to ensure a steady stream of workers is vital in
most advanced economies. In Britain, 3.3 million Britons are set
to become pensioners in the next five years, Knightly says.  Based on  European Union estimates , Britain will overtake
Germany as the populous European nation in three decades, and it
could also be the region’s largest economy before then,
according to Knightley. Driving the increase is a surging birth
rate, immigration and increasing numbers of Britons putting off
retirement.  Government data show Britain witnessed the most births
since 1972 in the year through June 2012. That and the continued
arrival of foreign workers caused the  population  to rise
419,000, or 0.7 percent, to 63.7 million. Projections from the
Office for National Statistics point to it reaching 73.2 million
by 2035 and 80 million in 50 years, according to Knightley.  Germany’s Plight  European neighbors are less well positioned. Germany, for
example, logged 663,000 births in 2011, the lowest since
official records began and less than half the 1.4 million peak
of 1964. There are also fewer babies in  Spain ,  Italy  and  France ,
perhaps as a response to the region’s financial crisis, which
may also encourage people to seek work in other countries.  Knightley said that should Germany’s workforce shrink 1
percent a year, it’s going to need greater productivity to
maintain its economy’s size, while the U.K. will enjoy a growing
workforce.  Unless checked, the share of German government debt per
capita could also rise to about 27,000 euros ($36,500) by 2020,
worse than even  Greece , ING said. Europe will be under pressure
to react by raising retirement ages and following the U.K. in
creating incentives for people to work longer.  The U.K.’s birth bonanza isn’t without cost. The growing
population will support inflation by pushing up the cost of
homes and commodities, according to Kit Juckes, global
strategist at Societe Generale SA.  ‘Blind Eye’  “When the economy is in recession or barely growing, the
lack of wage pressure and the weakness of real incomes will
encourage policy makers to turn a blind eye to the stubbornness
of inflation,” he said. “But as the economy recovers, and
particularly if inflation is picking up at the same time, they
just won’t be able to.”  Resources will also need to be directed toward education
and health care as well as building infrastructure such as
housing, transportation networks and new energy capacity.
Knightley said the need to find cash will pressure the  defense
budget  and prompt the government to encourage private investors.  “The key question is how this will be paid for,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  