-- BMW Owner Gives $930,000 to Merkel Party Before Cap Block
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-10-15T14:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/bmw-owner-gives-930-000-to-merkel-party-before-cap-block.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s
controlling family last week donated 690,000 euros ($930,000) to
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party, just days before
 Germany  successfully blocked stricter European Union regulations
on carbon dioxide emissions.  Johanna Quandt, along with her children Stefan Quandt and
Susanne Klatten, each gave 230,000 euros on Oct. 9 to Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , according to a filing today on the
German parliament’s  website .  The three, who jointly own 46.7 percent of the Munich-based
manufacturer, made the largest single donations to a political
party this year in Germany, according to parliament’s website.
By law, donations exceeding 50,000 euros must be made public.  Merkel’s government yesterday fended off a EU draft to cap
carbon discharges in the bloc at 95 grams per kilometer in 2020
-- a proposal opposed by German automakers. EU environment
ministers agreed to seek a revision of the draft law to allow
for more flexibility before tighter emissions have to be met.  “The next federal government has to look into the topic of
personal and financial entanglements from politics and
lobbying,” said Christina Deckwirth of LobbyControl, which
promotes transparency in government. “We need clear barriers
for getting influence in Germany.”  Merkel is currently holding talks with the opposition
 Social Democrats  and the Greens on forming a coalition
government with one of them after her bloc secured the biggest
election victory since German reunification in the Sept. 22
federal vote.  Richest Woman  “The donations are in no way bound to industrial
policies,” said Joerg Appelhans, a family spokesman. “They are
not involved in political talks about emission regulations or
the like. The donations were made after the election so that
they are not becoming part of the election campaign.”  Klatten, Germany’s richest woman, is ranked 54th in the
Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index with a net worth of $15.8
billion. Klatten and her brother Stefan are both members of
BMW’s supervisory board.  “The donations are in no way connected with any single
political decision,” the CDU said in an e-mailed statement.
“The Quandt family has supported the CDU for many years with
private donations, no matter if the CDU was in the government or
opposition.”  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of  luxury vehicles , directly
gave 143,818 euros in March to the CDU’s Bavarian sister party
and in the same month donated 107,376 euros to the SPD. The Free
Democrats, which failed to win enough votes last month to remain
in the German parliament, received 69,081 euros from BMW in
February.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest luxury carmaker, gave
100,000 euros respectively to the CDU and SPD in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  