-- BOE’s Weale Says He’s Concerned About U.K. House-Price Buoyancy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-15T11:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/boe-s-weale-says-he-s-concerned-about-u-k-house-price-buoyancy.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Martin Weale  said he’s concerned about recent signs of “buoyancy” in
the property market and borrowers must make sure they can still
afford repayments when borrowing costs rise.  “ House prices  are elevated,” Weale said in testimony to
Parliament’s Treasury Committee in London today. “People who
are taking on mortgage debt do need to be sure that they can
afford to look after it even if interest rates return to what we
regard as more normal levels.”  Strengthening housing demand coupled with the government’s
decision to accelerate its Help to Buy program, which aids
homebuyers in getting loans, has raised concerns the property
market may overheat. Jon Cunliffe, who will join the BOE as
deputy governor for financial stability next month, said
yesterday that while the U.K. isn’t in a bubble, the  property
market  will need to be monitored “very carefully.”  In the hearing, Weale also said the BOE’s forward guidance,
introduced in August, may undermine its inflation-targeting
credentials. Under guidance, the central bank has said it won’t
raise its  benchmark interest rate  from a record low at least
until unemployment falls to 7 percent. Weale voted against the
policy, favoring a tougher stance on inflation, though he’s
agreed to work within its framework.  “The policy of forward guidance if not carefully designed
can have the effect of raising inflation expectations and
obviously we were all concerned that that shouldn’t happen,”
Weale said. “There seemed to me the risk that that could itself
lead to a rise in inflationary expectations,” he said. “My
concerns remain.”  Inflation Target  Data today showed  inflation  unexpectedly remained at 2.7
percent in September, above the BOE’s 2 percent target. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was 2.6 percent.  “I think probably the most likely outcome is that
inflation does gradually fall back to target, but were there a
new inflation shock then of course the issue would become of
greater prominence,” Weale said.  In written testimony to the committee, Weale said that
turmoil emanating from the euro-area debt crisis remains the
largest risk to the U.K. economy.  He also said there is a risk that the government’s Help to
Buy program could “add to demand while supply is weak, leading
to increased pressure on prices.”  “I am concerned about the recent buoyancy of house prices,
although relative to incomes, we’re lower than during the
peak,” Weale told lawmakers. “To some extent I think the
elevation of house prices is something you would expect with
very low interest rates,” and “what will happen when interest
rates return to normal levels we don’t know.”  Debt Risk  The  Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors  said on Oct. 8
that its house-price index rose to the highest in more than a
decade last month. BOE Governor  Mark Carney  has said fears of a
bubble are overplayed as the market is recovering from a low
level of activity.  Cunliffe said yesterday that if Help to Buy led to
“households becoming overexposed because they can now borrow
higher amounts, there is a possibility” it may pose a risk to
the banking system. “That’s one of the reasons it’s necessary
to keep a very firm eye on the lending standards that lenders
use,” he said.  The program could also contribute to house prices “going
up at an unsustainable rate” and pose a risk to financial
stability, the deputy-governor designate said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in  London  at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  