-- Bond Investors Said to Mull Consortium in Trade Talks With Banks
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-10-15T18:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/bond-investors-said-to-mull-consortium-in-trade-talks-with-banks.html
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC,
Pacific Investment Management Co. and Fidelity Investments are
among money managers that are in discussions to form a
consortium that would seek ways to make it easier to buy and
sell corporate bonds in the U.S.  The firms, along with  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB)  and
Wellington Management Company LLP, have been reviewing ways to
invigorate the $19.4 trillion market, according to six people
involved in the talks who asked not to be named because the
details are private. The goal is to propose a set of market
structure changes to the dealer banks they rely on for trading,
the people said.  While banks aligned in the past to solve such issues and
firms such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are working on new
trading systems, money managers haven’t attempted such a unified
strategy before, said three of the people involved in the
discussions. Bond volume has  shrunk  as dealers reduce inventory
to comply with new capital rules and traders have warned of
market disruptions as the Federal Reserve prepares to reduce its
own purchases under quantitative easing.  “I don’t think there has been” a consortium of investors
in the bond market, said  Charles Geisst , a finance professor at
Manhattan College in Riverdale, New York and author of “Wall
Street: A History.”  Representatives of the money managers declined to comment.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, offers electronic
bond trading through its fixed-income trading platform.  Falling Inventory  The investor discussions come amid a 76 percent decline in
corporate debt inventory at the world’s biggest dealers since a
2007 peak. Stricter capital requirements from the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision have made holding bonds more
expensive for dealers, while speculation that the Dodd-Frank Act
makes it harder to facilitate bond trades adds regulatory risk
to their traditional warehousing strategy.  Smaller bond inventory has led to reduced profits at some
of the world’s largest banks.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said today that its
fixed-income trading revenue excluding an accounting adjustment
dropped to $2.78 billion, a decline of 26 percent from a year
ago.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, last week
reported an 8 percent decline in bond trading revenue, to $3.44
billion.  Tabb Group LLC, the research and consulting firm, is
attempting to help the investor group as it considers its
strategy to work with the banks. The New York-based company
hosted a Sept. 24 dinner in  Boston  to make its pitch that it can
help unify voices across the investment firms.  Adding Insight  “We’re trying to see if we can help provide insight on
what’s out there,” Larry Tabb, chief executive officer of Tabb
Group, said in a telephone interview. “Outside of that, we’re
not sure if there’s a role for us or if the buyside wants
help.”  Dodd-Frank and the Basel capital rules have spurred
initiatives by firms from Goldman Sachs to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to create trading systems that can accommodate
the market structure shift. The money managers considering a
unified approach have been meeting since last year with bank
executives to try to iron out a new trading protocol. At a group
meeting in July in New York the banks told them they understood
their concerns and wanted them to return with a list of changes
they’d like to see, according to a person who attended.  One idea being considered is the creation of an electronic
trading platform that brings multiple buyers and sellers
together in a system known as many-to-many, one of the people
said.  Electronic Trading  The growth of electronic bond-trading is expected to
continue, according to a study released in August by McKinsey &
Co. and Greenwich Associates.  The consultants surveyed 117 portfolio managers, traders
and analysts at investment firms in the U.S. and Europe for the
survey, and conducted interviews with eight of the 10 largest
dealers as well as representatives of electronic trading
systems. About 70 percent of U.S. respondents expect electronic
auctions to buy or sell bonds, known as request-for-quote
systems, will be the method of electronic trading that
proliferates in the next five years. In Europe, 85 percent said
the same, the report said.  Investment-grade volume on  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) ’s
electronic system are on pace to exceed $400 billion in 2013
after surging 45 percent to $44 billion in September from a year
earlier, according to data from the company.  Deutsche Bank, Europe’s biggest investment bank by revenue,
has pitched its plan for an electronic trading network to
JPMorgan, Citigroup and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , people briefed on the
talks said last month.  Resting Orders  The system, Oasis, is known as an indication of interest,
where clients tell their bank how much of a particular corporate
bond they want to buy or sell and the dealer enters a resting
order into the electronic system, two of the people involved
said. If another party is interested and the trade crosses, the
transaction would be done between banks so that the clients
remain anonymous, the people said.  Dealers have resisted a shift to electronic bond trading
because the increased transparency can cut profits. In the 90
days after the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s Trace
started disseminating prices of junk bonds, trading in the
securities dropped 41 percent, according to Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and Harvard University researchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 