-- Booed ‘Aida’ in Paris Repels With Klan, Gestapo: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-10-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/booed-aida-in-paris-repels-with-klan-gestapo-review.html
The booing started in Act I and
reached tumultuous levels by the time director  Olivier Py  and
Pierre-Andre Weitz, the set and costume designer, stepped in
front of the curtain at the Bastille.  The Paris Opera hasn’t seen a new “Aida” since 1939 and
this isn’t one for the ages.  Writing in the house program, Py claims that “Aida” is
Verdi’s most political opera, “a great reflection on political
violence.”  That’s nonsense. Auguste Mariette, the French Egyptologist
who wrote the original story, envisioned an Oriental spectacular
to celebrate the 1869 opening of the Suez Canal.  During the overture, a young man waving the Italian flag is
brutally subdued by military police.  Later, an Austrian flag appears, and we understand that Py
has updated the story from ancient  Egypt  to the Risorgimento,
 Italy ’s fight for independence and unification.  In his 1953 movie “Senso,” Luchino Visconti proved the
period can be a perfect background for the drama of a woman torn
between love and her patriotic duties -- which is exactly Aida’s
dilemma.  Unfortunately, Py over-eggs the pudding with tanks, Gestapo
officers bearing machine guns, and poor gypsies.  Bigots’ Banners  Instead of the fabled Triumphal March, we endure a
demonstration of bigots brandishing banners reading “My Country
is Sacred” or “Foreigners Out!”  In the final act, Radames is tried by a kangaroo court of
the Ku Klux Klan, complete with hoods and a burning cross.  For all that, the set is quite attractive. Weitz has a
weakness for revolving metal structures. Here, the stage is
framed by rows of brass columns, and the revolving center looks
like a golden palazzo.  The singing reminds us of the difficulties of assembling a
cast mastering the vibrant intensity of the true Verdian style.  Oksana Dyka in the title role has a steely voice, secure
but without warmth. Luciana D’intino as her rival Amneris has
some lovely low notes and a malnourished upper register.  Marcelo Alvarez is a powerful though unsubtle Radames.
Sergey Murzaev’s Amonasro and Roberto Scandiuzzi’s High Priest
Ramfis are both on the rough side.  The bright spot of the evening, as so often, is the
orchestra. Philippe Jordan leads a clean, well balanced reading
of the score.  Rating: **.  “Aida” is in repertory at the Opera Bastille through Nov.
16. Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Farah
Nayeri  on film,  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining,  Hephzibah
Anderson  on books and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  