-- Box Office: ‘Big Fish’ Jumps; ‘Honeymoon in Vegas’ Looms
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-10-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/box-office-big-fish-jumps-honeymoon-in-vegas-looms.html
Broadway ticket sales rose 15
percent last week over the week earlier, fueled by an influx of
tourists during the long Columbus Day weekend.  But the biggest opening took place across the Hudson, where
 New Jersey ’s  Paper Mill Playhouse  hosted the world premiere of
“Honeymoon in Vegas.”  Critics gave the musical the thumbs-up, raising the
likelihood that composer-lyricist Jason Robert Brown will have
two shows on Broadway this season. (The other is “The Bridges of
Madison County,” which starts previews in January.)  Broadway shows sold $24.6 million of tickets in the week
ending on Sunday, according to the trade association the
Broadway League. Only “The Trip to Bountiful” declined, as it
played three performances instead of the customary eight in
ending its nearly six-month run.  The new musical “Big Fish” jumped 33 percent to $856,000,
despite illness that had the star, Norbert Leo Butz, missing two
performances. “ Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark ” bounced 46
percent to $957,000. A well-reviewed revival of “The Glass
Menagerie” had its best week to date, up 13 percent to
$724,000.  Attendance was unchanged for previews of a sold-out revival
of “Betrayal,” starring  Daniel Craig  and  Rachel Weisz , yet
sales rose 1 percent to $1.11 million.  ‘Soul’ Iced  “Soul Doctor” closed as it opened, quietly. The musical
about Rabbi Shlomo Carlebach grossed $128,000, up 14 percent.
The average ticket was $30.52. It ran 66 performances.  “The Book of Mormon” grossed $1.8 million. Its $210.76
average ticket was its second-highest on record.  In Millburn, New Jersey, “Honeymoon in Vegas” “is
selling extremely well,” said Shayne Miller, a spokesman for
the Paper Mill.  Roy Gabay, the lead producer with Dena Hammerstein on a
commercial transfer, didn’t return a call or e-mail.  Brown said in an e-mail: “With these incredible reviews
and the unbelievable audience response to this show, it seems
inevitable that we’ll be coming to Broadway soon.”  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on television
and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 