-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Retail Sales Beat Forecast; Real Slips
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-10-15T13:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-retail-sales-beat-forecast-real-slips.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed for a
fourth straight day as retail sales rose more than forecast in
August, adding to speculation that central bankers will raise
the target lending rate to 10 percent next month.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2016 increased
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 11.03 percent at
9:51 a.m. in Sao Paulo, the highest level on a closing basis
since Oct. 2. The real depreciated less than 0.1 percent to
2.1837 per  U.S. dollar .  While the central bank has raised the  target lending rate 
by 2.25 percentage points since April to 9.5 percent and shored
up the real to curb import price increases, inflation is still
more than a percentage point above Brazil’s 4.5 percent target.  “The retail sales were strong and much higher than
expected,” Marcelo Schmitt, portfolio manager at Sul America
Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The
market had been envisioning that growth would be negative in the
third quarter, but this suggests it was to the contrary.”  Retail sales rose 6.2 percent in the 12 months through
August, the national statistics agency reported today. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
4.8 percent increase.  Policy makers raised borrowing costs by a half-percentage
point last week for a fourth straight time and repeated language
from their August statement that the increases will ensure
slower inflation next year. The jump from a record low 7.25
percent since April is the biggest among 49 major economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  