-- Burberry Designer Bailey to Be CEO as Ahrendts Goes to Apple
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-10-15T18:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/burberry-says-bailey-to-become-ceo-as-ahrendts-leaves-for-apple.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  named Christopher Bailey as chief executive officer to succeed Angela Ahrendts,
tasking a designer with no board level experience to navigate
the U.K.’s largest luxury company through a slowing industry.  Ahrendts, 53, who made Burberry a digital forerunner in the
fashion world, will depart for Cupertino, California-based  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  in the middle of 2014, leaving the 42-year-old Bailey to
assume her role while retaining his former job as chief creative
officer, the British company said today.  Bailey takes over at a time when the luxury industry is
polarizing and must decide whether to move more upscale to
challenge brands like Prada and  Louis Vuitton , or target a wider
audience with less expensive goods, according to Mario Ortelli,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London. Under Ahrendts,
who led London-based Burberry for almost eight years,  sales  more
than doubled and the shares have gained more than threefold.  Ahrendts “leaves the company at a crossroads, as there is
no clear development strategy in place,” Ortelli said. “We
believe that in a company as big and complex as Burberry, even
for a person as talented as Mr. Bailey, it is hard to have
enough time to carry out both of these roles.”  Ahrendts said today she expects the business climate to
remain “uncertain” and currencies volatile. Burberry’s first-half retail sales of 694 million pounds fell short of the 698
million-pound median  estimate  of 13 analysts. Comparable-store
sales increased 13 percent, matching estimates.  Shares Slump  Burberry dropped 7.6 percent to 1,464 pence today in
London, the  steepest decline  in the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100
Index. Ahrendts’s exit will leave the index with two female
CEOs: Alison Cooper of  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  and EasyJet
Plc’s Carolyn McCall.  Since joining Burberry from Gucci in 2001, Bailey has
transformed a British company best known for plaid-lined trench
coats into a full-fledged luxury-goods maker. He enlivened
Burberry’s classic designs by using new colors and materials and
introduced more expensive ranges including the Prorsum and Brit
ready-to-wear collections as well as tailoring and kids wear.  The award-winning designer, who has also worked at  Donna
Karan , will continue to oversee Burberry’s creative department
when he becomes CEO. As Chief Creative Officer, a position he
was named to in 2009, he is also responsible for the company’s
overall image, including advertising and store design.  Jury Out  Burberry doesn’t plan to recruit anyone to help him with
the creative side, Chief Financial Officer Carol Fairweather
said on a call with reporters. Bailey has a creative team of
about 70, she added.  “While Christopher Bailey has proven to be a phenomenal
designer, the jury will be out in terms of him running the
company as CEO,” said Erwan Rambourg, an analyst at HSBC.  Ahrendts’s resignation, which the company said it received
yesterday, follows that of Stacey Cartwright, who stepped down
as CFO in July. While Burberry bolstered its ranks by naming
 John Smith  to the new position of chief operating officer in
February, the company has now lost “the two key architects” of
its growth, according to Nomura.  American-born Ahrendts built on the foundations created by
former CEO Rose Marie Bravo, who transformed Burberry from a
maker of raincoats with a trademark lining and umbrellas into a
worldwide luxury fashion brand.  Ahrendts raised prices, pushed into new markets and
expanded Burberry’s non-apparel business. The former Liz
Claiborne Inc. executive also led the company -- and the luxury
industry -- into the digital age, streaming Burberry’s fashion
shows live on its  website  and allowing customers to order items
online during the events. Last month, the 157-year-old company
filmed its women’s show in  London  on Apple iPhones.  No Change  Ahrendts will leave a year before Burberry expects to
complete an overhaul of its business in  Japan , where it is
cutting its licenses, and as the company develops its own beauty
business amid a slowdown in global luxury demand.  Burberry doesn’t expect any change in strategy under
Bailey, Fairweather said. “This is succession planning in
action,” the CFO said. “He was our preferred successor.”  According to Bernstein’s Ortelli, a strategic change is
required. Bailey must decide if he wants Burberry to become “a
fully aspirational brand” challenging Prada, Gucci and Louis
Vuitton for wealthier clients, or a mass luxury company,
offering a wide range of cheaper products, he said.  Ahrendts, who will be a senior vice president at Apple
reporting to CEO  Tim Cook , said Burberry is in “brilliant
shape,” despite an “uncertain” business climate.  Ahrendts is “going out on a high,” Rahul Sharma, managing
director of Neev Capital, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “This whole team has actually transformed Burberry
from what it was 10 years ago to what it is today. A super-cool,
young, if that were possible, luxury brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  