-- Burger Cooks Cost $7 Billion a Year in Government Aid
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-15T14:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/burger-cooks-cost-7-billion-a-year-in-government-aid.html
Hamburger grillers and other fast-food workers at restaurants such as  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and Wendy’s
Co. get about $7 billion a year in U.S. government aid, a report
published today shows.  With jobs not paying enough for employees to meet their
basic needs, an increasing number of working families must rely
on publicly funded programs to make ends meet, according to a
study from the  University of California  at Berkeley and the
 University of Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign.  Fast-food employees have gone on strike this year to demand
$15-an-hour pay and the right to form a union as  income
inequality  in the U.S. grows. Fast-food cooks make $9 an hour on
average, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. While
thousands of workers have protested in cities including New
York, Chicago,  Los Angeles , Detroit and Milwaukee this year, the
strikes have done little so far to change the restaurant  sector ,
which employs more than 10 million Americans.  “The industry is a heavy user of minimum-wage and low-wage
workers,” Sylvia Allegretto, an economist at Berkeley and an
author of the report, said in an interview. “Low-wage workers
today, in general, are making less than their counterparts did
50 years ago.”  That’s why some fry cooks are finding it harder to pull
themselves out of poverty and get ahead, she said.  When workers tap programs such as Medicaid, food stamps,
the earned income tax credit and temporary aid for needy
families to bridge the gap between paychecks, the cost is borne
by taxpayers, according to the report which analyzed the years
2007 to 2011.  More than half of fast-food worker families participate in
these government programs, compared with 25 percent of the total
U.S. workforce, the report shows.  Congress last raised the minimum wage in 2009, and
President  Barack Obama ’s call this year to increase it to $9 an
hour from $7.25 has gone nowhere with lawmakers. Some  states 
require pay that’s higher than the federal rate.  Worker advocacy group Fast Food Forward paid for the study.
The New York-based organization receives funding from the
 Service Employees International Union .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  