-- California Mayors Offer Pension Reform Ballot Measure
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-15T23:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/california-mayors-propose-pension-overhaul-ballot-measure.html
(Corrects description of June 2012 ballot measure in the
last paragraph.)  Five  California  mayors said they
filed papers for a statewide ballot measure that would let local
governments change retirement benefits for current workers, not
just future employees, to have more flexibility to avert
insolvency.  The measure, which will require more than 807,000 petition
signers to qualify for the ballot, wouldn’t change pension and
health care benefits government workers have already earned, the
mayors of  San Jose , San Bernardino,  Santa Ana , Anaheim and
Pacific Grove said today in a statement.  “Many of California’s public-employee retirement plans are
simply unsustainable and it’s in everyone’s interest to provide
the tools to fix the problem now before even tougher actions are
necessary,” San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed said.  Surging retirement costs have hobbled California cities
since the recession, contributing to municipal bankruptcies in
Vallejo, San Bernardino and Stockton. The runaway costs stem
from decisions made by elected officials when stock markets were
soaring and retirement funds were running surpluses. Benefits
were boosted to retain and recruit new workers.  The proposal “breaks the promise of a secure retirement
made to millions of Californians, many of whom are ineligible
for  Social Security  and have an average pension of $26,000 per
year,” Dave Low, chairman of the labor-backed Californians for
Retirement Security, said in a statement.  ‘Unilateral’ Cuts  “It will allow public employers to unilaterally cut the
retirement benefits promised to current teachers, firefighters,
police officers and school-bus drivers,” said Low, whose
organization represents more than 1.6 million current and former
public workers.  The mayors aim to put the initiative on the November 2014
ballot, when voters will select the governor and the state’s
members of Congress.  Voters in San Jose, California’s third-largest city, in
June 2012 approved a ballot initiative allowing current
employees to pay more to keep their existing retirement plan or
switch to a more modest plan, and steering new employees into a
lower-cost plan. Unions challenged the measure in court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 