-- Priciest Markets Lift Canada Home Sales to 7th Increase
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-15T14:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/canada-september-existing-home-sales-rise-0-8-from-august.html
Toronto and  Vancouver ,  Canada ’s two
priciest real estate markets, helped lift the nation’s housing
sales to a seventh straight monthly gain.  Home sales rose 0.8 percent in September from the previous
month, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said in a statement
today on its website, with average prices up 1.4 percent during
the month. Sales in Vancouver were up 6.7 percent, while Toronto
realtors sold 2.4 percent more homes.  Buyers in Toronto and Vancouver are ramping up purchases
before mortgage  rates  rise further, as recent data soothes
concern the nation’s housing market was headed for a hard
landing. At the same time, about half the 26 regional markets
posted falling prices in September, the realtor group said.  “While the momentum for sales activity began improving a
few months ago, it may be losing steam,” said Gregory Klump,
chief economist at the Ottawa-based realtor group.  From a year earlier, sales rose 18.2 percent, the Ottawa-based group said. Average sales prices were up 8.8 percent from
a year earlier.  Monthly sales increases reported by the Canadian real
estate group have averaged almost 2 percent since the gauge last
declined in February. The gains followed a contraction at at end
of 2012 after Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened
government-insured mortgage rules on speculation that a condo
glut might lead to sharp price declines. The Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, the nation’s federal
banking regulator, released tougher mortgage-lending standards
last year.  The effect of those measures have been dissipating,
particularly in Toronto and Vancouver. The average sale price of
a home in Toronto was up 2.2 percent in September to C$536,354
($517,700). Vancouver home prices were up 1.6 percent to
C$794,245.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  