-- Canada Consumer Sentiment Falls for Second Week on U.S.
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-15T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/canada-consumer-sentiment-falls-for-second-week-on-u-s-.html
Canadian consumer sentiment fell for
a second week as budget disputes in the U.S. continue to weigh
on views of the economy, according to the Bloomberg Nanos
Canadian Confidence Index.  The index, a weekly measurement of the economic mood of
Canadians, fell to 58.5 in the period ended Oct. 11, from 59.0
the previous week. It marks the lowest score since the week
ended Sept. 6 for the index, which tracks consumers’ perceptions
of the strength of the economy,  job security , real estate and
their financial situation.  A measure of attitudes about the economy’s prospects turned
negative for the first time since August amid concern that
political gridlock in the U.S. would shake markets and risk
provoking a worldwide recession. Finance chiefs from the Group
of 20 countries meeting in  Washington  last week urged U.S.
lawmakers to take “urgent action” to end the deadlock.  “A failure to resolve the situation in the U.S. would have
global consequences,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
told reporters Oct. 11 in Washington.  The share of Canadians who believe the economy will become
stronger over the next year fell to 19.9 percent last week from
21.0 percent the previous week and 22.4 percent two weeks
earlier. Those who expect it to weaken has increased to 20.2
percent from 16.5 percent over that time.  “We will need to continue to monitor Canadian  consumer
confidence  in light of the budget gridlock in the  United
States ,” said  Nik Nanos , chairman of Nanos Research Group, an
Ottawa-based research company.  Falling Expectations  The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index has two sub-indexes: the Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Pocketbook Index on
personal finances, and the Bloomberg Nanos Expectations Index on
future views. The data in the indexes date to 2008 and is based
on phone interviews with 1,000 people, using a four-week rolling
average of 250 respondents. The results are accurate to within
3.1 percentage points.  The expectations index, based on surveys for the outlook
for the economy and real estate prices, fell to 56.2 from 57.3
on waning expectations for economic growth.  The Pocketbook Index, based on survey responses to
questions about personal finances and job security, was little
changed at 60.8.  “The plateauing of confidence and expectations of the
Canadian median household is likely a function in slowing of
demand for commodities, falling  oil prices  and policy risk in
the U.S.‘‘ said  Joseph Brusuelas , senior economist at Bloomberg
LP in  New York .  Disappointing Growth  The fiscal battles in Washington risk slowing global growth
at a time when  Canada ’s economy has struggled to build momentum
and has been expanding more slowly than policy makers projected
earlier this year.  Statistics Canada  reported Oct. 8 the nation
ran a trade deficit of C$1.31 billion in August, marking the
20th straight monthly gap.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said Oct. 11 in
Washington that Canada’s growth has disappointed, the same day
the central bank released a report that showed Canadian business
investment intentions fell to a four-year low.  ‘‘We are behind where we thought we would be let’s say a
year ago, or even for that matter 6 months ago,’’ Poloz told
reporters in Washington. ‘‘What we need is growth that is
significantly above 2 percent to begin reducing the excess
capacity that we have in the economy.’’  Bank of Canada Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said
Oct. 1 that Canada needs ‘‘growth of at least 2.5 percent’’ to
absorb the slack in the economy. Economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  this month don’t expect the expansion to exceed
that pace until 2015.  Slowing Growth  Canada has averaged annualized quarterly  growth  rates of
1.3 percent since the start of 2012, down from about 3 percent
in 2010 and 2011, according to Statistics Canada data.  Two
other indicators that have suggested economic weakness over the
past year -- manufacturing sales and inflation -- will be
updated by Statistics Canada this week. Factory sales figures
for August will be released tomorrow, with economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecasting a 0.2 percent gain.  Canada’s inflation rate, to be released Oct. 18, probably
slowed to 1 percent in September, according to economist
estimates from a Bloomberg News survey.  Jobs growth has also  slowed  this year. Statistics Canada
reported Oct. 11 the economy created 11,900 jobs in September,
bringing average monthly gains to 12,570 this year, about half
the 2012 pace.  Still, before the drop in the last two weeks, Canadian
consumer sentiment had climbed to a 2-year high, in part because
the housing market has remained buoyant. The  Canadian Real
Estate Association  said today home sales in September rose 0.8
percent from August and 18.2 percent from the same month a year
earlier. National Bank Financial’s home price index was
unchanged from August and climbed 2.7 percent on the year,
according to a report released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  