-- Canadian Dollar Falls From 1-Week High as U.S. Impasses Persists
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-10-15T21:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/canadian-dollar-reaches-1-week-high-on-plan-to-end-u-s-shutdown.html
The Canadian dollar fell from its
highest level in a week as rifts emerged between U.S.
politicians seeking to end a government shutdown and stave off
potential default in  Canada ’s biggest trading partner.  The currency weakened against the majority of its most-traded peers as leaders in the  U.S. Senate  put on hold
bipartisan talks to end the fiscal impasse and Democrats
rejected an alternative plan proposed by Republicans in the
 House of Representatives . Fitch Ratings Ltd. placed the U.S.’s
AAA credit rating on negative watch, citing failure to raise the
$16.7 trillion debt ceiling in a timely manner.  “It seems like there was a lot of opposition to the deal
in the House of Representatives particularly from the hardliners
on the right,” said David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie
Capital Markets, by phone from Toronto. “It seems like there’s
been more concessions from the Republican side so the issue now
is ’is it enough to pass the House of Representatives?’”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to
C$1.0383 per U.S. dollar at 5:06 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier
touching C$1.0332, the strongest since Oct. 8. One loonie buys
96.31 U.S. cents.  Bonds Drop  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government  bond  fell, with
yields rising five basis points or 0.05 percentage point, to
2.65 percent, the highest on a closing basis since Sept. 20. The
1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 lost 43 cents to
C$90.33.  The  Bank of Canada  will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2
billion) of two-year debt tomorrow.  Futures for crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.4
percent to $100.94 per barrel in  New York  and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks fell 0.7 percent.  A report this week is forecast to show consumer price
increases, excluding volatile energy and food prices, picked up
pace in September to 0.3 percent from 0.2 percent the previous
month, a sign Canada’s economy is growing, according to the
median estimate of a Bloomberg survey.  Sales of  existing homes  in Canada increased 0.8 percent in
September, slower than the 2.8 percent increase from the
previous month, a report from the  Canadian Real Estate
Association  said.  Home Sales  Home prices  were unchanged in September from the previous
month, according to data today from the Teranet-National Bank
Home Price Index.  “We have weak existing home sales that are less strong
than they were the previous month and similar on some of the
pricing,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , by phone from Toronto. “So not the most
positive prints overall.”  The Canadian dollar reached its lowest point in four and a
half months against the currency of its commodity exporting peer
 Australia , as improving data out of China, that nation’s largest
trading partner, contrasted with continued fiscal uncertainty in
the U.S.  The loonie fell 0.7 percent to 98.92 Canadian cents per
Australian dollar, the lowest since June 5, as the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia said recent interest-rate cuts are having an effect
in bolstering the economy and adopted what investors interpreted
as a neutral bias towards further rate actions.  Commodity Currencies  “The RBA minutes were a little bit more neutral than what
the market was expecting,” said Greg T. Moore, a currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from Toronto.
“The market is still a little bit dovish on the RBA and those
expectations have been dashed.”  The U.S. government will be unable to borrow after Oct. 17,
and both the House and Senate plans propose extending that
deadline to Feb. 7, 2014 and funding the government through Jan.
15. A House vote as soon as tonight will test whether
Republicans are willing to raise borrowing authority and end the
shutdown without their initial demand for major changes to the
2010 health-care law.  “Canada really depends on a robust U.S. recovery,” said
Don Mikolich, executive director of foreign-exchange sales at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. “Once things are kind of
sealed and back on track, then I think Canada could trade a
little bit stronger.”  The loonie has fallen 2.2 percent this year against nine
developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has weakened 6.7 percent
and the  U.S. dollar  has gained 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  