-- Catalonia Negotiates 62% Cut in Payments on Infrastructure Debt
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-10-15T11:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/catalonia-negotiates-62-cut-in-payments-on-infrastructure-debt.html
The Catalan government, whose bonds
are ranked junk by two of the three major rating companies,
negotiated a 62 percent reduction in repayments on public
infrastructure debt in a bid to make its finances sustainable,
regional finance chief Andreu Mas-Colell said.  Catalonia won agreement from lenders and contractors to
defer payments on so-called public private partnerships in 2012
and 2013 cutting its outlay to 419 million euros ($568 million)
from 1.1 billion euros initially agreed, according to an e-mail
from the regional finance department.  “We are in a constant war to flatten out those payments,”
Mas-Colell, 69, a former Harvard University economics professor,
said in an interview last week. “They were structured in many
cases in a perverse way.”  The region’s debt has more than tripled to 51.8 billion
euros, at the end of June,  compared  with 14.9 billion in 2006.
Catalonia, the largest regional economy in  Spain , is
reorganizing its finances as part of a commitment with the
central government to reduce its  budget deficit  in exchange for
17.9 billion euros of loans provided by via rescue mechanisms.  Previous regional governments structured public-works
investments with minimal payments in the initial years and an
accelerating financial burden later on,  Mas-Colell  said.  “Whoever made them made sure to pay very little in the
first years,” he added.  Caixa Loans  Mas-Colell declined to identify the financial institutions
involved in financing the infrastructure investment saying only
that they are the “usual suspects.”  La Caixa  provided about 580 million euros of loans to
finance two sections of a new metro line in the regional
capital, the lender said in a December 2008 statement. Caja
 Madrid , since absorbed by Bankia SA, as well as Banco Santander
SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA also lent to the
project, according to  the statement .  A spokesman for Barcelona-based La Caixa declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  Barcelona’s Line 9 metro extension is the largest
transaction financed via structured debt and involves an
investment of 6.8 billion euros, according to the regional
railway authority’s  website .  Ifermat, as the regional railway agency is known, selected
a group of companies including  Obrascon Huarte Lain SA (OHL)  and
 Acciona SA (ANA)  to build, maintain and operate portions of the metro
line. The conditions of the tender process were set in 2008, at
the start of the credit crisis, when the region was run by a
three-party coalition led by the Socialists.  ‘Enormous Investments’  “Line 9 is this huge project that has now stopped because
it’s too big, but we need to pursue it in a small way to make
sure we can capitalize some of the enormous investments,” said
Mas-Colell, who took office in 2010 as part of Artur Mas’s
nationalist coalition Convergencia i Unio. “That’s a collection
of concessions, so for each one of them we negotiated a
flattening out.”  Catalonia’s debt-to-gross domestic product ratio was 26.2
percent at the end of the second quarter, compared with an
average of 18.9 percent for Spanish regions, central bank data
show. The Spanish Budget Ministry in August approved the
region’s plan to raise its  leverage ratio  to 27.2 percent by
year-end.  “We renegotiate constantly with financial institutions or
contractors to find arrangements which are more sustainable,”
Mas-Colell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  