-- China Said to Study Investing More Reserves in European Property
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-15T17:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/china-said-to-study-investing-more-reserves-in-european-property.html
China ’s agency that manages the
nation’s $3.66 trillion of foreign-exchange  reserves  is looking
to make more investments in European property, two people
familiar with the situation said.  The  State Administration of Foreign Exchange , seeking to
diversify the nation’s investments, is looking at real estate
and infrastructure projects with a focus on the U.K.,  France ,
 Germany ,  Poland  and the Czech Republic, said the people, who
asked not to be identified as they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the matter. Valuations for such projects are
currently at an attractive level, they said.  The agency is considering investing more of the world’s
biggest reserve stockpile in Europe while wrangling over the
U.S. government’s borrowing limit raises the risk of a default
in Treasury  holdings  that stood at $1.28 trillion in July. China
Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said yesterday that the
U.S. must take “concrete measures” this week on its debt.  The safety of investments is the foreign-exchange agency’s
top priority, the people familiar with the matter said.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves rose last quarter by the
most in more than two years as signs of a growth rebound stoked
capital inflows, according to data the People’s Bank of China
released on Oct. 14. The reserves rose from about $3.5 trillion
at the end of June.  Gingko Tree Investment Ltd., identified by the  Sovereign
Wealth Fund Institute  as a unit of SAFE, in January bought a 40
percent stake in UPP Group Holdings Ltd., the U.K.’s second-largest student-housing operator, a person with knowledge of the
transaction said at the time.  SAFE is also among potential bidders for the Beaugrenelle
shopping mall in Paris, Le Figaro reported yesterday, without
citing anyone. The acquisition could be valued at at least 700
million euros ($945 million), according to the Oct. 9 report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  