-- Most China Stocks Fall as Bank Losses Overshadow Drugmakers Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-15T07:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-loans-data-debt-optimism.html
Most  Chinese stocks  fell, sending
the benchmark index to its first loss in three days, as declines
for financial and consumer-discretionary companies overshadowed
gains for health-care shares.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  and  Bank of
China Ltd. (3988)  slid at least 1 percent and were the biggest drags on
the benchmark index. Suning Commerce Group Co., China’s largest
electronics retailer by market value, plunged 5.9 percent.
Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co. led gains for drugmakers as China
said it’s aiming for the value of the health-services industry
to be more than 8 trillion yuan ($1.3 trillion) by 2020.  About five stocks fell every four that rose on the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which slipped 0.2 percent to 2,233.41 at the
close. China’s consumer prices quickened last month, while new
yuan loans exceeded estimates and exports unexpectedly fell,
reports this week showed. The government is scheduled to publish
third-quarter gross domestic product data on Oct. 18.  “Investors will still need to wait for economic data for
September to gauge the strength of the economy,” said  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “It’s
normal to see some profit taking at this level but thematic
investments such as health care are still active.”  The CSI 300 Index fell 0.2 percent to 2,467.52. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index gained 0.8 percent as  Hong Kong ’s
markets resumed after a holiday. The Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index fell less than 0.1 percent yesterday.  Banks Decline  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, slid 1 percent to
3.84 yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the second largest,
dropped 1.6 percent to 4.25 yuan.  Bank of China  lost 1.4 percent
to 2.79 yuan.  China’s money-supply expansion slowed to 14.2 percent last
month and the broadest measure of credit fell to 1.4 trillion
 yuan  ($229.4 billion), the central bank said after the market
closed yesterday. September new yuan loans rose to 787 billion
yuan. The Chinese economy probably expanded 7.8 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey, up
from the second quarter’s 7.5 percent pace.  The People’s Bank of China will have to tighten monetary
policy because of inflation risks after a November Communist
Party meeting and this tightening may continue through 2014,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc. The 3.1 percent increase in
China’s consumer-price index last month compared with the 2.8
percent median estimate of 44 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Suning Commerce led declines in shares of Chinese companies
that have sought to open privately owned banks after a newspaper
reported that the new lenders will be limited to their home
provinces.  Rising Competition  Suning fell 5.9 percent to 12.89 yuan. Kingfa Sci. & Tech.
Co. slipped 2.4 percent to 6.23 yuan and Guangzhou KingTeller
Technology Co. dropped 2.5 percent to 6.91 yuan in Shanghai. The
companies are applying for bank licenses as China’s government
seeks to increase competition in financial services and reduce
the state’s role in reviving the world’s second-largest economy.  “The reported rules we’re seeing are much tighter than
people thought previously, mainly the quota on licenses,” Rainy
Yuan, a Shanghai-based analyst at Masterlink Securities Corp.,
said by phone. “Regulators may allow capable private companies
to enter banking, but they would want a controlled pace” of
liberalization.  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 15 percent from its
four-year low on June 27, boosted by speculation the city’s
 free-trade  zone will attract foreign companies and allow for
financial liberalization. The index trades at 8.8 times
projected earnings for the next 12 months, compared with the
five-year average of 12.6, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Trading volumes in the stocks measure were 0.2 percent below the
30-day average.  Free Trade  China’s use of “free-trade” areas to test relaxed
regulation is making the phrase more ubiquitous in news stories
than at any other time since 1993, as stocks linked to the zones
lead gains in the Shanghai Composite.  The number of articles mentioning free trade rose to the
highest level since the U.S. signed the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  with  Mexico  and  Canada  20 years ago. At the same
time, use of the word “ China ” has plunged from a record high
in 2011 as the world’s second-largest economy slowed and its
domestic stock market trailed emerging-market peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Drugmakers Gain  China may allow foreign companies registered in the
Shanghai zone to raise capital by selling shares on a designated
trading platform, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing two
unidentified people with direct knowledge of the matter.  A gauge of drugmakers in the CSI 300 rose 1.5 percent, the
 second most  among the 10 industry groups. Kangmei Pharmaceutical
advanced 4.5 percent to 19.29 yuan. Shanghai Fosun
Pharmaceutical Group Co. jumped 10 percent to 16.91 yuan.  China will relax a threshold for entering the health
service industry, increase land supply for the industry and
offer subsidies to private medical institutions, according to a
State Council statement posted on the central government’s
website yesterday.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Michael Patterson   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  