-- China May Allow Foreign Share Sales in Trade Zone, WSJ Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-15T02:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/china-may-allow-foreign-share-sales-in-trade-zone-wsj-reports.html
China may allow foreign companies
registered in the  Shanghai  free-trade zone to raise capital by
selling shares on a designated trading platform, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing two unidentified people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The Shanghai equity exchange, which is 29 percent owned by
 Shanghai Stock Exchange , is considering developing such a
platform, the report said, citing one of the people.  The trading of foreign equities would add impetus to
Shanghai’s drive to become a global financial center by 2020 and
broaden options for the nation’s individual investors who are
restricted from buying shares abroad by China’s capital
controls.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is among companies expressing
interest in selling stock in Shanghai.  HSBC Holdings and Bank of East Asia Ltd. won approval to
set up a sub-branch in Shanghai’s free-trade zone as China seeks
to create a more efficient and open economic system. HSBC’s
outlet in the zone will start operations by early next year,
Europe’s largest lender said on Oct. 12.  Shanghai, the nation’s commercial hub, last month
inaugurated the 11-square-mile zone as a testing ground for
free-market policies that Premier  Li Keqiang  has signaled
may later be implemented more broadly in the world’s second-largest economy. The State Council on Sept. 27 announced plans
to allow trials of  yuan  convertibility in capital flows and
permit foreign companies to invest in more of the nation’s
service industries in the zone.  A person at the general line of the Shanghai equity
exchange said she wasn’t aware of the Wall Street Journal report
and declined to identify herself.  The Shanghai exchange denied market rumors that an
international board will start in the city’s free-trade zone,
the Shanghai Securities News reported Oct. 10, citing an
unidentified person from the exchange. A spokesman wouldn’t
comment on the report when contacted by phone by  Bloomberg News .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  