-- China Says Debt Debacle Is the End of Pax Americana
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-15T21:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/china-says-debt-debacle-is-the-end-of-pax-americana.html
Excuse the Chinese government for
not caring who in the U.S. is responsible for the  debt-ceiling
impasse . Democrats and Republicans have their reasons for doing
what they do, but from Beijing or  Shanghai ’s perspective, the
potential results are the same: a default on about  $1.28
trillion  of Chinese-owned debt and a global recession to boot.
The U.S. promised to make good on the debt when it bought it,
and that promise seems dangerously close to being broken. For
China, that’s a huge economic risk -- and a tremendous public-relations opportunity.  In recent days, it’s become clear that China’s state-owned
newspaper editorialists -- all of whom take their cue, at some
level, from the Communist Party -- view the American crisis as a
teaching moment. It’s traditional for Chinese news media to play
this role. Senior Communist Party officials rarely make
statements on contemporary events (especially crises), and the
debt-ceiling impasse is no exception.  High-ranking government officials, perhaps wary of spooking
already rattled markets at home and abroad, have said little or
spoken in generalities. Last week, Premier  Li Keqiang   voiced 
concern about the  debt-ceiling issue  in a conversation with U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry ,  according to  the state-owned
Xinhua News Agency. The highest-ranking Chinese official to
comment publicly on the Washington stalemate in recent days was
probably Zhu Guangyao, the country’s vice minister of finance,
and his finely crafted words are nearly void of content. On
Tuesday in Beijing, he offered mere  platitudes : “In the long
run, the United States must address the fiscal stalemate, must
raise the cap of the debt limit soon as to keep the promise of
no default of its Treasury bonds and keep the sound momentum of
the  U.S. economy  and avoid dragging down the world economy.”  China ’s leaders are certainly interested in commenting on
the situation in Washington; they just prefer to do it through
state-owned media outlets. Two editorials published in recent
days by two of China’s most powerful (and distinct) news
organizations exemplify a quiet cop/loud cop approach.  Xinhua was first, with a Sunday editorial in the English-language  edition  of the hard-line Global Times. The message of
the editorial -- which carried the headline “US fiscal failure
warrants a de-Americanized world” -- is that the debt stalemate
should rally the global community to build a post-Pax Americana
world order. The piece reads like the primal scream of a fed-up
hegemonist-to-be: “Such alarming days when the destinies of
others are in the hands of a hypocritical nation have to be
terminated, and a new world order should be put in place,
according to which all nations, big or small, poor or rich, can
have their key interests respected and protected on an equal
footing.”  Among these interests, the editorial lists respect for
national sovereignty (a particularly sensitive issue in China,
in light of its relationship with  Taiwan ) and a commitment not
to interfere in others’ domestic affairs. The editorial also
suggests that the world financial system needs to be reformed. A
new international currency may need to replace the dollar, “so
that the international community could permanently stay away
from the spillover of the intensifying domestic political
turmoil in the  United States .”  These are provocative words of the sort that China’s
cautious leadership would never dare utter. Indeed, Xinhua’s
editorial appears to have been issued in English only, its call
for a “de-Americanized” world absent from Chinese news or
social media, where the editorial hasn’t generated any
noticeable discussion (perhaps because it’s in English).  Why this move? For starters, an English-language editorial
allows Xinhua to distance the Chinese leadership -- whether or
not it helped conceive of the piece -- from the written
sentiments while maintaining the imprimatur of an “official”
editorial. Whose piece is it? As with almost any unsigned
editorial in the state-run Chinese media, the lack of a
straightforward answer gives everyone -- Party leadership,
Xinhua, whoever wrote the editorial -- plausible deniability in
the event someone suggests they believe the piece’s message.
This is exactly what the  New York  Times  did  when it claimed,
based on the editorial, that “Chinese leaders” were calling
for the consideration of a de-Americanized world. Objectively
viewed, the leadership did no such thing (though the article
subsequently attributes quotes from the editorial to Xinhua).
Perhaps fighting back against such broad characterizations, on
Wednesday the English-language  China Daily   ran  the editorial
bearing the byline of Liu Chang.  An English-only editorial also highlights the fact that
Xinhua wanted its message heard by a foreign audience (all the
while neglecting a Chinese audience that hasn’t, so far, seemed
very engaged with the issue, at least  on Chinese microblogs ).
And judging from the  outpouring  of references to a “de-Americanized world” since Sunday, Xinhua succeeded
spectacularly.  What was the message, then, for the Chinese-speaking world?
On Monday, the People’s Daily newspaper, the self-proclaimed
mouthpiece of the Communist Party (and the most reliable
indicator of party leadership’s opinion), offered a  low-key
editorial  with a simple message: “It’s obvious that the U.S.
political system has a problem.” The nature of that problem, as
analyzed by the paper, is that the U.S. system has stagnated in
the face of a polarized society and is unable to adapt to new
realities. “Advocates for the U.S. political system argue that
its checks and balances give it the ability to self-correct and
helps to stem large political errors,” the paper explained.
“However, when such a system exacerbates social rifts, party
opposition, and even disrupts the normal life of the country,
rational reflection is necessary.”  This Chinese-language editorial’s call for reflection isn’t
directed at just Americans. The piece is also a not-so-subtle
call for Chinese to reflect on whether they want such a troubled
system adapted to their country. The answer, from the
editorial’s perspective, is left to the reader.  Even before the People’s Daily editorial, there was plenty
of evidence on Chinese microblogs that readers didn’t buy the
argument. In fact, some netizens are actually  suggesting  that
the impasse demonstrates  the strength  of the U.S. political
system. That’s an interesting contention -- perhaps even a
powerful one, so long as those in  Washington  find a last-minute
way for the U.S. to meet its debt obligations. But as the U.S.
creeps closer to defaulting, the arguments about the relative
merits of the American political system start to tilt in favor
of China’s unfriendly critiques.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is the author of “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry that will be published in November.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 