-- China Bond Yield at 1-Month High as PBOC Adds Fewer Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-15T03:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/china-bond-yield-at-1-month-high-as-pboc-adds-fewer-funds.html
China ’s 10-year  government bonds 
fell, pushing the yield to a one-month high, as the central bank
scaled back cash injections into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China added 10 billion ($1.6 billion)
to markets via seven-day reverse-repurchase contracts today,
according to a statement on its website. That compares with an
injection of 65 billion  yuan  a week ago. The authority rolled
over 5.5 billion yuan of maturing three-year notes, according to
a statement yesterday. Bonds also dropped after data showed
yesterday that inflation was at a seven-month high in September.  “The central bank wants to keep  money supply  tightly
balanced, so it cut the reverse-repo sales once the rates came
down,” said Liu Wenbo, an analyst at Shanghai Cifco Futures Co.
“September’s inflation raised concern that CPI in the fourth
quarter is likely to be higher, which may keep the yield of
government bonds at an elevated level.”  The yield on the 4.08 percent bonds due August 2023 climbed
three basis points to 4.13 percent, the highest since Sept. 13,
as of 10:45 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data from the
Interbank Funding Center. It added five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, yesterday.  China’s  consumer-price index  rose 3.1 percent from a year
earlier in September, the statistics bureau said yesterday. That
compares with a 2.6 percent gain in August and the median
estimate of 2.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  China may face greater inflationary pressures next year if
the global economic recovery accelerates, according to a China
Securities Journal commentary.  The cost of the one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed
payment to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, was steady
at 3.97 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It fell to
3.95 percent earlier, the lowest since Sept. 27.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, was little changed at 3.82
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  