-- Citigroup’s Losses on Loans to Mexico Homebuilders May Increase
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-15T20:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/citigroup-s-losses-on-loans-to-mexico-homebuilders-may-increase.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank, may face more losses on loans to Mexico’s three
largest homebuilders as defaults mount and officials of the
Latin America nation dash hopes for a bailout.  About half of the $168 million in loan-loss reserves
Citigroup set aside in the third quarter for Latin America will
be used to cover souring loans made to those firms, Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said today on a conference call.
At the end of September, the bank had less than $300 million of
the assets, mostly construction loans, he said.  The added reserves were “driven by further deterioration
in the financial and operating condition of these companies and
decreases in the value of our collateral,” Gerspach  said ,
adding the firms have breached credit agreements. “We will
continue to monitor the performance of our homebuilder clients,
as well as the value of our collateral, to determine whether
additional reserves or charge-offs may be required.”  The three firms -- Corp. Geo SAB, Desarrolladora Homex SAB
and Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB -- missed debt payments after
getting stuck with remote land valued below their cost. While
subsidized developments sprawled far outside  Mexico ’s cities
during the six-year term of former President Felipe Calderon,
residents weary of long commutes began abandoning the
neighborhoods. President Enrique Pena Nieto’s government has
said it would make urban location a priority and continue to
subsidize housing even without the biggest builders.  Consumer Division  The loans fall under the consumer division since they’re
commercial loans made through the retail bank. Mexico is the
company’s second-biggest market for consumer loans, with $29.6
billion at the end of September, or 10 percent of the total
$293.1 billion held at Citicorp, the division that holds the
bank’s ongoing businesses, according to a firm presentation.  Citigroup’s rate of non-current consumer loans in Latin
America rose to 4.18 percent in the third quarter, a 0.15
percentage-point increase over the prior quarter and the highest
rate of the bank’s four regions, according to the  presentation .  The rate will stay about the same in the fourth quarter
unless the lender incurs “any material losses on our exposures
to homebuilders in Mexico,” Gerspach said.  Citigroup’s Mexico lender, Banco Nacional de Mexico, is the
nation’s second-largest bank with almost 1,700 branches,
according to its second-quarter securities  filing .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  