-- Citi Shuns Treasuries Amid ‘Dangerous Flirtation’ by U.S.
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-15T16:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/citigroup-shuns-october-treasuries-on-default-concern.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is bracing for a
possible U.S. default by avoiding some short-term Treasury
investments amid what Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat 
called “a dangerous flirtation with the debt ceiling.”  Corbat made the remark during a conference call today to
discuss third-quarter results at New York-based Citigroup as
lawmakers struggled to meet a deadline for avoiding a U.S.
default. While the bank remains hopeful about a political
solution, Citigroup doesn’t own Treasury securities that mature
in October and holds few with terms ending before Nov. 16, Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said.  A U.S. default would put the financial world in “uncharted
waters,” and the bank is managing risks to ensure it has
liquidity, Gerspach said.  The two bankers join JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO Jamie Dimon
and Anshu Jain, the co-CEO at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , in warning
against a default. The government’s borrowing authority will
lapse Oct. 17 without a deal, U.S. officials have said. JPMorgan
is the biggest U.S. bank by assets, and Citigroup is No. 3.
Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, is the largest in Germany.  Senate leaders are crafting an agreement that would bring a
halt to the standoff before the deadline and end a partial
shutdown of the government.  Jain told a financial industry conference on Oct. 12 the
prospect of even a small default would be “utterly
catastrophic” and Dimon said the effects would ripple through
the global economy.  “You don’t want to know,” Dimon said at the conference.
“Please, let’s not shoot ourselves in the foot.”  The fallout would be “absolutely disastrous, considering
the role of the U.S. dollar,” Baudouin Prot, chairman of Paris-based  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , said during a panel discussion with Jain
and Dimon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Dickson at 
 sdickson1@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  