-- Coal’s Slump Leaves Czech Town Facing Mass Unemployment
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-10-15T11:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/coal-s-slump-leaves-czech-town-facing-mass-unemployment.html
Most mornings, Lubomir Nevrly drives
past a forest of grimy chimneys and steel-mill towers spewing
smoke over the eastern Czech city of  Ostrava . He doesn’t want
them to stop operating.  “If they close another  coal mine  it will be a catastrophe
for the region,” said the 60-year-old Ostrava native who spent
two decades working as a miner. “Crime will go up, people will
start drinking. Soon we’ll be afraid to go out on the streets.”  The specter of mass unemployment hangs over the  Czech
Republic ’s Moravia-Silesia region, an industrial hub that
flourished during the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Communist
regime.  New World Resources Plc (NWR) , its biggest employer, will
close its unprofitable Paskov mine next year, raising fears of
more worker dismissals and an erosion of  living standards  in a
region with the country’s second-highest jobless rate.  Ostrava’s plight stems from a glut of metallurgical coal
from  West Virginia  to  Australia  that has cut prices by more than
half since 2011 to $152 a metric ton, as supply exceeded demand
from a  steel industry  constrained by  Europe ’s economic slump.
Czech plants run by  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Evraz Plc (EVR)  curbed output
this year because carmakers and other factories cut orders.  Located 20 minutes from Ostrava, the Paskov mine employs
about 2,500 people. Every miner’s job loss threatens about four
other ancillary and service-related positions in the region,
according to Yvona Jungova, director of Ostrava’s labor office.  Ripple Effect  “We’re not talking only about the miners and foundry
workers,” Jungova said in a telephone interview. “There are
people who clean for them, cook for them, provide various
services, and they suddenly won’t be needed.”  Miners at NWR’s main OKD unit threatened to strike as talks
over a 2014-2018 collective wage agreement have dragged on
between unions and management for more than a year, CTK newswire
reported today, citing union leader Rostislav Palicka.  Ostrava has seeped into the election campaign before the
nation votes on Oct. 25-26. The Social Democratic party, which
has been leading in opinion polls since Prime Minister Petr
Necas’s pro-austerity government collapsed in June, said it
won’t burden the state budget to save Paskov jobs.  President Milos Zeman called on NWR’s biggest shareholder,
billionaire Zdenek Bakala, to keep Paskov open and finance the
operation out of his own pocket. He criticized NWR for not
having created cash reserves in the years it posted profits.  NWR will submit a proposal to the government on Oct. 18 on
how to shut the Paskov mine and conduct its other mining
operations, CTK new agency reported yesterday, citing Czech
Industry and Trade Minister Jiri Cienciala.  While Paskov produces high-quality coal, it’s losing so
much money that NWR is determined to close it by the end of 2014
unless the state agrees to subsidize the jobs, Marek Sibrt, a
company spokesman, said Oct. 3.  Family ‘Disaster’  That will be a “disaster” for most of the miners who earn
above-average wages and will have a hard time finding  work
elsewhere, said Jindrich Lettovsky, the work security inspector
and union leader at Paskov.  “Most of the guys have families, they’re the primary
breadwinners, and they have mortgages to pay,” he said, sitting
in the crowded union office above the mine pit. “If 10,000
families stop spending money it will create a  chain reaction  for
the whole region.”  Paskov incurred an $80 million loss last year as difficult
geological conditions made extraction unprofitable at current
commodity prices, NWR’s Sibrt said.  The company, which operates three other active mines in the
region, posted losses this year as demand for coal from
steelmakers and other industrial clients fell. The junk-rated
miner agreed to sell its OKK coking plant for 95 million euros
($129 million) and negotiated waivers and amendments to its debt
covenants for the second time this year.  Industry’s Roots  The Moravia-Silesia region, the Czech Republic’s most
densely populated after  Prague , has been heavily industrialized
since the Austro-Hungarian empire as the abundance of both
thermal and metallurgical coal encouraged the construction of
foundries and steel mills. Thermal coal is used in  power plants ,
while metallurgical can be burned to make steel.  Europe’s economic crisis has taken a toll on heavy industry
in the region. Evraz shut down its steel mill for more than a
month in the previous quarter because of a lack of demand, and
the company is looking to sell the entire Czech unit.  The region’s August unemployment rate, at 9.8 percent, was
higher the country’s overall rate of 7.6 percent. The labor
office paid out more in housing support in the first eight
months of this year than all of 2012, Jungova said.  Violent Backlash  NWR’s decision to shut Paskov sparked violent
demonstrations in the city, when about 3,000 miners marched to
the company headquarters Sept. 17, broke in and had to be
evicted by riot police. A few days later, several hundred
supporters of the extreme right-wing Workers Party clashed with
riot police as they tried to attack a neighborhood inhabited
mainly by the ethnic Roma, or gypsies.  “People are scared of the future,” Paskov union leader
Jaromir Pytlik said in an interview. “No wonder some become
aggressive. This could become a huge security problem.”  There is another issue, his colleague Lettovsky said. Young
people are fleeing the region to find well-paying jobs in the
service industry, including his own daughters: one of them lives
in  Italy , another in Prague, and the youngest will soon leave
for Prague as well.  “Soon there will be only old people left here,” he said.
“All the young ones are running away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  