-- Coca-Cola Quarterly Net Climbs as North America Sales Rise
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-10-15T20:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/coca-cola-third-quarter-net-climbs-as-north-america-sales-rise.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
beverage company, said third-quarter profit rose as sales
volumes advanced in North America and the European business
began to rebound.  Net income rose 5.9 percent to $2.45 billion, or 54 cents a
share, in the three months ended Sept. 27, compared with a year
earlier, Atlanta-based Coca-Cola said today in a  statement .
Excluding some items, profit was 53 cents a share, in line with
the average of 16 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  fought back in the
quarter against persistent consumer uncertainty in developed
nations and what he called “increasing volatility across
 emerging markets ” by strategically raising prices and getting
more consumers to grab a drink on the go. Kent said he still
expects the company and its bottlers to reach $200 billion in
global revenue by 2020, double that generated in 2010.  “Muhtar and his team are continuing to succeed at their
game plan even though the economy in some emerging markets,
 South America  and some parts of Europe continue to create near-term challenges,” Thomas Mullarkey, an analyst for  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago, said today in a telephone interview.  Beverage sales declines in Europe improved, sliding 1
percent compared with a 4 percent fall in the second quarter. In
 North America , sales rose 2 percent after slipping 1 percent in
the previous quarter.  ’Bad Dream’  During a conference call today with reporters, Kent
expressed concern about a prolonged U.S. government shutdown and
the fiscal deadlock, calling it a “bad dream,” while
expressing optimism that lawmakers can reach a deal.  “If it continues there’s no question that the negative
consumer sentiment is most likely going to impact businesses of
all nature,”  Kent said . “Everyone is guardedly optimistic that
logic is going to prevail and that we will move forward in a
constructive, collaborative way for the benefit of the country
and also the benefit of the world because this obviously impacts
the U.S. immediately and directly, but impacts the world also.”  Coca-Cola declined 0.7 percent to $37.66 at the close of
trading in  New York . The shares have gained 3.9 percent this
year, compared with an 18 percent advance for  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and a
19 percent rise for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Revenue declined 2.5 percent to $12.03 billion. Analysts
estimated $12.05 billion, on average. The company also said
fluctuating currency will decrease comparable operating income
in the fourth quarter by as much as 6 percent.  Mexico Soda Tax  Global sales volume grew 2 percent, less than the 2.9
percent average of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In
 Latin America , where Coca-Cola faces a proposed tax in  Mexico  on
sugary soda, sales volume was little changed while  Brazil  posted
a 1 percent decline.  Mexico President Enrique Pena Nieto has proposed a 1 peso
per liter tax to raise revenue. Coca-Cola’s Mexican unit has
said the tax proposal is “unfair.”  Kent called such a tax “discriminatory” during the call
and said he is not resigned to the proposal being passed. He
declined to say how it would impact Coke’s business or what
plans have been made to offset any effect on sales.  “These regressive taxes certainly do not really work,”
Kent said. “The consumers suffer. Retailers suffer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  