-- Collins a Gang of One in Pressing Congress to Break Impasse
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-10-15T18:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/collins-a-gang-of-one-in-pressing-congress-to-break-debt-impasse.html
Earlier this month, Maine Senator
 Susan Collins , dispirited, sat watching her colleagues on the
Senate floor stake out opposing positions over funding the
government. She decided she’d had enough.  “Each side was lobbing partisan grenades at the other
side, despite the fact that we had a really serious problem
confronting us,” Collins said in an interview yesterday.  The plan that Collins, a Republican, later proposed helped
spur momentum for talks to end the government shutdown and lift
the nation’s borrowing limit. Two days before the government is
expected to run out of money to pay its bills, Senate leaders
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, are seeking support for an emerging bipartisan
agreement. A final deal proved elusive as House Republicans
floated a proposal that Reid rejected as unacceptable.  Collins’s profile in the standoff is part of a bigger trend
of women lawmakers, now serving in record numbers, expanding
their portfolios to fiscal and other issues transcending gender.
 Patty Murray , who in 2011 co-chaired a supercommittee charged
with reaching a comprehensive deficit-cutting deal, went on to
become the first woman to head the Senate Budget Committee.
Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, is the first
female to lead the Appropriations Committee.  Gaining Support  Collins’s approach to the current budget debate, which she
outlined Oct. 5 on the Senate floor, picked up steam after she
won support from two other lawmakers, Republicans Kelly Ayotte
of New Hampshire and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska. Soon, Democrats
Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota and Jeanne Shaheen of New
Hampshire joined the talks. Behind the scenes, Collins traded
phone calls and e-mails with Murray, a Washington Democrat.  “I do think it was significant that, in this bipartisan
group of members that I put together, women were
disproportionately represented,” said Collins, 60, who was
first elected to the Senate in 1996.  Her plan would limit federal spending to $967 billion, set
a mid-January deadline for longer-term budget talks, delay a
medical-device tax that’s intended to help fund President  Barack Obama ’s health-care program, and require the administration to
verify income levels for getting health-insurance subsidies.  “Her effort helped provide the momentum to where we are
today,” Heitkamp said in an interview. “It was with an
enormous interest in making sure the public was represented.”
Shaheen called it “a good jumpstart to try and get some
agreement.”  Testing House  The Senate plan, and a separate one being discussed in the
House, would both fund the government through Jan. 15, 2014, and
suspend the debt limit until Feb. 7. A House vote as soon as
tonight would test whether Republicans are willing to raise
borrowing authority and end the shutdown without major changes
to the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  Earlier this year, members of Collins’s group, which meets
about once a month over dinner, joined to press a series of
bills aimed at addressing the problem of sexual assaults in the
military. Now, they’re moving into wider issues.  “This is saying we’re stepping out of the pink ghetto,”
said  Jean Schroedel , an expert on women in politics and
leadership at Claremont Graduate University in  California .  ‘Chicken Games’  “The folks playing chicken games need to recognize that
there now is a real group that has bonded and isn’t into playing
chicken games,” said Schroedel. “This is an important
phenomenon, and it’s like sanity, for crying out loud.”  Collins’s readiness to deal with Democrats is reminiscent
of another Republican from Maine, a lightly populated coastal
state that’s partial to politicians willing to cross the aisle.
Prior to her retirement, Senator  Olympia Snowe  often worked with
Democrats even as Congress became increasingly polarized along
partisan lines.  While Maine’s Republican governor, Paul LePage, is aligned
with the limited-government  Tea Party , its legislature is
controlled by Democrats and the other U.S. Senate seat is held
by independent Angus King, who caucuses with Democrats.  “It’s the capital of American bipartisanship,” said  Ross Baker , a congressional expert at  Rutgers University  in New
Brunswick,  New Jersey .  ‘Most Moderate’  Politics in America, a congressional almanac, describes
Collins as “the most moderate member of her party.” In 2004,
she teamed up with  Joe Lieberman  of Connecticut, a Democrat who
later turned independent, to rewrite intelligence laws. She has
led bipartisan investigations into the federal response to
 Hurricane Katrina  under former Republican President  George W. Bush  and the 2012 attack on a U.S. diplomatic mission in Libya.  “Susan Collins is a gang of one,” said Baker. “She is
the person the Democrats turn to almost immediately when they
want to try to get bipartisan support on legislation.”  Congress is running short of time to get passage of any
agreement in the Senate and action by the House before Oct. 17,
when U.S. borrowing authority lapses. The federal government
would start missing payments sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct.
31, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The group of senators working with Collins also included
Republicans John McCain of Arizona,  Mark Kirk  of Illinois and
Democrats  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia,  Mark Pryor  of Arkansas,
 Amy Klobuchar  of Minnesota, Joe Donnelly of Indiana, King of
Maine, and Heitkamp of North Dakota.  Second Presentation  It was only after Collins’s second presentation to her
Republican conference, and after Murkowski and Ayotte had come
on board, that McConnell indicated he was optimistic that her
efforts could help in resolving the standoff between Democrats
and Republicans.  “There was a real collaboration among many of the women of
the Senate to trying to bring this impasse to an end,” Collins
said. “I think it made a difference.”  Democrats initially rejected her plan because it would have
locked in spending at $967 billion, the level set by automatic
budget cuts for discretionary domestic and defense programs,
over the opposition of Obama and many lawmakers from both
parties.  The Budget Control Act of 2011 established that limit for
federal spending in fiscal 2014, $21 billion less than the
fiscal 2013 level. If Congress doesn’t pass legislation to
reduce spending or alter the cap before January, a second round
of automatic discretionary spending cuts goes into effect.  Even though discussions are now in the hands of the
leadership, Collins says her efforts helped provide the
“elements” of a deal. “The leaders are going to take it from
here,” she said.  Yesterday, after meeting with McConnell in his office,
Republican lawmakers gave a nod to Collins.  “I think we’re all working around the same framework,”
said Nebraska Senator Mike Johanns. “I thank Susan for your
efforts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  