-- Congress’s Absurd Debate Over Its Obamacare ‘Exemption’
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-15T21:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/congress-s-absurd-debate-over-its-obamacare-exemption-.html
House Republicans are having trouble
deciding whether it’s a good idea to sacrifice their staffs’
health-care benefits at the altar of opposing Obamacare. In
their defense, deciding between whether to abandon a baldly
political argument or alienate your own employees is no easy
choice.  For months, Republicans have argued that the  Barack Obama 
administration exempted members of Congress and their staffs
from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, allowing
their insurance premiums to continue being paid by the
government. A House proposal this morning would have allowed
those employer contributions for staff but not for members of
Congress or the president.  Some Republicans  objected  to the compromise, leading the
House leadership to propose a  new bill  that once again strips
staff of their health benefits. This afternoon, that bill
appeared headed for a vote. This evening, that vote was
canceled.  To see the problem, it’s necessary to first understand the
utter fallacy of the Republicans’ basic complaint. Obamacare
created state health-insurance exchanges expressly for people
who don’t get coverage through their employers. At the
insistence of Republican Senator Charles Grassley,  it made one
exception  when the law was written: Members of Congress and
their staffs would also have to use the exchanges. (The idea
seems to have been to embarrass Democrats by forcing them to
object to the idea. Instead, they embraced it.)  That created a wrinkle: The law did not say whether the
government, which pays the premiums for congressional staff,
could keep paying them for exchange-based coverage.  So when the Office of Personnel Management, which handles
employee benefits for Congress, ruled that the government could
continue paying the premiums for members and staff, it wasn’t
creating an exemption; it was trying to make sense of one that
Republicans had already made.  Yet for Republicans, the idea that Congress would get
special treatment, whatever the reason, was grounds for a new
attack on Obamacare. The personnel ruling became,  in the words 
of Republican Senator David Vitter of Louisiana, “a special
subsidy to purchase health insurance on the Obamacare Exchange
unavailable to every other American.”  Of course it was unavailable to every other American: No
other American with employer-based coverage is required to use
an exchange. In a world of partly false and half-false attacks
on Obamacare, the congressional “exemption” is a purebred.  It also carries a price. By opposing the nonexistent
exemption, House Republicans are opposing a basic health-insurance benefit for their own employees.  There may be merit in leading members of Congress and the
administration onto the health-insurance exchanges, to give them
a close look at how well or how poorly the system works and what
might be done to improve it. But there’s no wisdom in stripping
them or staff members of their existing benefits -- especially
if the purpose is simply to nurture a fabricated complaint about
the law.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 