-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Packaging Corp. Issues Senior Notes
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-15T21:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-as-packaging-corp-plans-bond-offering.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose for the first time in a week as Senate leaders’ debt
ceiling talks stalled.  Packaging Corp. of America  issued $700
million in senior notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.5 basis point to 77.3 basis points at 4:10 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ’s discussions on an agreement are on hold, while  House
Republicans  plan to vote as soon as tonight on a debt-limit
increase, two days before the U.S. exhausts its borrowing
authority. Both plans would fund the government through Jan. 15
and suspend the debt limit until Feb. 7. President  Barack Obama 
said yesterday the U.S. faces “a good chance of defaulting,” a
development that would have a “devastating effect” on the
economy.  “Most investors are trying to sit on their hands and not
do anything,” Robert Grimm, head of corporate trading at Odeon
Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“This is taking a lot longer and looking a lot sloppier than
anybody ever expected.”  The swaps index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Borrowing Authority  The Treasury expects to exhaust its borrowing authority no
later than Oct. 17, leaving the federal government with no more
than $30 billion on hand. The Bipartisan Policy Center, a
Washington-based nonprofit research group, estimates that the
Treasury will actually be unable to pay all the government’s
bills on time at some point between Oct. 22 and Nov. 1.  Packaging Corp sold 4.5 percent, 10-year notes that yield
180 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to finance the
company’s $1.27 billion purchase of  Boise Inc. (BZ)  and to repay
debt, according to a  filing  today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The bonds are rated Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , Bloomberg data show. Bank of America
Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG managed the deal, the  Lake Forest ,
Illinois-based company said in the filing.  The Markit CDX North American High Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade bonds, rose 0.5 basis
points to 369.8 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 0.8 basis point to 130.4
basis points, according to Bloomberg data. The measure for
speculative-grade, or junk-rated debt, fell 1.2 basis points to
658.5.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  