-- Crude Drops to Three-Month Low on Budget Impasse
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-15T20:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/crude-drops-as-world-powers-start-iran-nuclear-talks.html
West Texas Intermediate dropped to a
three-month low as Senate leaders put on hold bipartisan talks
to end the budget impasse.  Prices slid 1.2 percent. Senate leaders are waiting to see
what the  House of Representatives  does with a competing plan
aimed at ending a 15-day-old government shutdown and preventing
a default, Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , said. Crude futures also fell as world powers
held talks with Iran on its nuclear program.  “The market continues to price in the uncertainty about
what’s happening in D.C.,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Fiscal
talks in Washington continue to weigh on prices. The talks with
Iran might be cutting some geopolitical risk.”  WTI for November delivery slid $1.20 to $101.21 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
July 2. Trading volume was 3.2 percent below the 100-day average
at 4:09 p.m.  Brent for November settlement, which expires tomorrow, fell
$1.08, or 1 percent, to $109.96 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The more-active December contract lost
82 cents to $109.42. Trading volume was 8.2 percent below the
100-day average. The front-month European benchmark was at a
premium of $8.75 to WTI after narrowing for the first time in
six sessions yesterday to $8.63.  Budget Talks  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky had been closing in on an agreement.
 Senate Democrats  leaving a party meeting today blamed House
Speaker  John Boehner  for undercutting the talks between Reid and
McConnell. Boehner’s plan, which he is still developing,
contains policy conditions Democrats have rejected.  U.S. borrowing authority is set to lapse on Oct. 17.  “There’s a growing realization that government gridlock
could cause some serious economic damage,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts.  The House and Senate plans would both fund the government
through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspend the U.S. debt limit until
Feb. 7. A House vote as soon as tonight would test whether
Republicans are willing to raise the borrowing authority and end
the shutdown without major changes to a 2010 health-care law.  Iran Negotiations  Prices also fell as Iranian proposals to end a decadelong
standoff as two days of negotiations with the U.S., U.K.,
France, Germany, Russia and China started in Geneva.  Iran  is
demanding a relaxation of the sanctions against its oil exports.  “If Iran were to have its sanctions lifted, it would
certainly cause prices to deteriorate by $10 on that alone,”
said Tom Finlon, director of Energy Analytics Group LLC based in
Jupiter, Florida.  Iran has offered tighter monitoring of its nuclear program
within a six-month period to verify it’s not pursuing atomic
weapons. The talks with the other countries, collectively
nicknamed the P5+1, ended at 5 p.m. Geneva time and will resume
tomorrow.  The negotiations are the first since an April round that
stalled. They follow a telephone conversation last month between
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, who took office in August, and
President  Barack Obama  -- the highest-level contact between the
two countries’ leaders since the 1979  Islamic Revolution .  Brent may slip below $100 a barrel for the first time since
June should discussions on Iran’s nuclear program lead to the
easing of sanctions, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
possibility for a revival of Iranian oil exports coincides with
 Saudi Arabia  producing at the fastest pace in three decades and
the U.S. pumping the most crude since 1989.  Grangemouth Refinery  Ineos Group Holdings SA said it’s shutting down the
210,000-barrel-a-day Grangemouth refinery in Scotland before a
labor strike that could halt flows from the Forties Pipeline
System, used to ship 45 percent of the U.K.’s North Sea  oil
output .  Grangemouth supplies power and steam to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
neighboring Kinneil processing plant, which handles oil from the
Forties Pipeline System. The FPS network is scheduled to load
387,000 barrels a day of crude in October, according to a
shipping program obtained by Bloomberg. Crude is gathered from
more than 80 fields, BP data show.  Forties is the most abundant and typically the cheapest of
the four North Sea crudes used to set the Dated Brent benchmark.
The other grades are Brent, Oseberg and Ekofisk.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 22.1 percent, up from 21.1 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 539,822
contracts as of 4:10 p.m. It totaled 440,033 yesterday, 24
percent lower than the three-month average. Open interest was
1.84 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  