-- Danske Bank Spate of Management Firings Wins Over Investors
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-10-15T06:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/danske-bank-spate-of-management-firings-wins-over-investors.html
Dismissals at the top of Danske Bank
A/S’s management are winning praise from investors looking for
signs that the change will help  Denmark ’s largest bank raise
profits and deliver bigger returns.  Danske said yesterday it sacked Steen Blaafalk, ending a
career that spanned three decades at the bank, as Thomas F. Borgen works to put in place a new strategy one month after
being named chief executive officer. The move follows Chairman
Ole Andersen’s decision in September to remove Eivind Kolding as
CEO, arguing he lacked the banking expertise needed for the job.  “Danske is the only Nordic financial share where it’s
still possible to pick the low-hanging fruits and make
improvements that don’t show in the share price yet,” Ole Soeberg, a portfolio manager at Skagen A/S in Stavanger,  Norway ,
said yesterday in a phone interview. “The advantage of this
management reshuffle is that it provides Borgen the opportunity
to set his own team.” Skagen holds 2 million shares in the
bank, having doubled its stake over the past year.  Danske has lagged behind its Swedish competitors in
delivering shareholder returns. The bank’s stock gained 23
percent in the past five years, compared with a 43 percent
increase at Stockholm-based  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Danske hasn’t paid its shareholders a
dividend in the period and delivered a return on equity in the
first six months of 2013 that was about half a 12 percent target
the bank has said it’s working toward.  ‘Not Satisfactory’  That performance “has not been satisfactory,” Borgen said
in an interview earlier this month. Danske will improve investor
returns by winning back clients alienated by a new pricing
strategy and branch closures that Borgen said moved too fast.  Since firing Kolding on Sept. 16, Danske shares have risen
4.4 percent, bringing this year’s increase to 27 percent. That
compares with a 15 percent gain in Denmark’s benchmark index of
its 20 most-traded stocks over the period.  Blaafalk’s departure marks the sixth member of Danske’s top
management to leave since the beginning of last year. The head
of Danske Markets, Henrik Normann, left in January 2012. He
became CEO of Nordic Investment Bank three months later. In May
of that year, Danske’s Chief Operating Officer Georg Schubiger
left for a management post at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich, while
a month later Danske’s Head of Group Credit Per Skovhus quit. He
later took a job at Jyske Bank A/S. In March, Danske fired its
Head of Corporate Finance Anders Boending.  ‘A Panic’  “The executive senior management change, when the board
replaced Kolding with Borgen, was interpreted by the market as
timely and decisive action,” Jyske Bank analyst Christian Hede
said by phone. “But if they do it again too soon, it’ll be seen
as a panic. It’s all about timing.”  Danske’s management upheaval follows a series of setbacks
starting with the lender’s expansion into Ireland at the height
of the nation’s property bubble in 2005. The bank’s
international ambitions, under then CEO  Peter Straarup , put the
entire Danish economy at risk, according to a report last month
by a government-appointed committee investigating the causes of
Denmark’s financial crisis.  Under Kolding, who was fired after only 19 months on the
job, Danske lost customers after introducing a strategy that
rewarded clients with the most business there. The plan, and an
advertising campaign to promote it, was slammed by local media
and Danske in June fired its head of communications, Eva Hald.  The list of misfortunes that have befallen the bank in
recent years has left Danske cheaper than most of its Nordic
competitors, according to Soeberg at Skagen. With the new
management falling into place, it’s now only a question of time
before the bank’s potential is realized, he said.  “It should be more popular if it was judged on its
earnings potential,” Soeberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at
   fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  