-- Spain, England Advance to Soccer World Cup as Turkey Misses Out
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-15T23:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/defending-champion-spain-england-qualify-for-2014-world-cup.html
World champion Spain and England
were among four European teams to reach next year’s  soccer World
Cup  by topping their qualifying groups, as Turkey was eliminated
and former winner France dropped into the playoffs.  Alvaro Negredo and  Juan Mata  scored as Spain beat Georgia
2-0 in Albacete last night to seal a berth at the 32-team
tournament in Brazil.  Wayne Rooney  and  Steven Gerrard  got
England’s goals in a 2-0 defeat of Poland in London.  “We have shown we are a good team and have got some
fantastic young players,” Rooney said in a televised interview.
“There is a good blend. We are excited and this is a good time
to play for England.”  Bosnia-Herzegovina advanced to soccer’s global championship
for the first time by beating  Lithuania  1-0 to top a group
including 2004 European champion Greece. Russia’s 1-1 draw at
 Azerbaijan  secured a direct berth ahead of Portugal.  Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland
were already ensured of a spot before last night’s final round
of group qualifying matches in Europe.  The Spanish, who won their first  World Cup  in 2010, had
needed a draw to finish ahead of France and take one of the
continent’s nine group winners’ berths. Negredo and Mata scored
from close range in each half.  At Wembley Stadium, Rooney scored in the 41st minute for
England, heading in Leighton Baines’s cross. Gerrard added
another with two minutes left, bustling through the Polish
defense before toe-poking the ball into the net.  England finished atop Group H one point ahead of Ukraine,
which beat  San Marino  8-0.  Turkey Misses Out  Turkey lost 2-0 at home to the Netherlands in Group D to
miss out on a third straight World Cup after finishing third at
the 2002 edition. Romania beat the Turks to a playoff place by
defeating Estonia 2-0.  Denmark finished with a 6-0 win against Malta, though
didn’t make the playoffs because it had the worst record of the
nine second-place finishers by tallying 16 points in Group B.  France , the 1998 champion, is among the eight runners-up
who must enter a two-match playoff on Nov. 15 and 19 for the
remaining four slots from Europe. The French finished the group
stage by beating Finland 3-0.  Russia allowed a last-minute goal to tie with Azerbaijan in
Baku, though topped Group F by a point ahead of Portugal, which
beat Luxembourg 3-0.  Russia’s Roman Shirokov scored after 15 minutes, and Vagif
Javadov leveled for 10-man Azerbaijan in the last minute. Russia
last played at the World Cup in 2002.  Bosnia-Herzegovina striker Vedad Ibisevic scored with 22
minutes left in Lithuania to send his team to its first World
Cup ahead of Greece in on goal difference. Both teams finished
with 25 points in Group G after Greece beat Liechtenstein 2-0.  The playoffs draw is Oct. 21, when Portugal, Greece,
Croatia, Ukraine, France, Sweden, Romania and Iceland will be
seeded in to two pots. The seedings will be based on the FIFA
rankings published tomorrow.  In yesterday’s only qualifier in Africa,  Ghana  routed  Egypt 
6-1 at home. The second game of their two-match playoff is Nov.
19 in Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  