-- Detroit Judge Questions Bankruptcy Critics’ Pension Claim
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-15T20:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/detroit-judge-questions-bankruptcy-critics-pension-claim.html
A federal judge questioned whether
pension rights for Detroit’s municipal workers can be guaranteed
by  Michigan ’s constitution, as claimed by current and retired
employees seeking to have the city’s $18 billion bankruptcy case
thrown out.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes pressed lawyers today
to explain why Michigan municipal pensions can never be impaired
and whether that position means the state must guarantee
payment. Rhodes challenged unions and a city pension system
about their claims that the state constitution bars any local
government from a bankruptcy that would cut retiree payments.  “Is there any other constitutional right, state or federal
that is that absolute?” Rhodes asked an attorney for a worker
pension system that opposes the bankruptcy. “Even freedom of
the press isn’t that absolute, is it?”  Union lawyers and a committee representing retired workers
were in court in  Detroit  to ask Rhodes to reject the Chapter 9
filing.  In court papers, they have said that the city presented
creditors with a “take it or leave it” plan to adjust its debt
and that the  bankruptcy code  violates the U.S. Constitution by
usurping rights that belong to the states.  Detroit’s bankruptcy will have “implications for blighted
cities throughout the  United States ,” Sharon Levine, an
attorney for the union, said at the start of today’s hearing.  Retirees and current workers cite a line in Michigan’s
constitution that protects pensions as a contractual right.  “What do I do if bondholders come back and say the
constitution protects them,” Rhodes asked Claude Montgomery, an
attorney for a committee of retirees.  ‘Absolute’ Protection  Montgomery responded that the pension protection is
different from any for bondholders. Later in the hearing,  Robert
Gordon , an attorney for the pension system, said the Michigan
constitutional protection for pensions is “absolute.”  “How can the state promise that when under the federal
constitution the state can’t print money?” the judge asked.
“Suppose we don’t have money, then what? It is an important
issue. If you demonstrate there is a constitutional right there,
what’s it worth if the entity that has the obligation doesn’t
have the means.”  Union lawyers also invoked the Michigan Constitution to
attack the decision by the state-appointed emergency manager,
Kevyn Orr, to file the bankruptcy in July. Because Orr has said
he may try to reduce pensions, the filing violates Michigan’s
constitution, they argued.  Detroit filed the biggest bid for court protection by a
U.S. city amid negotiations between the emergency manager,
bondholders, public workers and retirees.  City’s Decline  Orr said six decades of economic decline had left Detroit
unable to fully pay creditors, including retired city workers,
and to provide necessary services.  The U.S.  Justice Department  last week filed a brief
defending Chapter 9, arguing that decades of legal decisions
show the law is constitutional.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. bankruptcy court in Detroit
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  