-- Diageo Expects African Demand for Consumer Goods to Outpace Asia
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-10-15T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/diageo-expects-african-demand-for-consumer-goods-to-outpace-asia.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, said  Africa  will have faster growth in demand for
 consumer goods  than  Asia  as rising purchasing power fuels the
growth of cities and sales of more expensive drinks.  “Most economists would say that now is Africa’s time,”
Andy Fennell, Diageo’s chief operating officer for that
continent, told journalists yesterday ahead of an investor
meeting today in London. “Growth won’t come without its bumps
in the road,” but “it’s a particularly exciting place to be.”  Six of the 10 fastest-growing economies globally are in
Africa, according to Nick Blazquez, president of Diageo’s
business for Africa, Eastern Europe and  Turkey . Brewers and
distillers are seeking to benefit from economic growth in
 emerging markets  as western Europe stagnates and competition
ramps up in the U.S.  Diageo is the largest distiller in Africa, ahead of Paris-based Pernod Ricard SA, with revenue from the region of about
1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) last fiscal year.  The maker of spirits including Smirnoff vodka and Johnnie
Walker whisky, as well as Guinness and Tusker beer, said that it
has an advantage in Africa as it distributes beer and spirits
together to retailers in many countries, while distribution of
the two is usually separate. Spirits sales are growing faster
than beer, the company said.  New Guinness  Diageo will reissue its Guinness stout brand with new
packaging and a marketing campaign across Africa. The Irish
brand was first imported to  Sierra Leone  in 1862, and the new
bottle will “improve and enhance the brand in an incremental
way.” The company declined to comment on the cost of the rejig
or growth prospects, saying only it was a “significant
investment.” The brand’s biggest market globally is  Nigeria .  The “rate of change” across Africa is faster than in
Asia, Blazquez said. However, bad infrastructure and political
tension does mean it’s a “glass half-empty and half-full”
situation.  Diageo’s spirits growth is aided by demand for Johnnie
Walker Scotch whisky, he said, and the company commands 70
percent of Scotch sales in Africa. Net sales have risen at a 13
percent compound annual growth rate and are set to accelerate,
the company said, aided by increasing numbers of young consumers
with greater amounts of disposable income and urbanization. That
typically leads to consumers switching away from illicit alcohol
and opting for spirits over beer.  Some consumers goods companies have said that growth in
emerging markets is slowing. Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer products maker, said Sept. 30 emerging market
growth slackened in its third fiscal quarter, sending the shares
down the most in almost two years. Despite more difficult
operating conditions in some countries, including regulation in
some markets that’s “less predictable than I’d like,” Blazquez
still anticipates “superior growth” than in other parts of the
world.  “The much-trailed African growth story is being recognized
now,” Blazquez said. “However, I think it will be inevitably
bumpy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  