-- Dijsselbloem Sees Euro-Area Bank Resolution Rules Ready in 2013
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-10-15T12:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/dijsselbloem-sees-euro-area-bank-resolution-rules-ready-in-2013.html
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, comments on the banking union, national backstops for
bank asset quality reviews and stress tests, the Single
Resolution Mechanism and the possibility to recapitalize
troubled lenders directly from the European Stability Mechanism.  He made the remarks to reporters in advance of the meeting
of European Union finance ministers in  Luxembourg  today.  On timing of the bank wind-down mechanism:  “I expect a Single Resolution Mechanism to be in place
before the end of the year. I think it should.”  “As far as the Dutch government is concerned, a treaty
change will not be necessary. We will see whether we can
convince the others there are alternative rules within the
present treaty.”  On direct recapitalization of banks from the ESM:  “We reached an agreement on the main features on direct
recap in June. Part of those main features, as part of SSM
regulation,” is that “in special circumstances the ECB can
start it’s supervisory work earlier on a particular institution.
In that case direct recap could be possible. It’s under the
strictest conditions and we are talking about exceptional
circumstances. But strictly speaking on what we agreed in June,
there is that opening.”  “We will come back on details of direct recap after the
BRRD has been finalized in the parliament. This is what we
agreed in June.”  “Countries may interpret differently, this is what we
agreed.”  Public funds to backstop EU bank stress tests:  “National governments all need to have laws ready to apply
minimal state aid rules. In many countries this is not the case.
In the Netherlands, we have the intervention law but a lot of
countries don’t have it.”  “Slovenia will do it more rapidly. They will have to work
on their banks.”  “The sequence is first to find a private solution. When
that is not sufficient, and a country decides to use public
means, a minimal bail-in is required. For that purpose national
laws must be brought in order. This is maybe even the most
urgent issue at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Luxembourg at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  