-- Dim Sum Sales Rebound Tipped as Yuan Strengthens: China Credit
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-10-15T02:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/dim-sum-sales-rebound-tipped-as-yuan-strengthens-china-credit.html
Sales of Dim Sum bonds are set to
rebound from a record low as  China’s economy  shows signs of
improvement and expectations build for yuan gains, according to
Fitch Ratings Ltd. and DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  Yuan-denominated bonds sold outside of mainland  China  have
gained for seven consecutive weeks, a  Bank of China  index shows,
a sign demand for the securities is strengthening. The  average
yield  on Dim Sum notes fell to 4.43 percent on Oct. 11, the
least since May, and yuan  forward  contracts suggest traders are
the most bullish on the currency in more than a year.  Investor optimism about Dim Sum bond sale prospects remains
buoyant, Fitch Ratings Ltd. said in an Oct. 9 report, even after
issuance plunged to 3.7 billion  yuan  ($606 million) last
quarter, the worst such period on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. More than three quarters of investors in
Fitch’s survey expect both the on- and offshore bond markets to
increase by 25 percent to 50 percent in the coming 12 months,
driven by the yuan’s appreciation potential and tighter onshore
financial conditions.  “The Dim Sum market can grow at least 20 percent next
year,” said Clifford Lee, the head of fixed-income at DBS,
Southeast  Asia ’s largest bank. “We’ll see a more mature pace of
growth in 2014, underpinned by China’s economic expansion and
greater  price stability .”  Appreciation Prospects  Dim Sum borrowing costs have dropped  nine basis points  this
quarter, versus an 11 basis-point increase in the same period of
last quarter,  Bank of China  indexes show. Yields have ranged
from 3.84 percent to 6.00 percent over the past year.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards for the yuan have
strengthened 2.2 percent since the end of June to 6.1515 per
dollar yesterday in  Hong Kong , outpacing the currency’s 0.5
percent advance to 6.1079 in  Shanghai . The contracts, which are
traded offshore and reflect both appreciation prospects and
 interest rates , were at a 0.7 percent discount to the onshore
spot rate, the smallest gap since July 2012.  The spot rate rose as much as 0.03 percent today to a 20-year high of 6.1063 per dollar in Shanghai. The nation’s
foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest, rose to a record
$3.66 trillion as of Sept. 30 from $3.5 trillion at the end of
June, according to central bank data released yesterday.  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang , speaking last week at an
Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit in  Brunei , said
the nation’s economic growth probably exceeded 7.5 percent in
the first nine months of the year, a sign the government may
this week report success in arresting a two-quarter slowdown.  ‘Less Correlated’  The National Bureau of Statistics reports July-September
growth on Oct. 18, with the  median estimate  of 33 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicting a 7.8 percent expansion,
up from the second quarter’s 7.5 percent.  Corporate Dim Sum notes have gained 0.31 percent this
month, compared with a 0.09 percent decline for company debt
denominated in Singapore dollars and a 0.06 percent increase for
Hong Kong dollar-denominated company bonds, HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes show.  “Dim Sum bond returns have outperformed others in Asia
because they’re less correlated to U.S. rates,” said Crystal Zhao, a Hong Kong-based fixed-income analyst at HSBC. The yuan
has stayed resilient even as most other emerging-market
currencies weakened after the  Federal Reserve  said it may dial
back its bond-buying program, she said.  ‘Hot Money’  The yuan has gained 2 percent against the dollar this year,
the most among 11 major Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Known officially as the  renminbi , it strengthened to the 20-year
high after the central bank yesterday raised the currency’s
reference rate to a record and as consumer prices advanced the
most in seven months. It’s poised to end the year at 6.1 per
dollar, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of analysts.  Some 55 percent of the 72 investors interviewed by Fitch in
its survey listed yuan appreciation as a key driver of interest
in China’s local-currency bond markets -- a stronger level of
currency confidence than for all other regional bond markets.
The full survey results will be published later this month.  Former People’s Bank of China academic adviser  Li Daokui 
said in an interview last week that President  Barack Obama ’s
nomination of  Janet Yellen  as the next Fed chief means there
will be a “prolonged period of appreciation” for the yuan as
additional “hot money” flows into China. Yellen is deemed to
be more in favor of maintaining stimulus, known as quantitative
easing, that has driven capital to developing markets.  Primary Pipeline  Currency appreciation alone isn’t a strong enough reason
for growth in the Dim Sum bond market, according to Frank Huang,
Hong Kong-based head of trading at SinoPac Securities Asia Ltd.  “Since we’ve started this quarter, I don’t see any deals
in the pipeline and secondary market trading has also fallen
away,” Huang said. “With China’s growth rate slowing, yuan
gains probably won’t be as much as they were previously.”  China’s  exports  unexpectedly fell in September, signaling
the constraints of global demand on the nation’s goal to expand
7.5 percent this year. Overseas shipments dropped 0.3 percent
from a year earlier, customs data showed on Oct. 12. New yuan
loans topped estimates yesterday in central bank data while the
broadest measure of credit fell from August, as authorities try
to support expansion without boosting shadow finance.  BP, Caterpillar  Credit-default swaps insuring China’s debt against non-payment were 79.9 basis points as of Oct. 14, down from a high
this year of 147 basis points in June, CMA prices show. The
 yield  on China’s 10-year government bonds rose four basis points
to 4.07 percent, according to Chinabond data.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, sold 1.2
billion yuan of five-year securities at 3.95 percent on Oct. 2,
the last sale from a multinational company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The notes received more than 6.3 billion
yuan of orders from 130 accounts, a person familiar with the
matter said on Oct. 3.  Total SA, the Paris-based energy company, mining and
construction machinery maker Caterpillar Inc. and SK Global
Chemical Co., the petrochemical unit of  South Korea ’s SK
Innovation Co. helped push sales to 2.3 billion yuan last month
in what was the busiest such period for issuance from companies
outside of China since June, the data show.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (Asia) Ltd. was the
last company to offer Dim Sum bonds, borrowing 300 million yuan
via 3.04 percent 2014 notes earlier this month.  China’s Ministry of Finance said it will sell 10 billion
yuan of bonds “soon” in Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Economic
Journal reported on Sept. 21, citing Au King-Chi, permanent
secretary for financial services and the treasury.  “The biggest encouragement for Dim Sum bonds would be if
the Chinese state-owned enterprises and policy banks sell some
bonds in the following months,” said HSBC’s Zhao. “Yuan
appreciation is definitely one of the biggest supporting factors
of the Dim Sum market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  