-- Dodgers’ TV Network Will Be Approved, Baseball COO Manfred Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   P e t e r   S c h w a r t z
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/dodgers-tv-network-will-be-approved-baseball-coo-manfred-says.html
Major League Baseball is close to
approving the Los Angeles Dodgers’ planned regional sports
network in time for next season, preserving a major part of the
record purchase of the club.  “That process is at a point where it’s pretty clear there
will be approval of the Dodgers’ arrangement well before the
2014 season starts,” baseball’s Chief Operating Officer Rob Manfred said during an interview at the league’s New York
headquarters.  Manfred wouldn’t give details on what remained to be
cleared by MLB before the network could begin operation.  The Dodgers and  Time Warner (TWC)  Cable Inc. said in January that
they would create SportsNet LA to televise the team’s games.  The Guggenheim Partners-owned Dodgers will retain full
ownership of the network through a subsidiary, American Media
Productions. Guggenheim bought the Dodgers at auction from Frank McCourt for a record $2.15 billion.  Time Warner Cable Inc. has a 25-year agreement that allows
the company to keep any profit made above undisclosed guaranteed
payments to Guggenheim after network costs and revenue-sharing
obligations to MLB.  The New York Post, citing people it didn’t identify, said
in March that Guggenheim could lose as much as $1 billion to
baseball’s revenue-sharing plan because of the way the deal was
structured.  The first payment from Time Warner is scheduled for
January. Payments would continue until 2038, stopping only in
the event of a baseball labor dispute, according to the terms of
the agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Schwartz in New York at 
 pschwartz21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  