-- Dodgers End Drought to Beat Cards 3-0 in NL Championship Series
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-15T04:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/dodgers-end-drought-to-beat-cards-3-0-in-nl-championship-series.html
The Dodgers finally scored a run and
Hyun-Jin Ryu held the Cardinals scoreless for seven innings as
 Los Angeles  won 3-0 to pull within two games to one of  St. Louis 
in the National League Championship Series.  The Dodgers, playing at home for the first time in the
best-of-seven Major League Baseball playoff series, broke out of
a 22-inning scoreless streak that included a 1-0 defeat two days
earlier in St. Louis. Los Angeles also didn’t score in the final
10 innings of a 13-inning loss in the series opener.  Game 4 is set for tonight at Dodger Stadium, with the
following game also in Los Angeles. If necessary, the series
then would return to St. Louis.  “All I was thinking about was the fact that we were down
2-0, and I told myself this could potentially be the last start
I pitched here this year,” Ryu, who allowed three hits, told
reporters through an interpreter.  In the American League Championship Series,  Detroit  hosts
the next three games with its best-of-seven matchup tied 1-1
against the  Boston Red Sox . Game 3 is this afternoon at Comerica
Park.  The Dodgers broke a scoreless tie with two runs in the
fourth inning on doubles by Mark Ellis and  Adrian Gonzalez , and
a triple by Yasiel Puig, who had gone hitless in 11 previous at-bats in the series and had struck out five straight times. Adam
Wainwright allowed two runs over seven innings to suffer his
first loss in seven postseason starts.  The runs ended that 22-inning scoreless streak for the
Dodgers, who had been shut out by Cardinals pitchers since the
third inning of the series’ opening game three days earlier.  Los Angeles extended its lead in the eighth inning on a
run-scoring bloop single by Hanley Ramirez.  The Cardinals only had one runner reach second base last
night and are hitting .134 (13-for-97) in the NLCS.  “We got the first win, we come back tomorrow and even up
the series,” Ramirez said in a televised interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  