-- Dudley Says Central Banks Should Use All ‘Policy Tools’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-15T15:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/dudley-says-central-banks-must-use-all-available-policy-tools-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said central banks can fend off
political interference by using unconventional policies to spur
economic growth.  “The best way for central banks to maintain their
independence is to use all their available  monetary policy tools 
to best achieve their objectives,” Dudley said in a speech
today in Mexico City. “I do not see the use of these tools as
creating significant new risks to our independence.”  Dudley defended unconventional policies at the core of Fed
efforts to fuel the expansion and combat unemployment, which
rose to 10 percent in 2009 and now persists at 7.3 percent.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has held the Fed’s target interest rate
near zero since December 2008 and pushed the central bank’s
balance sheet to a record $3.76 trillion through three rounds of
asset purchases, known as QE for quantitative easing.  “We’re missing by much more on the employment side of the
mandate than the inflation side of the mandate,” Dudley said in
response to an audience question, referring to the Fed’s goals
of ensuring full employment and 2 percent long-run inflation.  The New York Fed chief, who is a permanent voter on
monetary policy and serves as vice chairman of the  Federal Open
Market Committee , said fiscal mismanagement poses a greater risk
to central bank independence. He spoke at a Banco de Mexico
conference celebrating the Mexican central bank’s 20th year of
independence.  Fed Objectives  “A far more important threat to central bank independence
than the use of unconventional monetary policy is whether the
fiscal authorities act in a manner consistent with the central
bank’s objectives,” he said. “As recent history has shown,
central banks may not be able to achieve their objectives when
an inconsistent fiscal regime is in place.”  U.S. Senate leaders are poised to reach an agreement as
early as today to bring a halt to a fiscal standoff, and must
race the clock to sell the plan to lawmakers before U.S.
borrowing authority runs out this week.  The emerging deal would stave off a potential default, end
the 15-day-old government shutdown and change the immediate
deadlines in favor of three new ones over the next four months.
It’s far from complete as the Senate may delay passing the plan
and  House Republicans  may seek to block or change it.  Dudley’s remarks differ from those of policy makers such as
Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  who have warned that
unorthodox policies expose the Fed to more political risk.  Fund Operations  The policy makers’ debate focuses on the Fed’s enlarged
holdings of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, acquired
during QE. The central bank uses the earnings on its bond
portfolio to fund its operation.  With budgetary independence, the Fed doesn’t depend on
appropriations from Congress, reducing political leverage over
Fed policy. After funding its operations, the Fed remits its
profits to the  U.S. Treasury .  The central bank’s bond buying program does “create some
budget risk for the Federal Reserve,” Dudley said.  The value of a bond drops when  interest rates  rise, and so
the central bank’s portfolio could suffer unprecedented losses
when Fed officials begin to tighten policy.  Richmond’s Lacker has said Fed purchases of mortgage bonds,
which are aimed at boosting the housing market, make the central
bank vulnerable to political meddling.  ‘Special Pleading’  “When a central bank uses its independent balance sheet to
choose among private sector assets, it invites special pleading
from interest groups and risks entanglement in distributional
politics,” Lacker said last month. “Of the risks associated
with unconventional monetary policies, those associated with
 central bank holdings  of unconventional asset classes may be the
most consequential.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,708.11 at 11:40 a.m. in New York, while the yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note increased 0.03 percentage point
to 2.72 percent.  Dudley said that “the current size of the balance sheet
would also discourage a premature interest-rate hike.”  “In the absence of solid improvements in labor market
activity, a sharp increase in short-term rates would
unnecessarily reduce the  Federal Reserve  net interest income
without any benefits in terms of achieving” the Fed’s goals for
maximum employment and 2 percent inflation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  