-- ECB Oversight, FDIC Bank-Failure Path, Norway: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-15T12:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ecb-oversight-fdic-bank-failure-path-norway-compliance.html
The U.K. reached a draft deal with
its European Union partners to lift its objections to turning
the European Central Bank into a supervisor, according to two EU
officials, in a move that paves the way for the end of over a
year of negotiations on the proposals.  Ambassadors for the EU’s 28 nations agreed yesterday to put
final adoption of the law on the agenda of today’s meeting of
finance ministers in  Luxembourg , according to the officials, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the decision isn’t
public. Once that takes place, the legislation can be published
by the EU, beginning a 12-month countdown for the ECB to fully
take on its new role.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen
said he’s “very, very confident” that EU finance ministers
will sign off on the bill today.  Britain blocked approval of the law last month on concerns
that safeguards to prevent the U.K. from being marginalized in
meetings of the European Banking Authority could be unwound. The
U.K. lifted its reservations yesterday after receiving support
for a declaration stating that voting rules agreed on for the
EBA will be respected, a U.K. official confirmed.  EU leaders said last year that the ECB should be given
oversight powers over euro-area lenders as a first step in
building a banking union that would break the links between
banks and sovereigns, and so boost confidence in the bloc’s
financial system.  Compliance Policy  FDIC Says China Among Countries Near Deals on Bank-Failure Path  China , Switzerland, Germany and  Japan  are among nations
close to reaching arrangements with U.S. regulators to ease the
dismantling of failed banks, said Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg.  U.S. regulators are working with German and Swiss
counterparts on joint white papers similar to agreements already
in place with the U.K. for how banks governed by multiple
jurisdictions could be unwound by their host nations, Gruenberg
said in remarks prepared for a speech Oct. 13 in  Washington . The
FDIC will secure memorandums of understanding on bank
resolutions with China and Japan soon, he said.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act empowered the FDIC to seize a firm
and dismantle it if regulators think a bankruptcy would pose a
significant threat to the financial system. This resolution
authority hasn’t been tested, and Gruenberg said his agency will
disclose a full description of its approach by year-end --
opening the idea to public comment.  Germany and Switzerland share the U.S. preference for a so-called single point of entry, in which the host nation takes
over a failed bank’s holding company, imposes losses on
shareholders and lets healthy subsidiaries stay open. The
approach depends on long-term debt held in the parent to absorb
losses and capitalize a healthy bridge company, Gruenberg said.
The agency is consulting with the Federal Reserve on a future
rule to set a minimum.  U.S. regulators will run simulation exercises with U.K.
counterparts this year and in 2014, Gruenberg said.  Art Murton, the FDIC official in charge of planning for
resolutions, and Bank of England Deputy Governor Paul Tucker
said on Oct. 12 that the U.S. system is ready to handle a big-bank collapse.  Norway Tightens Bank Rules Measuring Losses in Event of Default  Norway  will tell its banks to base their capital ratios on
bigger loss assumptions in the event of a default.  The Finance Ministry in Oslo said Oct. 13 banks in
Scandinavia’s richest economy per capita will need to raise
their loss-given-default floor on mortgage assets to 20 percent
from 10 percent, according to a statement on its website. The
rules will become effective from January and banks will also
need to ensure their subsidiaries follow the new requirement,
the ministry said.  The outgoing government of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg
is tightening bank standards as it hands over power to a
Conservative-led coalition that has discussed easing lending
caps. Norway’s financial regulator has argued in favor of
stricter rules amid concern the nation’s housing market is
overheating.  The Financial Supervisory Authority is also working on
going through the banks’ models, in part with a view to
increasing the lowest loss probabilities used.  Authorities in Norway have struggled to stabilize the
housing market after near record-low borrowing rates fueled
credit growth in western Europe’s biggest oil producer.  Compliance Action  Billionaire Cohen’s Paintings May Fetch $60 Million at Auction  Billionaire hedge-fund manager Steven A. Cohen, whose firm
is facing huge fines for securities fraud, will sell three
paintings from his art collection at auction in New York next
month.  The group will include two pieces by Andy Warhol and a
Gerhard Richter, according to the New York Times. Cohen’s $9
billion net worth includes an art collection valued at about
$750 million, according to Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index.  Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP is accused in a grand jury
indictment of insider trading. Last week, the company was told
it would have to pay $1.8 billion and admit wrongdoing to
resolve securities-fraud charges. Cohen has already agreed to
pay $600 million.  His three works will be offered at  Sotheby’s (BID)  contemporary
art sale on Nov. 13. Warhol’s 1963 “Liz #1 (Early Colored
Liz)” is estimated at $20 million to $30 million. His “5
Deaths on Turquoise (Turquoise Disaster),” also from 1963, is
valued at $7 million to $10 million. Sotheby’s showed the
paintings as part of its exhibition at the Katara Art Center in
Doha last week.  The Richter is a 1986, 10-by-8-foot abstract painting
titled “A. B. Courbet,” according to a person familiar with
the matter. It is estimated at $15 million to $20 million.  Cohen actively buys and sells in the art market. He will
face fierce competition from 12 other Warhols at the November
evening sales, led at Sotheby’s by the large 1963 canvas
“Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster),” estimated at more than
$60 million.  Christie’s seven lots on Nov. 12 include Warhol’s 1962
painting of an oversized Coke bottle, estimated at $40 million
to $60 million.  Ping An Securities Fined 51.1 Million Yuan by CSRC for Wanfu IPO  Ping An Securities Co. was fined by the China Securities
Regulatory Commission for its managing of the public offering of
 Wanfu Biotechnology (Hunan) Agricultural Development Co. (300268)   Wanfu Biotectnology (Hunan) is a maker and seller of
processed rice products.  The company received a 51.1M  yuan  fine, while 25.55M yuan
income from the public offering is to be forfeited.  In addition, the Commission suspended the company’s
sponsorship qualification for three months. The company is
controlled by Ping An Group.  Courts  Ex-Madoff Workers Seen Choosing Bets on Freedom Over Plea Deals  Five former employees of Bernard L. Madoff on trial over
allegations they aided in his $17 billion fraud probably
scrapped plea talks involving harsh prison terms to gamble for
total exoneration from a jury, ex-prosecutors said.  The U.S. had little reason to offer the group leniency in
exchange for testimony against others, since Madoff and his top
aides had already pleaded guilty, said Philip Hilder, a former
federal prosecutor in Houston who represents defendants accused
of white-collar crimes.  Opening statements may begin as soon as today, after U.S.
District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan  completes jury
selection that started a week ago. Jurors will hear what may
become the fullest account of how Madoff carried out the biggest
Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  The former employees, all of whom have pleaded not guilty,
are Annette Bongiorno, Madoff’s personal secretary, who worked
with him for 40 years and helped recruit investors; Joann Crupi,
a manager of large accounts at Madoff’s investment firm; Daniel
Bonventre, operations chief; and computer programmers Jerome
O’Hara and George Perez.  The five stand out for opting to challenge the strength of
the government’s evidence after prosecutors secured guilty pleas
from their bosses, an uncommon strategy in white-collar cases.  Three of the five were offered plea agreements that were
turned down, and two had talks with prosecutors that failed to
lead to formal offers, according to two people familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the negotiations.  The absence of plea deals could be because there are no
more big players for the remaining defendants to testify
against, or because they don’t know enough about the fraud,
experts said.  Madoff, 75, admitted to federal agents in December 2008
that his company was a sham. He pleaded guilty to 11 counts and
was sentenced to 150 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Libor Splits U.K. Judges as Barclays Case Goes to Appeals Court  Judge Jeremy Cooke told lawyers assembled in his  London 
courtroom last February he wouldn’t allow Indian property
company  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  to add accusations of Libor-rigging to its
lawsuit against Deutsche Bank AG.  Realizing he’d contradicted another judge in the U.K.’s
only other Libor lawsuit, Cooke explained he disagreed with his
colleague. Months earlier, Judge Julian Flaux had given Guardian
Care Homes permission to link its swap losses to  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
Libor fixing.  The Court of Appeal will decide who was right in the rare
judicial split following a hearing scheduled to begin yesterday
in London. If the court adopts Flaux’s approach to alleged
victims, it could open the door to more suits against lenders
accused of manipulating the London interbank offered rate, the
baseline for about $300 trillion of contracts worldwide.  Regulatory probes across the globe into banks’ attempts to
manipulate interest-rate benchmarks have led to fines and
settlements totaling about $2.6 billion for Barclays,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  ICAP Plc. (IAP)  E-mails released in
the investigations show traders tried to influence rates to
boost trading profits.  The Deutsche Bank and Barclays cases are at face value
similar -- both began as claims that banks sold their clients
unsuitable  interest-rate swaps . Unitech and Guardian sought to
add Libor allegations to those suits.  While the appeal court won’t resolve either case, it will
determine whether victims can void contracts linked to Libor, or
just seek compensation for losses.  The Barclays, Deutsche Bank appeal is scheduled to last
four days. Yesterday was set aside for judges to read the
documents. Public hearings begin today.  The cases are Graiseley Properties Ltd. & Ors v. Barclays
Bank Plc, High Court of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division ,
Commercial Court, 12-1259; and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  & Ors v. Unitech
Global Limited & Anr, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division, Commercial Court, 11-1199 (X1Q6M1JRB282).  Interviews/Panels  FBR’s Miller Says U.S. Won’t Default on Bond Payments  Paul Miller, managing director at FBR Capital Markets,
discussed the possibility of a U.S. debt default and ratings
downgrade.  He spoke from Arlington, Virginia, with Guy Johnson and
 Hans Nichols  on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  EU Stress-Test Backstops Must Be Nationally Funded, Finland Says  Backstops for banks failing next year’s European Union
stress tests should be built without money from the euro
region’s permanent rescue fund, Finland’s Finance Minister Jutta
Urpilainen said.  “The banks’ owners and investors will be the first ones in
line to bear the burden, and after that we’ll need national
backstops for possible recapitalizations,” she said in an
interview in Luxembourg yesterday. For the European Stability
Mechanism, “our stance is that only when there is common
supervision and the slate is wiped clean for the banking union,
that’s when a joint fiscal backstop can exist.”  The European Central Bank is slated to take over
supervision of all euro-area banks next year, after a transition
period in which regulators will assess the quality of banks’
assets and their resilience to shocks. Euro-area nations are now
sparring over what kind of financing options need to be in place
to deal with potential capital shortfalls that are uncovered.  Deutsche Bank’s Jain Says FX Rigging Allegations Eroding Trust  Deutsche Bank AG Co-Chief Executive Anshu Jain, whose
company is the world’s biggest trader of currencies, said
allegations that traders rigged those markets have further
eroded trust in the financial industry.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation, which was already
looking into alleged manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, is in the early stages of a probe into
the $5.3 trillion-a-day currency market, a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the inquiry
is confidential, told Bloomberg News on Oct. 11.  “Issues like Libor manipulation, allegations of foreign-exchange manipulation, this is sapping at the very core of what
we are trying to do,” Jain, 50, said during a panel discussion
at the annual meeting of the Institute of International Finance
in Washington last week. He said the problem calls for “long-term reform.”  Authorities in the U.K., Switzerland, the European Union
and the U.S. are investigating whether traders manipulated
foreign-exchange prices. U.K. regulators are focusing on an
electronic chat room used by currency traders at financial
companies, the Wall Street Journal reported on its website,
citing people familiar with the matter. The investigation has
found a group of traders who used names such as “The Cartel,”
“The Bandits’ Club,” and “The Dream Team,” according to the
Wall Street Journal.  Comings and Goings  Barclays Says Hector Sants to Take Temporary Leave of Absence  Barclays Plc said its head of compliance and government,
Hector Sants, is to take a temporary leave of absence because of
“exhaustion and stress.”  Sants, 57, plans to return to work at Britain’s second-largest bank by assets next year, a spokesman for London-based
Barclays said by telephone today. The company declined to say
who will fill in for Sants.  Barclays hired Sants, the former chief executive officer of
the Financial Services Authority, in December after the lender
was fined 290 million pounds ($462 million) by regulators last
year for submitting false London and euro interbank offered
rates. He reports to CEO  Antony Jenkins , who is seeking to
overhaul the culture of the bank following scandals including
wrongly sold loan insurance.  Sants’s leave comes after Lloyds Banking Group Plc CEO
Antonio Horta-Osorio returned from a nine-week absence for
exhaustion in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in Jersey City, New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 