-- EDF Atomic Reactor Life Extensions ‘Years Away,’ ASN Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-15T16:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/edf-atomic-reactor-life-extensions-years-away-asn-says.html
France ’s atomic regulator warned
 Electricite de France SA (EDF)  that it’s years away from getting
permission to extend the operating lives of its reactors beyond
40 years.  The  Autorite de Surete Nucleaire  will provide an initial
assessment of EDF’s plans in 2015 and a final decision at an
unspecified time after that, said President Pierre-Franck
Chevet. The decision will be based on safety considerations and
supersede government policy, he told Le Monde in comments
confirmed by Evangelia Petit, an ASN spokeswoman.  Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici yesterday confirmed the
government is considering a possible increase of the period that
EDF is able to amortize its nuclear reactors in preparing
corporate accounts. An extension to 50 years from 40 years would
result in “large and lasting consequences” for electricity
production costs as well as a one-time financial advantage for
the utility, the  Commission de Regulation de l’Energie  market
regulator said in a June report.  EDF’s request for an amortization extension will be
discussed as part of France’s plans to increase renewables and
lower reliance on atomic energy, said a government official who
asked not to be named. The official denied a newspaper report
published two days ago that a decision could be made Nov. 15 at
a nuclear-power policy meeting.  Adding Value  “It is not the people who do EDF’s accounts who are going
to decide the energy policy of France,” Environment Minister
Philippe Martin told parliament today.  An extension of the amortization period would add value to
the biggest nuclear operator by improving its earnings and
cutting debt, analysts including Louis Boujard at Banco BPI SA
have said.  Even as EDF seeks to operate its French reactors for 60
years, the regulatory system doesn’t allow for the government to
simply extend the operating lives. The ASN carries out in-depth
inspections on each reactor every 10 years, granting permission
on a case-by-case basis. The regulator is also able to order the
shutdown of a reactor on safety considerations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  