-- Medical Device-Tax Delay Turns Focus of U.S. Budget Fight
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-15T16:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/medical-device-tax-delay-turns-focus-of-u-s-budget-fight.html
About $30 billion in medical-device
taxes that are helping to fund Obamacare has become one of the
main sticking points in congressional negotiations to end the
U.S. government shutdown.  The  House of Representatives , led by Republicans, plans to
vote as early as today on a debt-limit bill that includes a two-year delay in the medical-device tax. Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, intends to reject any budget
resolution or debt deal that includes a repeal of the tax.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  NuVasive Inc. (NUVA)  and other medical-device
makers have repeatedly sought a reprieve since the tax was
enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act of 2010, known as Obamacare. While repeal is expected to
have a greater effect on smaller companies, it has become the
industry’s chief goal among changes sought to the health law,
Lawrence Biegelsen, an analyst at Wells Fargo in New York, said.  “So many medical-device companies are venture-funded, or
have grown up out of hospitals,” said  Dan Mendelson , chief
executive officer at Washington-based consultant Avalere Health
LLC. “They have very effectively framed this as a tax that
harms innovation.”  The tax, which took effect in January, is projected to
raise $30 billion over a decade and is among new fees and
spending cuts facing the health-care industry to help pay for
Obama’s $1.4 trillion plan bill to  expand medical coverage . The
tax may reduce 2013 earnings per share for the device industry
by a median of 4 percent, Biegelsen said in Sept. 30 a note.  Earnings Effect  NuVasive, a San Diego-based maker of products used in
spinal surgery, is among companies expected to pay the most,
with the tax reducing annual earnings per share by 18 percent,
Biegelsen said.  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , based in Natick,
 Massachusetts , will see earnings cut by 7.5 percent.  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  of Kalamazoo, Michigan,  St. Jude Medical (STJ)  Inc.
of  St. Paul , Minnesota, and Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) 
will see a 4.5 percent reduction, he said, basing his estimates
on company reports.  The tax will reduce earnings at  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, the world’s biggest maker of health-care products, by
1.4 percent, Biegelsen wrote.  Cindy Resman, a spokeswoman for Medtronic, Ernie Knewitz, a
J&J spokesman, and Amy Jo Meyer, a spokeswoman for St. Jude
Medical, all declined to comment. Ryan Davenport, a spokesman
for Boston Scientific, also declined to comment.  Grand Bargain  The tax so far hasn’t hurt the industry’s sales or stock
performance. The Standard and Poor’s 500 Health Care Equipment
Index has risen about 18 percent this year. Boston Scientific
shares have doubled, St. Jude’s are up more than 50 percent and
J&J has gained almost 30 percent.  While delaying the tax would be a financial boon for
companies, it would leave the Obama administration searching for
other revenue streams to plug that gap in funding for the
health-system overhaul.  “A repeal of the medical-device excise tax would result in
large drop in tax revenues that would need to be offset by tax
increases or spending cuts,” Martin L. Milner, a tax partner in
the Washington office of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, said in an
e-mail “As a result of the necessary revenue offset, I do not
think the medical device excise tax will be repealed absent a
grand bargain that includes fundamental  tax reform .”  Reid’s opposition to the Republican efforts for tax repeal
may be the only thing standing in the way. At least 15  Senate
Democrats , including Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, sought
an 11th-hour delay to implementation of the tax in December.
Reid, who controls voting matters in the Senate, rejected the
idea then and said today that the House legislation won’t pass
the Senate.  Senate Talks  “The introduction of this measure by House Republican
leadership is unproductive and a waste of time,” Reid said in a
speech on the chamber floor. “Let’s be clear the House
Republican legislation won’t pass the Senate.”  That’s setting the stage for another showdown between the
House and Senate, whose disagreements over Obamacare and other
fiscal policy have shut down the federal government for 15 days
and pushed the  U.S. Treasury  closer to running out of borrowing
authority as early as this week.  The legislation emerging in the Senate would stave off a
potential default, end the government shutdown and change the
immediate deadlines in favor of three new ones over the next
four months. It’s far from complete as the Senate may delay
passing the plan and  House Republicans  are seeking changes. The
House proposal is designed as a Republican alternative and, like
the Senate proposal, would fund the government through Jan. 15,
2014, and suspend the debt limit until Feb. 7.  Insurance Changes  In addition to the device-tax delay, the House Republican
alternative would prevent the government from making any
employer-side contribution to the health insurance of members of
Congress, the president, the vice president and the cabinet.  It’s unlikely that Obama would go along. The president has
insisted that Congress raise the $16.7 trillion U.S.  debt limit 
without add-ons and that stopgap spending bills be free of
policy conditions, especially those tied to his health law.  “The president has said repeatedly that members of
Congress don’t get to demand ransom for fulfilling their basic
responsibilities to pass a budget and pay the nation’s bills,”
a White House spokeswoman,  Amy Brundage , said in an e-mail.
“Unfortunately, the latest proposal from House Republicans does
just that in a partisan attempt to appease a small group of Tea
Party Republicans.”  Obamacare Delays  The Affordable Care Act’s rollout has already been tripped
up by industry lobbying efforts to nix certain provisions,
political bickering over how the law would function and problems
setting up the technological backbone for the new online
insurance exchanges.  The administration in July delayed enforcement of the so-called employer mandate, giving businesses until 2015 to comply
with a requirement that companies with 50 or more workers offer
employees insurance or pay a penalty.  Last month, the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services said small businesses in 36 states would have to wait
an extra month, until Nov. 1, to begin enrolling in its online
marketplace. The administration had said April 1 that workers at
small companies wouldn’t immediately be able to pick any health
plan they want, as the law intended. Instead, employees will
have to use the plan selected by their employers.  Yesterday’s version of the Senate plan would postpone a
separate provision of the Affordable Care Act. A reinsurance fee
the government is levying on health plans would be delayed,
according to a person familiar with the talks and a Senate
Democratic aide who requested anonymity. Labor unions, aligned
politically with Democrats, have asked for the delay.  That provision and the Senate Republicans’ language on
income verification for subsidies used with the new online
marketplaces may both get dropped, the person familiar with the
talks said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  