-- Telefonica in Talks to Sell Czech Stake to Kellner’s PPF
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-10-15T13:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/telefonica-in-talks-to-sell-czech-stake-to-kellner-s-ppf.html
Billionaire Petr Kellner’s PPF Group
NV is in talks to acquire the Czech Republic’s biggest telephone
company, potentially putting an end to eight years of control by
Spanish carrier  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   Telefonica is exploring strategic options for its 69
percent stake in Telefonica Czech Republic AS, the Madrid-based
company said today. PPF is currently the only bidder for the
holding, which has a market value of $3.9 billion, said two
people familiar with the matter, asking not to be identified
because the discussions are confidential. Radek Stavel, a PPF
spokesman, declined to comment.  A takeover by 49-year-old Kellner, who has a net worth of
$11.5 billion according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index,
would put the former phone monopoly back in Czech hands for the
first time since 2005. PPF, one of eastern Europe’s largest
investment companies, owns stakes in over a dozen businesses
including electronics retailer Eldorado, gold and silver miner
Polymetal International Plc and finance company Home Credit
Group.  “For a foreign investor, the Czech market may not be that
attractive now as an auction that may bring a new entrant has
started and there’s a prospect that the new government after
elections may raise corporate taxes,” said  Josef Nemy , an
analyst at Komercni Banka AS who recommends selling Telefonica
Czech shares. “PPF may have a different view on what will
happen.”  Spectrum Auction  Last month, Telefonica,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) ’s Czech divisions registered to take part in a mobile-frequency auction aimed at boosting services and competition.
Revolution Mobile AS, a former PPF unit, also applied. PPF said
it wouldn’t take part because the tender bans any new entrant
from merging with another participant for 15 years.  Telefonica Czech rose 2.9 percent to 332.5 koruna at 3:44
p.m. in  Prague , adding to yesterday’s 6.6 percent gain after
Bloomberg News reported that Telefonica is preparing a sale of
the asset. Telefonica, with operations in Spain,  Germany , the
U.K. and Latin America, climbed 0.5 percent to 12.55 euros on
the Madrid exchange.  An agreement with PPF could be announced by early next
month, said two people familiar with the matter.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  are working with Telefonica,
people familiar with the matter have said. In its statement
today, Telefonica described its contact with PPF as
“conversations” that may not necessarily lead to a takeover.  ‘Not Overpaying’  Deutsche Telekom and Vodafone Group would be unlikely to
win regulatory approval for a takeover of Telefonica Czech, said
Andres Bolumburu, a Madrid-based analyst at Banco de Sabadell.  Bolumburu estimates the stake could be sold for an
enterprise value of 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion), which
includes debt, based on a multiple of six times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  “PPF is famous for not overpaying for assets,” Erste
Group Bank AG analyst Vera Sutedja wrote in a note, adding that
the current share price implies a 38 percent premium to peers
based on Ebitda multiples.  Telefonica entered the Czech Republic in 2005, buying a
controlling stake in Cesky Telecom AS from the government for
about $3.6 billion. Telefonica Czech’s second-quarter operating
income before depreciation and amortization fell 8.9 percent to
186 million euros as revenue declined 7.8 percent to 465 million
euros.  Irish Sale  At the end of June, the division had 5.1 million wireless
customers and 1.4 million fixed lines in the Czech Republic. It
had 1.4 million mobile-phone users in Slovakia. The Czech
business was internally identified as a non-core asset to be
sold, people familiar with the matter said earlier this year.  A sale of the division would generate proceeds for
Telefonica to pare its net debt of about 48.6 billion euros.
In recent months, Telefonica agreed to sell its Irish business
to Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing . On the other hand, it also
struck deals to acquire control of Royal KPN NV’s German
business in an 8.55 billion-euro transaction, and to gradually
increase its holding in the company that owns 22.4 percent of
 Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   Kellner, the richest man in the Czech Republic, is a
majority owner of closely held PPF. The group had assets valued
at 21.5 billion euros at the end of 2012, according to its
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  