-- Telefonica Czech Sale Seen Drawing No Premium Bid
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   M i c h a e l   W i n f r e y
-- 2013-10-16T15:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/telefonica-czech-sale-seen-drawing-no-premium-bid-from-kellner.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  may find it tough to
extract a high premium for its Czech unit from billionaire  Petr Kellner , whose PPF Group NV would have to take steps to halt a
multi-year revenue slide at the country’s biggest phone company.  Telefonica said yesterday it was in discussions to sell its
69 percent stake in the fixed-line and wireless carrier to PPF.
That’s the only bidder so far, according to people familiar with
the matter. The unit’s revenue has fallen every quarter since
early 2009 as competition with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s local businesses intensified. Regulators are now
trying to open the market to a new operator with a mobile
frequency tender for high-speed 4G services.  Telefonica Czech Republic AS jumped 10 percent this week
after  Bloomberg News  reported that Madrid-based Telefonica is
seeking a buyer for the asset. Today, the stock fell as much as
3.1 percent. Trading at a price-to-earnings ratio of 17.5 times,
the Prague-based carrier’s valuation compares with 12.6 times on
average for eastern European peers, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  “It’s clear that the market is speculating that the
premium won’t be that high,” said Tomas Mencik, an analyst at
Cyrrus AS, said in a phone interview. “They would be buying a
business that is in a good shape but in a difficult market
situation as revenue declines and the auction may bring a new
challenger to the market.”  10-Month High  Telefonica Czech fell 10.2 koruna to close at 323.7 koruna
in Prague. The stock yesterday reached the highest price since
Dec. 5. The company had 5.1 million mobile-phone clients and 1.4
million fixed-access lines at the end of June. It also had 1.4
million wireless users in  Slovakia .  An agreement could be announced by early next month, two
people familiar with the matter said yesterday. PPF said in a
statement that it’s in talks with Telefonica, though it isn’t
clear whether the companies will reach a deal.  A Telefonica representative declined to comment. The shares
closed 1.3 percent higher at 12.81 euros in  Madrid .  A takeover by 49-year-old Kellner, the richest man in the
 Czech Republic  with a net worth of $11.5 billion according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, would put the former phone
monopoly back in Czech hands for the first time in eight years.
If the stake was sold at market price, the $3.9 billion price
tag would be less than the $4.7 billion Telefonica paid in two
transactions in 2005.  Telefonica Czech’s stock is already trading at a 38 percent
premium to its peer group on average, based on multiples of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
and including debt, according to Vera Sutedja, an analyst at
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  in Vienna.  ‘Not Overpaying’  The mobile frequency sale and the possibility of higher
corporate taxes could lead to further weakness in the company’s
performance, a sign that PPF would not pay far over the
company’s market price, she said.  “PPF is famous for not overpaying for assets,” Sutedja
said in a note, recommending investors sell the stock.  Including debt, Telefonica Czech has an enterprise value
that is trading at 5.6 times the company’s projected 2013
Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Two years ago,
Polish billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak paid a multiple of 6.4
times for Polkomtel SA, Poland’s second-largest mobile-phone
company, in a $5.5 billion transaction.  PPF, one of eastern  Europe ’s largest investment companies,
owns stakes in more than a dozen businesses including
electronics retailer Eldorado, gold and silver miner Polymetal
International Plc and finance company Home Credit Group.  Vodafone, T-Mobile  Telefonica Czech’s first-half operating income before
depreciation and amortization declined 10 percent to 9.14
billion koruna from a year earlier. The Oibda margin shrank to
38.2 percent from 40.5 percent.  During the same period, Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile
reported a 12 percent decline in adjusted Ebitda to 5.3 billion
koruna. T-Mobile, which doesn’t have a fixed-line network, is
the largest wireless carrier in the country with 5.7 million
customers as of June 30. Vodafone Czech Republic AS had about
3.4 million users.  Telefonica Czech cut its workforce to 5,679 at the end of
June, an 11 percent decline from a year earlier, and announced
in August it would start talks on a network-sharing deal with T-Mobile for 2014. Now the carriers will probably focus on
reversing the decline in sales, said  Josef Nemy , an analyst at
Prague-based Komercni Banka AS.  “Data is the future revenue provider,” Nemy said. “They
still may be able to cut prices, but they can also try to bundle
services or engage in more effective marketing to win more
customers.”  Auction Rules  PPF said last month it would not take part in the new
auction because conditions preclude it from merging with a rival
for 15 years. It sold its PPF Mobile Services AS to the unit’s
chief executive officer. That company changed its name to
Revolution Mobile and applied to take part in the spectrum sale
along with the country’s three incumbent operators and Sazka
Telecommunications.  PPF could potentially work together with Revolution Mobile
to secure part of the spectrum in “a cost efficient way” or
disrupt the market and reduce incumbents’ returns, said Dalibor Vavruska, a London-based analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “We think PPF could have a unique opportunity to enter the
Czech telecom market at favorable terms, if it were to acquire
one of the incumbents,” Vavruska wrote in a note. “The formal
separation of PPF and Revolution Mobile allows PPF to freely bid
for the incumbents, while Revolution Mobile may serve as a
deterrent to other potential bidders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Winfrey in Prague at 
 mwinfrey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  