-- Emerging Stocks Advance to Four-Month High Led by Russia
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-10-15T21:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/emerging-stocks-rise-to-four-month-high-on-u-s-deal.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed to a
four-month high, led by Russian shares, as commodity producers
including OAO Gazprom and OAO Mechel advanced. South Korea’s won
touched the strongest level since January.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.7 percent to
1,029.85.  Russia ’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rallied to an eight-month high as
Gazprom and Mechel jumped at least 1.8 percent, while  Brazil ’s
 Ibovespa (IBOV)  climbed for a fifth consecutive day as Cia. Hering led
shares of retailers higher.  Mexico ’s IPC Index led losses among
the 94 world equity gauges tracked by Bloomberg. The won
strengthened 0.5 percent, pacing gains in currencies.  The House will vote on a bill that would prevent U.S.
borrowing authority from lapsing Oct. 17 and end a 15-day
government shutdown, following through on a maneuver that put
Senate talks on hold. After the close of the market,  Fitch
Ratings  placed the U.S.’s AAA ratings on watch for a possible
downgrade, citing the lack of a deal on the federal debt.  “The short-term driver is the ongoing negotiations in
regards to the debt ceiling,” Jason Benowitz, who helps manage
about $4.5 billion at Roosevelt Investment Group Inc. in  New
York , said by phone. “The closer the parties get to a
resolution, the more interest there is in risk assets including
emerging-market equities. Conversely, if time goes on and we
move past that key October 17 date without a deal, then we would
expect those assets to respond by selling off.”  Eight out of  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
advanced today, led by technology and consumer discretionary
companies. The benchmark gauge for developing nations has
dropped 2.4 percent this year to trade at 10.7 times projected
earnings, compared with the  valuation  of 13.9 for the MSCI World
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund retreated 1 percent to $42.66. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 5.8 percent to 25.61.  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose to a one-month high as Cia. Hering
jumped after a report showed the industry’s sales increased more
than forecast in August.  MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA , the
mining company founded by  Eike Batista , rallied after Trafigura
Beheer BV and Mubadala Development Co. agreed to buy a
controlling stake in its iron-ore port in Rio de Janeiro state.  The IPC slid 1.6 percent as Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SA,
the operator of Mexico’s stock exchange, capped the biggest
decline since May 2012.  Russia, India  The Micex Index increased 1.4 percent in Moscow, the
highest since Feb. 13. OAO Gazprom, the natural gas export
monopoly, rallied 2.3 percent. OAO Mechel, Russia’s biggest
producer of coal for steelmakers, added 1.8 percent. Benchmark
gauges in the  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  added more than 0.8
percent, while Poland’s WIG20 Index dropped 0.3 percent.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks dropped amid concern the rally that drove the
benchmark index to a three-year high may have outpaced the
prospects for earnings growth.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , the largest
lender by market value, slid the most in two weeks after posting
the slowest profit growth in four years.  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s biggest oil-refining complex, erased
an intraday gain of 3.3 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index capped its first loss in three
days as declines for financial and consumer-discretionary
companies overshadowed gains for health-care shares.  Industrial
& Commercial Bank of China Ltd . and Bank of  China  Ltd. slid at
least 1 percent and were the biggest drags on the gauge. Suning
Commerce Group Co., China’s largest electronics retailer by
market value, plunged 5.9 percent.  The  yuan  climbed to a 20-year high after China’s foreign-exchange reserves advanced to a record in a sign of capital
inflows. The won climbed 0.5 percent to 1,066.75 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier
touched 1,066.63, the strongest level since Jan. 24.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 314 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  