-- Empire CEO Replaced by Poulin as Safeway Deal Closes
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-15T20:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/empire-ceo-sobey-retiring-poulin-new-chief.html
Empire Co. (EMP/A) , which agreed to buy
 Safeway Inc. (SWY) ’s Canadian stores for C$5.8 billion ($5.6 billion)
in June, said Chief Executive Officer Paul Sobey will retire, as
the company nears completion of the acquisition.  Marc Poulin, the current CEO of Empire’s grocery chain,
Sobeys Inc., will replace Sobey, the Stellarton, Nova Scotia-based company said today in a statement. Sobey, 57, will step
down from his post on Dec. 11.  “It’s been an exciting 15 years and with the imminent
closing of this Canada Safeway transaction it’s an opportune
time to make the transition,” Sobey said in a phone interview
from Stellarton. “It’s never a great time, never a good time to
step down, but the key is recognizing when a change should take
place.”  Sobey, CEO since 1998 and a 32-year company veteran, will
remain a director of Empire, which has business in food
distribution, real estate and corporate investments. He also
plans to hold onto his  shares  of the company. Poulin will keep
his job as head of Sobeys, according to the statement.  “I’m really excited for our future prospects as the new
management group will capitalize on this platform for growth,”
Sobey said. “Marc is a good hands-on operator, seasoned and a
well-respected food retailer in this country.”  Intense Competition  Empire slipped 0.4 percent to C$75.26 at the 4 p.m. close
in Toronto today. The stock has climbed 28 percent this year,
making it the third-best performing stock in the S&P/TSX
Consumer Staples Index.  Sobey retires after leading the company’s acquisition of
Canada Safeway Ltd. amid intense competition from domestic
rivals such as Loblaw Cos. and Metro Inc., as well as foreign
brands including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  The CEO is the son of David Sobey, chairman emeritus of
Sobeys, and grandson of Frank Sobey, who expanded his father’s
original meat-delivery business into a countrywide chain of
grocery stores.  Sobey said he’s looking forward to spending time with his
family while also assisting with the company’s transition.  “Rest assured I’m not going to be living on an island
somewhere,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  