-- Energy Future Pre-Bankruptcy Talks Continue as Lender Leaves
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-10-15T11:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/energy-future-pre-bankruptcy-talks-continue-as-lender-leaves-1-.html
Creditors of Energy Future Holdings
Corp., taken private in the biggest leveraged buyout on record,
will keep negotiating on a restructuring plan after one group
left the confidential talks, according to a regulatory filing.  Outlines of three unadopted creditor proposals were
included in the filing. Creditors of subsidiary Energy Future
Intermediate Holding Company LLC left the talks while directing
“their advisors to continue to work with the companies and
their advisors to explore further whether the parties can reach
an agreement on the terms of a consensual restructuring,” the
filing showed.  Lenders including a group of first-lien holders in the
deregulated Texas Competitive unit are continuing negotiations,
and extended non-disclosure agreements that expired yesterday.
The confidentiality contracts allow investors to access private
information about Energy Future and their debt positions to
facilitate talks.  Creditors are seeking to reach terms on a bankruptcy filing
that may come this month, according to people familiar with the
talks, who asked not to be named because the process is private.
Lenders are divided over how much of Energy Future’s $43.6
billion in debt will be extinguished, and how lenders will carve
up ownership of the Texas power company, the people said. Energy
Future is due to make about $270 million in interest payments
Nov. 1 -- cash more senior creditors want the company to retain
by filing for bankruptcy.  Texas’s largest electricity provider has struggled to
reduce debt since it was taken over in a $48 billion deal in
2007 led by  KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners. The leveraged buyout left Energy Future with more than
$40 billion in debt in an unsuccessful bet natural gas prices
would rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  