-- Enough Already With the Worrying About America’s Jews
-- B y   J . J .   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-10-15T18:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/enough-already-with-the-worrying-about-america-s-jews.html
Leading voices of U.S. Judaism have
expressed despair over  a recent survey  that found sharply
declining interest in the religion among American Jews. The Pew
Research Center survey, the most comprehensive study of American
Jews in more than a decade, also suggests a new peak in what was
already a high rate of interfaith marriage.  Slightly more than one-fifth of those interviewed
identified themselves as  Jewish  by “culture” or “ancestry”
and chose “none” when asked their religion. Among those “Jews
of no religion,” or about 1.2 million adults, fully two-thirds
said they weren’t raising their children as Jews.  Rabbis and community leaders across the country fret that
American Jews, except the most Orthodox, are rapidly dissolving
into the broader American landscape. Commentary magazine called
the Pew study “a portrait of  a shrinking community .” The
Jewish Week of  New York , in  an editorial  titled “Losing Our
Faith,” wondered “whether Judaism can survive long-term in
this country without religious belief and practice at its
core.”  In fact, after a close examination of the numbers, the new
survey shows a population in the midst of a healthy growth
spurt, though it seems to have escaped the notice of many rabbis
and other Jewish community leaders.  Skepticism’s Role  To begin with, consider the raw numbers. Pew found a Jewish
population in the U.S. of either 6.3 million or 6.7 million,
depending on your definition (specifically, whether you include
about 300,000 children being raised as “partly Jewish”). The
last widely accepted population  estimate , in 1990, was 5.5
million.  As for rising intermarriage, that’s a misreading of the Pew
report, which shows that intermarriage has leveled off, after
rising steadily from 1970 until about 1995.  Then there’s the alarm over growing numbers of Jews
disavowing religion. That’s simply wrong, for two reasons.  First, it’s a statistical error. Pew compared the
proportion of “Jews of no religion” in its survey -- 22
percent -- with a parallel figure in the last major survey a
decade ago: 7 percent.  Alas,  that previous survey , the National Jewish Population
Survey 2000-01, was a multimillion-dollar fiasco. Delayed for
two years, it was subjected to two outside commissions of
inquiry. One was led by Mark Schulman, who was then the head of
the prestigious  American Association  for Public Opinion
Research;  his report  found the survey to be riddled with dozens
of mishaps and methodological missteps.  One error was a Jewish population count of 5.2 million,
which led to a panic that Jews were disappearing. Another was a
decision not to examine the religious attitudes of persons with
“weak Jewish connections.” This led, among other things, to a
serious undercount of nonreligious Jews. The final text warned
readers repeatedly not to compare its findings with other
surveys. Apparently the warning wasn’t repeated often enough.  To get a clearer picture, it’s best to look back another
decade to the generally well-regarded  1990 survey . Its 5.5
million Jews included 1.1 million “of no religion.” That’s 20
percent, statistically identical to this year’s figure. In other
words, there has been no change.  No less important, religious skepticism is an integral and,
to many minds, honored part of modern Judaism. Over the last two
centuries, since the Enlightenment, this cast of mind has been
the norm, not the exception. Modern Israel was founded by
secular Jews rebelling against religious passivity. Today, just
20 percent of  Israelis  call themselves religious -- by which
Israelis mean Orthodox -- and 37 percent say they are moderately
traditional. The remaining 42 percent are firmly secular, twice
the proportion of American Jews.  Even among the majority of American Jews who told  Pew 
they’re Jewish by religion, only 17 percent said being Jewish is
mainly a matter of religion, and just 39 percent said they’re
certain God exists.  Feared Collapse  But what about the two-thirds of nonreligious Jews who say
they aren’t raising their children as Jews? Doesn’t that point
to a looming demographic collapse?  Not likely. The 1990 survey found that close to half of all
Jews getting married at the time were marrying non-Jews, and
only 28 percent of interfaith couples said they were raising
their children as Jews. This led to another panic. Today, a
generation later, Pew has caught up with those children, who are
now adults. Whatever their parents intended, almost half
identify unambiguously as Jews -- about 23 percent by religion
and 23 percent without. It seems the ones who were “raised as
Jews” became Jews by religion. The rest adopted their parents’
skepticism along with their heritage.  These are the folks we used to call “half-Jews,” though
the term has largely fallen out of favor.  What  sort of Jews  are they? Here’s what we know: They’re
more likely to marry non-Jews, and they are less likely to fast
on Yom Kippur or donate to Jewish charities than adults with two
Jewish parents.  They’re less tribal than two-parent Jews. Inevitably so:
The gentiles whom traditional Jews know as “the Other” are the
grandparents and cousins of these offspring of mixed marriages.
In that and many other ways, they’re changing the nature of
American Judaism. That’s the point: Jewish life in America is
evolving, not disappearing.  In at least one important way, they’re more Jewish than the
two-parent Jews: If Jews are outliers in white America, starkly
more liberal and more Democratic than their neighbors, the
mixed-heritage Jews and “Jews of no religion” are even more
liberal and more Democratic. And no surprise: They are the
living evidence that America has accepted and embraced Jews as
no society in history has done. They owe their very existence to
tolerance and diversity.  Jewish Experience  At the same time, if the Jewish experience is to be an
outsider, the people with mixed parents are outsiders among the
outsiders. Jews are never fully at home wherever they call home.
The products of two-faith parents aren’t quite at home even
among their fellow Jews. They are the paradox of the new Jewish
experience in America.  Will their children be Jewish? Who knows? They themselves
weren’t supposed to be Jewish, but they are. And they have a
choice.  But this good news will never convince the hand-wringers.
Every new survey provides new evidence that the end is just
around the corner.  In May 1964, Look magazine published a cover story titled
“The Vanishing American Jew.” Forty-nine years later, Look has
vanished, but the  Jews  are still here. The children are turning
out fine.  ( J.J. Goldberg  is editor-at-large of the Jewish Daily
Forward and the author of “Jewish Power: Inside the American
Jewish Establishment.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
J.J. Goldberg at  goldberg@forward.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net . 