-- EPA Greenhouse-Gas Rules Draw U.S. Supreme Court Scrutiny
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-15T16:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/epa-greenhouse-gas-rules-draw-u-s-supreme-court-scrutiny.html
The U.S. Supreme Court said it will
scrutinize the Environmental Protection Agency’s first-ever push
to curb greenhouse-gas emissions, agreeing to hear appeals from
industry trade groups and Republican-led states.  The justices today said they will decide whether the EPA
was justified in setting up new permit requirements for
stationary sources of pollution, including power plants and
factories.  The Obama administration is seeking to reduce carbon
emissions it says threaten public health and contribute to
climate change. Dozens of trade groups, companies, public policy
organizations and states pressed nine separate Supreme Court
appeals, six of which the court agreed to hear.  The EPA is erecting “the costliest, farthest-reaching and
most intrusive regulatory apparatus in the history of the
American administrative state,” the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
argued in an appeal joined by Alaska and the American Farm
Bureau Federation.  The justices said they won’t review the EPA’s conclusion
that carbon emissions endanger public health and the planet, as
some of the appeals had urged. The court also refused to revisit
its 2007 decision ordering the EPA to consider regulating
greenhouse-gas emissions. The court rejected three appeals that
raised those issues.  Environmental Advocates  Environmental advocates hailed that aspect of the court’s
action today. They said the high court case would be a narrow
one, focusing on one aspect of the Clean Air Act, and wouldn’t
undermine other EPA efforts to limit carbon emissions.  “Today’s orders by the U.S. Supreme Court make it
abundantly clear, once and for all, that EPA has both the legal
authority and the responsibility to address climate change and
the carbon pollution that causes it,” Environmental Defense
Fund General Counsel Vickie Patton said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Obama administration urged the Supreme Court to reject
the case entirely, saying the lower court ruling was a
straightforward application of the Clean Air Act, in keeping
with the deference that judges generally afford to federal
administrative agencies. The clash centers on interrelated rules
issued by the EPA in 2009 and 2010.  The opponents’ “policy concerns with the implementation of
an intentionally broad and precautionary statutory scheme are
properly addressed to Congress,” said U.S. Solicitor General
Donald Verrilli, the administration’s top courtroom lawyer.  17 States  Environmental advocates and a New York-led group of 17
states joined the administration in opposing Supreme Court
review. A federal appeals court upheld the EPA’s rules last
year.  The court will hear arguments early next year and rule by
July.  The central question the court will consider is whether the
EPA properly used its 2010 rule governing auto emissions as a
basis to set permit standards for stationary sources as well.  The Clean Air Act says the permit requirements apply to
stationary sources emitting “any air pollutant.” The EPA says
those requirements were automatically triggered once the agency
found that greenhouse gases were enough of a threat to warrant
vehicle regulations.  Opponents contend the EPA’s plan for phasing in stationary-source requirements proves that the agency’s approach is
incompatible with the language of the Clean Air Act.  ‘Absurd Results’  The law generally requires a permit for sources that exceed
either 100 or 250 tons per year of a particular pollutant. The
EPA concluded that a literal application of that threshold for
greenhouse gases would lead to “absurd results,” potentially
covering millions of commercial and residential sources.
Greenhouse gases are emitted in far greater volumes than other
pollutants.  To address that issue, the EPA decided to relax the
threshold for greenhouse gases, at least at first.  The agency has “relied on the costs and absurdities
created by its own interpretation of the Clean Air Act to grant
itself a continuing license to create and revise the statutory
scheme without regard to even the clearest congressional
directives,” industry groups led by the American Chemistry
Council argued in papers supporting high court review.  The Obama administration points to a passage in the 2007
opinion saying Congress wanted the EPA to have flexibility in
administering the Clean Air Act.  Changing Circumstances  While lawmakers “might not have appreciated the
possibility that burning fossil fuels could lead to global
warming, they did understand that without regulatory
flexibility, changing circumstances and scientific developments
would soon render the Clean Air Act obsolete,” the majority
said in that 5-4 ruling.  The case doesn’t directly affect proposed limits issued by
the EPA last month to cap carbon emissions from new power
plants, though the court’s reasoning may complicate the agency’s
efforts.  The cases the court will hear are Utility Air Regulatory
Group v. EPA, 12-1146; American Chemistry Council v. EPA, 12-1248; Energy-Intensive Manufacturers v. EPA, 12-1254;
Southeastern Legal Foundation v. EPA, 12-1268; Texas v. EPA, 12-1269; and Chamber of Commerce v. EPA, 12-1272.  The cases rejected are Virginia v. EPA, 12-1152; Pacific
Legal Foundation v. EPA, 12-1153; and Coalition for Responsible
Regulation v. EPA, 12-1253.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  