-- Herbalife Loses Bid to Dismiss ‘Pyramid Scheme’ Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-15T23:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/herbalife-loses-bid-to-dismiss-pyramid-scheme-lawsuit-1-.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  lost a bid to dismiss
a lawsuit by a former  California  distributor of its nutrition
products who alleged the company’s business model is a “pyramid
scheme” that didn’t allow him to make a profit.  U.S. District Judge Beverly Reid O’Connell in Los Angeles,
in an Oct. 11 order, denied Herbalife’s request to throw out the
case. The judge said the plaintiff, Dana Bostick, who seeks to
represent other distributors in a class-action lawsuit, had
sufficiently argued the allegation at this stage of the
proceeding for the case to go forward  Bostick sued in April, claiming he couldn’t sell his
products because distributors that are higher up the chain
receive a bigger discount than he did on the products they
purchased from Herbalife. Bostick also claimed Herbalife’s
structure systematically rewards recruiting other distributors
over retail sales.  “Bostick gave up on his distributorship once he discovered
that he was unable to resell the Herbalife products he purchased
by merely relying on a website to do his work for him,” the
company said in its May 30 request to dismiss the claims.
“Rather than return the purchased products to Herbalife for a
full refund, as he concedes he could have done, Bostick sued.”  Hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman , whose Pershing Square
Capital Management LP has sold short Herbalife shares, has
accused the Cayman Islands-based company of swindling
unsophisticated consumers with false get-rich promises using
overpriced products.  Elected Officials  He has urged U.S. regulators, elected officials and
community activists to help shut it down. Herbalife has
repeatedly denied Ackman’s allegations.  Bostick’s April 8 complaint alleges violations of
California’s Endless Chain Scheme Law, California’s Unfair
Competition Law and California’s False Advertising Law, as well
as violations of the U.S. Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act. Bostick “intends” to dismiss the Rico
claims, according to the judge’s order.  Barbara Henderson, an outside spokeswoman for Herbalife
with Worldwide Corporate Communications in Los Angeles, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call to her office seeking
comment on the ruling.  The case is Bostick v. Herbalife International of America
Inc., 13-cv-02488, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at +1-   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 