-- Merkel Nears Pick of Coalition Ally in Fourth Week of Search
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-15T12:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/merkel-nears-choice-of-ally-in-week-four-of-government-search.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
moved toward picking her third-term ally as the opposition
Social Democrats cited common ground in coalition talks.  Merkel and her Christian Democratic bloc met SPD leaders
for eight hours in the longest negotiations since German
elections on Sept. 22, breaking up after midnight before a
second sounding-out session with the Greens starting at 5 p.m.
in Berlin today.  “This is the week of clarity and it began well,”
Alexander Dobrindt, chief negotiator for the Merkel-allied
Christian Social Union party, told reporters. “There still is
some fog that needs to be negotiated away.”  More than three weeks after securing the biggest election
victory since German reunification, Merkel aims to pick one
party for formal coalition talks before the first post-election
session of Germany’s lower house on Oct. 22. Two days later, she
plans to attend a European Union summit in Brussels for talks on
topics including the EU’s banking-union plans.  The Social Democrats, the biggest opposition party, “were
able to recognize common ground on some issues,” while others
remained in dispute, general secretary Andrea Nahles told
reporters after the meeting last night.  The  Christian Democrats  and SPD may hold a third round of
discussions on Thursday, said Hermann Groehe, the general
secretary of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union . The SPD is due
to hold a small convention on Oct. 20 when delegates can approve
or reject formal coalition talks. The Greens will hold a
separate congress on Oct. 18-20.  Greens Decision  Greens leaders have cast doubt on their talks with Merkel,
citing a lack of clarity on her renewable-energy goals and how
she plans to finance infrastructure projects without tax
increases. The party will decide by early tomorrow whether to
engage in full coalition talks, Anton Hofreiter, the co-leader
of the Greens’ parliamentary caucus, said on ZDF television.  Germany ’s power grid operators raised the pressure for
government action with the announcement today of an increase in
the surcharge consumers pay for renewable energy to a record,
meaning the charge has quintupled since 2009.  Merkel “must act on forming a government and make
potential coalition partners an offer,” Greens lawmaker Kerstin Andreae said on Deutschlandradio today.  Merkel laid down markers during her campaign, rejecting SPD
calls for a statutory minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.52) an
hour in favor of an industry-by-industry approach with wages set
by collective bargaining. The SPD campaigned for an increase in
the 42 percent income-tax rate, citing a growing rich-poor gap,
while Merkel dismissed tax raises as “poison” for the economy.  Red Lines  The chancellor went in to yesterday’s talks holding firm to
her rejection of tax rises and of joint euro-area bonds, while
leaving all other topics open for negotiation, a person familiar
with her strategy said on condition of anonymity.  One of the main differences emerged over the financing of
infrastructure and education, with the SPD pushing for tax
increases that Merkel refused to consider.  “Merkel’s group didn’t budget in the slightest over
finance issues,” Joachim Poss, the SPD parliamentary finance
spokesman, said by telephone. “Blocking, that’s all we’ve had
so far. That’s not the stuff of coalition-building.”  Dobrindt of the Bavarian CSU said that nothing was agreed
last night. “But we signaled to each other a readiness to
talk,” he said.  Greens Leverage  Wielding the option of allying with the Greens gives Merkel
leverage as she sounds out the SPD, the junior partner during
her first term “grand coalition” between 2005 and 2009. While
the election cemented her stature as  Europe ’s foremost political
leader, Merkel fell short of the majority of seats in the lower
house, or Bundestag, that she needs to govern alone.  Everything now is about strategy as the political parties
jostle for position and profile, said Juergen Falter, a
professor of politics at the University of Mainz. Merkel is
unwilling to concede anything before the SPD has commited to
full coalition talks, and the SPD is desperate to show that the
party leadership is fighting its corner, he said.  “The SPD leadership is ready to go into a grand coalition,
but it needs results,” Falter said. Members have been promised
a ballot on the terms of a deal, and “the final membership vote
is the real danger for the coalition,” he said. “Everything
else for now is tactics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  