-- Letta Extends Italian Austerity by Adding Budget Cuts to Remedy
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-15T18:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/letta-extends-italian-austerity-by-adding-budget-cuts-to-remedy.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
reshaped the country’s two-year commitment to austerity by
approving a labor-tax cut and relying on 3.5 billion euros ($4.7
billion) of spending reductions to meet 2014  deficit targets .  The central government will bear 2.5 billion euros of the
expense cuts and regional administrations will deliver 1 billion
euros, Letta said in a press conference in Rome after his
cabinet approved next year’s budget late today. The labor-tax
cut will give an extra 1.5 billion euros to workers next year
and a total of 5 billion euros through 2016, he said. Companies
will get tax breaks of 5.6 billion euros in that span, he said.  Letta,  Italy ’s third premier since 2011, is shifting the
burden from taxpayers to government bureaucracy in a bid to spur
the  stagnant  economy as deficit-cutting continues. Public
administration spending  rose  0.6 percent in nominal terms last
year to 801 billion euros as Letta’s predecessor,  Mario Monti ,
counted mainly on tax increases to strengthen the budget and
shield Italy from bond market speculation.  “They realized you can’t just focus on  tax revenue ,”
Mario Spreafico, chief investment officer at Schroders Private
Banking for Italy, said by telephone from Milan. “Now there’s a
lot more attention on expenses.”  Bond Yields  Italian 10-year bond yields declined 1 basis point to 4.25
percent in Rome before the budget announcement. That’s down from
more than 7 percent in late 2011.  Letta, 47, is continuing the austerity drive that began in
earnest in mid-2011 with an intensification of the  European debt
crisis . The then prime minister,  Silvio Berlusconi , set deficit
reduction goals before being forced out in November by bond
market speculation. Under Monti, the value-added tax and
gasoline levies rose, while a new property tax was created.  The VAT increased under Letta on Oct. 1, to 22 percent from
21 percent.  The government said last month it plans to reduce the
deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 from
its target of 3 percent this year. Italy’s 2 trillion-euro debt
is about 130 percent of GDP, the second-highest ratio behind
 Greece  in  Europe .  Labor Costs  “A decrease in labor costs will be positive but this is
not the Italian problem,”  Romano Prodi , a two-time Italian
prime minister, said in an interview. “The problem is
bureaucracy, the anti-business behavior of the public
administration.”  Letta’s push for further spending reductions will be
spearheaded by  Carlo Cottarelli , who was hired by the government
this month from the  International Monetary Fund . He is scheduled
to leave the IMF on Oct. 22 and assume the job of commissioner
for public spending reform for the Italian government.  Italy’s 1.6 trillion-euro economy, the third-biggest in the
euro area, has contracted for eight straight quarters as the tax
increases curbed spending and investment. Letta, who leads a
makeshift three-party coalition, has said his priority is to
deliver on budget targets while bringing unemployment down from
a record 12.2 percent.  Letta is taking greater control of his government’s policy
as he consolidates his authority among his allies. He undermined
Berlusconi, head of the coalition’s second-biggest party, in an
Oct. 2 showdown that boosted Letta’s control over the government
agenda. It was Berlusconi, 77, who pushed in August for a
property-tax cut that was, at the time, the government’s biggest
fiscal measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  