-- Letta Reshapes Italy Austerity With Tax Cut, Spending Curbs
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-16T10:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/letta-reshapes-italian-austerity-with-tax-cut-spending-curb-1-.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
reshaped the country’s two-year commitment to austerity by
approving a labor-tax cut and relying on 3.5 billion euros ($4.7
billion) of spending reductions to meet 2014  deficit targets .  The central government will bear 2.5 billion euros of the
cuts and regional administrations will deliver 1 billion euros,
Letta told a news conference in  Rome  after his cabinet approved
next year’s  budget  yesterday. The labor-tax reduction will give
an extra 1.5 billion euros to workers next year and a total of 5
billion euros through 2016, he said. Companies will get tax
breaks of 5.6 billion euros in that span.  Letta, Italy’s third premier since 2011, is shifting the
burden to government bureaucracy from taxpayers in a bid to spur
the  stagnant  economy as deficit cutting continues. Public-administration spending  rose  0.6 percent in nominal terms last
year to 801 billion euros as Letta’s predecessor,  Mario Monti ,
counted mainly on tax increases to strengthen the budget and
shield Italy from bond-market speculation.  The budget “further indicates a shift from a focus on
taxation to spending cuts,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc in  London , said in a
research report today.  Bond Yields  Italian 10-year bond yields were unchanged at 4.25 percent
at 11:11 a.m. in Rome. That’s down from more than 7 percent in
late 2011.  Letta, 47, is continuing the austerity drive that began in
earnest in mid-2011 with an intensification of the  European debt
crisis . The then prime minister,  Silvio Berlusconi , set deficit-reduction goals before being forced out in November that year.
Under Monti, the value-added tax and gasoline levies rose, while
a new property tax was created.  While VAT increased under Letta on Oct. 1 to 22 percent
from 21 percent, the premier said yesterday he’s focused on
easing fiscal pressure in the long term.  Italy ’s tax burden will
fall to 43.3 percent in 2016 from 44.3 percent, Letta said.  “I’m sure that actions like these will bring Italy out of
its very long recession,” Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni
said at the news conference. The economy will be “brought to a
level of sustainable growth of around 2 percent,” he said.  Italian Growth  Italy, in recession since 2011, had  real growth  of 2.2
percent in 2006, the only year since 2001 that economic
expansion exceeded 2 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  The budget measures next year total 11.6 billion euros,
including 3.7 billion euros in tax cuts, 600 million euros for
the temporary layoff program and 300 million euros for
earthquake reconstruction, the government said in a statement.
To help pay for the measures, resources of 8.6 billion euros
were identified, including the 3.5 billion euros of spending
reductions and 500 million euros of property sales.  The government said last month it plans to reduce the
deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 from
its target of 3 percent this year. Italy’s 2 trillion-euro debt
is about 130 percent of GDP, the second-highest ratio behind
 Greece  in  Europe .  “A decrease in labor costs will be positive but this is
not the Italian problem,”  Romano Prodi , a two-time Italian
prime minister, said in an interview. “The problem is
bureaucracy, the anti-business behavior of the public
administration.”  IMF Recruit  Letta’s push for further spending reductions will be
spearheaded by  Carlo Cottarelli , who was hired by the government
this month from the  International Monetary Fund . He is scheduled
to leave the IMF on Oct. 22 and assume the job of commissioner
for public-spending reform for the Italian government.  Italy’s 1.6 trillion-euro economy, the third-biggest in the
euro area, has contracted for eight straight quarters as the tax
increases have curbed spending and investment. Letta, who leads
a makeshift three-party coalition, has said his priority is to
deliver on budget targets while bringing unemployment down from
a record 12.2 percent.  Letta is taking greater control of his government’s policy
as he consolidates his authority among his allies. He undermined
Berlusconi, head of the coalition’s second-biggest party, in an
Oct. 2 showdown that boosted Letta’s control over the government
agenda. It was Berlusconi, 77, who pushed in August for a
property-tax cut that was, at the time, the government’s biggest
fiscal measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  