-- EU May Seek Plan on National Bank Backstops by Year-End
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-15T11:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/eu-may-seek-plan-on-national-bank-backstops-by-year-end.html
European Union leaders will call on
euro-area countries to coordinate plans for banking safeguards
ahead of next year’s financial-sector reviews, according to
draft conclusions for an Oct. 24-25 summit in Brussels.  Countries whose banks will fall under European Central Bank
supervision next year should establish “a comprehensive
European approach notably comprising national backstops in
preparation of the balance sheet assessment,” according to an
Oct. 14 draft obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Nations should “develop as a matter of urgency such a
comprehensive and coordinated approach to be communicated before
the end of the year,” so the reviews can proceed “in a timely
manner,” the draft said.  Leaders also called on nations and the European Parliament
to reach agreement by year-end on laws to set standards for
national deposit-guarantee schemes and for how to handle failing
banks, including when regulators should force investor losses.
The year-end deadline also should be the goal for finishing work
on guidelines for when the European Stability Mechanism could
provide direct aid to banks.  Follow-on work to design a Single Resolution Mechanism for
countries joining the ECB’s supervision system also needs to
move ahead, the draft said. It urges nations to reach agreement
among themselves this year with an eye toward finishing talks
with the European Parliament in the first half of 2014.  Leaders also will urge EU nations to coordinate their views
on efforts to tackle tax avoidance, tax base erosion and profit
shifting is important also for the digital economy, the draft
said. The document says the European Commission will address
issues “such as differentiated tax rates for digital and
physical products” and leaders will revisit tax issues in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  