-- Ex-Countrywide Executive Denies Scheme to Mislead Buyers
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-10-15T19:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ex-countrywide-executive-denies-scheme-to-mislead-buyers.html
A former executive of  Bank of
America Corp. ’s Countrywide unit testified she wasn’t part of a
scheme to defraud  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  by selling them
thousands of defective loans.  The U.S. sued Bank of America in October, joining a
whistle-blower action filed by another former Countrywide
executive, Edward O’Donnell. The U.S. claims Bank of America and
Countrywide, which the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank
acquired in 2008, sold thousands of defective loans from 2007 to
2009 to the home-mortgage finance companies.  “There was no scheme,” Rebecca Mairone, 46, a defendant
in the government’s suit against Bank of America, testified
today in Manhattan federal court.  The case is the first brought by the U.S. against a bank
over defective mortgages to go to trial. Mairone, the only
individual named as a defendant in the case, testified in
response to questioning by her lawyer,  Marc Mukasey . Mairone
said she now works for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Countrywide engaged in the fraud to boost profits, making
at least $165 million, Assistant U.S. Attorney Pierre Armand
told jurors in his opening statements Sept. 24.  Brendan Sullivan , a lawyer for Countrywide, told the jury
in his opening statement that while the U.S. claims the loans
were faulty, the bank had created a process to speed the
approval process of prime loans after it shifted focus away from
subprime loans. He said no one at Countrywide had made
misrepresentations to  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  or Freddie Mac.  Swim Lane  Government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac bought single-family mortgages from lenders. The
U.S. alleges that to maintain revenue in a “cratering” market
for subprime mortgages, a division of Countrywide initiated a
loan program called “High Speed Swim Lane” or “HSSL” in
August 2007.  O’Donnell testified that he warned Mairone and other
Countrywide executives about the failure rate of HSSL loans.  Mairone testified today that Countrywide considered the
risks before instituting HSSL and came up with plans to deal
with them.  “I felt like we had the proper planning in place in case
something went wrong,” she said.  The case is U.S. v. Countrywide Financial Corp., 1:12-cv-01422, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  