-- Ex-Madoff Workers Chose Fight for Freedom Over Plea Deal
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-15T22:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ex-madoff-workers-chose-fight-for-freedom-over-plea-deal.html
Five former employees of Bernard L. Madoff on trial over allegations they aided in his $17 billion
fraud probably scrapped plea talks involving harsh prison terms
to gamble for total exoneration from a jury, ex-prosecutors
said.  The U.S. had little reason to offer the group leniency in
exchange for testimony against others, since Madoff and his top
aides had already pleaded guilty, said Philip Hilder, a former
federal prosecutor in Houston who represents defendants accused
of white-collar crimes.  “It’s kind of like an airline that only has a couple seats
remaining on a flight,” said Hilder, who ran the U.S.  Justice
Department ’s organized crime strike force in Houston in the late
1980s. “There’s no reason to give a discount. They charge a
full fare. That principle applies here too.”  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan  is
scheduled tomorrow to continue with jury selection, which
started a week ago, with opening statements to follow. Twelve
jurors and six alternates will hear what may become the fullest
account of how Madoff carried out the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in
U.S. history.  The former employees, all of whom have pleaded not guilty,
are Annette Bongiorno, Madoff’s personal secretary, who worked
with him for 40 years and helped recruit investors; Joann Crupi,
a manager of large accounts at Madoff’s investment firm; Daniel Bonventre, operations chief; and computer programmers Jerome O’Hara and  George Perez .  The five stand out for opting to challenge the strength of
the government’s evidence after prosecutors secured guilty pleas
from their bosses, an uncommon strategy in white-collar cases.  Deals Rejected  Three of the five were offered plea agreements that were
turned down, and two had talks with prosecutors that failed to
lead to formal offers, according to two people familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the negotiations.  Madoff, 75, admitted to federal agents in December 2008
that his company was a sham. He pleaded guilty to 11 counts and
was sentenced to 150 years in prison.  The U.S. in 2009 won a guilty plea from  Frank DiPascali ,
Madoff’s finance chief, who agreed to assist with the criminal
case and is to testify. David Friehling, an accountant for
Madoff, pleaded guilty to helping prepare phony tax returns and
is cooperating with prosecutors.  Federal authorities also obtained guilty pleas from  Peter Madoff , who helped his brother run the firm for four decades,
and employees Craig Kugel, David Kugel, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz,
Irwin Lipkin and Eric Lipkin.  Peter Madoff was sentenced to 10 years in prison. The other
defendants haven’t been sentenced.  None Left  The earlier guilty pleas may have deprived the remaining
defendants of anyone to testify against, said  Marcos Jimenez , a
former U.S. attorney in Miami who’s now a criminal defense
lawyer with McDermott Will & Emery LLP.  “When the people higher up the food chain have already
pleaded guilty, the only people left to go after are the ones
who reported to them,” Jimenez said in a phone interview.
“They probably figured it would be better to take a shot with a
jury exonerating them” and “hope the jury will give them a
break because they were low-level employees.”  The defendants might have refused to plead guilty because
they simply didn’t know about Madoff’s fraud and didn’t help him
cover it up, said Hilder.  “There may be a lot of what seems to be evidence out
there, but we’re not the judge or jury, and they have a
presumption of innocence,” the lawyer said.  Defense Lawyers  Bonventre’s lawyer, Andrew Frisch, declined to comment on
any plea discussions that may have taken place.  Eric Breslin , a
lawyer for Crupi, didn’t return a call seeking comment on any
talks.  Roland Riopelle, Bongiorno’s lawyer, declined to discuss
details of his negotiations with prosecutors and said his client
has “protested her innocence throughout.” Almost all of her
assets have been seized, requiring the government to pay for her
defense at a rate of $100 an hour, he said.  “Every cent she ever got out of this alleged conspiracy
has been forfeited,” Riopelle said in a phone interview. “At
this point, what’s the point of putting her in jail for the rest
of her life?”  O’Hara and Perez, who started at the firm in the early
1990s, were charged with helping Madoff conceal his fraud for
years by using computer codes and algorithms. The government
offered both plea bargains that were turned down.  “O’Hara has steadfastly maintained his innocence for
almost five years, and that’s why he’s going to trial,” his
lawyer,  Gordon Mehler , said in a phone interview.  Perez’s Attorney  Larry Krantz , a lawyer for Perez, didn’t return a message
seeking comment on the plea talks.  In a pre-trial request filed with the court yesterday,
Krantz asked Swain to block a government witness, Matthew Cohen
from the consulting company Alix Partners, from discussing some
aspects of his conversations with Perez in the days after
Madoff’s arrest in December 2008 that the government has
construed is an admission of guilt. Alix had been hired to help
probe the workings of Madoff’s company after his arrest.  Dead Employee  Perez seeks to block Cohen from testifying that Perez told
him he and O’Hara didn’t understand the computer code because it
had been written by an employee who died earlier that year and
that they were “just there to keep the system running,”
according to the filing. Krantz argued the statement is
inadmissible because it doesn’t relate to the charges.  Plea bargains may also be unappealing to defendants because
they include giving up cash, often leaving the accused criminal
broke, said W. James Payne, a criminal defense lawyer in
Shallotte,  North Carolina .  “The government always looks to forfeiture,” Payne, who
isn’t involved in the case, said in a phone interview. Forfeited
assets, he said, may also include vehicles and homes.  Julie Bolcer, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, didn’t reply to an e-mail message requesting
comment about plea negotiations.  DiPascali’s testimony, while central to the government’s
case, might also be the key to a win for the defendants, Jimenez
said.  Defense Strategy  “Clearly a big part of the defense strategy will be to
convince at least one juror that he’s trying to pin blame for
his conduct on others,” Jimenez said. “His credibility
rightfully should be questioned.”  It’s possible the defense attorneys will seek to convince
the jury that even if the defendants were involved in the fraud,
they are being served up by their former bosses who were more
responsible, Jimenez said.  “Jurors are human beings, and in our system of justice
they can acquit a defendant without giving a reason,” Jimenez
said. “If a defense attorney is able to convince at least one
juror that their client should get a pass, that could happen,
though in this case the odds of that are not great.”  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  