-- Former San Diego Mayor Bob Filner Pleads Guilty to Felony
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2013-10-15T19:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ex-san-diego-mayor-bob-filner-charged-with-false-imprisonment.html
Ex-San Diego Mayor Bob Filner, who
resigned after being accused of sexual harassment, pleaded
guilty to charges that he forced himself on women at political
events in a deal with prosecutors that spares him prison time.  He entered pleas today to a felony charge of false
imprisonment and misdemeanor battery charges in state court in
San Diego. Under the terms of a plea bargain, he will be placed
on probation, ordered to spend three months in home confinement
and barred from ever seeking public office, California Attorney
General  Kamala Harris  said in a statement.  Filner, 71, was the first Democrat to lead the eighth-largest U.S. city in two decades. Prosecutors said he used force
to restrain an unidentified woman at a March 6 fundraiser and
used “additional force to overcome her resistance,” according
to a court filing. At an April 6 “Meet the Mayor” event,
Filner kissed an unidentified woman on the lips without her
consent, and on May 25 he grabbed a woman’s buttock when she was
posing for a picture with him at a Fiesta Island Rally and
Clean-up event, prosecutors said.  “This conduct was not only criminal, it was also an
extreme abuse of power,” Harris said in a statement. “This
prosecution is about consequence and accountability. No one is
above the law.”  Filner appeared at his arraignment hearing today in a blue
suit with a gold tie and only spoke by responding “guilty” or
saying yes when asked if he understood the charges and consented
to the plea agreement.  ‘Tactical Decision’  Deputy Attorney General Melissa Mandel told Superior Court
Judge Robert Trentacosta that Filner “was making a tactical
decision based on the advice of counsel” in pleading guilty to
the charges.  Filner’s attorney,  Jerry Coughlan , told reporters after the
hearing “Mr. Filner wants to put all this behind him and
continue the rehabilitation treatment he has been receiving.”  “He apologizes profusely to all the victims,” Coughlan
said. “This plea today is a step forward in redeeming his
legacy.”  Trentacosta scheduled Filner’s sentencing for Dec. 9 and
allowed him to remain free until then without bail. The felony
he pleaded to carries a three-year maximum prison sentence,
according to the plea agreement.  The victims of Filner’s crimes were identified only as Jane
Doe 1, 2, and 3.  ‘Personal Failures’  Filner agreed in August to leave office after 18 women
publicly accused him of making unwanted advances and
inappropriate comments. The City Council voted 7-0 for an
agreement under which the city will defend him against
noncriminal legal actions stemming from his behavior as mayor,
which he attributed to “my own personal failures.”  Under the terms of the plea agreement, Filner must
surrender his mayoral pension from the date the felony was
committed until the date he resigned office. Filner may not
vote, serve on a jury or own a firearm while he is on probation.
He’s required to undergo treatment as directed by a mental
health professional throughout his probation. If he violates the
terms of his probation, he may face as long as six months in
jail, according to Harris’s statement.  Filner won office in November with 52 percent of the vote
partly because of actions on pensions for city workers the
council backed and voters approved. The changes, including
limits on benefits, helped labor unions rally support for the
Democrat’s bid.  The case is People v. Filner, SCD235490, California
Superior Court,  San Diego  County (San Diego).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles federal court
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in state court in San Diego
at  Callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 