-- Texas Toll Road Rating Cut by Moody’s Due to Default Risk
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-15T22:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/texas-toll-road-rating-cut-by-moody-s-due-to-default-risk-1-.html
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
about $1.1 billion of debt for the operator of State Highway
130, a toll road near Austin, Texas, saying “the project will
have insufficient cash to meet its debt service payments due in
June.”  The rating for SH 130 Concession Co. was cut five levels,
from B1 to Caa3, its third-lowest junk grade level, Moody’s said
in a news release today. The majority owner of the toll road is
a unit of  Ferrovial SA (FER) , based in  Madrid .  Moody’s expects traffic and revenue to grow at an
inadequate pace to meet debt payments, analyst John Medina said
in an interview. Revenue from the road has missed initial
forecasts by 55 percent since its opening in October 2012.  Texas, the second-most populous U.S. state, has
increasingly relied on tolls to speed road construction.
Organizers expected the 41-mile road between Austin and San
Antonio would relieve traffic on Interstate 35.  “It remains uncertain if the sponsors will provide
additional equity support for the project,” according to the
Moody’s release. “A debt restructuring or some kind or sponsor
equity support are the only feasible options, besides allowing a
payment default to occur.”  Chris Lippincott, spokesman for SH 130 Concession Co.,
declined to discuss financing options, including whether
Ferrovial or partner Zachry American Infrastructure would invest
more money in the project. The company is trying to boost
traffic through rate cuts for truckers and adding 400 highway
signs alerting travelers to the road, Lippincott said.  Toll Rates  In April, following a previous Moody’s downgrade, toll
rates for truckers were reduced to the same levels as passenger
cars and light vehicles, or $6.50. The  Texas  Department of
Transportation is making up the loss in revenue with subsidies
to the toll-road company, Medina said.  The default “would have uncertain near-term
ramifications” because of outstanding swap agreements, Moody’s
said. The borrower could face payments of about $107 million if
swap counterparties exercised their option to end the agreements
and demand termination payments. Moody’s said the project
couldn’t afford those payments.  A separate, 49-mile stretch of State Highway 130 north of
Austin is not owned by the Ferrovial partnership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  