-- Facebook’s Sandberg to Meet U.S. Privacy Regulator
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/facebook-s-sandberg-to-meet-u-s-privacy-regulator.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  is to meet today with a commissioner of
a U.S. agency asked to probe whether the social network is
violating a settlement over its privacy practices.  Maureen Ohlhausen, a Republican on the Democrat-led Federal
Trade Commission, said in an interview she has a meeting
scheduled in Washington with the Facebook executive.  “It’s just a general meet-and-greet,” Ohlhausen said.
“I’m sure we’ll cover privacy along with other topics.”  Privacy advocates last month asked the FTC to investigate
what they called changes by Facebook to use members’ images and
content for commercials without their consent. Facebook said it
had adopted new language about practices that hadn’t changed
since its 2011 agreement with the FTC.  “They’re bringing out their heavy guns,”  Jeffrey Chester ,
executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a
Washington-based privacy group, said in an interview.
“Sandberg’s being sent to do damage control.”  Sandberg’s foray quickens the tempo of involvement in
Washington by the world’s biggest social network, with 1 billion
customers. Co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  visited lawmakers last
month and asked them to grant more visas for skilled immigrant
workers, he told an audience in a conference space at the foot
of Capitol Hill.  Sandberg’s meeting was reported earlier by Politico.  Chester’s Washington-based privacy group was joined in last
month’s complaint to the FTC by groups including the Electronic
Privacy Information Center and Consumer Watchdog.  ‘Very Smart’  The FTC’s staff has met with privacy advocates to discuss
Facebook’s changes, Chester said. U.S. Senator  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat, has asked the agency whether the changes
violate a 2011 FTC consent decree agreed to by the  Menlo Park ,
California-based company. The 20-year agreement requires
Facebook to get users’ consent before sharing material posted
under earlier terms.  Visiting Ohlhausen is “a very smart move by Facebook,”
 David Balto , a former policy director at the FTC, said in an
interview. “Ohlhausen is just a critical voice, because she
understands and can articulate the industry perspectives so
well.”  Ohlhausen was an attorney at Wilkinson Barker Knauer LLP
when  nominated  by President  Barack Obama  in 2011 to serve on the
commission. She worked at the FTC from 1997 to 2008 in various
posts, including as director of the office of policy planning
and an adviser to a Republican commissioner.  Privacy regulators should also consider competition,
Ohlhausen said in speeches this year. Government restrictions
may favor entrenched entities that already have information over
new entrants, and consumers who don’t allow data collection may
no longer be exposed to offers by competitors, Ohlhausen told a
digital advertisers’ gathering in  Washington  in June.  The FTC is closed as part of the partial government
shutdown that began Oct. 1.  Elisabeth Diana, a Facebook spokeswoman, in an e-mail
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  