-- Families Fleeing Syria Battle Raise Tension in Oil Region
-- B y   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-10-16T12:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/families-fleeing-syria-battle-raise-tension-in-oil-region.html
Gorge Mardyan and his family of four
have lost most of their possessions. Gorge left his job as a
printer and they have fled their large home in Aleppo,  Syria ,
for a cramped one-room apartment in the disputed South Caucasus
region. Yet they feel lucky. They hope they are out of danger.  The Mardyans are among 10,000 war refugees in the area. A
century after finding refuge in Syria from massacres and
persecution by the  Ottoman Empire , Armenians are on the move
again. More than 2 million people have left Syria since the
conflict there flared in 2011. So far, the fighting has claimed
more than 100,000 lives.  “This is the best for us,” mother of three Nelli says.
“I took them away from the war to let them just be children.”  While the number of Syrian refugees in Armenia is a
fraction of the two million who poured mainly into  Turkey , Iraq
and Jordan, their arrival threatens to intensify tension in the
energy-rich South Caucasus region. As the  Soviet Union  collapsed
two decades ago, Armenia and  Azerbaijan  fought a war in the
mountainous Nagorno-Karabakh region and border skirmishes
continue since a 1994 cease-fire.  The South Caucasus is the only non-Russian route toward
 Europe  for oil and gas produced in the  Caspian region , where  BP
Plc (BP/)  and partners have invested more than $40 billion in the past
20 years. Azerbaijan, the third largest oil producer in the
former Soviet Union, has threatened military action over the
Nagorno-Karabakh assisted settlements, which it says are
illegal.  Bullet Escape  “Me and my daughter Anna were on the balcony of our Aleppo 
home,” says Nelli, 49. “We came inside to answer the phone. On 
our return, we found bullets right at the place we had been 
sitting.”  Their escape in June almost ended in disaster when their
Mercedes taxi driver had to swerve to avoid another car and they
plunged into the flooded Arpa river outside  Armenia ’s capital.  “We escaped the war to fall into the river,” Gorge, 51,
says. The family was unhurt, though losing more possessions in
the crash.  They are now settled in the Lachin district of Nagorno-Karabakh. Gorge has temporary work as a plumber while his wife
works as a janitor for only $100 a month each.  “I can’t open a printing house because I can’t find
materials we were using in Aleppo,” says Georg. “At least we
don’t pay for utilities, because the Nagorno-Karabakh government
covers this.”  School Welcome  Nelli says she doesn’t mind the 30-minute walk to school or
nearest town and they have been made welcome. The school has
allowed her children to attend without uniform because they
can’t afford them.  They share a kitchen and bathroom with five other Syrian
Armenian families. Their Aleppo fifth-floor home is shuttered
and closed, with no return in sight. Tensions have escalated to
over a Aug. 21 poison-gas attack near Damascus that the U.S.
says killed 1,400 people.  “I am happy that we are at least far from shootings and
missiles,” says Nelli.  Still, Azerbaijan has warned that it may even start
military operations over some of the settlements.  “It’s a big concern to us as it aims to change the
demographic balance in the region,” Elman Abdullayev, a
spokesman for the Azeri Ministry of  Foreign Affairs , says by
telephone from Baku, the Azeri capital. “With this illegal
settlement, the Republic of Armenia is also damaging the  peace
process .”  Tax Breaks  Hundreds of ethnic Armenian families are being granted aid
and tax breaks as the government in Yerevan is resettling them
in some of the districts flanking the disputed enclave, which
were taken into the Armenian control during a war with
Azerbaijan after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.  About 700,000 Azeris were forced to leave the areas in what
Azerbaijan describes as ethnic cleansing. Brushing off four
United Nations Security Council resolutions demanding a
withdrawal from the districts, Armenia has defended their
conquest by the need to create a security buffer zone.  Azerbaijan has forged closer ties with  Israel  and NATO-member Turkey and increased  defense spending  27-fold to $3.7
billion a year in the past decade, outlays that exceed Armenia’s
annual budget. Armenia hosts a Russian military base in its
second-biggest town of Gyumri, near the Turkish border, and
Russian troops guard Armenia’s borders with  Iran  and Turkey.  Resettlement Aid  “We can’t leave them without attention,” Nagorno-Karabakh
president Bako Sahakyan says in an interview in the capital
Stepanakert. While he doesn’t have a specific resettlement
program for Syrian-Armenians, he is applying the resettlement
policy of adjacent districts to them as well.  “Despite the fact that we also are facing difficulties
economically, we try to soften their problems and give them some
opportunities,” he says.  Hovhannes Asmaryan, 43, who moved to Stepanakert from
Aleppo a year ago, was granted those opportunities in form of
tax privileges for $600,000 investments into kiwi and olive
gardening in the disputed region.  “We don’t worry about conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh,” the
businessman says. “We had some income in Syria, but because of
the military situation, businesses simply stopped operating.”  About 50,000 Armenians are still in Syria, while more than
70 have been killed and 150 wounded, according to the Diaspora 
Ministry of Armenia.  Legal Help  The Aleppo law firm of Meghri has helped 4,000 Syrian
Armenians gain Armenian citizenship in the past two years,
according to its director Boghos Aghababian, 57.  Armenia is seeking assistance from European, U.S. and
Russian businesses for a district estimated to cost $10 million,
designed for 150 Syrian families called “New Aleppo.”  Syrian-Armenians have been given free entry visas, taxation
privileges and free education. By contrast, the state did little
for Iraqi-Armenian refugees who came to Armenia during the  Iraq
war  in 2003, according to Hranush Hakobyan, the diaspora
minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Khojoyan in Yerevan at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  