-- Fannie Mae Survival is Back on the Table in Washington
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-10-15T20:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/fannie-mae-survival-is-back-on-the-table-in-washington.html
The consensus in Washington that
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac should be dismantled is weakening
amid opposition from  hedge funds , regional banks and others who
could benefit if the companies survive in some form.  President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers from both parties have
called for the two mortgage-finance companies to be replaced by
a new U.S. housing system. While the official position hasn’t
changed, a bipartisan group of U.S. senators writing legislation
is grappling with how to ensure that changes to  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac don’t disrupt the recovering housing market.  Some Democrats said they are leery of engineering a switch
that would liquidate the government-sponsored enterprises, or
GSEs, leaving it to private entities to risk their own capital
on home loans.  “I’m not sure that eliminating the GSEs totally makes
sense, as some have suggested, and so I have an open mind on
it,”  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey , a Democratic member of the
Senate Banking Committee, said in an interview last week. His
comments came after Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, said in August that the companies shouldn’t be
dismantled.  Gaining Traction  Since they nearly collapsed during the 2008 credit crisis,
the two companies have drawn $187.5 billion from taxpayers and
have been considered too politically toxic to be preserved.
While the U.S. holds controlling stakes, the outcome will affect
private investors including hedge funds Perry Capital and
Paulson and Co., which have accumulated preferred shares and
have spent months lobbying for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to be
recapitalized.  The hedge funds gained little traction in early meetings
with senators such as  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican who
publicly rejected their pleas in the spring. As the legislative
process advances and involves a wider group of lawmakers, some
are listening to the argument that an entirely new system could
risk instability in the market.  The changing atmosphere was reflected at a meeting today on
 Capitol Hill  between congressional aides and representatives
from the mortgage industry. Among questions on a list handed out
by staff members of the Senate banking panel were whether parts
of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be spun off or sold to
private investors instead of wound down, according to three
people who attended. Participants were given until the end of
October to respond in writing, said the people, who asked to
remain anonymous because the meeting wasn’t public.  ‘Renovating’ Fannie  Isaac Boltansky, an analyst with Compass Point Research &
Trading LLC in Washington, said that until recently policy
makers were engaged in a philosophical debate. Now they have to
deal with the practical challenges, he said.  “The conversation is going to shift to whether it’s
necessary to burn down the whole house just to rebuild it, or
whether there’s merit in renovating it,” said Boltansky.  Driving investor hopes and the change in tone are the
record profits Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  have been posting as
the housing market rebounds from the worst recession since the
1930s. The companies are required to send almost all of those
profits back to the Treasury. So far, they’ve remitted about
$146 billion, which under terms of the bailout counts as a
return on the U.S. investment rather than a repayment.  Shareholders including Perry Capital and Fairholme Funds
Inc. have sued the U.S., charging that Treasury is expropriating
the value of its investors’ preferred shares in Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. Those suits are adding urgency to lawmakers’
efforts.  House Bill  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide liquidity to the real-estate market by packaging mortgages into securities on which
they guarantee payments of principal and interest. Legislative
discussions have centered on replacing the companies with a
government reinsurance agency as a backstop to privately
financed loans that would kick in only after severe losses.  A bill authored by  House Republicans  that would scrap
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and largely eliminate government
involvement in the mortgage market is unlikely to come to a vote
in its current form. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, didn’t include the measure in a September
memo on his legislative calendar for the remainder of the year.  Instead, the legislative vehicle is probably a bill being
drafted by the leaders of the Senate Banking Committee, Democrat
 Tim Johnson  of  South Dakota  and Republican  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho .
Their measure, which Johnson said they hope to introduce by the
end of the year, will include elements of legislation introduced
in June by Corker and  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat, which
would wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in five years.  ‘Difficult’ Transition  Republicans, who have been most vocal about the need to
eliminate the two companies, haven’t moved publicly from their
position. Even before Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac needed a
government bailout, the companies gained notoriety in Washington
with decades of controversy about their accounting practices and
their role in fueling the housing bubble.  “I do believe the transition is going to be difficult and
we’ve got to get it right,” Crapo said in an interview on Oct.
9. “But I also believe we should be liquidating ultimately and
phasing out Fannie and Freddie and moving to some kind of new
structure.”  Republicans and Democrats in general have shown little
enthusiasm for a solution that would appear to reward investors
more than taxpayers. Corker and Warner say it would be possible
to preserve some parts or functions of the mortgage companies
without benefitting shareholders.  Community Banks  Hedge funds aren’t the only players pushing lawmakers to
reconsider plans for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . Regional and
community banks that rely on the enterprises to purchase and
securitize their loans, for example, have expressed fears that
they will be shut out of a new system.  “For a community bank, the process for gaining access to
the secondary market would be more difficult than it is today,”
under the legislative proposals introduced so far, Camden Fine,
president of the  Independent Community Bankers of America , said
in an interview.  Warner said the bill that emerges will ensure small lenders
are able to securitize their loans, and that may mean preserving
some of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s infrastructure.  ‘Incredibly Important’  “We don’t want to do anything that stymies the incredibly
important role of the smaller institutions,” Warner said in an
interview last week.  Other market participants, including large banks, have
argued that five years isn’t enough time to wind down the
companies. They say it’s unclear whether there’s enough private
capital willing to take the first-loss position on mortgages if
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac switch off their guarantees.  “As much as it’s problematic in this town for people to
stomach the idea that these entities are going to survive, we
have to reform and recapitalize and privatize them to ensure
stable credit formation during this transition to a new
government guarantee,” James Millstein, chief executive officer
of Millstein and Co. and the author of a recapitalization plan
for the enterprises, said during an appearance at the National
Press Club Oct. 1.  Millstein, who said he holds Fannie Mae preferred shares,
is a former Treasury official who oversaw the restructuring of
bailed-out insurer American International Group Inc.  Financing Deficit  Private-label securities can support about $500 billion of
annual housing finance, while the U.S. housing market needs
between $1.5 trillion and $4 trillion in annual financing
depending on interest-rate conditions, Georgetown University Law
Professor Adam Levitin told the Banking Committee during an Oct.
1 hearing. A system in which the government acts as a reinsurer
behind private capital could work, Levitin said.  Corker said a safe transition can be accomplished without
recapitalizing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. He and Warner, his
co-author, said that essential functions of the companies could
survive in the system that they’ve proposed.  “Our bill outlines a very clear picture for a future state
of housing finance that does not rely on the duopolies of Fannie
and Freddie, but it smartly leverages the existing technology
and infrastructure already built in order to help us get
there,” Corker said in an e-mail.  Kenneth Bentsen, president of Wall Street’s biggest lobby
group, the Securities Industry and Financial Market Association,
said his members are concerned that a five-year transition
period may be “aggressive.”  “There’s a lot of value in the infrastructure,” Bentsen
said in an interview. “The mortgage industry relies on it a
great deal, investors rely on it a great deal. So while you want
to move beyond the GSEs -- we understand that that’s the will of
a majority of Congress in both parties -- you don’t want to
throw the baby out with the bath water.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  