-- Fannie Mae Said to Sell Risk-Sharing Debentures at Lower Spreads
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-15T21:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/fannie-mae-said-to-sell-risk-sharing-debentures-at-lower-spreads.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the government-controlled mortgage-finance company, sold its first notes tied
to the risk of homeowner defaults at lower relative yields than
offered earlier, a person with knowledge of the deal said.  A $337.5 million, BBB- rated slice of the debt will pay a
floating yield of 2 percentage points more than the one-month
London interbank offered rate, after being marketed at a spread
of 2.25 percentage points last week, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the terms aren’t public. A riskier
$337.5 million unrated portion sold at a spread of 5.25
percentage points, down from 5.75 percentage points.  The debt is attractive to investors because the underlying
mortgages carry strong characteristics, including never having
been  delinquent  since being made last year near “the peak of
tight underwriting” after housing crashed, said Jason Callan,
Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC’s structured-products head. Home prices have also jumped about 12 percent
since the loans were originated, lowering their risks, he said.  “This is probably as strong of a credit profile as one is
going to get,” said Callan, whose Minneapolis-based firm
manages about $340 billion. “Everything about it from a
fundamental perspective is really attractive.”  Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
declined to immediately comment on its offering. Bank of America
Corp., which helped structure the securities, and Credit Suisse
Group AG managed the sale.  Reduce Dominance  U.S. regulators see sales of the notes by Fannie Mae and
competitor  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  as a way to reduce the dominance of the
two government-backed companies and assess whether they are
charging enough to guarantee their traditional mortgage bonds.  The risk-sharing deals also resemble provisions in
legislation introduced this year that would overhaul the $9.3
trillion U.S. mortgage-finance system. The bill, by Republican
Senator Bob Corker of  Tennessee  and Democratic Senator Mark Warner of  Virginia , was praised by President  Barack Obama .  Freddie Mac sold $500 million of similar debt at spreads of
3.4 percentage points and 7.15 percentage points in July,
completing its first deal as concern the Federal Reserve would
slow its $85 billion in monthly debt buying roiled markets.  Fannie Mae’s securities, which are tied to about $28
billion of mortgages, differed from Freddie Mac’s notes by
carrying ratings, requiring more loans to sour before investors
suffer losses and removing tests that can delay principal
repayments, according to a Deutsche Bank AG report last week.  Libor, the rate at which banks say they can borrow from
each other, was fixed at 0.24 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  