-- Fed Regional Directors Saw ‘Moderate’ Growth Amid Fiscal Risks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-15T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/fed-regional-directors-saw-moderate-growth-amid-fiscal-risks.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
district banks said last month the  U.S. economy  was expanding at
a “moderate” pace, though fiscal “uncertainties” and higher
 interest rates  remained risks to the outlook.  “Directors viewed recent readings on manufacturing
activity and the housing and auto sectors as generally
positive,” according to minutes released today in Washington
summarizing the discussions. “Directors continued to see
downside risks to the outlook stemming from ongoing domestic
fiscal constraints and uncertainties, recent increases in long-term interest rates, and geopolitical concerns.”  Each of the 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks has a nine-member board of directors that provides anecdotal reports to the
Fed’s Washington-based Board of Governors and makes
recommendations on whether to raise or lower the discount rate
that the central bank charges on emergency loans.  A separate set of minutes, from the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s Sept. 17-18 monetary policy meeting, was released
last week.  The Board of Governors made no change to the  discount rate ,
which has been at 0.75 percent since February 2010. Directors at
the Philadelphia, Dallas and Kansas City district banks
requested a quarter percentage-point increase in the rate to 1
percent, as they had in previous meetings. The Minneapolis Fed
directors, who had previously supported leaving the rate
unchanged, requested the rate be lowered to 0.5 percent. The
other eight reserve banks voted to keep the rate unchanged.  “Those directors favoring a reduction in the primary
credit rate believed that a looser setting would help to foster
the Committee’s macroeconomic objectives of maximum employment
and price stability,” according to the records, which pertained
to meetings on Aug. 12, Aug. 26 and Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  