-- Fed Researchers Say Labor Recovery in U.S. May Soon Accelerate
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-10-15T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/fed-researchers-say-labor-recovery-in-u-s-may-soon-accelerate.html
Improvement in the U.S. labor market
may soon speed up, building on gains during the past year,
Federal Reserve researchers said, citing six employment
indicators.  “The recovery in the labor market is robust, broad-based,
and likely to continue, if not accelerate, over the coming
months,” Mary Daly, Bart Hobijn and Benjamin Bradshaw,
economists at the  San Francisco  Fed, said in a research note
published today. “Whether this increase in momentum amounts to
a ‘substantial improvement’ in the outlook for the labor market
is a question for policy makers to decide.”  U.S. central bankers are debating when to begin tapering
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases after saying last month
they wanted to see more evidence of sustained economic strength.
The Fed has pumped up its balance sheet to $3.76 trillion and
has pledged to press on with so-called  quantitative easing  until
the job market improves “substantially.”  “The labor market is improving along a variety of
dimensions, not just a few isolated measures,” according to the
San Francisco Fed researchers. “Labor-market activity is
beginning to converge to levels consistent with past recoveries
rather than continuing at the highly suppressed pace that has
defined the past few years.”  The San Francisco Fed researchers examined 30 indicators,
six of which are “excellent” predictors of the future
 unemployment rate , they said. Those are the insured unemployment
rate, initial jobless claims, capacity utilization, the
 Institute for Supply Management  manufacturing index and private
payroll growth.  The researchers also reviewed the difference between the
ratio of households that consider jobs hard to get and the
ratio that consider jobs plentiful, taken from the Conference
Board’s  Consumer Confidence  Survey.  The six “indicators show the pace of the labor-market
recovery has increased compared with a year ago,” according to
the researchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  