-- FedEx Rises to Highest Since 2007 on Stock Buyback Plan
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-10-15T20:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/fedex-surges-to-record-on-largest-buyback-at-32-million-shares.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  surged to the highest in
more than six years after the operator of the world’s largest
cargo airline authorized a buyback plan of as many as 32 million
shares, its biggest repurchase program ever.  The stock  jumped  4.1 percent to $120.08 at the close in New
York, the highest since February 2007. The shares touched
$122.50 in intraday trading for the highest price on that basis
since the  Memphis , Tennessee-based company’s initial public
offering in  1978 .  Approving a buyback equivalent to 10 percent of the shares
outstanding may blunt market skepticism that FedEx can meet
targets in its $1.7 billion restructuring program, said Brandon Oglenski, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York . FedEx has been
working to cut costs as customers shift toward less-expensive
delivery options than overnight air shipments.  Management is signaling “they can deliver those numbers
and that they see real value in the equity,” Oglenski said in a
telephone interview. He rates FedEx overweight, equivalent to a
buy recommendation.  A buyback of 32 million shares would be equal to about $3.7
billion in stock based on the close of trading yesterday. The
move adds to the remaining 7.4 million of shares authorized for
repurchase in an existing program, FedEx said in a statement.  FedEx didn’t specify timing to conclude the plan. During
the company’s fiscal first quarter that ended Aug. 31, FedEx
repurchased 2.8 million shares, according to the statement.  “Historically FDX has not been a regular or aggressive
buyer of its shares and so the announcement this morning is
surprising,” Thomas Wadewitz, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, said today in a note. Wadewitz, who has a
neutral rating on the shares, said the program may boost annual
earnings per share by 75 cents to 85 cents after its completion.  The repurchase decision is “credit negative,” Moody’s
Investors Service said in a statement. Moody’s didn’t change
FedEx’s senior unsecured rating of Baa1, three levels above non-investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  