-- Fiat Trial Over UAW’s Chrysler Shares Set for September
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-10-15T18:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/fiat-trial-over-uaw-s-chrysler-shares-set-for-september.html
Fiat SpA (F)  must wait about a year for
a trial over the value of some Chrysler Group LLC shares after a
judge set a September 2014 date to hear evidence, further
delaying Fiat’s push to combine the two companies.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons scheduled a
five-day, non-jury trial to start Sept. 29 for testimony and
arguments about valuing the shares, which are owned by a  United
Auto Workers  trust fund.  Lawyers for the UAW’s  Retiree Medical Benefits Trust  had
requested a January 2015 trial on dueling interpretations of an
agreement covering some Chrysler shares. Fiat sought a May 2014
trial in hopes of speeding up Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne’s effort to use the case to set the value of the
union’s 41.5 percent Chrysler stake.  The union trust estimated the value of its stake in the
automaker at $4.2 billion in July, when Marchionne valued the
stake at $1.7 billion.  Fiat officials declined to comment on the 2014 trial date.
Matt Wood, a spokesman for the union trust, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the schedule. Richard Hilgert, an
analyst with  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said the matter will
most likely be resolved before the trial date.  “It makes more sense that these parties come together in a
deal that has Fiat as 100 percent owner of Chrysler,” he said.
“In the meantime, both sides will engage in brinkmanship to
maneuver for leverage in the negotiation process.”  Formulas Scrutinized  Parsons refused in July to honor Fiat’s request to set a
value on the shares without a trial. The judge also ruled in
Fiat’s favor on several claims affecting the value of the
trust’s shares. Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , bought a stake in
Chrysler in June 2009 after the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
carmaker sought bankruptcy-court protection from creditors.  The trial will focus on the agreement’s formulas for
valuing the first segment of more than 270,000 shares the trust
received when Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy in 2009.  Marchionne, who runs both Fiat and Chrysler, has spent the
past four years seeking to unify the companies so they can
better compete with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  A fully integrated automaker would feature the
mass-market Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge brands, along with
the high-end  Maserati  and  Ferrari  lines.  Fiat wants to acquire the UAW’s entire Chrysler portfolio
of 676,000 shares as part of its unification effort.  The union trust provides health-care services to more than
800,000 retirees and their dependents, according to the trust’s
website. It’s the largest nongovernmental buyer of retiree
health services in the U.S.  The case is Fiat North America LLC v. UAW Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust, 7903, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ; Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at
   mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 