-- Gay Democrats Back Front-Runner de Blasio in NYC Mayor Race
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-10-15T18:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/gay-democrats-embrace-frontrunner-de-blasio-in-nyc-mayor-contest.html
Some of New York’s most prominent
gay Democrats are holding a $1,000-per-person fundraiser for
mayoral candidate Bill de Blasio in what hosts are calling the
most significant embrace of the front-runner.  The group will gather Oct. 20 at the home of Charles Myers,
partner at investment bank advisory firm  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) 
and a donation bundler for President  Barack Obama , according to
an invitation e-mailed from de Blasio’s campaign. Other hosts
include Richard Socarides, a former senior adviser to President
Bill Clinton, and Tim Gunn, star of television’s “Project
Runway,” who backed City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, who
is openly gay, in the primary for the Democratic nomination.  Since winning the Sept. 10 primary, de Blasio has slimmed
down his public schedule in favor of private fundraisers. He’s
since raised almost $820,000, city campaign-finance records
show. Contributors included Leonard Feinstein, the co-founder of
 Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY) , and John Zucotti, co-chairman of
 Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) , who each gave $4,950, the
legal maximum.  “We supported Chris because we were excited about the idea
of having an openly gay mayor, not to mention her long history
and record,” Socarides said in an interview. “But now people
are excited about Bill and think he’s going to be an outstanding
mayor, not only for the gay community but for all New York.”  First Debate  The latest polls show de Blasio, 52, leading Republican
Joseph P. Lhota, 59, who was a top aide to former Mayor Rudy Giuliani and ran the region’s subway system, by more than 40
percentage points. The two will face off tonight in the first of
three televised debates before the Nov. 5 election.  Socarides cited de Blasio’s “strong” record on gay
rights. Other hosts include Cynthia Nixon, who starred in “Sex
and the City” and has backed de Blasio for months, and Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers,
who initially endorsed former comptroller Bill Thompson.  “We thought it was important to send a signal from those
of us who have been active in Democratic politics, that we are
all united behind him,” Socarides said.  De Blasio’s wife, Chirlane McCray, came out as a lesbian in
an article she wrote for Essence magazine before meeting her now
husband.  Lhota, a supporter of same-sex marriage, said he, too,
enjoys support from gay New Yorkers and has raised money with
them.  “It’s not surprising that they’re maximizing the amount of
access that they will have,” Lhota said in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “My viewpoints on the LGBT
community are well-documented, and I’ve worked with them over
the years to make sure that they’re treated with dignity and
respect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  