-- German Investor Sentiment Rises as Economy Weathers Woes
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-10-15T09:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/german-investor-sentiment-rises-as-economy-weathers-woes.html
German  investor confidence  increased
for a third month in October, signaling that the recovery in
 Europe ’s largest economy is withstanding financial-market
turbulence stoked by a U.S. fiscal standoff.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to
52.8 from 49.6 in September. That’s the highest since April
2010. Economists predicted no change, according to the median of
40 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  German business confidence as measured by the Ifo institute
climbed to the highest level in 1 1/2 years in September as
unemployment remained near a two-decade low and data signaled
the euro-area recovery is continuing. At the same time, the U.S.
government shutdown and the danger of a default of the world’s
largest economy are rattling financial markets and risk
derailing growth in Europe.  “Today’s ZEW index gives the impression that analysts
believe in the invulnerability of the German economy,”  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels.“The new
dark clouds coming from the other side of the Atlantic have not
yet blacked out analysts’ optimism.”  ‘Main Worry’  ZEW’s gauge of the current situation fell to 29.7 from 30.6
in September, compared with the median forecast of 31.3 in the
Bloomberg survey. An indicator of euro-area investor confidence
increased to 59.1 from 58.6. The group surveyed 237 investors
and analysts from Sept. 30 to Oct. 14.  “Financial market experts remain optimistic,” ZEW
President Clemens Fuest said after the report. “A greater
impact over the dispute on the  U.S. debt  ceiling isn’t
visible.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Oct. 12
that Europe is no longer the “main worry” for the global
economy. “Risks have shifted somewhat in the direction of
emerging countries, where growth has slowed,” he said.  Last week, the  International Monetary Fund  lifted or kept
unchanged the economic outlook for the euro area and its four
largest members through 2014, while cutting growth forecasts for
developing nations and world output as a whole. It predicts
German growth of 0.5 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2014.  Government Shutdown  “There’s a big risk that shocks will continue to disturb
the European environment,” UBS AG Chairman  Axel Weber  said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television on Oct. 10. The current
situation in the U.S. “will take a toll on growth.”  The U.S. government has been partly closed for almost two
weeks as President  Barack Obama  and Senate leaders fail to agree
on a budget and an Oct. 17 deadline to raise the country’s debt
ceiling approaches. Rates on Treasury bills maturing through the
end of the year rose last week as lawmakers sought a short-term
compromise.  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index traded at an all-time high of
8,786.92 at 11:20 a.m. in Frankfurt.  “Financial markets are flickering at the moment because of
uncertainty surrounding the discussion about U.S. debt,” said
 Alexander Koch , an economist at Raiffeisen Schweiz in Zurich.
“But Germany’s economic outlook remains solid and the past
weeks have shown that the recovery in Europe and other important
markets will continue, although it won’t be very fast.”  ‘Gradual Improvement’  Earlier this month,  Daimler AG (DAI)  said that it expects record
Mercedes-Benz sales this year, while Porsche AG said that profit
growth is likely to resume in 2014. The company is looking to
enter 15 new countries by the end of the decade as part of its
growth strategy, Bernhard Maier, Porsche’s global sales chief,
said in an interview on Oct. 14.  While German industrial output and exports rebounded in
August, factory orders fell for a second month. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on Oct. 2 that economic data
for the euro area confirm the picture of “gradual improvement
from low levels” after the economy emerged from its longest-ever recession in the second quarter.  Henkel AG Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said
Europe “will have quite a challenging position” in the next
four years, downplaying the prospect of any imminent recovery.  “Indicators for Germany and the euro area are quite good
but analysts are aware of the uncertainty stemming from the
budget fight in the U.S.,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist
at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “In any case, we will see a second
quarter of growth in the euro area and I’m very satisfied with
its performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  