-- German Stocks Climb as DAX Extends Record on U.S. Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-15T08:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/german-stocks-climb-as-dax-extends-record-on-u-s-talks.html
German stocks  rose for the third
time in four days, with the  DAX Index (DAX)  extending a record, as
U.S. Senate leaders moved closer to a deal to end a partial
government shutdown and avoid a breach of the debt limit.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  advanced 1.7 percent after
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. raised its price estimate for the
stock by 11 percent.  Axel Springer AG (SPR) , Europe’s biggest
newspaper publisher, climbed 2.4 percent as Commerzbank AG
upgraded its recommendation.  Bauer AG (B5A)  added 3.7 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised investors to buy the shares.  The DAX Index gained 0.5 percent to 8,770.78 at 10:11 a.m.
in Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge has rallied 2 percent so far
this month, extending its 2013 gains to 15 percent, amid
optimism that American Congress will resolve the fiscal impasse
and  Janet Yellen , nominated to head the Federal Reserve, won’t
rush to withdraw stimulus. The broader HDAX Index also increased
0.6 percent today.  “Markets are anticipating a last-minute solution to the
budget discussions in the U.S.,” Roger Peeters, chief executive
officer at Close Brothers Seydler Research in Frankfurt, wrote
in a note. “Within the next two days the fiscal cliff
discussions have to be decided and markets look like they are
expecting a happy ending.”  U.S. Senate leaders may reach a deal as early as today to
fund the government through Jan. 15, 2014, and extend its
borrowing authority until Feb. 7, according to a person familiar
with the negotiations who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Democrat  Harry Reid , the Senate majority leader, said he made
progress in budget talks with his Republican counterpart,  Mitch
McConnell , even as the partial government shutdown entered its
15th day.  Two Hurdles  Any agreement would still have to be approved by both
chambers of Congress, overcoming stalling maneuvers in the
Senate and Republican resistance in the House of
Representatives.  Without legislative action, the government would exhaust
its borrowing powers on Thursday. The Treasury would start
missing debt payments sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the Congressional Budget Office.  Germany’s ZEW Center for European Economic Research may say
today that its index of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict economic developments six months in advance,
held this month at the highest level since April 2010, according
to the median of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  