-- Germany Power Consumers to Pay Record Green Surcharges
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-10-15T14:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/germany-increases-fee-to-fund-renewable-energy-to-record.html
Germany ’s power grid operators
boosted the surcharge consumers pay for renewable energy by 18
percent to a record, adding to pressure on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government to act against rising electricity bills.  The four grid companies set the fee paid through power
bills at 6.24 euro cents (8.42 U.S. cents) a kilowatt-hour next
year from 5.28 euro cents now, according to a statement on the
 website  of TransnetBW. The charge has more than quintupled since
2009, helping to make German household power bills the third-highest in the European Union. Big industrial users are largely
exempt from the fee.  Merkel is looking for ways to reduce the cost of renewable-energy subsidies after deciding to close the country’s nuclear
power plants. The government will reshape the 13-year-old EEG
law granting support to technologies such as wind and solar
power once Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc reaches an
agreement with another party to form a new coalition following
last month’s elections.  “The next German government will seek to slow new
renewable energy projects but will not impose retroactive
changes to existing contracts,” Famke Krumbmuller, an analyst
with Eurasia Group in  London , wrote in a note.  Fukushima Legacy  Nuclear power supplied about a quarter of Germany’s power
before an earthquake and tsunami triggered a meltdown at the
Fukushima plant in  Japan  in 2011. The disaster turned the German
public and politicians against atomic energy. The government is
now seeking to get 80 percent of its electricity from renewables
by 2050 from about 23 percent now.  Changing the EEG will be among the “most important tasks
of any new government,” Environment Minister Peter Altmaier, a
Merkel confidant, said today in an e-mailed statement. Germany
needs a “stronger market-oriented, newly designed subsidy
system, a national expansion plan that’s binding for all 16
states and a rearrangement of the power market that reduces
overcapacities and CO2 emissions considerably,” he said.  The total subsidy next year will amount to about 23.6
billion euros ($32 billion), which is added to consumers’ power
bills. The fee increase will raise the bill of the average
German household with 3,500 kilowatt-hours of consumption by
about 34 euros a year. Consumers and smaller companies shoulder
a bigger portion of the cost of the fee while companies that use
a lot of energy are largely exempt.  The BDI industry federation that represents about 100,000
companies including  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said in a
statement today that Merkel’s third-term government needs to
“radically reform” the EEG to reduce industry costs.
Steelmakers face 300 million euros of extra charges next year
and are “strained to the limit,” said Hans Juergen Kerkhoff,
head of German steel lobby Wirtschaftsvereinigung Stahl.  Green Party  Renewables are wrongly blamed for the increase, said Oliver
Krischer, energy policy spokesman for the Greens party, which
today is continuing exploratory talks on a possible coalition
with Merkel’s conservatives in Berlin.  The fee is rising “because the power market isn’t working
and the old government has piled more and more industry aid onto
non-privileged electricity consumers,” Krischer said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Adding  wind turbines  and solar panels accounts for only
about a 10th of the fee’s increase, he said. Utilities such as
EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  should alleviate the burden on households by
passing on falling wholesale power prices, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  