-- GSW Accepts Deutsche Wohnen’s $2.3 Billion Bid for Landlord
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-10-15T09:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/gsw-accepts-deutsche-wohnen-bid-to-create-no-2-german-landlord.html
GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  recommended that
shareholders accept a takeover bid by  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  that
values GSW at about 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion). The deal
would create  Germany ’s second-largest owner of apartments.  Deutsche Wohnen Chief Executive Officer Michael Zahn will
head the new company, while GSW co-CEOs Joerg Schwagenscheidt
and Andreas Segal will become chief operating officer and chief
financial officer, respectively, GSW said in a statement after
the market closed yesterday.  “There are opportunities that we can bring out with a
combination,” Segal said by phone today. “We won’t be
competing against each other any more.”  GSW shareholders must decide whether to accept an offer of
2.55 Deutsche Wohnen shares for each GSW share by midnight on
Oct. 30. Both companies are based in Berlin, where price and
rent increases have outpaced the rest of the country.  Deutsche Wohnen needs acceptances from investors owning at
least 75 percent of GSW shares to proceed with the deal. The
combined company would own about 150,000 apartments valued at
8.5 billion euros, Deutsche Wohnen said in August.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN)  is Germany’s biggest
residential landlord, with 180,000 apartments and a market value
of 4.4 billion euros.  Dividend Policy  Starting in 2014, Deutsche Wohnen will increase its
dividend to about 60 percent of funds from operations excluding
sales, a measure of a property company’s ability to generate
cash, according to yesterday’s statement.  The new company would be able to become more profitable
because of cost savings and an increase in negotiating power
when acquiring apartments or borrowing money, Segal said.  “Being bigger creates advantages,” he said. “We are
optimistic that we can optimize our financing options further.”  The merger will lead to cost savings of about 25 million
euros per year starting in about two years, when the integration
is complete, Deutsche Wohnen said on Aug. 20.  Cost savings may also come from job cuts, Schwagenscheidt
said by phone.  “We don’t rule out that personnel may be reduced,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  