-- Gun-Carrying Limits Survive as High Court Rejects Appeal
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-15T13:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/gun-carrying-limits-survive-as-high-court-rejects-appeal.html
The U.S. Supreme Court rebuffed gun-rights advocates by letting stand a Maryland law that requires
people to show a special need for protection to get a permit for
carrying a handgun in public.  Six months after leaving intact a similar  New York  law, the
justices today turned away an appeal by a Maryland man who was
denied renewal of his permit to carry a handgun. A federal
appeals court upheld the law in March, saying it was a
reasonable effort to protect public safety and prevent crime.  The rejection, at least for the time being, keeps the
justices out of the fray over the constitutional right to bear
arms. The nation’s highest court hasn’t considered a Second
Amendment case since 2010, when it said people have a right to
have a handgun in the home for self-defense purposes.  Under the appeals court ruling, “the Second Amendment has
no practical impact beyond the threshold of one’s home,” argued
Raymond Woollard, the Maryland man who challenged the law along
with the Bellevue, Washington-based Second Amendment Foundation.
The  National Rifle Association  also backed the appeal.  Maryland is one of six states that generally require people
to make special showing to get a carry permit. The state’s
requirement doesn’t apply to police officers, prosecutors,
judges and security guards.  The law protects citizens by “decreasing the availability
of handguns to criminals via theft, lessening the risk that
basic confrontations will turn deadly and reducing escalations
of routine police encounters with citizens into high-risk
situations,” Maryland Attorney General Douglas Gansler argued
in court papers.  Under 21  The court will have more chances to take up a Second
Amendment case in its current nine-month term. An appeal filed
by the NRA challenges a federal law that bars licensed dealers
from selling a handgun to anyone under age 21.  Federal appeals courts have reached different conclusions
on laws that restrict public possession. Another appeals court
struck down an Illinois law that went further than Maryland’s
and barred most people from carrying a loaded weapon, with no
exception for those demonstrating a special need for protection.  A third court in August upheld  New Jersey ’s requirement
that people show a “justifiable need” to get a carry permit.  The legal disagreement stems from ambiguities in a 2008
Supreme Court decision that, for the first time, said the
Constitution protects an individual right to bear arms. That
ruling focused on gun rights in the home, striking down a
 District of Columbia  handgun ban. The 2010 case also involved
in-home possession.  ‘Reasonable Fit’  In the Maryland case, the three-judge panel said it would
assume the Second Amendment’s protections apply outside the
home. The appeals court upheld the law anyway, saying Maryland’s
public-safety goals were legitimate and the restrictions were a
“reasonable fit.”  Woollard received a carry permit in 2003, shortly after a
violent confrontation involving his son-in-law in Woollard’s
house on a farm outside Baltimore. Woollard got a renewal in
2006, just after the son-in-law was released from prison.  Woollard sued after his bid for a second renewal was
rejected in 2009. The son-in-law committed suicide this year
after a standoff with police.  Maryland ’s law instructs police to issue carry permits to
people with a “good and substantial reason,” such as “a
reasonable precaution against apprehended danger.” Carrying an
unlicensed handgun is a misdemeanor offense, punishable by as
much as three years in prison.  Approval Rate  The two sides disagree about the effect of the Maryland
law. The state says that it approved 94 percent of original and
renewal permit applications from 2007 to 2011 and that a board
appointed by the governor reversed 38 percent of the denials
over the past 20 years.  Woollard’s lawyers say those numbers ignore the people who
don’t submit an application because they expect to be denied.
Only 0.3 percent of the Maryland population age 20 and over have
carry licenses, compared with 8.3 percent in neighboring
 Pennsylvania , the appeal says.  The case is Woollard v. Gallagher, 13-42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  