-- India Rupee Rises on Inflow Optimism as U.S. Debt Talks Progress
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-15T04:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/india-rupee-rises-on-inflow-optimism-as-u-s-debt-talks-progress.html
India’s rupee rose on speculation
global funds will increase purchases of local stocks as U.S.
lawmakers move closer to a budget deal to avoid a debt default.  The benchmark S&P BSE  Sensex Index (SENSEX)  of stocks advanced 0.6
percent today as exchange data showed overseas investors have
bought a net $607 million of shares this month through Oct. 10.
Politicians in the U.S. are working on a proposal to suspend the
debt ceiling through Feb. 7 and fund the government until Jan.
15, a person familiar with the talks said. The U.S. will not
default, former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  said in
Seoul today.  “A debt deal will be a huge relief and have a direct
impact on emerging markets” in terms of increasing inflows,
said Ashtosh Raina, head of foreign-exchange trading at HDFC
Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.  The rupee gained 0.1 percent to 61.4575 per dollar as of
9:47 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
fell 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 14.69
percent.  U.S. Senate Democratic and Republican leaders said
yesterday they made significant progress toward an accord.
President  Barack Obama  postponed a meeting with Congressional
leaders to give lawmakers more time to reach an agreement.  One-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.1 percent to 61.96
per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 0.02 percent to 61.97. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  