-- India Stock-Index Futures Rise After Reliance Profit, U.S. Talks
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-10-15T02:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/india-stock-index-futures-rise-after-reliance-profit-u-s-talks.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures climbed
after  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  posted earnings that topped
analyst estimates and U.S. lawmakers said they made progress on
a budget accord for the world’s largest economy.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for October delivery increased
1 percent to 6,204 at 10:23 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying
CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
rose 0.3 percent to 6,112.70 yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex
advanced 0.4 percent and the  Bank of New York Mellon India ADR
Index  of U.S.-traded shares gained 1.5 percent.  Reliance, owner of the world’s biggest refinery complex,
said  net income  rose 1.5 percent to 54.9 billion rupees ($892
million), versus the 54.2 billion-rupee median of 25 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. Senate Democratic and
Republican leaders said they made progress toward an accord that
would end a partial government shutdown and prevent the nation
from breaching its debt ceiling.  “We expect an up move in the markets on the back of good
numbers from Reliance,” Surya Narayan Nayak, an analyst at
Networth Stock Broking Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai today.
“Some positive news on the U.S. debt ceiling is helping too.”  The Sensex has climbed 6.1 percent this year and is  valued 
at 14 times estimated 12-month profits, compared with 10.7 times
for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Tata, HDFC  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and  HDFC Bank (HDFCB)  Ltd. are
scheduled to report quarterly results today. Tata Consultancy,
India’s largest software exporter, may say net income rose about
29 percent from a year earlier to 45.3 billion rupees, according
to the median of 45 analyst estimates.  HDFC Bank, the nation’s largest lender by market value,
will probably say profit climbed 26 percent to 19.7 billion
rupees, according to the median of 38 estimates.  About 47 percent of Sensex companies that posted earnings
for the quarter ended June missed analyst estimates. That
compares with 27 percent for the March quarter and 43 percent in
the three months through December, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  India’s consumer-price index rose 9.84 percent in September
from a year earlier, exceeding the 9.5 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of economists, data from the  Central
Statistics Office  showed after markets closed yesterday.  Global investors bought a net $122.7 million of local
stocks on Oct. 10, taking this year’s inflow to $14 billion,
according to data from the markets regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  