-- India Rupee Revived by Rajan as Carry Trade Favorite
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-10-15T08:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/india-rupee-revived-by-rajan-as-carry-trade-favorite.html
Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor
Raghuram Rajan has turned the rupee from a pariah to the world’s
favorite currency after just a month in office as he intensifies
efforts to quell inflation and lure capital.  Investors selling dollars to buy rupees earned 10 percent
since Rajan took over on Sept. 4, the most among 44 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg and a turnaround from a 2.8 percent third-quarter loss. Options betting on one-month implied volatility
show investors becoming more confident in the rupee than for any
currency in  Asia  or the BRIC nations, which also include Brazil,
Russia and China.  “We no longer have a crisis of confidence,” Geoffrey Kendrick, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian currency and rates
strategy at Morgan Stanley, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“The new RBI governor has market credibility. For now, he’s
saying all the right things.”  The rupee sank to an all-time low in August after  India (GIND10YR) ’s
current-account deficit grew to a record $88 billion in the
fiscal year ended March 2013, threatening to push up inflation
in a nation that imports 80 percent of its oil. Rajan, 50, has
pledged to do whatever it takes to stabilize the currency. Among
his first acts, Rajan unexpectedly raised the benchmark  interest
rate  last month by a quarter-point to 7.5 percent.  Five Days  The rate boost helped drive the rupee to 61.535 per dollar
as of 9:20 a.m. in  London , an 11 percent advance from the low of
68.845 on Aug. 28. In the five days after Rajan took office, the
currency strengthened a total of 6.9 percent, more than in any
month since January 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc., the world’s two
biggest foreign-exchange traders, recommend buying the rupee, in
the forwards market and by selling the  Singapore dollar . Morgan
Stanley’s Kendrick forecasts the rupee will rally to 58 per  U.S.
dollar  in coming months.  Rajan, a former  International Monetary Fund  chief economist
credited with predicting the 2008 global financial crisis, also
announced a window for banks to raise new foreign-denominated
deposits and debt at a cheaper rate to boost dollar supply, a
move that already helped attract $5.6 billion of inflows, he
said on Oct. 4 in Raipur, the capital of India’s Chhattisgarh
state. Rajan said in an Oct. 10 speech in  Washington  that the
economy will pick up as exports rise.  ‘Market Savvy’  The new governor “has a lot of proven expertise in the
market,” Ron Raychaudhuri, a London-based fixed-income manager
at Lombard Odier Investment Management, which oversees $43
billion, said in an Oct. 11 phone interview. “We view him as
very market savvy. The steps he has taken have done a
considerable amount to stabilize the rupee.”  Rupee carry trades funded in dollars returned 7.5 percent
from July to September 2012, the last quarter where the strategy
beat gains for all 44 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. In
carry trades, investors borrow where  interest rates  are low to
invest in assets offering higher yields.  India’s 10-year government bonds yield 8.64 percent,
compared with 2.72 percent for  U.S. Treasuries (USGG10YR) , 0.67 percent for
Japanese debt and 1.89 percent for German bunds.  Traders selling dollars to buy the Brazilian real had the
second-best returns after rupee investors since Sept. 4, with a
9.2 percent gain as of yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Carry trades buying the  New Zealand dollar  received 6.1
percent, while the Polish zloty gave a 5.2 percent return.  Fed Effect  Emerging-market assets including the rupee were given a
boost Sept. 18 when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
surprised markets by announcing the central bank wouldn’t yet
cut the bond purchases it uses to pump money into the economy.  The RBI is limited in what else it can do to strengthen the
rupee on concern it will damp growth in Asia’s third-biggest
economy, according to BNP Paribas Investment Partners, which
manages about $650 billion.  “Rajan is trying to ring-fence the rupee problem and the
actions seem fairly successful so far,” Chia Woon Khien, a
Singapore-based strategist at BNP, said in a phone interview on
Oct. 10. “He doesn’t want further rupee strength because the
economy is weak.”  The International Monetary Fund cut its estimate last week
for India’s growth for the year through March 2014 to 3.8
percent from 5.6 percent, citing weaker manufacturing and
monetary tightening.  Standard & Poor’s  said last month there’s a
more than one-in-three chance India will lose its BBB-investment-grade rating within two years.  Inflation, Growth  There’s a “large” chance of a ratings cut in as little as
12 months, Roland Mieth, the senior vice president of  emerging
markets  at Pimco Asia Pte Ltd., said in a Sept. 16 interview in
 Singapore . The firm is a unit of  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund.  That’s a dilemma for Rajan, who also faces price increases
that unexpectedly accelerated in September. The  wholesale-price
index  rose to a seven-month high of 6.46 percent, more than the
6 percent increase predicted in a Bloomberg economist survey and
from 6.1 percent in August, the Commerce Ministry said in  New
Delhi  yesterday.  Consumer-price inflation  rose 9.84 percent.  The options market shows greater confidence in India’s
currency. A gauge of one-month implied volatility in the rupee
fell 8 percentage points since Sept. 4 to 14.5 percent, dropping
from the highest since December 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A similar measure for Indonesia’s rupiah slipped 4
percentage points to 15 percent. Bigger price swings make a
currency riskier for an investor to hold.  Less Bearish  Strategists are scaling back expectations for the rupee to
fall. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of more than 30
analysts sees it weakening to 63 per dollar by year-end,
compared with an estimate of 64.4 on Sept. 23.  Investors are also becoming more confident in other Indian
assets. Global funds boosted  holdings  of Indian stocks by $2.6
billion since the start of September, following net sales of
$3.7 billion in the prior three months, stock exchange data
show. The benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex Index (SENSEX)  of shares has rallied
about 10 percent.  The  trade gap  shrank to $6.8 billion last month from $10.9
billion in August, government data showed on Oct. 9, helped by
state curbs on gold imports to the world’s largest bullion user.  “The mood is better than it was previously among foreign
investors,” Sanjay Mathur, the Singapore-based head of research
and strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in an
Oct. 11 phone interview. “In terms of policy, the focus has
shifted to targeting inflation, which is very important because
if you can give depositors return above the CPI, it will reduce
the demand for gold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  