-- Ineos Shutting Scottish Refinery; May Cut 45% of U.K. Oil Output
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-10-15T09:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ineos-shutting-scottish-refinery-may-cut-45-of-u-k-oil-output.html
Ineos Group Holdings SA is shutting
the 210,000 barrel-a-day Grangemouth oil refinery and
petrochemical site before a strike this weekend that could halt
45 percent of the U.K.’s crude production.  The company is progressively stopping units before a 48-hour industrial action planned by  Unite union  workers, scheduled
to begin on Oct. 20 at 7 a.m. local time.  “We’re currently going through a safe shutdown of the
site,”  Richard Longden , a spokesman for Ineos, said by phone
from  London  today. “The units will be brought to a cold status
by the time the  strike action  starts.”  Grangemouth workers held a two-day strike in April 2008
that cut North Sea oil output and disrupted fuel supplies across
 Scotland . The site supplies power and steam to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
neighboring Kinneil processing plant, which handles oil from the
company’s  Forties Pipeline System  gathered from more than 80
offshore fields. FPS is scheduled to load 387,000 barrels a day
of crude in October, according to a shipping program obtained by
 Bloomberg news .  Union representatives and Ineos will meet today for talks
mediated by the U.K.’s Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration
Service after discussions ended yesterday without resolution,
Unite said in a statement last night. The discussions are
scheduled for 1 p.m. in Glasgow, Scotland today, according to
the U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change.  Forties Output  “We’re in touch with Ineos to establish the possible
impact of the shutdown,”  Robert Wine , a London-based spokesman
for BP, said today by phone. Operations at the Kinneil plant
will depend on the outcome of negotiations between Ineos and the
union, he said.  Forties output averaged 382,000 barrels a day this year,
according to loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News. The
U.K’s average crude production was 850,000 barrels a day this
year, data from the International Energy Agency show. Forties is
the most abundant of four crude grades that make up the Dated
Brent benchmark used to price more than half the world’s crude.
The others are Brent, Oseberg and Ekofisk.  “We have been monitoring the situation very closely,”
Cameron Ramos, a spokesman for the Department of Energy and
 Climate Change , said today by phone from London. “This isn’t
something that has come as a surprise.”  The Grangemouth refinery is jointly owned by Ineos Group
Holdings SA and  PetroChina Co Ltd (857) , while Ineos is the sole owner
of the petrochemical site.  Oil producers lost about 50 million pounds ($80 million) a
day in the 2008 outage, reducing the country’s tax revenue by at
least 25 million pounds a day, according to  Oil & Gas U.K. , an
industry group that represents offshore producers.  “Brent prices may soon have to deal with potential
disruption in North Sea production if a planned strike at the
Grangemouth refinery, which plays a key role in the supply of
Forties crude, goes ahead,” JBC Energy GmbH, a researcher in
Vienna, said today in a note.  Brent crude  fell 59 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $110.45 a
barrel as of 10:11 a.m. London time today on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  