-- Mining M&A Decline Imperils Explorers’ Aspirations
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-10-15T20:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/mining-m-a-decline-imperils-explorers-aspirations.html
Mining acquisitions valued at less
than $1 billion have slumped to an eight-year low as the
industry’s largest players rein in spending after a drop in
commodities prices.  The slump threatens hundreds of exploration and development
companies that don’t have revenue, more than half of which are
based in  Canada . Being bought by a larger miner is proving
increasingly elusive as companies such as Toronto-based  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest gold producer, avoid acquisitions and
new projects in favor of improving existing operations.  “Buyers are being very cautious on where they deploy
capital,” said Matthew Hind, the Toronto-based head of Canadian
metals and mining investment banking for Credit Suisse Group AG.
“Players are in the process of re-evaluating their balance
sheets and pipelines.”  There were 76 takeovers of companies in the third quarter,
with a combined valuation of $1.73 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest volume since the fourth
quarter of 2004, the data show.  Copper and zinc have dropped this year amid concerns that a
Chinese economic slowdown, and gold has declined 24 percent,
heading for its first annual decline in 13 years. BHP Billiton
Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the two biggest mining companies, have
cut billions of dollars of spending while Barrick sold three
mines in October and said it may sell others to cut costs.  ‘Few Buyers’  “There are a lot of sellers and very few buyers,” Clive Johnson, the chief executive officer of B2Gold Corp., a
Vancouver-based gold producer that’s considering acquisitions,
said in an interview.  “The general mood is anti-M&A in the gold space for the
most part, particularly at the senior level,” Barrick CEO Jamie
Sokalsky said May 21 at a conference in Toronto. While potential
targets have low valuations, often “they’re projects that you
might have to spend a billion or two billion to build.”  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Barrick, declined to comment on
potential acquisitions.  There are about 972 mining companies based in Canada that
reported no revenue in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The largest,  Detour Gold Corp. (DGC) , started
production at its Detour Lake gold mine in Ontario in August and
has a market value of C$1.03 billion ($988.8 million).  Prepare Sale  While Toronto-based Detour and some others have been able
to raise funds and start production, for many more the capital
and operational expertise required to develop a mine means
selling is the best strategy.  Lumina Copper Corp. (LCC)  is one junior looking for a suitor. The
Vancouver-based company put itself up for sale last year. It
would probably have announced a deal already if it weren’t for
the change in industry sentiment and an increase in political
risk associated with  Argentina , where Lumina operates, CEO David Strang said.  Bigger miners are “making sure that they move back to a
greater profitability on their operating mines, and are less
inclined to look at greenfield-project acquisitions,” Strang
said in an Oct. 3 phone interview.  Strang said his team’s objectives are clear: they don’t
build mines, instead they prepare projects for sale. His
previous job was CEO of Global Copper Corp., which was acquired
in 2008 by Teck Resources Ltd. for C$406 million. Strang also
has held executive roles at Northern Peru Copper Corp. and
Regalito Copper Corp., both juniors that were acquired.  ‘Our Job’  Lumina is prepared to “sit and wait” for the right deal,
he said.  “Our job is to remain patient and focused and to be ready
that when the market does return -- and it will return -- that
we’re ready and the project’s ready to be shown for sale,”
Strang said.  Lumina’s Taca Taca copper project in Argentina is large
with relatively high ore grades and has access to
infrastructure, all of which mean the junior is more likely than
most to find a buyer, said Adam Low, a Toronto-based analyst at
Raymond James Financial Inc.  “In all likelihood it’s only going to be the cream of the
crop that will get considered seriously in the current
environment,” Low said. “The other juniors might have to wait
until the next cycle.”  Funding Options  A sale can bring riches to founders and early shareholders.
Billionaire mining investor Robert Friedland established his
fortune when he was co-chairman of Diamond Field Resources Inc.,
a Canadian junior that discovered the Voisey’s Bay nickel
deposit in Labrador. Inco Ltd. paid C$4.3 billion for the
project in 1996.  Without revenue, it may be difficult for some juniors to
survive for long. Mining-industry stock sales, one of the few
funding options available as companies try to cover operating
costs, are poised for a fourth consecutive annual decline,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mining mergers and acquisitions may get a boost from cash-starved companies looking to combine to survive. The decline in
the gold price may drive some companies that produce and explore
for the metal to consolidate, J. Paul Rollinson, CEO of Toronto-based  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , said Oct. 9 by phone.  Most juniors will probably just keep moving their projects
forward while keeping their options open, said  NGEx Resources
Inc. (NGQ)  CEO Wojtek Wodzicki.  ‘Adding Value’  NGEx, which has projects in Chile, Argentina and Canada, is
another junior that may attract interest despite the tough
environment, Raymond James’s Low said. While Vancouver-based
NGEx isn’t actively looking for a buyer, it won’t rule anything
out, Wodzicki said in an Oct. 8 phone interview.  “We’re adding value to the projects and just sort of
pushing ahead with them,” he said.  Credit Suisse’s Hind said that while there will always be
interest in high-quality projects, there are also marginal ones
that can’t be restructured to fit the current price environment.  “Many projects won’t be able to re-invent themselves and
will ultimately disappear,” Hind said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  