-- Intel Forecasts Sales That May Top Estimates on Server Chips
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-15T22:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/intel-forecasts-sales-that-may-top-analyst-estimates-on-servers.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the chipmaker that gets
more than 80 percent of revenue from the personal-computer
market, forecast sales that may top some analysts’ estimates as
demand for server processors helped make up for a slump in PCs.  Fourth-quarter revenue will be $13.2 billion to $14.2
billion, the company said today in a  statement . That compared
with the average analysts’ projection of $14 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross margin , or the percentage
of sales remaining after deducting production costs, will be
about 61 percent, Intel said, in line with estimates.  While Intel’s processors have failed to gain much ground
with tablet and smartphone makers, the company still benefits
from their popularity because it supplies the main component in
9 out of 10 of the server machines that dish out data to mobile
devices. In addition, some businesses have started to purchase
PCs again, helping to slow the decline of that market.  “U.S. corporate spending could be a positive surprise,”
said  Cody Acree , an analyst at Williams Financial Group in
 Dallas . He has a hold rating on the stock. “That’s a high-margin business.”  Broadwell Delay  Broadwell, the company’s next processor design, which will
be made using 14 nanometer manufacturing technology, will go
into production in the first quarter of next year, three months
behind the original plan, Intel Chief Executive Officer Brian Krzanich said today on a conference call.  Intel shares slipped 2.2 percent to $22.88 in extended
trading after the company announced the production delay. They
had fallen less than 1 percent to $23.39 at the close in  New
York , and rose as high as $24 after the sales forecast. The
stock is up 13 percent this year, less than half of the gains in
the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  The company shrinks the size of the circuit lines that give
them their function with new production techniques to improve
the performance and lower the cost of its chips. That is key to
fielding products that it says will win it orders in mobile
devices. Broadwell’s delay is a setback to that strategy, though
Krzanich said the company is back on course.  “This is a small blip,” he said on the call.  Third Quarter  Third-quarter net income fell to $2.95 billion, or 58 cents
a share, from $2.97 billion, or 58 cents, a year earlier, the
 Santa Clara , California-based company said. Sales were little
changed at $13.5 billion. That compared with average analysts’
 estimates  for earnings of 54 cents on $13.5 billion of revenue.  Worldwide PC shipments fell 8.6 percent in the third
quarter. The decline, the sixth consecutive drop, was tempered
by growth in the U.S., where shipments climbed 3.5 percent,
market researcher Gartner Inc. said last week.  Intel’s PC-chip group, its largest division, had sales of
$8.4 billion, down 3.5 percent from a year earlier. Its server-chip unit, which also sells processors for storage and
networking equipment, had revenue of $2.9 billion, a gain of 12
percent.  Demand for servers is being driven by companies such as
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , Google Inc. and Amazon.com Inc., which are
building data centers to meet growing demand for mobile online
services.  “The trends are still good for a 10 percent type of growth
over the next two years,” said  Tristan Gerra , an analyst at
Robert W Baird & Co. He has the equivalent of a hold rating on
the shares. “You need a lot of growth in that area to offset
the decline in the remaining two-thirds of the business.”  Technology Earnings  Intel’s report opens two weeks of earnings announcements by
the largest U.S. technology companies. The chipmaker’s reach in
PCs, where its processors have more than 80 percent market
share, makes its performance a proxy for the industry.  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the No. 2 maker of PC processors, will
report earnings Oct. 17.  Gross margin in the third quarter was 62.4 percent, Intel
said, compared with an average analysts’ estimate of 61 percent.  The company has said sales are likely to be unchanged this
year. Intel expects to add orders in tablets and new computers
-- laptops with detachable keyboards and touch screens that it
calls two-in-ones -- to make up for declining sales of
traditional notebook machines.  Intel took 92 percent of revenue in the market for PC
processors in the second quarter, compared with a 3.2 percent
slice of the market for tablet processors, according to
researcher IDC.  The company’s biggest customers are Hewlett-Packard Co.,
Dell Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd, which together contribute more
than 40 percent of its revenue, according to a Bloomberg supply-chain analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  