-- Investors Taking Bigger Risks in Low-Rate World, Regulators Say
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-10-15T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/investors-taking-bigger-risks-in-low-rate-world-regulators-say.html
Low  interest rates  set by central
banks around the world have led investors to bet on higher
returns from the same risky structured products that helped
trigger the 2008 financial crisis.  Investors are again buying “structural leverage
investments” such as collateralized debt obligations and real
estate investment trusts, the  International Organization of
Securities Commissions , a group of global regulators, said in a
report published today on risks to financial markets.  Structured products including CDOs and REITs were blamed by
regulators for exacerbating the credit crisis that led to the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 because they
hid the real risks of the loans they were based on. The value of
CDOs issued has risen six-fold from a low of $6 billion in 2010
to $35 billion this year, according to the Iosco report.  Interest rates returning to their normal levels “could
have an adverse impact on the value of these products similar to
what has been experienced in the financial crisis where the
value of leveraged products was decimated,” the report said.  Regulators must also agree on common standards for
distributing losses among members of derivatives clearinghouses,
which are “a source of systemic risk in the event of
significant market stress because they concentrate risk and
financial resources,” according to Iosco.  “Disorderly resolution of failing entities or products can
have severe, disruptive implications for securities markets,”
 David Wright , the group’s secretary general, said in a
statement.  Madrid-based Iosco brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information.  Clearinghouses such as  London ’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  and Eurex
Clearing AG operate as central counterparties for every buy and
sell order executed by their members, who are required to post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  