-- Iran Offers More Monitoring to Prove It’s Nuclear-Weapons Free
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-10-15T14:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/iran-offers-more-monitoring-to-prove-it-s-nuclear-weapons-free.html
Iran proposed tighter monitoring of
its nuclear program within a six-month period to verify it’s not
pursuing atomic weapons during the first talks with world powers
since it pledged to end a decade-old standoff.  Iran unveiled its offer during negotiations today at
Geneva’s Palais des Nations with world powers including China,
 Russia ,  France ,  Germany , the U.K and U.S. It’s the first round
of nuclear negotiations since Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, and U.S. President  Barack Obama  spoke by phone last
month, marking the highest level contact between the two
countries since the 1979  Islamic Revolution .  In outlining Iran’s proposal, Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi told reporters the nation is ready to offer
“confidence building measures,” without giving details. Those
concessions would be subject to verification by a joint
monitoring committee made up of officials from Iran and the
international community. Araghchi said Iran’s position was
listened to “in a serious, constructive atmosphere.”  Since being elected to the presidency in June, Rouhani’s
overtures have raised expectations of progress in negotiations.
Israel and the U.S. have left open the possibility of strikes
against nuclear sites should the talks fail and Iran seeks to
develop nuclear weapons. The dispute has been driven by Iran’s
insistence on a right to enrich uranium as part of a program
they say is solely for civilian purposes.  World powers said this morning they were waiting with
“cautious optimism” to hear the Iranian proposals. Iran’s
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, the highest ranking
official at the meeting, gave a one-hour slide show entitled
“Ending an Unnecessary Crisis and Opening New Horizons,”
according to Araghchi.  UN Demands  “It was very useful,” European Union spokesman  Michael Mann  said of Zarif’s presentation, during a break in talks.
“What matters is the end result.”  Iran is expected to provide more details about specific
confidence-building measures later today, Mann said. Two U.S.
sanctions specialists are to join this afternoon’s
consultations, according an Iranian diplomat who requested
anonymity because the talks are private.  The  United Nations Security Council  has demanded Iran
suspend all  uranium enrichment , stop construction of an
additional plutonium-producing reactor and allow UN monitors
wider access to people and places in Iran associated with a
suspected military program. Iran said ahead of the Geneva talks
that it’s ready to negotiate the form, size and level of its
uranium enrichment.  Weapons-Grade  “Any real confidence-building measures at this point”
must include limits on Iran’s uranium enrichment and its
stockpile of medium-enriched uranium, Laicie Heeley, director of
 Middle East  and defense policy at the Center for Arms Control
and Nonproliferation in  Washington , said in an interview today.
Enriched uranium can be further processed to bomb-grade
material. Iran says it needs 20 percent enriched uranium to
treat cancer patients.  Verification measures might include granting UN inspectors
more access to Iran’s nuclear facilities, she said. “Such a
deal is politically feasible, but the sides will have to move
quickly. If we emerge with less than what I’ve outlined, it
won’t be long before hardliners in the U.S. begin to call for
tougher action,” she said.  In February at an earlier round of talks in Almaty,
 Kazakhstan , the so-called P5+1 powers -- the permanent members
of the UN Security Council plus Germany -- offered to lift curbs
on petrochemicals and gold trade, as well as civilian aviation
parts, in exchange for a freeze of  Iran ’s enrichment to 20
percent purity.  Sanctions Vote  Iran is willing to wait until negotiations are complete for
the recognition of its right to enrich uranium for peaceful
purposes, Araghchi said. Iran’s demand for acceptance of its
right to enrich uranium on its own soil, and a relaxation of the
international sanctions that have squeezed Iran’s economy, are
the central issues in the talks.  Iran is subject to dozens of U.S. and European sanctions on
energy, trade, banking, ports, shipping, precious metals trade
and other forms of commerce. The U.S. House of Representatives
voted in July for tighter sanctions on Iran that haven’t yet
become law. Ten leading senators said in a letter to Obama that
Congress is ready to introduce new curbs if Iran’s “rhetorical
assurances of the last two weeks” aren’t followed by action.
They said continued enrichment is “not a prerequisite for a
peaceful nuclear energy program.”  Israel, the closest U.S. ally in the Middle East, says
 Iran’s nuclear program  should be dismantled. Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told parliament yesterday that it
would be a “historic mistake” to ease sanctions in Iran before
they achieve their aim.  Iranian Discomfort  The U.S. will keep up the economic pressure, only offering
relief in proportion to concessions from Iran, said an Obama
administration official at the Geneva talks who asked not to be
identified.  Inside Iran, which holds the world’s fourth-largest proven
oil reserves, there are signs of division over Rouhani’s
diplomacy. Newspapers close to Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  have opposed a prospective thaw with the West,
suggesting Rouhani may have limited room to make concessions.  Iran’s first negotiations with Western nations since
Rouhani took office in August have analysts forecasting a drop
in  Brent crude  to below $100 a barrel should the talks lead to
easing sanctions on the Middle Eastern nation’s oil exports. The
benchmark grade used to price more than half the world’s oil
would decline by $12 a barrel, according to the mean of 19
trader and analyst estimates compiled by  Bloomberg News 
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  