-- Ireland to Alter Company Tax Laws After Apple Controversy
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-10-15T15:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ireland-to-tweak-company-tax-laws-after-apple-controversy.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  promised to amend the country’s corporate tax laws,
trying to calm a controversy over how U.S. companies use the
nation to lower their tax bills.  “I will be bringing forward a change to ensure that Irish
registered companies cannot be ‘stateless’ in terms of their
place of tax residency,” Noonan said in Dublin as part of the
2014 budget today.  “Ireland wants to be part of the solution
to this global tax challenge, not part of the problem.”  U.S. senators  John McCain  and  Carl Levin  in hearings in
March labeled Ireland a tax haven.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of
iPhones and iPads, reduced its tax bill by setting up a unit in
Cork, which didn’t declare tax residency in Ireland because it’s
neither managed nor controlled in the country, according to
Senate hearings. As the unit is incorporated in Ireland, it’s
not a U.S. tax resident.  Investigations found that Apple avoided paying income tax
on billions of dollars of profit during the past four years in
part by moving patent rights to a web of offshore subsidiaries.
The company said it doesn’t use“tax gimmicks.”  The proposed changes “will not impact on any Irish
incorporated companies that may be tax resident in another low
tax jurisdiction,” said Peter Vale, a tax partner with  Grant
Thornton  in Dublin. “However, it sends out the right message in
terms of Ireland’s desire to be part of the global initiative to
resolve global tax inequities.”  Tax Residence  While some companies like Apple cut their tax bills using
Irish subsidiaries that don’t declare tax residency anywhere in
the world, others do so  in zero-tax or low tax jurisdictions.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , for example, cuts its global tax bill by
paying tens of millions of dollars a year in royalties to an
Irish unit that declares its tax residence in the Isle of Man,
corporate filings show.  Noonan said Ireland is “100 percent committed” to its
12.5 percent company tax rate.  Andrea Nahles, general secretary of Germany’s Social
Democrats party, which is in talks with  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
to form a coalition government, said yesterday that Ireland’s
corporate tax rate “is simply too low.”  Ireland’s company tax regime “is under siege,” said
Michael McGrath, finance spokesman with Fianna Fail, the
nation’s largest opposition party. “None of us should be
complacent about the mutterings we are hearing from Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  