-- Irish Near Bailout ‘End-Game’ With Less Austerity in Budget
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-10-15T06:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/irish-near-bailout-end-game-with-less-austerity-in-budget-1-.html
Ireland will today unveil its final
budget before becoming the first country in the euro region to
exit a bailout program, with the government planning to scale
back austerity to foster economic growth.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  and Public Expenditure
Brendan Howlin will detail 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of
tax increases and spending cuts for 2014 in speeches that start
at 2:30 p.m. in the Dublin parliament.  The government is reducing the 3.1 billion euros of
adjustments it had originally sketched out for next year, trying
to buttress signs of a recovery after the worst recession in
Ireland’s modern history. Noonan will next week go to
Strasbourg,  Frankfurt  and  Washington  to finalize details of the
country’s departure from the rescue program brokered three years
ago with European partners and the  International Monetary Fund .  “Ireland is close to the end-game,” said  Alan McQuaid , an
economist at Merrion Capital in Dublin. “The key goal now is to
ensure is that we don’t let the baton slip so close to the
finishing line.”  Ireland has already partly re-entered sovereign debt
markets after its borrowing costs dropped in the wake of
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge in July
2012 to do whatever it takes to defend the euro.  Falling Yields  The premium Ireland pays to borrow for a decade compared
with  Germany  is 1.81 percentage points, down from a high of 11.4
points in July 2011. Fellow bailed-out nations Greece and
Portugal pay premiums of 6.87 points and 4.83 points. The yield
on Ireland’s 10-year bond has dropped to 3.67 percent, falling
21 basis points this month to below those of Spain and Italy.  While Draghi’s promise calmed markets, investors have also
been reassured by the Irish government’s commitment to narrow
the  budget deficit . The shortfall will drop next year to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product, Noonan has said. That’s down
from 13.4 percent in 2011.  Yet the economy is hardly buoyant and money disappears from
households. Last week, the  Finance Ministry   cut  its economic
growth forecasts, reducing them to 0.2 percent and 1.8 percent
this year and next from 1.3 percent and 2.4 percent.  A family earning about 40,000 euros has 3,500 euros less to
spend a year since 2008, according to accountancy firm  Grant
Thornton . Families with an income of about 150,000 euros are
down about 15,000 euros, it said.  “With disposable income sucked out of the economy to shore
up government finances, it is no surprise that  consumer spending 
remains weak and the strength of any economic recovery
uncertain,” said Peter Vale, a tax partner at the firm.  Light in Tunnel  Against that backdrop, the government is implementing 600
million euros of austerity measures less than it originally
pledged. Noonan said the deficit will still come in below the
5.1 percent target the government agreed in the bailout.  This change of policy “is a risky move,” said Philip
O’Sullivan, an economist at Investec Plc in Dublin. “Time will
tell if this gamble pays off.”  A raft of new charges will be introduced, according to
reports in newspapers such as the Sunday Times, including a new
levy on banks. The government will increase a tax on interest
earned on deposits, scrap a monthly telephone allowance for
pensioners and reduce welfare payments for new jobseekers under
25, the Irish Times reported today.  The government at the same time won’t increase tax or cut
core welfare rates, and plans to introduce free medical care for
under-fives.  “After five years of austerity, there is light at the end
of the tunnel,” said  Dermot O’Leary  and Juliet Tennent,
economists at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  