-- Ivy League Wouldn’t Follow NCAA Paying Athletes, Director Says
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-10-15T13:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ivy-league-wouldn-t-follow-ncaa-paying-athletes-director-says.html
Ivy League  schools won’t pay their
athletes, even if the  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
decides to allow universities to give them stipends or cash,
said Robin Harris,  executive director  of the conference.  The league, composed of eight elite schools in the U.S.
Northeast, doesn’t provide sports scholarships and holds its
athletes to rigorous academic standards. All are members of the
NCAA, which will meet this month to discuss rule changes that
might allow athletic programs to compensate players either
through stipends to cover living expenses or more.  “If the student-athletes want to be paid, they have to
find someplace else to play,” Harris said in a telephone
interview from her office in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Ivy League athletic directors are holding their annual fall
meeting Oct. 28-29 at  Yale University  in New Haven, Connecticut,
and will discuss their position on proposed NCAA changes that
also include improved meals at training tables and recruiting
rules.  “We’re not going to do a stipend,” Harris said. “And our
general philosophy is that our athletes should be treated as
close as possible to our students. That’s a guiding principle.”  Harris said if other schools want to provide stipends to
supplement athletic scholarships, that’s generally acceptable,
as long as participants in all sports, men and women, are
treated equally.  Should the NCAA allow schools to pay players beyond
stipends, especially in football and men’s basketball, Harris
said, programs would be difficult to implement and would
undermine college sports’ educational model.  Gender Equity  “Do you pay the starting quarterback more than the third-string lineman, and how do you balance gender equity?” she
said. “If you want to do pay-for-play, then remove it from the
educational model.”  Some athletes have begun to devalue the free education and
training they receive. If athletes take advantage of such
programs, they will receive a lifetime of benefits even without
playing professionally, the executive director said.  Harris said she thinks the NCAA ultimately will allow
schools with more resources to use them to benefit their
athletes, while schools without the money or desire to spend can
make their own choices.  Ivy League schools accounted for three of the five largest
endowments in the U.S. in the year through June 2012,  according
to  the National Association of College and University Business
Officers.  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, was
first, Yale second and  Princeton University  in Princeton, New
Jersey, fifth.  No Disadvantage  Harris said stipends or better food or benefits to athletes
at competing schools won’t be a disadvantage for the Ivy League,
which also includes  Brown University  in Providence, Rhode
Island;  Columbia University  in New York;  Cornell University  in
Ithaca, New York; Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire;
and the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  “I think we have prospects that will come to our schools
because we offer that wonderful combination of an excellent
education and highly competitive Division I athletics,” she
said. “Whether another school provides steak at the training
table or an iPad isn’t going to change their decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  