-- Japan Braces for Typhoon Wipha as JAL, ANA Cancel Flights
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-10-15T09:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/japan-braces-for-typhoon-wipha-as-jal-ana-cancel-flights.html
Japan  braced for Typhoon  Wipha ,
projected to become  Tokyo ’s biggest storm in about 10 years, as
 ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  and Japan Airlines Co. canceled 34 domestic
flights today and train companies may suspend services tomorrow
morning, affecting millions of commuters.  Wipha, the 26th typhoon of the season to approach Japan,
was traveling north-northeast at 35 kilometers (22 miles) an
hour as of 3:50 p.m. Tokyo time, according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency ’s website. The typhoon will reach maximum
gusts of 198 km per hour as of 3 a.m., when it will be about 170
kilometers west of Hachijo-jima Island, south of Tokyo,
according to estimates from the agency.  Trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange will operate as normal
tomorrow, according to a statement from the bourse. Schools in
the central districts of Shinagawa, Shibuya and Minato will be
shut. East Japan Railway Co. canceled 16 bullet trains tomorrow,
it said in a faxed statement. The storm is expected to pass
through the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in northeast Japan
tomorrow afternoon.  “The typhoon may be a once-in-a-decade event in the Kanto
region, the strongest since typhoon No. 22 in 2004,” public
broadcaster NHK reported, citing Japanese Meteorological Agency
official Hiroyuki Uchida. “It’s expected to come very close to
the Kanto area tomorrow morning and may make landfall there.”  ANA canceled 12 domestic flights, affecting about 1,000
people, spokesman Takashi Abe said by telephone today.  Japan
Airlines (9201)  pulled 22 flights, affecting about 2,625 people, it
said in a faxed statement today.  Capsule Hotels  Business hotels around Tokyo Station filled up fast as
office workers looked for rooms so that they could make it into
work tomorrow.  “I was looking for a business hotel since the morning, but
it was no good,” said Michiyoshi Kato, senior vice president of
foreign-currency sales at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “I had to
settle for a capsule hotel in Kanda,” one-stop away from Tokyo.  Earlier this month Typhoon Danas, which recorded gusts of
180 km per hour, tore through southern Japan, wrecking a town
hall and forcing refinery operations to stop. Flights and ferry
services were suspended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  