-- Johnson & Johnson Profit Beats Estimates on Drug Sales
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-15T20:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/johnson-johnson-profit-beats-estimates-on-drug-sales.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, reported third-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as newer drugs continue to
propel the company to faster growth than competitors. J&J raised
its full-year forecast.  Earnings excluding one-time items of $1.36 a share beat the
$1.32 average of 17 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Profit may be $5.44 to $5.49 a share for 2013, the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based company said today in a statement.  J&J has bolstered its pharmaceutical business with eight
new medicines since 2011, including the blood thinner Xarelto
and prostate cancer treatment Zytiga, after losing patent
protection on two top-selling drugs in 2008 and 2009. Competing
drugmakers are dealing with losing exclusivity on products more
recently, with Pfizer Inc. spinning off units and Merck & Co.
cutting 20 percent of its workforce.  “I’m a firm believer in shots on goal, and that’s
something J&J has consistently focused on,” said Judson Clark,
an analyst with  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , in a telephone
interview. “They aren’t forced to rely on one or two
products.”  J&J increased less than 1 percent to $89.93 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 28 percent this  year .  Revenue Gain  Net income  of $2.98 billion, or $1.04 a share, was little
changed from $2.97 billion, or $1.05, a year earlier, J&J said.
Revenue increased to $17.6 billion from $17.1 billion a year
earlier, the 11th straight quarter of growth. The company in
July had forecast 2013 earnings of $5.40 to $5.47 a share.  J&J is the first of the major U.S. drugmakers to release
third-quarter results, with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Eli
Lilly & Co. reporting on Oct. 23, Merck on Oct. 28 and Pfizer on
Oct. 29.  Prescription-drug sales increased 9.9 percent to $7
billion, putting the division ahead of the medical device and
diagnostic unit, which is traditionally the company’s biggest.
Device sales fell 2 percent to $6.9 billion.  Sales of over-the-counter medicines and  consumer goods ,
including the Listerine mouthwash and Aveeno skin care products,
rose less than 1 percent to $3.6 billion. J&J continued to
return previously recalled products to store shelves, with U.S.
over-the-counter product sales rising 18 percent in the quarter.  Clean Beat  “Johnson & Johnson’s earnings per share beat was clean,
helped by sales outperformance and better-than-expected gross
margins,” said Danielle Antalffy, an analyst with Leerink Swann
& Co. in New York, in a note to clients today. “Overall, JNJ
continues to ride the back of strong Pharma performance as
recent product launches continue to exceed expectations.”  Sales were hurt by a stronger  U.S. dollar , with foreign
exchange rates reducing international sales by 2.9 percent. The
negative impact of currencies was strongest in the medical
device and diagnostic unit, where it lowered sales growth
outside of the U.S. by 4.3 percent.  The 25 percent decline in the value of the yen won’t
significantly affect the company’s performance in 2013 since J&J
uses an advanced hedging technique to minimize fluctuations in
exchange rates, Chief Financial Officer Dominic Caruso said on a
conference call today. The company expects it to be a
“significant headwind” in 2014, he said.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 will
cost J&J about $1 billion this year, said  Tony Butler , an
analyst with Barclays Plc. The law, intended to help provide
health coverage for some of the 48 million uninsured Americans,
will weigh on the company because of rebates in the government’s
Medicaid program for the poor, drug cost cuts in the Medicare
program for the elderly, and a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical
device sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  