-- Secret Court’s Judge Says It Alters 24% of Data Requests
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-15T23:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/judge-says-secret-court-alters-25-of-requests-for-data.html
About a quarter of government
requests to the secret U.S. surveillance court undergo
“substantive changes” because of judicial action, the court’s
presiding judge said in a letter to Congress.  Allegations that the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court  rubber-stamps virtually every government request for a
warrant to obtain records and communication intercepts were
shown by a sampling of data to be untrue, U.S. District Judge
 Reggie Walton  said in the letter to the leaders of the Senate
Judiciary Committee.  “We have observed that 24.4 percent of matters submitted
ultimately involved substantive changes to the information
provided by the government or to the authorities granted as a
result of court inquiry or action,” Walton said.  The letter to the lawmakers came as a number of Internet
companies, including  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Yahoo! Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
have petitions before the court to release more information
about the number and nature of compulsory requests for
information that they receive from the government.  In a July 29 note to the committee chairman  Patrick Leahy ,
a Democrat from  Vermont , and  Charles Grassley , a Republican from
 Iowa , Walton acknowledged that only Yahoo, in a 2007 case, has
contested a demand for information from the government.  ‘Judgment Call’  The sample Walton reviewed covered an undisclosed number of
cases from July 1, 2013, to Sept. 30, 2013. Walton said that,
pending further study, that three-month span appears to be
typical. He added the caveat that the data reflects generally
informal communications between the court and the requesting
agencies, making it a “judgment call” as to whether a
modification is “substantial” or caused solely by the court’s
intervention.  In the earlier  letter , posted on the court’s website,
Walton took issue with press interpretations of statistics
supplied by the  Justice Department  to Congress that the secret
court’s approval rate of requests exceeds 99 percent.  “These statistics do not reflect the fact that many
applications are altered prior to final submission or even
withheld from final submission entirely, often after an
indication a judge would not approve them,” Walton wrote.  Both letters came in response to questions by Leahy and
Grassley about the level of court scrutiny given government
requests for authorization to collect surveillance data.  FISA Court  The panel is sometimes called the FISA court after the 1978
law that authorized it, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act.  Walton’s letters show that the court “is not a rubber
stamp for government surveillance requests,” Leahy said in an
e-mailed statement. “However, it is clear that FISA court
judges are now tackling significant constitutional issues and
have assumed a regulatory role not envisioned when the court was
created.”  Walton’s responses and a review of the National Security
Agency’s surveillance activities by the intelligence community
inspector general “will be helpful to members as they provide
oversight” of the court and the NSA, Beth Levine, a spokeswoman
for Grassley, said in an e-mailed statement.  The information provided by Walton, while welcome,
“shouldn’t reassure anyone who’s worried about the scope of the
government’s surveillance activities,” Jameel Jaffer, the
director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s Center for
Democracy, said in an e-mail.  The court can’t amend surveillance laws, and documents made
public in recent months “show that the FISA court has generally
interpreted those laws in the broadest possible way,” Jaffer
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  