-- Kevin Clinton Named to Replace Dillon as Michigan Treasurer
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-10-15T18:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/kevin-clinton-said-to-be-named-michigan-s-treasurer-by-snyder.html
     Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) --R. Kevin Clinton, who heads the
 Michigan  agency that oversees banks and insurance companies, has
been appointed state treasurer by Governor  Rick Snyder .  Clinton will replace Andy Dillon, who resigned last week.
He will continue state oversight of  Detroit ’s emergency manager
and bankruptcy as well as cities and school districts facing
financial distress. His appointment, effective Nov. 1, is
subject to consent of the Republican-controlled Senate.  Clinton, 58, a former insurance executive, said he wants to
develop actuarial models to predict fiscal disasters for local
governments five years ahead. Under Michigan law, the treasurer
leads inquiries that could lead to the appointment of emergency
managers.  “This early-warning system will allow school systems and
municipalities to identify potential future financial problems
and take the necessary steps to firm up their finances and
eliminate the future need for an emergency manager,” Clinton
said at a news conference where Snyder announced the
appointment.  The native Detroiter said he would “need to get up to
speed” on the city’s bankruptcy, adding, “I’m a quick study.”  Clinton joined Republican Snyder’s administration in 2011
and in March was named director of the Office of Financial and
Insurance Services.  Oversight’s Author  Before joining the state, Clinton was president and chief
executive of American Physicians Capital Inc., a medical-professional insurer in East Lansing, according to his
department’s website. Before that he was president and chief
executive of Meemic Insurance Co., an Auburn Hills-based
property and casualty firm.  Dillon quit after public acrimony stemming from his divorce
and after acknowledging bouts with alcoholism. Dillon helped
write Michigan’s 2011 emergency-manager law, which gives the
state broad powers to take control of local government finances.  Dillon, 51, led state review teams that investigated
Detroit’s finances, which presaged the appointment of Kevyn Orr
as emergency manager in March.  Clinton’s appointment was first reported by the  Detroit
Free Press  and the Michigan Information and Research Service, a
legislative newsletter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  