-- Kone Drops as Schindler Lowers Profit Forecast: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-10-15T09:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/kone-drops-as-schindler-lowers-profit-forecast-helsinki-mover.html
Kone Oyj (KNEBV) , the elevator supplier to
world’s tallest clock tower in Mecca, fell the most in three
months as competitor  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  cut its profit target
for the second consecutive quarter.  Kone  dropped  as much as 2.9 percent, the steepest intraday
decline since July 22, and was trading down 1.1 percent at 65.05
euros at 12:01 p.m. in Helsinki. That pared the gain this year
to 17 percent, valuing the Espoo, Finland-based manufacturer at
17 billion euros ($23 billion). Volume was 46 percent of the
three-month daily average.  Schindler lowered its full-year net income forecast today
to as much as 550 million Swiss francs ($605 million) from a
prediction of as much as 600 million francs. Expansion costs,
delays in cost-reduction measures, “substantial” pricing
pressure and negative currency exchange rate effects are holding
back profit, the Ebikon, Switzerland-based company said in a
 statement .  “Even as this year is practically a sure thing for Kone,
this does cast some doubts on the future of the elevator
market,” Pekka Spolander, an analyst at Pohjola Bank Oyj, said
by phone. “Many investors have been eager to believe that
 Europe  could recover, but we may have to question that
assumption yet.”  Asia’s Role  Kone has profited from infrastructure investments in  Asia 
as national governments develop urban areas. The Asia-Pacific
region accounted for 43 percent of the Finnish company’s second-quarter sales, an increase from 36 percent a year earlier,
matching the combined contribution from Europe, the  Middle East 
and  Africa . In contrast, Schindler’s revenue in its Asia,
Australia and Africa sales region amounted to 26 percent of the
total in the first half of the year.  Last month, Kone raised its forecast for the third time
this year, citing strong demand in  China . Kone’s larger business
in Asia should limit negative interpretations for the company
from Schindler’s forecast cut, Spolander said.  “I would highlight the company-specific matters that
Schindler stated: growth investments and delays in cost-cut
measures,” he said. “Schindler isn’t nearly as big in Asia,
and thus won’t get as much help from strong demand there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  