-- Maersk Monster Ships Create Capacity Glut to Clip Kuehne
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-15T14:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/kuehne-nagel-profit-misses-estimates-on-sea-freight-slowdown.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ’s fleet of
1,300-foot  container ships  has worsened a capacity glut that’s
depressing freight rates and eroding earnings,  Kuehne & Nagel
International AG (KNIN) , the No. 1 sea-freight forwarder, said today.  The three Triple-E class ships, the largest in the world,
are exacerbating the effects of slowing demand on routes linking
Asian exporters with consumers in  Europe , Kuehne & Nagel Chief
Financial Officer Gerard van Kesteren said in an interview after
the company’s third-quarter profit missed analyst estimates.  Maersk has ordered 20 Triple-E vessels as the Copenhagen-based company seeks to cut operating costs per container and
grab a bigger slice of a market that’s struggled to recover from
the global slump and  European debt crisis . Kuehne & Nagel, whose
stock  fell  the most since March on the profit figures, is among
companies most exposed to the capacity glut as it buys deck
space from Maersk and its competitors to consolidate shipments.  “There is structural overcapacity, and now the 18,000-container ships are being put into production by Maersk,
creating extra overcapacity,” van Kesteren said. “Shipping lines
are trying to get business back. It’s cutthroat competition.”  Shares of Schindellegi, Switzerland-based Kuehne fell 4.3
percent, the steepest intraday decline since March 4, and were
trading 4 percent lower at 113 francs as of 4:02 p.m. in Zurich.  ‘Big Ships’  A recent  rate increase  of $1,600 per 40-foot box hasn’t
held and prices that began at below $1,000 and spiked at more
than $2,500 are now at about $1,500 for some shipments to
northern Europe, said  Philip Damas  at Drewry Maritime Equity
Research in  London , adding that while companies will lift fees
by $1,800 from Nov. 1 the gain will “erode” quickly.  “There is persistent overcapacity, and the shipping
companies are not reducing it enough,” he said. “The Triple-E
is one factor, but there are a lot of big ships around.”  Cancellations of entire services and the parking of ships
would be needed to deliver a permanent boost, and shippers are
loath to take such steps and risk market share, Damas said.  “Price increases by the shipping lines are imminent, but
we doubt they will stick,” van Kesteren said. “Volatility of
freight rates remains extremely high.”  Kuehne’s earnings before interest and taxes rose 8.3
percent to 195 million Swiss francs ($265 million) in the three
months through September. That was 3 percent below the 201.9
million francs predicted by analysts.  Sea-freight volumes rose less than 1 percent, which van
Kesteren said was the weakest in about four years, adding that
Kuehne has surrendered some tonnage to focus on profitability.  The company reiterated that its marine volumes should rise
3 percent this year, outpacing market growth of 2 percent. Air
freight will increase by 3 percent to 4 percent, compared with a
global market that it forecasts won’t expand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  