-- Kumba Needs New Right to Access Reserve at Biggest Iron-Ore Mine
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-10-15T09:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/kumba-needs-new-right-to-access-reserve-at-biggest-iron-ore-mine.html
Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  said it needs a
new mining permit to access about a third of reserves at its
Sishen mine in South Africa, the continent’s largest.  The  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  unit requires a right to properties
on which Transnet SOC Ltd., the state-owned rail operator, had a
track that was used to carry the steel-making ingredient to
ports, the Pretoria-based company said in a statement today. The
strip is 14 kilometers (8.7 miles) long and 30 meters (98 feet)
wide and separates the current Sishen pit from part of the
extension. Transnet has agreed to sell this land to Kumba, while
the mining company has sold the properties for a new line to the
transport utility.  Kumba lodged the request for the mining right with the
Department of Mineral Resources yesterday, spokesman Gert Schoeman said.  “Should the applications be unsuccessful, the expansion of
the Sishen pit in a westerly direction may be materially
affected,” the company said. Kumba “would potentially not be
able to access approximately 33 percent of the Sishen reserve,”
it said.  South Africa ’s highest court last month reserved judgment
in a case where the department asked to overturn the grant of a
partial prospecting right to Kumba for the Sishen mine. The
asset accounted for 75 percent of the company’s production of 22
million metric tons during the first half of 2013. The Anglo
unit spent 337 million rand ($34 million) on the Sishen Westerly
Expansion project last year and estimates that this amount will
increase to 1 billion rand by completion in 2016, it said on
Feb. 12.  Kumba wants to start preparing the affected area for mining
within six months to replace depleted reserves within the
existing mine pit, Schoeman said by phone today. Transnet
finished the relocation of the railway line in May, while the
transfer of the property rights is pending at South Africa’s
deeds office, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  