-- Woodford to Leave Invesco After 25 Years to Set Up Fund
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-10-15T18:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/neil-woodford-to-leave-invesco-in-april-after-25-years.html
Neil Woodford, who oversees the
U.K.’s largest equity fund, is leaving Invesco Perpetual after
more than 25 years to set up his own company.  Mark Barnett was named head of U.K. equities and will run
the  Invesco Perpetual High Income Fund (INVHIIA)  and the Invesco Perpetual
Income Fund, which have a combined 24.6 billion pounds ($39
billion) in assets, at the end of a six-month transition,
Invesco said in a statement today. He currently manages 1.5
billion pounds in assets for four funds.  Woodford, 53, who oversees about 33 billion pounds in all,
became one of the U.K.’s best-known mutual fund managers by
picking stocks that fit his view of the larger economy and
avoiding bank shares before the crash in 2008. He declined to
comment on his new venture in a statement, adding that details
will be provided after he departs on April 29.  “I would be amazed if he doesn’t raise a substantial
amount of money at the launch of the new funds,” said Darius McDermott, managing director at Chelsea Financial Services, a
 investment adviser  in London. “I would be confident that he
will raise in excess of 5 billion pounds very quickly. Neil
Woodford Inc. will bring in a lot of money.”  Invesco’s  shares  slumped as much as 7.4 percent to $32.08
in  New York  trading, the biggest intraday decline since
September 2011. The selloff values the investment manager at
$14.4 billion.  Woodford’s Performance  Woodford has seen his flagship Invesco Perpetual High
Income Fund return 12 percent annually over the past five years,
exceeding the returns of 57 percent of similar funds, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It counts  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , BT
Group Plc,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  BT
Group Plc (BT/A)  among its biggest holdings.  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said today it put four of Invesco’s funds
under review including the 14 billion-pound High Income Fund.
Chelsea Financial said it downgraded any fund associated with
Woodford to hold until after it has met with Barnett.  “My decision to leave is a personal one based on my views
about where I see long-term opportunities in the fund-management
industry,” Woodford, who joined the British unit of Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  in 1988, said in the statement. “My
intention is to establish a new fund-management business serving
institutional and retail clients as soon as possible.”  Barnett’s Returns  Barnett, 43, who joined Invesco in 1996, currently runs
four funds including the Invesco Perpetual U.K. Strategic Income
Fund, which he has managed since 2006. It has 297 million pounds
in assets under management. The fund returned 14.7 percent
annually over five years, beating 79 percent of similar funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mark Dampier, head of research at  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc (HL/) ,
the U.K.’s largest publicly traded broker, said investors should
maintain their holdings in Woodford’s fund.  “I myself will be remaining invested,” he said. “For new
investors we would suggest waiting until the new manager has
taken over the fund.”  Woodford’s departure follows a decision by Sanjeev Shah to
step down from Fidelity Worldwide Investment’s flagship U.K.
Special Situations Fund last month, five years after taking over
from  Anthony Bolton . Shah stepped back from running money on a
day-to-day basis after 17 years in the industry.  Mallon Named  Invesco has also named Ciaran Mallon, 42, to immediately
take over the U.K. equity components of the Invesco Perpetual
Monthly Income Plus Fund and the Invesco Perpetual Distribution
Fund. Mallon will work with fixed-income managers Paul Causer
and Paul Read.  “We have planned for succession for many years and have
built a world-class investment culture,” Mark Armour, chief
executive officer of Invesco Perpetual, said in the statement.
“Barnett is an exceptional  fund manager  who has the same
active, value-driven investment approach and long-term focus as
Neil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  