-- NML, Aurelius Seek to End Delay on Argentina Ruling
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-10-15T22:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/nml-aurelius-seek-to-end-delay-on-argentina-ruling.html
Elliott Management Corp.’s NML
Capital and Aurelius Capital Management LP asked a court to
allow enforcement of a ruling that bars  Argentina  from paying
holders of the nation’s restructured debt without also paying in
full the owners of $1.5 billion in defaulted bonds.  NML and Aurelius asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Manhattan today to remove its stay delaying implementation of
the ruling while Argentina seeks to appeal to the U.S. Supreme
Court. Lifting the stay would threaten payments on the
restructured debt. The next scheduled payments are due Dec. 2.  The bondholders cite a plan announced publicly in August by
Argentina’s President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, to
exchange the restructured bonds, which are governed by  New York 
law, for debt payable under Argentina law. U.S. District Judge
Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan  said Oct. 3 that the plan is “an
apparent attempt to evade” his orders in the case.  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. Holders of more than 90 percent of the bonds
agreed to take new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep
discount.  Argentina has vowed never to pay the  hedge funds  and other
holders of its defaulted bonds, whom the country’s leaders have
called “vultures.” The legislature passed a law in 2005
barring payment of the defaulted bonds.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  