-- Nokia Rejected by High Court in InterDigital Patent Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-15T21:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/nokia-rejected-by-high-court-in-interdigital-patent-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court let
 InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  pursue a bid to extract patent royalties from
 Nokia Oyj (NOK)  for the third generation of mobile-phone technology.  The nation’s highest court today rejected an appeal by
Nokia, which contended that InterDigital couldn’t block imports
of the disputed technology because it wasn’t making any products
of its own. A federal appeals court had said InterDigital could
press the case, one of several the company has filed at the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  Companies including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
joined Nokia in urging the Supreme Court to take up the appeal
and limit the ITC’s jurisdiction. They argued that the
commission has become a favorite forum for companies whose sole
business is to obtain patents and seek royalties.  “Instead of protecting American jobs from unfair trade
practices, the ITC is now imposing unfair litigation practices,
to the detriment of the very domestic industries it is supposed
to protect,” Amazon, Hewlett-Packard and Red Hat Inc. said in a
court filing.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency whose job is to protect
U.S. markets from unfair trade practices, such as infringement
of intellectual property. It has the power to order products
halted at the U.S. border.  Rejection Urged  InterDigital and the Obama administration both told the
court it shouldn’t hear the case. InterDigital, based in
Wilmington,  Delaware , said in court papers that it “does not
simply take advantage of others’ inventions” and “has been at
the forefront of digital wireless telephony since its founding”
in 1972.  InterDigital surged after the  Supreme Court  released its
order, rising as much as $1.67, or 4.4 percent, to $39.87 before
dropping back. The shares fell $1.00, or 2.6 percent, to $37.20
at 4:30 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The company, which owns about 1,700 U.S. patents, receives
almost all its revenue from royalties.  A federal statute gives the ITC power to stop imports only
when infringement harms a domestic industry. The central
question in the Nokia appeal was whether licensing alone --
without production -- is enough to meet the domestic-injury
requirement.  Licensing Alone  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
specializes in patent cases, said federal law “makes clear that
the required United States industry can be based on patent
licensing alone.”  Nokia, which is based in Espoo,  Finland , said the lower
court ruling “entrenches a significant expansion of the ITC’s
authority beyond its traditional role as a specialized
international trade forum.”  InterDigital says Nokia’s phones use patented technology
that prevents mobile phone signals from interfering with one
another. Nokia’s sales have declined amid smartphone competition
from companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   In a second complaint at the trade commission over 3G
wireless technology, InterDigital is targeting ZTE Corp. and
Huawei Technologies Co. as well as Nokia. That case involves
other InterDigital patents.  The Supreme Court is already planning to hear two appeals
that would deter patent litigation by making it easier for
targets of infringement suits to collect attorneys’ fees.  The Supreme Court appeal rejected today is Nokia v. ITC,
12-1352. The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain 3G Mobile
Handsets and components thereof, 337-613, U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  