-- Noonan Sees ‘Fair Wind’ on Irish Efforts Toward Aid Exit
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-10-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/noonan-sees-fair-wind-on-irish-efforts-toward-aid-exit.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  will ratchet up preparations for the nation’s exit from
its bailout program, after laying out plans yesterday for a
seventh austerity budget.  Noonan sketched out 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of tax
increases -- including more levies on beer, cider and banks --
and spending cuts, including abolishing an 850-euro bereavement
grant. He plans to narrow the fiscal deficit to 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in 2014 from 7.3 percent this year.  By January, “we will have exited the program, and Ireland
will have been handed back her purse,” Noonan told lawmakers in
Dublin. “We are well along the recovery path and it is time now
to begin to look forward.”  The government is reducing the 3.1 billion euros of
adjustments it had originally sketched out for next year, trying
to buttress signs of a recovery after the worst recession in
Ireland’s modern history. Noonan said yesterday that after the
budget he’ll consult with the country’s bailout masters on a
strategy to exit the three-program rescue program Ireland
entered in 2010.  The budget “sits well with the idea of Ireland slowly and
smoothly edging its way out of the bailout at the end of this
year, having restored the state finances to a sustainable, if
still fragile, position,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin, which is also a primary dealer in
Irish debt.  The premium Ireland pays to borrow for a decade compared
with  Germany  is 1.79 percentage points, down from a high of 11.4
points in July 2011. The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond has
dropped to 3.70 percent.  Bailout Program  Noonan said the government hasn’t finally decided on
whether to seek a precautionary  credit line  from international
authorities after it exits the bailout.  “Countries who have exited programs have had follow up
programs or backstop arrangements to ensure a return to the
markets at very little risk,” Noonan said.  On the other hand, the country’s  debt agency  has almost 25
billion euros in cash, meaning Ireland already has “a credible
backstop” in place, Noonan said.  The government is aiming to narrow its deficit to below the
European Union’s 3 percent limit in 2015, after seeking a three-year 67.5 billion euro bailout program in 2010. Investors
shunned the country’s bonds after its banking system came close
to collapse in the wake of the implosion of a real estate
bubble.  Annual Tax  As part of his plan, Noonan will hit banks with an annual
tax aimed at raising 150 million euros. The levy, which will
apply to lenders including  Bank of Ireland Plc  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s Irish unit, will run for three years.  The government is also raising taxes on cigarettes, beer
and cider, while eliminating a payment to help some households
with phone bills and abolishing the bereavement grant, which is
used to pay for funeral expenses.  “Even the dead are not safe from this government,”
Michael McGrath, finance spokesman for Fianna Fail, the biggest
opposition party, said in parliament.  Police marshalled about 50 protestors who gathered outside
parliament to demonstrate against continued austerity.  Irish politicians should reduce their own salaries and
expenses before targeting taxpayers, said Willie O’Brien, 72,
who traveled to Dublin from Cork in the southwest of the country
for the protest.  “I’ve no problem making sacrifices,” said O’Brien, a
retired nurse who carried a banner with ‘GREED!’ written across
the top, in an interview outside the Irish parliament. “They
should practice what they preach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  