-- Norway Wealth Fund Joins Axa for European Property Lending
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-10-15T15:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/norway-wealth-fund-joins-axa-to-invest-in-europe-property-loans.html
The manager of Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s largest, formed a venture with Axa Real
Estate Investment Managers to provide European commercial real
estate debt as borrowers rush to refinance maturing loans.  Norges Bank  Investment Management  and Axa Real Estate, a
unit of  Europe ’s second-largest insurer, will supply individual
senior loans as large as 600 million euros ($814 million) mainly
in the U.K.,  France  and  Germany , Axa Real Estate said in a
statement today.  The amount of property debt maturing in Europe through 2014
exceeds available funding by $50 billion after banks cut lending
in the financial crisis, broker DTZ said in a June report. The
shortage creates wider profit margins, attracting insurers, debt
funds and sovereign-wealth funds.  “We have the capability to maintain attractive margins
here,” Isabelle Scemama, global head of real assets finance at
Axa Real Estate, said in an interview. “We will continue to be
selective and try not to compete with the German banks that are
more aggressive.”  Axa and Norges Bank will focus on providing new loans and
will also consider buying existing loan books, Scemama said.
“The new difference will come from the fact that we have new
capacity to lend very big amounts on a deal by deal basis,” she
said.  New Lenders  Insurers, pension providers and national funds are
investing in real estate, seeking margins that beat 10-year
 government bonds . More than 50 lenders, including debt funds,
started offering commercial property credit in the U.K. in the
year through May, mainly for the best properties in  London ,
according to broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)   Most lenders in Europe will only take on loans of more than
100 million euros as part of a syndicate, said Nigel Almond of
DTZ, who researches the debt funding gap in Europe. Dealing with
just one lender might be more attractive to borrowers seeking
large loans, he said.  “You haven’t got conflicts between the different lenders
over the terms and everything, so it does make it that much
easier,” Almond said by telephone. “There’s not that many
deals being done at that level at the moment, but the markets
are starting to pick up and we’re seeing improved liquidity.”  Banks and other lenders cut their commercial real estate
lending in Europe after the 2008 financial crisis as they
repaired balance sheets damaged by losses and tried to meet new
regulatory requirements.  Norway Spends  Norway ’s $780 billion sovereign-wealth fund is seeking to
increase the proportion of its holdings in real estate to about
5 percent and has bought stakes in European warehouses, the
Times Square Tower in  New York  and the Meadowhall Centre in
northern  England  in just over a year.  “The approach to this real estate debt program is similar
to the fund’s existing real estate investment strategy,” Norges
Bank said in a separate statement. It will allow the fund to
“invest alongside an experienced team with balance sheet
capacity and long-term investment horizon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  