-- Norway Heats Up as Wealth Fund Nears $1 Trillion: Nordic Credit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-15T15:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/norway-heats-up-as-wealth-fund-nears-1-trillion-nordic-credit.html
Norway ’s incoming Prime Minister
Erna Solberg will have no shortage of cash for her campaign
promises. The question is: how much does she dare use?  The Labor government, which resigned yesterday, presented
what it called a “cautious” budget, saying it would use 135
billion kroner ($22 billion) of Norway’s oil wealth to plug
deficits next year, equal to 5.5 percent of  mainland gross
domestic product . That leaves Solberg’s administration with 54
billion kroner to spend before it breaches the nation’s fiscal
policy rule.  “It actually leaves some room for extra spending,
especially given the recent weakness in the Norwegian economy,”
saidBernt Christian Brun, a chief strategist at Danske Bank A/S
in Oslo. “You could even argue that a counter cyclical budget
would be somewhat more expansionary.”  Solberg and her coalition partner, the Progress Party, have
until early November to adjust the spending plan put forward by
the outgoing administration. While she has promised to stick to
the fiscal rule, which caps expenditure of Norway’s oil income
at 4 percent of its wealth fund, the two parties have signaled
they want to spend more on infrastructure, education and health
care. Those measures will come on top of planned tax cuts.  Bond Spreads  The spread between Norway’s 10-year government note and
benchmark German debt was little changed at 110 basis points
today, 14 basis points off the average over the past six months.
Norwegian bonds with maturities of more than a year have lost
1.5 percent this year, according to Bloomberg Sovereign Indexes.
That makes Norway the best performer among non-euro European
 government bonds  including Swiss, U.K. and Swedish debt. Denmark
is the worst, with a 3.9 percent loss.  “I would like to look into the budget to see if there are
enough investments in education, research and infrastructure.
and also the framework for small and medium sized enterprises,”
said Jan Tore Sanner, Conservative party finance spokesman. “We
really need to have strong investments not only in the  petroleum
industry  but also in the other sectors of the economy.”  The outgoing Labor government said it will use 2.9 percent
of the wealth fund, staying within the 4 percent cap for a fifth
year. While that may seem restrictive, actual spending will
surge after the fund almost doubled in size since 2010. The oil
fund will grow to $870 billion by the end of next year and reach
$1.2 trillion by 2020, according to the government.  Clear Expectations  The Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise, the country’s
largest business group, urged the new government to use the
fiscal space afforded in the budget.  “The Norwegian economy is rapidly slowing and there is
less risk of a rate increase,” the group said. “NHO therefore
has clear expectations that the new government will focus more
on investments in its addendum to the national budget.”  Norges Bank left its main rate at 1.5 percent last month
and signaled faster tightening after efforts to fight back the
krone’s appreciation paid off.  Trond Helleland, parliamentary leader for the
Conservatives, yesterday told  news agency  NTB the new government
could potentially shift as much as 20 billion kroner to achieve
its goals, and also use more oil money.  Biggest Investor  Norway is western  Europe ’s largest oil and gas producer. It
reaps revenue from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields as well as from its 67 percent stake in  Statoil ASA. (STL)  It
wealth fund now holds on average about 1.2 percent of the
world’s listed companies and invests abroad to avoid stoking
domestic inflation.  While the fund is swelling with oil revenue, its returns
haven’t lived up to the 4 percent target over the past years.
Central bank governor Oeystein Olsen has recommended lowering
the fiscal spending target to 3 percent to better safeguard
wealth and avoid overheating the economy.  Though oil wealth has backstopped the economy in the
aftermath of the financial and economic crises over the past few
years, Norway isn’t immune to the slowdown. The mainland
economy, which excludes income from oil, gas and shipping, will
slow this year to 2.2 percent from 3.4 percent in 2012 and
unemployment will rise to 3.4 percent from 3.2 percent,
according to budget estimates.  While an increase in spending of as much as 10 billion
kroner might be possible, history suggests that the new
government’s ability to overhaul the budget is limited,
according to Brun. “There’s not that much a new government can
do with the budget when they come in at the tail end of a budget
process,” he said.  That view is shared by DNB ASA, Norway’s largest bank,
which also said that the new government would have to talk down
the economy to make its case for more spending.  “To change the budget and spend more it would require that
you change the assumption on the Norwegian economy and say that
we are in a weaker situation than the current government
estimates,” saidKjersti Haugland, an analyst at DNB in Oslo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo  at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  