-- NYC Police Union Sues City Council Over Profiling Law
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-10-15T19:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/nyc-police-union-sues-city-council-over-profiling-law.html
A union for New York City Police
Department officers sued the city council in a bid to overturn a
local law allowing citizens to bring lawsuits against police for
racial profiling.  The  Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association , in a complaint
filed today in New York state court in Manhattan, claimed the
measure allowing racial profiling cases is preempted by state
law and that the council exceeded its authority in passing it.
The association represents more than 22,000 officers.  “The New York State Criminal Procedure Law is clear and
unambiguous in establishing itself as the sole and exclusive
source for procedure for criminal actions, proceedings and
matters in the state of New York,” PBA President Patrick J.
Lynch said in a statement.  The council in September overrode Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s
veto of two bills, one permitting the racial-profiling suits and
the other imposing an inspector general to oversee police
practices. The two laws were passed after a federal judge ruled
in August that New York police violated the U.S. Constitution in
stop-and-frisk encounters with hundreds of thousands of mostly
young black and Hispanic men.  The council’s press office said in an e-mail that it stands
by the law and will defend it in court.  “The law is a key component of the council’s reform of
stop-and-frisk and to ensuring unconstitutional stops end,” the
council said in a statement.  Bloomberg Suit  The police union’s suit mirrors one the mayor brought
against the city council last month. The Sergeants Benevolent
Association, a union representing 13,000 active and retired NYPD
sergeants, has asked to join the mayor’s case.  “The city has broad discretion to deny defense and
indemnification for police officers when it finds they have
engaged in conduct that exceeds the scope of their employment,
violates a rule or regulation or is intentional or reckless,”
the sergeants association said in a court filing. “Because
Local Law 71 purports to render certain law enforcement
practices illegal in a manner that is unconstitutionally vague,
there is a substantial risk that the city may refuse to defend
and indemnify officers based on an overbroad interpretation of
the local law.”  Court Monitor  U.S. District Judge Shira Sheindlin in  Manhattan  appointed
a monitor in August to ensure that stop-and-frisk operations are
conducted lawfully. Bloomberg, 71, has said the council’s
actions and the court-appointed monitor would hinder patrol
officers’ ability to make split-second decisions on the street,
making it more difficult to fight crime and terrorism.  Bloomberg is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of
Bloomberg News. A political independent, he is barred by law
from seeking a fourth term.  The cases are the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association of the
City of New York Inc. v. the Council of the City of New York,
653550/2013, and Mayor of the City of New York v. Council of the
City of New York, 451543/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 