-- Obama Plays Waiting Game as Congress Negotiates Fiscal Deal
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-10-15T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/obama-plays-waiting-game-as-congress-negotiates-fiscal-deal.html
With negotiations over the budget
and debt ceiling ping-ponging between the House and Senate,
President  Barack Obama  is choosing his words carefully, when he
says anything at all.  The president’s only public event yesterday was mingling
with furloughed federal workers who volunteer at a local
Washington charity rather than huddling with lawmakers. Today,
amid a rush of Capitol Hill meetings on ending the partial
government shutdown and staving off a  default , media access to a
White House session between Obama and House Democratic leaders
was limited to a few moments for photographs and video -- no
statements.  Obama’s decision to mostly remove himself from the public
side of the deal-making in Congress marks a shift in how he
confronts Republicans trying to thwart his agenda.  “He’s taking a different tack,” said James Thurber, a
political science professor at American University in  Washington 
who studies relations between the president and Congress. “His
negotiating style this time is to stand back from the fray and
have surrogates do it.”  One sign that the administration is intent on keeping
Congress as the focus is a meeting that didn’t happen: a
scheduled session with the four top congressional leaders that
was postponed yesterday after talks between Senate Democratic
leader Harry Reid of  Nevada  and Republican leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  on a fiscal deal showed promise.  Vice President Joe Biden, who negotiated with McConnell
late last year to avert spending cuts and tax increases known as
the fiscal cliff, also has stayed on the sidelines.  Break Precedent  Obama’s avoidance of public talks with Congress reinforces
an administration goal of seeking to break the precedent he set
in the 2011 debt limit talks and show he won’t give concessions
under the threat of default.  Former top administration officials and Obama advisers have
said the president and his aides concluded his high-profile
negotiations with House Speaker John Boehner two years ago,
which were followed by the first downgrade of U.S. government
debt, was a mistake that damaged the president’s ability to
further his agenda.  Obama’s aides question whether Boehner, an Ohio Republican,
can deliver on any deal struck with the White House this time
because of dissent within his party, according to administration
officials who asked for anonymity to discuss strategy.  Political Pressure  With recent polls showing the public blames Republicans
more than the president for the stalemate, Obama faces little
political pressure to make concessions.  Obama said the Republicans now know they went too far after
seeing the reaction from voters.  “I’m pretty sure they’re not going to run this play
again,” Obama said today in an interview with WABC television
in New York, one of three local stations who were granted
interviews with the president.  Behind the scenes, the White House has remained an active
in the current negotiations. Yesterday, Obama detailed his
concerns about Republican efforts to limit the Treasury
Department’s flexibility in managing the debt ceiling in a phone
call with McConnell. Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough  and Deputy
Chief of Staff Rob Nabors have channeled the administration
position through Senate Democratic leaders, making Reid the
public face in the talks for party.  Obama’s spokesman, Jay Carney, dismissed questions today
about the president’s engagement and repeated his refusal to
negotiate over debt ceiling or funding the government.  Ideological Agenda  “The president has been having conversations with
lawmakers,” Carney said. The president won’t “give the tea
party its ideological agenda wish list in exchange for Congress
opening the government or Congress raising the debt ceiling.”  Without an agreement soon, the federal government will run
out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and start missing payments
sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
Congressional Budget Office. The Treasury has $120 billion of
short-term bonds coming due on Oct. 17, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. An additional $93 billion of bills are
due on Oct. 24.  The halting nature of the talks hasn’t so far roiled
markets. U.S. stocks declined after a four-day rally on word the
Senate talks were on hold. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX) 
dropped 0.7 percent to 1,698.07 at 4 p.m. in New York after
jumping 3.3 percent in the previous four sessions. Yields on  10-year (USGG10YR)  Treasury notes added four basis points to 2.72 percent
after touching a three-week high.  Clock Running  Playing the waiting game with Congress carries its own
risk, according a veteran of the budget shutdowns that partially
closed government operations in 1995 and 1996.  “Time is a tricky thing. Running out the clock puts
pressure on everybody,” said Patrick Griffin, who worked as a
congressional lobbyist for then-President Bill Clinton. “If the
other side doesn’t blink, then you drive off the cliff.”  The White House hasn’t ruled out the possibility that the
president will address the nation, as the deadline gets closer
or if markets plunge.  So far there’s little political incentive for Obama to
change tactics. A Washington Post/ABC News poll released
yesterday found the portion of the American public who
disapprove of the way Congressional Republicans are handling
budget negotiations has climbed to 74 percent Oct. 9-13 from 70
percent Oct. 2-6 and 63 percent Sept. 25-29.  Public perceptions of Obama have been both more positive
and steady, with disapproval of the president on budget
negotiations at 53 percent Oct. 9-13, up from 50 percent two
weeks earlier.  “We’ve lost the fight,”  Arizona  Republican Senator John McCain said in an interview today. “We’ve got to come to an
agreement as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  