-- October Calm Keeps Market Swings Below Monthly Average
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-15T14:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/october-calm-keeps-market-swings-below-monthly-average.html
Even with a deadline looming for the
U.S. to avoid a debt default, it’s been a comparatively  calm 
October for financial markets.  Daily swings in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  have
averaged 0.78 percent so far this month, down from 0.9 percent
for Octobers over the last eight decades and less than a quarter
the moves in 1929, 1987 and 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Bank of America Corp.’s Market Risk Index that uses
options to forecast fluctuations in equities, currencies and
bonds reached minus 0.74 last week, the lowest since May 21.  Confidence that Congress will reach an accord to reopen the
government and keep debt payments flowing has limited  volatility 
even after the S&P 500 rallied 20 percent since December and 153
percent since March 2009. Bank of America’s measure of future
risk has slipped from a one-year high of 0.3 percent in June and
is lower than the level from August 2011, when investors faced
the another threat of American default.  “There’s a lot less fear,” Jim Russell, who helps oversee
$112 billion as a senior equity strategist for U.S. Bank Wealth
Management, said by phone from Cincinnati. “Most investors look
at  Washington  now and kind of look through this series of
headlines and events. We know you have to reopen the federal
government eventually and you have to raise the debt ceiling.”  Gaining Momentum  Shares climbed for a fourth day yesterday as Democrats and
Republicans in the Senate voiced optimism about ending the
impasse. While BlackRock Inc. and Fidelity Investments have
reduced holdings of the riskiest U.S. Treasury maturities in
money-market funds, the S&P 500 is within 20 points of a record.  The S&P 500 erased its decline for October after rallying
3.3 percent in the last four sessions. While daily changes in
the benchmark index are almost twice the mean for September,
they’re small for a month that has seen the biggest swings in
U.S. equities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 10 most volatile months on record for the S&P 500,
five were Octobers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
most extreme was in 2008, when the S&P 500 rose or fell an
average of 3.88 percent a day following the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Market Crashes  Stock market crashes in October 1929 and 1987 caused the
market to move more than 3.5 percent a day, on average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Equities posted a monthly plunge of
20 percent in the Crash of 1929 prior to the Great Depression
and slumped 22 percent in October 1987, including a 20 percent
drop on Oct. 19 known as Black Monday.  Failure to reach a timely solution on the debt-ceiling
followed by a default on American government debt would be
historically unprecedented, causing investors to sell stocks,
Michael James at Wedbush Securities Inc. said. That is prompting
hedging with securities tied to the Chicago Board Options
Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , which increased 2.2 percent to 16.07
yesterday even as stocks advanced. The VIX added 4.2 percent to
16.74 today at 10:01 a.m. in New York.  “In case something doesn’t occur and there is a technical
default, the market could go into a significant short-term
decline,” James, a Los Angeles-based managing director of
equity trading at Wedbush, said yesterday in an interview.
“Portfolio managers are buying the VIX as a means of a
portfolio hedge in case of a default because the potential
downside would be meaningful.”  VIX Options  Volume on VIX options soared to a single-day  record  of 1.78
million on Oct. 8 as traders bought contracts that rise when
stock swings increase. About 1.14 million calls changed hands
and more than 639,000 puts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, the VIX has erased its increase since the government
shutdown began Oct. 1. The gauge moves in the opposite direction
as the S&P 500 about 80 percent of the time.  Stock swings will narrow by December as a resolution is
reached on the debt ceiling and the Federal Reserve continues
its quantitative-easing program, Susquehanna Financial Group
LLLP’s Trevor Mottl, wrote in a note yesterday.  The Federal Open Market Committee left its bond buying
program unchanged in September. The central bank’s decision to
keep purchasing $85 billion in mortgage and Treasury debt a
month dimmed odds that government debt yields would rise
substantially over the rest of the year.  Political Resolution  “We expect that continued QE, at least through the end of
the year, should lead to decreasing S&P 500 volatility as we
approach year-end, provided that politicians in Washington
arrive at a resolution on the debt-ceiling sometime between Oct.
17 and Nov. 1,” Mottl, Susquehanna’s New York-based head of
derivatives strategy, said.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index, a measure
traders’ expectation for the pace of swings in bond yields based
on  volatility  in over-the-counter options on Treasuries maturing
in two to 30 years, was 77.11 on Oct. 11, below the average
level of 72.46 for 2013 so far, and below the year’s peak of
117.89 on July 5.  The $5.4 trillion a day foreign exchange market has
mirrored the signals from the debt markets, with traders scaling
back projections for volatility in currencies from the U.S.
dollar to the Indonesian rupiah.  “The debt-ceiling issue is leading many to believe that
the Fed will stay on hold for longer,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York,
said via phone yesterday. “More broadly, the hit to growth and
sentiment may have similar impacts on other central banks.
Expansive central bank policies tend to crush implied foreign
exchange volatility.”  Currency Swings  A JPMorgan Chase & Co. index of  global  foreign-exchange
volatility that tracks options on currencies of major and
developing nations was 8.22 percent yesterday, down from a high
this year of 11.77 percent on June 24. The bank’s index,
tracking implied volatility of  the most actively  traded
currencies and those of  emerging  markets, averaged 12.03 percent
over the past five years.  Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency.  “Global markets are second guessing the outcome of the
negotiations by assuming that something will happen before the
Oct. 17 deadline,” Abhinandan Deb, the London-based head of
European equity derivatives strategy at Bank of America, wrote
in an e-mail yesterday. “The alternative could be just too ugly
to contemplate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  