-- OGX Posts Record Gain Amid Speculation Batista to Cede Control
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-10-15T22:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ogx-posts-record-gain-amid-speculation-batista-to-cede-control.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
the worst-performing major oil stock this year, surged the most
on record amid speculation  Eike Batista  will cede control of the
company and as the former billionaire’s mining unit sold assets.  OGX gained 48 percent to 34 centavos in Sao Paulo, reducing
its slump this year to 92 percent. The rally was the biggest on
the Brazilian benchmark index and the steepest since the
company’s June 2008 initial public offering.  Investor website InfoMoney attributed OGX’s surge to
speculation that Batista, who missed a series of production
targets and lost about $30 billion of his fortune in the past
year, would leave the company he founded in a possible agreement
with creditors.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the former
billionaire’s mining unit, soared as much as 18 percent today
after Trafigura Beheer BV and Mubadala Development Co. agreed to
buy a controlling stake in its iron-ore port in  Brazil .  “There’s a lot of noise in the market, and one possibility
is Eike leaving the controlling group,” Lucas Brendler, who
helps manage about 4 billion reais ($1.8 billion) at  Geracao
Futuro (GERSUPN)  Corretora in Porto Alegre, Brazil, said by telephone.
“The creditors would probably like to see him out of the
company and go on dealing with the executives. Having Eike out
would be the start of finding a way out.”  OGX Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro said Sept. 13
that Batista may lose control of OGX as part of a debt
restructuring. OGX’s press department in Rio de Janeiro didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  The oil producer, once the centerpiece in Batista’s
commodities group, missed a $45 million Oct. 1 bond payment that
puts him on the brink of Latin America’s biggest corporate
default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  