-- Typhoon Wipha Weakens After Killing 15, Delaying Millions
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-10-16T08:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/tokyo-braces-for-biggest-storm-in-decade-as-flights-canceled.html
Typhoon  Wipha  weakened to a low-pressure area off  Japan ’s eastern coast after tearing along the
sea near Tokyo, killing at least 15 and leaving 55 missing in
heavy rainfall and landslides. Hundreds of flights and trains
were canceled, delaying millions in the morning rush.  There were 15 confirmed deaths, mainly on Oshima Island 100
kilometers (62 miles) south of Tokyo, with 55 people missing,
Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshige Seko told reporters in
Tokyo today. A total of 16 died on Oshima Island, NHK reported
separately.  Wipha was moving north-northeast at 85 kilometers per hour
off the eastern coast as of 3 p.m., according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency ’s  website . The typhoon earlier menaced the
coast with maximum gusts of 180 kilometers per hour.  “This is the largest typhoon to approach the Kanto area in
about 10 years,” Japanese Meteorological Agency official
Hiroyuki Uchida said by phone.  Wipha earlier passed by the coast of Fukushima prefecture,
site of the damaged Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501) , the plant’s operator, is close to completing a discharge of
accumulated rainwater in areas where tanks used to hold water
for cooling nuclear fuel are stored, spokesman Hiroshi Itagaki
said today by phone. There were no reports of contaminated water
leaks due to the typhoon, he said.  Power Cut  Some 16,656 customers in the Kanto region were without
power as of 4 p.m. Japan time after as many as 65,700 customers
were cut off earlier in the day, Tokyo Electric said. The
utility, also known as Tepco, serves 29 million people in the
Tokyo metropolitan area, the world’s largest. About 15,550 homes
in central Japan lost power this morning,  Chubu Electric Power
Co. (9502)  said.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange traded as scheduled today, with
the Topix index falling 0.1 percent to close at 1,196.78.
Schools in the Tokyo central districts of Shinagawa, Shibuya and
Minato were shut for the day.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  canceled 207 domestic flights and four
international flights, affecting about 32,500 people, the Tokyo-based company said in a faxed statement.  Japan Airlines (9201)  Co.
pulled 201 flights, affecting about 29,380 people, it said.  East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the country’s largest train
operator, canceled or reduced services on dozens of lines,
including bullet train operations, according to the company.  Trains Disrupted  Trains were disrupted on some  Tokyu Corp. (9005)  lines and
alternative transport was arranged, the rail operator said on
its website. Tokyo Metro Co., Japan’s largest subway operator,
said services on seven lines were affected by the typhoon
earlier in the day, according to a faxed statement from the
company.  Several Japanese oil refining companies halted marine
shipments yesterday as the typhoon approached. The plants where
marine shipments were suspended were  Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019) ’s Chiba
and Aichi refineries,  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007) ’s Chiba refinery and  JX
Holdings Inc. (5020) ’s Negishi, Sendai and Kashima refineries.  Prior to the typhoon’s arrival, Tepco bundled up cables and
hoses, lowered cranes to keep heavy machinery from falling, and
suspended ground and offshore construction work.  To prepare for Wipha, about 60 workers at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant were placed on standby to transfer water
accumulating inside barriers that surround water tanks.  As rain began to lash the area, Tepco began releasing
rainwater accumulated in some barriers, the company said in a
series of statements today.  Earlier this month Typhoon Danas, which recorded gusts of
180 km per hour, tore through southern Japan, wrecking a town
hall and forcing refinery operations to stop. Flights and ferry
services were suspended.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  