-- Tokyo Gas Sees LNG Cost Control in Majority Project Stakes
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-10-15T09:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/tokyo-gas-sees-lng-cost-control-with-majority-stakes-in-projects.html
Tokyo Gas Co. (9531)  is seeking to take
majority stakes in liquefied natural gas projects in Southeast
Asia or Africa as it seeks to reduce the cost of imports.  Japan ’s biggest gas supplier is interested in plants that
can produce as much as 3 million metric tons a year of LNG,
according to Shigeru Muraki, an executive vice president. It can
have more operational control with a share in such “mid-sized”
projects, rather than large ones, he said in an interview
yesterday. By comparison,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s planned Wheatstone
facility in  Western Australia  will have an initial annual
capacity of 8.9 million tons.  “We can probably team up with other Japanese companies
such as  JGC Corp. (1963)  or  Chiyoda Corp. (6366) ,” Muraki said at the World
Energy Congress in Daegu,  South Korea .  Bringing down LNG prices is a pressing issue for Japan,
where the super-chilled fuel costs four times as much as in the
U.S., Toshimitsu Motegi, the trade and industry minister, said
in Tokyo in September. The country paid an average $16.37 per
million British thermal units for LNG in July, according to  data 
from LNG Japan Corp. That compares with about $3.64 in the same
month for U.S. natural gas futures traded in New York.  Tokyo Gas’s operating expenses surged 9.3 percent in the
quarter ended June 30 amid higher import costs for LNG, a raw
material used for city-gas supplies. The company plans to
diversify its LNG supply sources by 2020 to mitigate the risk of
price fluctuations, according to its long-term management plan
released in November 2011.  Olympic Effect  Tokyo Gas expects its LNG imports to rise by 14 percent to
12.1 million tons in the fiscal year that will end in March
2018, as its sales grow at a projected annual rate of 3 percent,
the company said in a statement in March. It imported 10.7
million tons in the 12 months to March this year.  Gas sales are forecast at 22 billion cubic meters in 2020,
according to the management plan.  “There is a chance our gas sales may exceed the target
because of the  Olympic Games ,” Muraki said on the sidelines of
the triennial energy conference. “It really depends on how
Japan’s economic environment gets supported. And it’s also up to
how gas demand for power generation and other industrial sectors
will grow.”  Japan’s capital will host the nation’s fourth Olympics in
2020. This follows the Tokyo summer games in 1964 and the  winter
games  in Sapporo in 1972 and Nagano in 1998.  LNG Trading  Tokyo Gas, which plans to purchase 1.4 million tons of LNG
from the Cove Point terminal in the U.S. state of  Maryland , is
also considering trading the fuel with buyers in Europe.  “The purpose of the LNG trade is to adjust supply and gas
demand in Japan,” Muraki said. “We believe we can minimize the
big difference in prices by connecting the two markets in the
east and west.”  Meantime, Tokyo Gas may help  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , or
Tepco, to replace old gas-fired and oil-fired thermal  power
plants . Tepco is facing significant compensation payments after
the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami that crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station, and increasing costs
required to decommission reactors and contain the leakage of
contaminated water.  “Some of Tepco’s oil gas-fired plants are using steam
turbines, which is not efficient enough,” Muraki said.
“Efficiency will improve 50 percent if they change them to
combined-cycle ones.”  Aging power plants on the coast of Tokyo Bay, such as Goi,
Anegasaki and Minami Yokohama, can be jointly replaced with the
utility, he said. Tepco’s oldest generator, at the Goi power
station in Chiba prefecture, started operations in 1963,
according to data on the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  