-- Molycorp Plans Stock Sale After Rare-Earth Plant Delay
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-10-15T12:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/molycorp-plans-stock-sale-after-rare-earth-plant-delay.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , owner of the largest
rare-earth deposit outside of  China , reported lower-than-expected sales and cash flow for the first nine months of 2013
and said it plans to sell shares after production at its
California plant fell behind schedule.  Rare-earth oxide output from the Mountain Pass facility has
achieved an annualized rate of 15,000 metric tons for just
“brief” periods this year, the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based company said today in a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filing, compared with a projected capacity of 19,050
tons.  Rare-earth prices have also been adversely affected by
market volatility, the company said. Given expected lower-than-expected sales and cash flow, “it would be prudent to raise
additional financing to ensure we have adequate funding for our
needs.” The company is proposing to sell as much as $230
million in stock, according to a separate statement. The shares
dropped 22 percent in pre-market trading.  Molycorp has tumbled 85 percent in the past two years after
a decline in prices for rare earths, 17 chemically similar
metallic elements used in rechargeable batteries,  wind turbines 
and electric vehicles. The company has also suffered a series of
delays at the Mountain Pass plant, which processes the
commodities from the adjacent mine of the same name.  Molycorp said today it has had “limited” success in
obtaining equipment financing and that while it is trying to
secure a revolving credit facility, it doesn’t yet have any
commitments from lenders.  Molycorp dropped to $5.54 at 8:25 a.m. in  New York . The
stock has fallen 25 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  