-- Homer the Sloth Gnaws at Bankrupt Detroit as Zoo Becomes Burden
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-10-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/homer-the-sloth-gnaws-at-bankrupt-detroit-as-zoo-becomes-burden.html
Bubbles the chimp and Boo the
grizzly are marquee attractions at the  Detroit  Zoo, furry
cultural assets and financial liabilities in a municipal
bankruptcy where still life is worth more than animal life.  As appraisers value city-owned Picassos and Van Goghs in
the Detroit Institute of Arts, the zoo is under pressure to make
expensive additions to draw more visitors, even as support from
the insolvent city may disappear. And the 3,300 animals in
 Michigan ’s biggest paid tourist attraction are not as valuable
in an $18 billion bankruptcy as their fame suggests.  “You never want collateral that has to eat or that you
have to shovel after,” said Bill Brandt, president and chief
executive of Development Specialists Inc., a business turnaround
consulting firm in  Chicago .  The challenge facing the Detroit Zoo, which is operated by
a nonprofit that foots most of its $29.2 million annual
operating costs, mirrors that of many municipal menageries:
finding money to build attractions as cities face demands for
other services.  While the animals appear to be off the auction block --
there are no plans to appraise or sell them, said Bill Nowling,
a spokesman for Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr -- the
city’s insolvency has cast uncertainty over the 85-year-old
facility owned by the city and operated by the nonprofit Detroit
Zoological Society.  Penguin Paradise  “This is uncharted territory, obviously for this community
and others,” Ron Kagan, the zoo’s director, said in an
interview. “It makes it tough to do very big and bold things
when there is some degree of uncertainty.”  The zoo has already begun work on a 24,000-square-foot
penguin preservation center to house the current population of
64 kings, rockhoppers and macaronis, plus gentoos to be named
later. Kagan called it “the biggest project in our history,”
intended to add to last year’s attendance of 1.2 million people.  “And like any enterprise, we can’t just stop,” he said.  Detroit’s zoo, whose 125-acre facility is two miles north
of the city in suburban Royal Oak, has endured as the erstwhile
auto powerhouse declined. The city, which filed the largest
municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history on July 18, has almost
150,000 vacant parcels and 700,000 people across 139 square
miles (360 square kilometers) after losing more than half its
population since the 1950s. Its financial obligations have
prompted an assessment of assets, which include the art museum
and its masterworks, 983-acre Belle Isle park, which is to be
leased to the state, and the water and sewerage plant.  Meeting Zuhura  The zoo is a bar-less habitat covering 125 acres, allowing
open space for large animals -- including giraffes Jabari and
Kivuli -- to roam. On an early fall morning, mothers pushed
toddlers in carts around the grounds and into the chimpanzee
house, to view Zuhura, a 2-month-old chimp.  While Detroit owns the real estate, buildings and animals,
its operations separated from the city in 2006 and financial
support comes from three major sources -- earned income,
philanthropy and property-tax collections from three Detroit
area counties. It receives $1.5 million to $2 million from the
city annually, Kagan said. In 2012, the facility’s revenue was
$37.3 million, according to financial documents.  The possibility of losing the city’s contribution has
meaning beyond money, Kagan said.  “Where the bankruptcy is most questionable is what does
this do in terms of confidence of private investment?” he
asked. “If people are worried about something fundamentally
changing about the zoo, does that hurt our fundraising long
term?”  Born Free  In the meantime, costs continue: Homer the two-toed sloth
has to eat his leaves and twigs. The Detroit Zoo spent $722,000
on food for the residents last year.  Animal facilities accredited by the Association of Zoos and
Aquariums must follow standards for care and welfare, said Steve
Feldman, a spokesman for the group. All of this, he said, is
intended to promote the conservation of animals that the group
considers “priceless.”  Kagan said that means the beasts can’t be monetized.  “Unlike a museum, our assets are liabilities,” Kagan
said. “They require feeding every day, and they die.”  Financial pressures in other cities forced changes.  Dallas 
turned its municipal zoo over to the Dallas Zoological Society
in 2009. It reduced the city’s annual obligation by $5 million.  Breaking Out  “It came during a particularly gruesome budget year, and
it lit a fire under the department to privatize,” said Willis
Winters, director of parks and recreation for Dallas. “Zoos are
increasingly difficult for cities to operate. We wanted the zoo
to succeed and we felt the only way to do that was to
privatize.”  At the same time, the Dallas zoo built an elephant habitat.  “The larger the animal, the more expensive the exhibit,”
Winters said. “But that’s what drives attendance. And you can’t
just do this once -- you have to do it every three to five
years.”  Brandt said the challenge facing all zoos is increasing
expenses that often outweigh cultural value.  “The whole concept of zoos is changing, and they might not
be something that, in the long run, can be sustained, unless the
funding base is expanded,” Brandt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Detroit at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  