-- Moody’s Clashes With Treasury’s Lew on Prioritizing Payments
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-15T21:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/moody-s-clashes-with-treasury-s-lew-on-prioritizing-payments.html
The U.S. will likely prioritize debt
payments ahead of other obligations, should Congress fail to
raise the nation’s $16.7 trillion  debt  ceiling, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Treasury has signaled less optimism
on the department’s ability to “pick and choose” payments.  Moody’s, which rates the U.S. a stable Aaa grade,
reiterated yesterday that it expects the debt ceiling to be
raised, averting a default. The company also expects “that the
U.S. government will pay interest and principal on its debt even
if the statutory debt limit isn’t raised.”  Fitch Ratings  and
 Standard & Poor’s  have also said they expect the U.S. to avoid
default.  While default may threaten to spark a financial crisis
exceeding that seen in 2008, the S&P 500 Index of stocks has
traded at an almost one-month high in a bet that Democrats and
Republicans will decline to test that outcome. Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew said anyone suggesting the U.S. system
can be reconfigured to only make some payments doesn’t
understand its architecture and that doing so is “default by
another name.”  “Any indication from the Treasury that they can prioritize
payments takes some of the pressure off Congress,” Guy LeBas,
chief fixed income strategist in Philadelphia at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, said in a phone interview. “If you’re
walking a tightrope with a safety net beneath it, you’re more
likely to take a greater risk. Part of the administration’s job
is giving the appearance that safety net doesn’t exist.”  Payment System  Lew has told Congress extraordinary measures being used to
avoid breaching the debt ceiling “will be exhausted no later
than Oct. 17” and officials will have about $30 billion in cash
to pay obligations.  “I don’t believe there is a way to pick and choose on a
broad basis,” Lew said Oct. 10 in testimony to Congress about
making debt payments instead of other obligations, such as those
to people receiving Social Security benefits or to salaries to
soldiers.  “The system was not designed to be turned off
selectively,” Lew said. “So anyone who thinks that it can be
done just doesn’t know the architecture of our multiple payment
systems that are very complex. They were designed properly to
pay our bills, they were not designed to not pay our bills.”  Earlier Battle  An administration official during the budget battle in 2011
said Treasury would give priority to paying bondholders if
needed. A default may not disrupt markets as long as the U.S.
alerted traders the night before a payment was due that it was
probably going to default, giving the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire,
an electronic service that transfers securities and payments,
enough time to adjust its programs and allow the defaulted debt
to be “transferable,” according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  S&P’s AA+ grade for the U.S. already “incorporates the
current level of discord” in  Washington , John Piecuch, a
spokesman for S&P, said yesterday in an e-mail that reiterated
the firm’s stance.  “We have not published any opinion on prioritization of
payments or other possible courses of action in the event the
debt limit is not raised by the time net new financing is
needed,” Piecuch said. If “the debt ceiling is not raised by
the time net new financing is needed, we expect Treasury to
indicate its plans for dealing with this unprecedented turn of
events.”  Congressional Negotiations  The U.S.’s AAA grade was placed on rating watch negative by
Fitch today. “The political brinkmanship and reduced financing
flexibility could increase the risk of a U.S. default,” Fitch
said.  Political wrangling “dents confidence in the effectiveness
of the U.S. government and political institutions,” the rating
company said today in a statement. “It will also have some
detrimental effect on the  U.S. economy .”  Senate leaders were poised to reach an agreement as early
as today to bring a halt to the fiscal standoff, and now must
race the clock to sell the plan to lawmakers before U.S.
borrowing authority runs out this week.  A deal would stave off a potential default, end the 15-day-old government shutdown and change the immediate deadlines in
favor of three new ones over the next four months. It’s far from
complete as the Senate may delay passing the plan and  House
Republicans  may seek to block or change it.  S&P Vindicated  S&P stripped the U.S. of its top credit grade on Aug. 5,
2011, citing Washington gridlock and the lack of an agreement on
a way to contain its growing ratio of debt to gross domestic
product. The ratio of public debt to GDP is projected to decline
to 74.6 percent in 2015 after peaking next year at 76.2 percent,
according to a  Congressional Budget Office  forecast in May.  “We do think what’s going on right now validates our
decision to lower the rating one notch,”  John Chambers ,
managing director of sovereign ratings at S&P, said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.” “We think
there will be an 11th hour deal, and that is our working
assumption.”  While the S&P downgrade didn’t result in investors charging
the U.S. more to borrow, as 10-year yields slipped to a record
1.38 percent in July 2012, the move contributed to a global
stock-market rout that erased about $6 trillion in value from
July 26 to Aug. 12, 2011.  Yields on  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  due in 10 years have increased since
then to 2.7 percent.  Debt Load  While Washington wrangles over its finances, the U.S.’s
debt load has stabilized for about the next five years,
according to the Congressional Budget Office.  Spending cuts totaling $1.2 trillion during nine years,
with $85 billion set to take effect in the remaining months of
this fiscal year, were triggered in March when the government
failed to agree on a way to replace them with other budget
reduction measures. The reductions, known as sequestration, were
part of the 2011 agreement that lifted the federal debt limit.  “As the similar situation in 2011 demonstrated, partisan
disputes also offer the prospect of a shift towards more
meaningful policies to contain spending and stabilize the debt
trajectory, ultimately supporting sovereign creditworthiness,”
Moody’s said Oct. 14 in a report. “The  budget deficit  has been
declining and we expect it to continue to decline over the next
few years.”  Reserve Currency  Rates on securities due in October fell from highs reached
last week as those maturing in November and December rose on
speculation that prolonged negotiations may put those securities
at risk of default. The government has been partially shutdown
since Sept. 30.  “There isn’t life beyond a default,” Anshu Jain, co-CEO
of Deutsche Bank AG, said at a panel discussion at the  Institute
of International Finance ’s annual meeting in Washington on Oct.
12. Deutsche Bank is the world’s biggest currency trader.  “The dollar is a storehouse of value for global wealth.
There is an intimate connection between the integrity of U.S.
dollar debt and the status of the dollar as the international
reserve currency,” Jain said. “You cannot mess with that.
You’re now talking about the underpinnings of finance.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.1 percent to 1,012.59
after declining 0.2 percent in the past two days.  -- With assistance from Ian Katz in Washington and Sara Eisen,
Liz Capo McCormick and  Christine Harper  in  New York . Editors:
Dave Liedtka, Gregory Storey  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  