-- Oracle Shareholders Urged to Vote Against Most Directors
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-15T20:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/oracle-shareholders-urged-to-vote-against-most-directors.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  shareholders should
vote against the company’s independent directors at the annual
meeting, Institutional Shareholder Services said, seeking to
better align executives’ pay with performance.  ISS, which advises  investors  about corporate proxy matters,
said votes should be withheld from Chairman Jeff Henley and
seven independent board members, including Bruce Chizen, George Conrades and Naomi Seligman of the compensation committee as
part of its proposals to revamp Oracle’s compensation policies.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, is tussling with
labor-group Change to Win over executive pay ahead of the
company’s Oct. 31 annual meeting. CtW has been pushing for the
world’s largest database-software maker to adopt industry
benchmarks for compensation and has said Ellison and other
managers are overcompensated relative to peers, given the
company’s inferior  returns .  “ISS recommends that shareholders withhold votes from the
Chairman and nonemployee members of the board for failing to
provide effective oversight of management on behalf of
shareholders, as evidenced by the board’s non-responsiveness to
shareholder concerns regarding  executive compensation ,
persistent pay-for-performance misalignment, and tolerance of
substantial pledging of shares by the CEO,” ISS said in a
report yesterday.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to
comment on the ISS report. The company’s general counsel, Dorian
Daley, said earlier this month that Ellison is an “extremely
valuable asset” and that Oracle is one of the “best-managed
companies in the technology sector.”  Proxy Votes  ISS recommended that shareholders vote to re-elect Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  and co-presidents Safra Catz and
 Mark Hurd , who aren’t independent directors.  Egan-Jones, another proxy adviser, also published a report
in which it advises shareholders to vote against Oracle’s
executive compensation plan, although it recommended votes for
all directors.  Oracle  shares  fell 1.6 percent to $32.75 at the close in
New York. The stock has declined 1.7 percent this year, compared
with a 19 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  