-- Mortgage-Bond Meeting Seeks to Reduce Mistrust for Revived Sales
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-15T16:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/mortgage-bond-meeting-seeks-to-reduce-mistrust-for-revived-sales.html
More than five years after sales of
U.S. mortgage-backed securities froze, banks, investment firms
and others in the business are seeking to accelerate a revival
of issuance by reducing mistrust among market participants.  The  Structured Finance Industry Group  will tomorrow hold a
four-hour roundtable with about 35 executives in New York on
when and how lenders or other sellers of mortgage securities
without government backing can be forced to repurchase loans
that fail to match their promised quality, for reasons such as
overstated borrower incomes or inflated property appraisals.  The closed-door meeting shows how contract terms known as
representations and warranties are among matters needing to be
addressed as the market is rebuilt. Issuers and underwriters
including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will hear from investors such as DoubleLine
Capital LP, Loomis Sayles & Co. and Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo &
Co. and six leading rating companies, an online  posting  shows.  “The time to have these discussions is now, and not over
dinners, drinks and individual phone calls,” said Eric Kaplan,
a managing director at Shellpoint Partners LLC, the lender
backed by mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri. “A lot of work
has been done. The question is whether it’s enough. We don’t
want a repeat of the housing crisis, where everyone got hurt.”  Government Role  The topic will become even more important as the
government, which is now backing about 85 percent of new
mortgages, attempts to scale back its role and loan standards
loosen from the tight levels seen in the wake of the housing
crash, he said.  Issuance has been building after the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, when non-agency mortgage-bond sales
halted amid tumbling  home values , soaring defaults and
allegations the debt’s quality was knowingly misrepresented as
sales peaked at about $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006.  About $12.5 billion in deals tied to new loans have been
completed this year, up from $3.5 billion in all of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While sales in 2013
probably won’t surpass $15 billion, they could exceed $50
billion next year, according to a Barclays Plc report last week.  Limited issuance backed by high-quality mortgages means the
industry has yet to grapple with a growing divergence in how
different deals subject mortgages to forced buybacks, Kaplan
said. While some buyers are accepting new terms friendlier to
sellers, “some very large and important investors” haven’t
been purchasing at all, he said.  ‘Pretty Interesting’  “We need to fix these issues,” said Vincent Fiorillo, a
DoubleLine bond manager who will participate in the roundtable.
“It’s probably going to be a pretty interesting set of
conversations.”  Some issuers are using contracts with expiration dates for
warranties because of concern they otherwise risk bearing losses
created by a new  housing collapse  or recession, not loan
misrepresentations, with some agreements limiting buybacks in
cases such as a borrower losing a job.  Investors want better ways for breaches to be discovered
and cured, after holders of debt created by Bank of America’s
Countrywide unit found its trustee, Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., initially unwilling to investigate their claims, before
reaching a proposed $8.5 billion settlement with the issuer.  The event tomorrow also includes representatives from
trustee businesses such as at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  US Bancorp (USB) , as
well as trading units at dealers including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , law firms and due diligence companies.  $449.4 Billion Losses  Patrick Tucker, a spokesman for the SFIG at Abernathy
MacGregor Group, said other panelists were unavailable to
comment. Aside from speakers, about 150 people are expected to
attend the event, he said.  Representations and warranties “dominated” an industry
conference this month in Miami, particularly the benefits to
older bonds, the Barclays analysts led by Sandeep Bordia and
Jasraj Vaidya wrote. Realized losses on mortgages within non-agency securities totaled $449.4 billion from 2006 through 2012,
 according  to Moody’s Analytics.  Processes that helped limit loan buybacks are just one of
the “significant hurdles” the market faces, which is “a
shame, because we want to invest in the sector,” Chris Ames, a
senior portfolio manager at Schroder Investment Management North
America Inc., said this month in a commentary.  Jason Callan, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC’s
structured-products head, said that expirations on warranties
make sense because defaults caused by underwriting flaws will
likely happen within a few years. At the same time, he said it’s
not clear that the limitations should apply to all fraud types
or happen as quickly as some sellers seek.  ‘Drilling Down’  Tomorrow’s talks will be about “drilling down” to
understand what details matter, Shellpoint’s Kaplan said. The
industry, which through the separate American Securitization
Forum trade group  proposed  model contract language in 2009,
probably won’t ever use a single set of terms, he said.  It’s not enough for standards to evolve because the $9.3
trillion mortgage market is so big and policy makers may act to
reduce the government’s role before the issues are settled, said
Richard Johns, the SFIG’s executive director.  “It forces the industry’s hand a bit to help it along,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  