-- How Ho Chi Minh City’s Filthy Canal Became a Park
-- B y   J i m   Y o n g   K i m
-- 2013-10-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/how-ho-chi-minh-city-s-filthy-canal-became-a-park.html
Sewers and storm drains don’t stir
most people’s deepest passions. But try creating a modern,
economically vibrant city without them.  Ho Chi Minh City ,  Vietnam ’s economic capital, has spent the
past decade building a modern sanitation and flood control
system for the 1.2 million people living along its Nhieu Loc-Thi
Nghe canal. Cleaning up this once-filthy waterway and creating
new sanitation infrastructure has changed the face of the city,
transforming it into a model for improving urban infrastructure
in difficult settings around the world.  Ho Chi Minh City residents recall the canal as it used to
be: an open sewer snaking through the city’s central business
district and several of its most densely populated
neighborhoods. Waste from thousands of residential buildings,
businesses and factories spewed directly into the water, giving
the canal a perpetual stench and killing the fish that inhabited
it.  Frequent floods brought pollutants and detritus onto local
streets. Crumbling embankments did little to restrain flooding,
and people living nearby experienced high levels of water-borne
diseases.  By the early 2000s, political leaders resolved to fix the
situation, but how to get started remained anything but clear.  Ambitious Plan  The project faced considerable technical and political
hurdles. Large tunnels and trenches would have to be dug in the
city’s unstable soil. And the construction would disrupt traffic
in the congested business district. Meanwhile, thanks to
Vietnam’s political decentralization, lines of responsibility
between the city and the central government had become blurred.
And a project of this scale seemed sure to aggravate political
tensions.  Some experts recommended simply sealing the waterway with
concrete.  But Vietnam’s leaders chose a more ambitious path. They
decided to transform the canal from an eyesore into an asset
that would not only provide wastewater and flood control but
also raise property values and attract business and people to
the city center.  Project planners engaged development banks -- including the
 World Bank  -- and donor agencies from other countries, such as
 Japan ’s International Cooperation Agency, to help them design,
fund and deliver the project. Ho Chi Minh City’s Department of
Transportation and Public Works would manage the project with
assistance from other national and city agencies.  The government and its partners chose a bold plan -- to run
a 3-meter-wide sewer interceptor pipe for 8 kilometers (5 miles)
underneath the existing canal. Tunneling would prove difficult,
but it would help minimize traffic problems. To further limit
disruption, city officials decreed that almost all construction
would happen at night.  The work got off to a rocky start in 2002. The project
management team lacked real authority and adequate staff, and
the division of labor between the Department of Transportation
and other agencies remained unclear. Bidding processes were
extremely slow and inefficient, because design reports, bid
documents, cost estimates, procurement plans, evaluations and
contract awards required review from multiple levels of
government, and all procurement decisions needed approval from
the prime minister’s office.  Even with multiple reviews, project planners didn’t always
draw on technical expertise to analyze proposals. For crucial
pieces of work, contractors put in unrealistically low bids,
then cut corners to meet their budgets.  Stuck Underground  The sheer difficulty of the job compounded these problems.
As experts had feared, poor soil conditions made tunneling
exceptionally difficult. Three times, huge boring machines got
stuck underground, bringing the work to a standstill for months.  Even the highly experienced foreign companies hired for the
toughest assignments struggled. When a broken cable snarled the
tunneling machine in a half-finished gallery beneath the Saigon
River, a main contractor quit the project, abandoning the
machine where it stood.  As delays accumulated, local news media publicized the
technical debacles, and citizens fumed about torn-up streets. By
2007, with the work years behind schedule, the Nhieu Loc-Thi
Nghe project reached a crisis point. The government and its
partners saw they had to either kill it or somehow turn it
around.  They analyzed the project’s failures, mapped out solutions
and gave themselves six months to get back on course.  Delegating all decision-making power to the Department of
Transportation’s management team proved crucial. This move cut
the average processing time for procurement bids by two-thirds.  Under the streamlined process, the government hired a local
engineering company to finish the tunneling work. This smaller
company learned from the foreign contractor’s failure -- and
finished the job.  Meanwhile, other important pieces of the project came
together. Workers dredged more than a million cubic meters of
sludge from the canal, significantly expanding its hydraulic
capacity. And as the new sewer network approached completion,
the canal’s water quality improved. Neighbors could see, and
smell, the difference.  Along the canal, gardens were planted, sidewalks were
widened, bridges were upgraded and fitness equipment was
installed. What had once been a place to avoid became a place
for people to meet. In one news report, a longtime resident
said, “The canal used to be smelly, full of waste. But now it’s
like a park, where people of all ages can come to relax,
exercise and enjoy the fresh air.”  Fish Return  Fish, too, returned to the waterway. This had symbolic
resonance for Ho Chi Minh City’s residents, who customarily
offer fish to the kitchen god Zao Jun just before the Vietnamese
New Year. In May 2013, in a ceremony linked to World Environment
Day, city authorities released an additional 200,000 fish into
the Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe canal and into another recently
refurbished urban canal.  The project  has also provided hundreds of thousands of
residents with sanitation services and about 1.2 million with
better flood control. The rejuvenated canal has also boosted Ho
Chi Minh City’s emerging reputation as an economic hub with a
high quality of life.  The canal cleanup offers four lessons for successful
delivery of public works.  First, set ambitious goals. The Vietnamese government and
its partners could have covered the canal with concrete and
turned the channel into a subterranean sewer line. But this
wouldn’t have transformed the global reputation of Ho Chi Minh
City and raised property values in the area.  Second, get bidding procedures right. Evaluating proposals
for major infrastructure projects takes technical skill, which
needs to be sourced and paid for just like any other critical
part of the project.  Third, give people with technical expertise the power to
make decisions, because they have the most capacity to adapt to
changing conditions. The sheer size and complexity of the canal
project made people nervous, causing them to multiply
administrative review procedures -- and that slowed things down
considerably.  Fourth, use crises creatively. In this project, the day of
reckoning that might have marked the project’s demise turned out
to represent its real beginning.  Already, the Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe canal has become a model
for other waterway cleanup projects in Ho Chi Minh City. And
work has begun on an advanced wastewater treatment plant that
will take the new canal sewer system to its next level.  Finally, with  climate change  posing new challenges to Ho
Chi Minh City, a metropolis built on an already flood-prone
river delta, the Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe project has had the
unexpected benefit of calling Vietnam’s attention to the vital
role environmental sustainability plays in development.  (Jim Yong Kim, a former president of  Dartmouth College , is
the president of the World Bank. This is the last in a three-part series about the importance of delivery in the success of
global development projects. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jim Yong Kim at  president@worldbank.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 