-- How to Negotiate With Afghanistan
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-15T22:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/how-to-negotiate-with-afghanistan.html
If you think negotiating over the
debt ceiling and the government shutdown is difficult, try
sitting across the table from Afghanistan’s President  Hamid Karzai . The mercurial leader has routinely trashed his biggest
benefactor, gone back on his word, and presided over staggering
levels of corruption and political chicanery.  In that respect, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
deserves praise for his effort, during yet another surprise
episode of shuttle diplomacy, to salvage a bilateral security
agreement that will allow international troops to remain in
Afghanistan after 2014, when combat operations led by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization are scheduled to end.  What the “agreement” actually entails and whether it will
stick are  unclear . One thing, however, is plain. After more than
a dozen years, more than 20,000 Americans killed or injured, and
more than half a trillion dollars spent, the U.S. should reject
any agreement that doesn’t unequivocally advance its one abiding
security interest: to prevent the use of  Afghanistan  as a base
for terrorist attacks against the U.S. and its allies.  Here’s the problem: Neither side has disclosed the
agreement’s terms, which cover thorny issues such as U.S.
guarantees for Afghanistan’s security, the ability of U.S.
forces to operate independently and who has jurisdiction over
U.S. force members accused of committing crimes. Karzai has also
said that the deal must be approved by Afghanistan’s parliament
and a loya jirga, or grand council. And there may be more
hurdles. As Karzai said in the  news conference , “I did not
study the details, the technical details of this particular
agreement, and I will have time tomorrow to study the details.”
In other words, notwithstanding the  Barack Obama 
administration’s desire to get an agreement wrapped up by the
end of this month, the bazaar is still very much open.  It will be interesting to learn more about the “written
guarantees” that Karzai said he received from Kerry detailing
the U.S. commitment to defend Afghanistan against an outside
attack, a particularly ticklish issue given the mutual animosity
between Afghanistan and a nuclear-armed  Pakistan , another
putative U.S. security partner. As the recent U.S. seizure of a
senior Pakistani Taliban leader from Afghan custody shows, any
agreement needs to be flexible enough to let the U.S. act
independently to pursue terrorists who threaten the U.S.
Although the U.S. has turned over military suspects to civil
authorities in  Japan  and  Korea  for prosecution, it has good
reason not to do the same in Afghanistan.  American diplomats would be wise to make clear to Karzai
that any attempt to renegotiate these areas in the draft
agreement might prompt the U.S. to abandon it altogether and
adopt the so-called zero option of withdrawing troops entirely.
The U.S. has better ways to spend $10 billion a year than in
defending Afghanistan’s interests at the expense of its own.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 