-- Panel Says Japan’s GPIF Should Consider Management Changes
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a   a n d   Y u k o   T a k e o
-- 2013-10-15T09:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/panel-says-japan-s-gpif-should-consider-management-changes-1-.html
Japan ’s Government Pension
Investment Fund, the world’s  largest manager  of retirement
savings, may need to alter the way it makes investment decisions
as it seeks to diversify its portfolio, according to an expert
panel advising on public investments.  The current management structure, wherein GPIF’s president
makes most of the decisions, may hinder the fund from
reallocating investments and improving governance, Cabinet
Office official Shunsuke Shirakawa told reporters in Tokyo
today. The panel held its sixth meeting today and will likely
gather two more times before issuing its final recommendations
next month, Shirakawa said.  GPIF needs to reduce the risk of losses on its bond
holdings should interest rates start to rise as the economy
improves, panel chair Takatoshi Ito said in an Oct. 4 interview.  An interim report from the group on Sept. 26 showed some
members wanted the 121 trillion yen ($1.23 trillion) GPIF to add
new assets such as real-estate trusts, infrastructure and
private-equity investments and commodities.  The  Bank of Japan  unveiled an unprecedented monetary
stimulus program in April, saying it would double monthly bond
purchases to more than 7 trillion yen in pursuit of a 2 percent
inflation target in two years. The easing has kept a lid on bond
yields as it helped Japan’s exporters by sending the yen to a 4
1/2-year low of 103.74 per dollar in May.  The benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond yield rose
one basis point to 0.665 percent today, still the lowest
worldwide. The yen slid 0.1 percent to 98.66 per dollar as of
10:56 a.m. in  London .  ‘Plausible’ Target  The central bank’s inflation goal “is plausible” and the
government pension fund “should be using this as their main
scenario,” Ito, who is the dean of the Graduate School of
Public Policy at the  University of Tokyo , said in the Oct. 4
interview.  The pension fund announced in June a cut to its target
holding for domestic bonds, to 60 percent from 67 percent, while
the proportion of foreign and local shares was changed to 12
percent each, from 9 percent and 11 percent respectively.
Allocations will remain at the revised levels until at least
March 2015, GPIF President Takahiro Mitani has said.  Mitani in June expressed doubt that the BOJ can achieve its
inflation goal, saying in an interview that the transmission of
policy pledges to changes in consumer price expectations “isn’t
that smooth.”  Bond Losses  GPIF posted its smallest gain in three quarters in the
period ended in June because of record domestic bond losses. The
advisory panel hasn’t discussed how much of the portfolio should
move from bonds into other assets, according to Ito, who didn’t
speak to reporters after today’s meeting.  The pension fund announced earlier this month that it was
hiring staff for its investment management and research units.
That followed recommendations in the panel’s interim report that
more “front-line” experts are required to diversify
investments and adopt more sophisticated risk-management
measures.  At today’s meeting, the panel said that an earlier plan to
move GPIF’s headquarters to Kanagawa prefecture, south of  Tokyo ,
by March 2015 should be revised, as doing so could impact how
the fund communicates with market participants.  The advisory group also discussed the formation of so-called baby funds of assets broken out from GPIF’s holdings.
Earlier this month, Ito said he personally agreed with that
idea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuko Takeo in Tokyo at 
 ytakeo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  