-- Plaza Hotel Sues Over ‘Eyesore’ Bike Rack Near Entrance
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-15T01:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/plaza-hotel-sues-over-eyesore-bike-rack-near-entrance.html
New York ’s  Plaza Hotel  sued the city
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  for putting a block-long bicycle rack in
front of the entrance to the landmark property at the southern
end of  Central Park .  The rack, which was installed in June, is an “eyesore”
and is “festooned with corporate advertising” for Citibank,
the sponsor of the city’s new Citi Bike bicycle-sharing program,
according to a copy of the Oct. 11 petition obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The filing by the managers of the Plaza
condominiums on behalf of unit owners, including the hotel,
couldn’t immediately be confirmed in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan.  The city’s Department of Transportation didn’t tell the
condominium managers about the location of the rack in advance,
gave minimal notice to the hotel, and refused to consider
alternate sites, according to the lawsuit.  “The bicycle rack is not only an eyesore, stuck squarely
in between two of the city’s most famous designated landmarks,
but it came at the expense of a full lane of traffic,” the
managers of the hotel said in the petition. “This has created a
hardship for the condominium, the residents of the residential
section of the condominium, the hotel and its guests and
residents by causing severe traffic congestion at peak times,
such as just before and just after major events at the hotel
such as weddings, parties and conferences.”  Andrew Brent , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined in an e-mail to comment on the suit. The Plaza said in
a statement that it doesn’t comment on pending legal matters.  Installation ‘Proper’  “While we haven’t seen the papers yet, we’re confident the
installation was proper,” Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman
for the city’s Law Department, said in an e-mail. New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  The Plaza has played host to socialites and celebrities
since it opened in October 1907, and is the only New York City
hotel to be designated as a National Historic Landmark. It
reopened in March 2008 with 282 hotel rooms and 181 condominiums
after a two-year restoration that cost more than $400 million.  The bike-sharing program began in May with the arrival of
the first of 6,000 bikes at more than 300 docking stations in
 Manhattan  and  Brooklyn . The program is set to expand to
other parts of Manhattan and Brooklyn and into Queens, with a
goal of 10,000 bikes and 600 stations.  The case is Board of Managers of the Plaza Condominium v.
New York City Department of Transportation, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  