-- Polish Inflation Slows in Boost to Case for Stable Rates
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-15T14:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/polish-inflation-slows-to-bolster-case-for-stable-interest-rates.html
Polish inflation slowed to a four-month low in September, bolstering the central bank’s plan to
hold  interest rates  steady.  Consumer prices  rose 1 percent from a year earlier, less
than last month’s 1.1 percent advance, the Warsaw-based
statistics office said today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 36 economists was 1.1 percent. Prices rose 0.1 percent
from August.  Central bank Governor Marek Belka supports keeping interest
rates at a record low until mid-2014 as the European Union’s
largest eastern economy recovers “very gradually” from a
slowdown. While manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in
more than two years in September, inflation has lagged behind
policy makers’ 2.5 percent goal for nine months.  “The demand pressure on prices is muted,” Piotr Bujak,
chief economist for  Poland  at Nordea Bank AB, said by e-mail.
“Interest-rate increases are still a distant prospect.”  The zloty gained 0.2 percent to 4.1747 per euro at 4:26
p.m. in Warsaw, strengthened from 4.1837 before the data was
released. The yield on two-year notes rose less than one basis
point to 2.94 percent.  A 6.9 percent decline from the previous month in the cost
of education services was the main reason why inflation
undershot in September, according to economists at BRE Bank SA
and Bank Zachodni WBK SA. The government cut payments for
extracurricular activities at public kindergartens last month.  “The data confirm the absence of inflationary pressures in
the Polish economy,” Nora Szentivanyi, economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  London , said by e-mail. “We continue to see only
a gradual rise in inflation over the coming year” and it will
remain below the target through 2014, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  