-- Police Hunt for Azeri Suspect in Murder That Sparked Moscow Riot
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-15T11:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/police-hunt-for-azeri-suspect-in-murder-that-sparked-moscow-riot.html
Police are searching for a native of
 Azerbaijan  suspected of killing a Russian in Moscow last week, a
crime that sparked the capital’s worst nationalist riots in
almost three years.  The suspect, born in 1982, is on the run, a duty officer at
the Moscow police press service said by phone today, declining
to be identified in line with policy. The Azeri’s Moscow
landlord, Alexei Pronkin, said the suspect left their apartment
hurriedly yesterday evening and has since been unreachable,
according to an  interview  broadcast on Life News television.  More than 1,000 people rioted on Oct. 13 in the southern
Moscow district of Biryulyovo, ransacking a shopping center and
a vegetable storage facility. Police detained hundreds of people
for their role in the violence and rounded up more than 1,200
people in a raid on the vegetable warehouse.  President  Vladimir Putin  faces a growing challenge from
nationalist groups as tensions grow between ethnic Russians and
migrant laborers. In December 2010, hundreds of riot police were
deployed to quell nationalist riots near Red Square, which were
provoked by the shooting of a soccer fan by migrants from
 Russia ’s southern Muslim provinces.  More than 100,000 people took part in celebrating the Eid
Ul-Adha Muslim religious holiday in Moscow today, with about
 4,000  security officials deployed around the city,  Interfax 
reported, citing the capital’s police. The events passed without
incident, according to the news service.  Russia’s national soccer team is playing its  final   World
Cup  qualifying match tonight against Azerbaijan in the Caspian
Sea country’s capital, Baku.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  