-- U.K. Gilts Decline as U.S. Lawmakers See Progress on Budget Deal
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-15T15:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/pound-little-changed-versus-dollar-before-u-k-inflation-report.html
U.K. government bonds fell, pushing
10-year  yields  to the highest in three weeks, as U.S. policy
makers said they were close to a deal to bring a halt to the
nation’s fiscal standoff, damping demand for the safest assets.  Benchmark gilts dropped for a second day after government
reports showed inflation was faster in September than
economists forecast and a gauge of  home prices  increased in
August. The pound strengthened the most in three weeks versus
the euro before U.K. unemployment figures are released tomorrow.
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  has said policy makers
won’t consider raising their key  interest rate  from a
record-low until unemployment falls to 7 percent.  “We’re down in gilts, bunds and Treasuries because there
is some optimism” of a budget deal in the U.S., said  Marc Ostwald , a rates strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in
 London . “To a certain extent U.K. inflation was above
expectations and it puts a little bit of pressure on gilts. The
underperformance is modest.”  The 10-year gilt yield rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.80 percent at 4:39 p.m. London time after
touching 2.81 percent, the highest level since Sept. 24. The
2.25 percent bond maturing in September 2023 fell 0.44, or 4.40
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,597) face amount, to 95.285.  Benchmark German 10-year  bund yields  increased five basis
points to 1.91 percent. Their  U.S. equivalents  climbed three
basis point to 2.72 percent.  Senate leaders are poised to reach an agreement as early as
today to bring a halt to the fiscal standoff, and now must race
the clock to sell the plan to lawmakers before U.S. borrowing
authority runs out on Thursday.  Deadline Change  The emerging deal would stave off a potential default, end
the 15-day-old government shutdown and change the immediate
deadlines in favor of three new ones over the next four months.
It’s far from complete as the Senate may delay passing the plan
and  House Republicans  may seek to block or change it.  U.K. government bonds lost 3.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Treasuries
fell 2.6 percent and German securities dropped 2 percent.  Consumer prices  in the U.K. rose 2.7 percent in September
from a year earlier, matching the rate in August, the  Office for
National Statistics  said. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
forecast it would slow to 2.6 percent.  Home prices  climbed an
annual 3.8 percent in August after increasing 3.3 percent the
previous month, the Office said.  The pound strengthened 0.4 percent to 84.49 pence per euro,
the biggest daily gain since Sept. 23. The U.K. currency was
little changed at $1.5968 after sliding to $1.5914 on Oct. 10,
the lowest since Sept. 18.  Jobless Rate  The  unemployment rate  measured by International Labour
Organization methods stayed at 7.7 percent in the three months
through August, according to economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Central bank policy makers forecast the jobless rate won’t fall
to 7 percent until late 2016.  “Now that we have the core CPI for September, chances may
have increased that we see evidence of accelerating earnings
growth for August,” strategists at Citigroup Inc. wrote in an
e-mailed note. “This combined with another drop in the U.K.
claimant count in September and stable ILO  unemployment rate  for
August could fuel speculations that a pickup in earnings could
continue to support the U.K. economic recovery and sterling
tomorrow.”  The pound appreciated 3.1 percent in the past three months,
the best performer after  New Zealand ’s dollar among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro strengthened 0.4 percent, while the
 U.S. dollar  slid 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  