-- Puerto Rico May Skirt New Debt Sales to Avoid High Costs
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-16T14:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/puerto-rico-may-avoid-accessing-debt-markets-after-yields-soar.html
Puerto Rico debt is poised to climb
after the commonwealth’s Government  Development Bank  said the
island may skip borrowing before June because of adequate funds.  Puerto Rico and its agencies still plan to sell as much as
$1.2 billion of debt by Dec. 31 to balance budgets, although the
territory has the flexibility to postpone issuance, the bank
said. Officials released the information yesterday in a webcast
investor briefing on the finances of the commonwealth, whose
general-obligation bonds are rated one level above junk.  The presentation, sponsored by the Development Bank,
follows a four-month  rout  that drove yields on some commonwealth
debt to record highs amid investor doubts over Puerto Rico’s
ability to repay. A delay in borrowing means it won’t have to
shoulder the higher costs, while reduced supply of new debt may
help existing bonds gain in value, said Daniel Solender,
municipal securities director at Lord Abbett & Co.  People are selling because “they’re worried about the
impact of a potential large issue,” Solender said by phone
after the webcast. His  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , firm oversees
$16.5 billion of munis. “That may change now.”  Puerto Rico officials are seeking to ease investor concern
that repayment may be threatened as the economy has slumped this
year for the longest stretch since 2010. The commonwealth’s
fiscal stability affects the $3.7 trillion municipal market
because 77 percent of muni funds hold its bonds, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The securities are tax-exempt for U.S. holders.  Alternatives Available  “We are very comfortable with the financing alternatives
still available to the commonwealth through the GDB,” David Chafey, chairman of the Development Bank, said on the webcast.
“We prefer to go to the  capital markets  to issue long-term
debt, but we would only do so when conditions are appropriate.”  With the jump in yields, a Standard & Poor’s index tracking
Puerto Rico debt is at its lowest since July 2009. The index
fell almost  22 percent  this year through yesterday, the worst
performance since at least 1999 and more than six times the
losses in the broader municipal market.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in
January, has implemented new tax measures to help reduce Puerto
Rico’s recurring budget deficits and keep the commonwealth’s
bond rating above junk. The governor, a member of the Popular
Democratic Party, also boosted the  retirement age  and increased
workers’ retirement contributions to help sustain a pension
system with a funding level weaker than any U.S. state.  Pension Funding  Lawmakers plan to work on legislation this year that would
help the  retirement plan  for public-school teachers avoid
running out of assets.  “We will do everything, and I repeat, everything, that is
necessary for Puerto Rico to honor all its commitments,” Garcia
Padilla said in the webcast, referring to the island’s bonds.
“It’s not only constitutional, but also a moral obligation.”  Puerto Rico officials still plan to borrow using sales-tax
bonds by Dec. 31, even as yields for the securities have
increased this year. Holding off may lower the commonwealth’s
costs, according to Solender.  Yields fell today on some  Puerto Rico  debt backed by sales-tax revenue.  Bonds maturing in August 2039 and rated four steps below
top-rated munis traded with an average yield of 8.57 percent, or
about 0.13 percentage point less than yesterday’s level, which
was a record high, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fiscal Stress  The commonwealth’s government is dealing with fiscal
challenges while also trying to restore growth. An index that
tracks economic activity on the island fell for nine straight
months through August, the longest contraction since 2010,
according to the Development Bank.  Puerto Rico expects to use $6.5 billion of federal funds in
fiscal 2014, which began July 1, according to a financial report
yesterday from the Development Bank. A partial U.S. government
shutdown that started Oct. 1 may delay access to those funds.  While Puerto Rico’s federal programs will continue
uninterrupted through this month, “the commonwealth may be
disproportionally affected by an extended delay in the approval
of the necessary federal legislative appropriations,” according
to the report.  The commonwealth won’t use deficit financing to help
balance the fiscal 2015 budget, even as officials project a $400
million shortfall that year, officials said during the webcast.  Garcia Padilla’s five-year economic plan calls for creating
more than 90,000 jobs that would add as much as $7 billion to
the economy by 2016, and another 130,000 jobs and as much as $12
billion of growth by 2018, officials said. The governor has said
he plans to have a balanced budget no later than fiscal 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  