-- Putin Seeks to Return Investigators’ Power to File Tax Charges
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-10-15T10:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/putin-seeks-to-return-investigators-power-to-file-tax-charges.html
President  Vladimir Putin  is asking
lawmakers to give investigators the power to open tax cases
without involving the tax service, undoing a measure his
predecessor put in place to improve the business climate.  The  proposal , submitted by Putin to the lower house of
parliament on Oct. 11, would undo changes passed under then-President  Dmitry Medvedev  in December 2011, according to the
bill on the State Duma’s website.  “An analysis of the law’s implementation has shown that
the detection of tax crimes has been reduced significantly,”
 Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s spokesman, said by telephone today.  Russia’s government is reviewing tax policies as it
struggles to boost revenue and revive economic growth, which has
stumbled to its slowest since 2009. Medvedev, now prime
minister, said in 2008 that it’s time to “stop ‘nightmarizing’
business,” a coinage he also used while attempting to reduce
corruption and other constraints on enterprise.  “This is a step backward,” said  Igor Yurgens , a vice
president of the Russian Union of Industrialists and
Entrepreneurs, a lobby group for big business. “Law enforcement
agencies haven’t been reformed, and the excesses there are off
the charts.”  ‘Two Sides’  The Investigative Committee, which probes tax crimes in
place of the  Interior Ministry , is a force behind undoing
Medvedev’s move, Vedomosti reported, citing an unidentified
government official. The Finance and Economy ministries weren’t
consulted on Putin’s plans, the newspaper said.  “The state’s job is to collect taxes and make sure that
the greater number of agencies allowed to open tax cases doesn’t
lead to greater pressure on business,” Peskov said.  Putin ordered Medvedev’s government to boost Russia’s
standing in the  World Bank ’s  Ease of Doing Business  index to
20th in 2018 from 120th as part of a long-term growth plan he
set out hours after his inauguration in May 2012. Russia’s
economy expanded 1.2 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, the sixth straight quarter of slowing growth, while the
 Finance Ministry  last month widened its budget-deficit forecasts
for the next two years.  “When  law enforcement  lost the right to initiate tax cases
in 2011, the atmosphere definitely improved,” said Yurgens, who
also served as an adviser to Medvedev while he was president.
“Now the siloviki will get back to their old habits, again
terrorizing business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  