-- Quest Introduces Breast-Cancer Gene Test Rivaling Myriad
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-10-15T20:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/quest-introduces-breast-cancer-gene-test-rivaling-myriad.html
Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX) , the biggest
U.S. operator of medical labs, will sell a test for two breast
cancer genes starting today, providing competition for  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  and potentially helping to reduce costs for women
fearful they are at risk of the disease.  Quest will sell the most comprehensive version of its test
for the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes for $2,500, said Richard Bender, a
consultant for the Madison, New Jersey-based company. The price
compares with almost $3,400 that Medicare pays for the most
comprehensive version of a test from Myriad. About 85 percent of
the Salt Lake City-based company’s $613.2 million in revenue
came from BRCA testing in the fiscal year ended June 30.  Myriad held a U.S. monopoly over the BRCA tests until June,
when the  U.S. Supreme Court  invalidated parts of its gene
patents. Immediately afterward,  Ambry Genetics Corp.  and another
closely held company said they were entering the BRCA market.
Quest is the largest competitor to move into the field.  Quest’s test “will certainly be comparable to if not
better than the data provided by Myriad” in its ability to
identify a harmful mutation, Bender said by telephone. “We
would suspect the volume is going to be quite considerable.”  Quest declined 1.3 percent to $57.90 at the close in New
York. Myriad dropped 2.6 percent to $23.24.  Mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, the most common
cause of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer, are present in
roughly 1 in 400 women and give women an elevated risk of
ovarian cancer as well as a higher breast cancer risk.  Price Drop  Private insurer re-evaluation may drive down the price for
Myriad’s BRCA test “by as much as 50 percent over the next two
years,” Amit Hazan, an analyst for SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Inc., wrote in an Oct. 10 note to clients. Rivals “can make
fairly quick strides to replicate Myriad’s database of mutations
within less than two years,” he wrote.  Myriad’s test is particularly vulnerable at academic
medical centers and with genetic counselors, “both of which
take a dim view of Myriad’s gene patenting tactics,” he wrote.  Quest’s incursion into the BRCA testing market sets up a
potential legal battle with Myriad, which has various remaining
patents on its tests.  “We feel we offer a test that is the gold standard in
quality,” said Ronald Rogers, a Myriad spokesman, in a phone
interview. “We have the fastest turnaround time” and “the
lowest” rate of returning ambiguous results, he said.  Myriad Lawsuit  In July, Myriad sued Ambry Genetics and another closely
held company, saying their competing BRCA tests violate other
Myriad patents not affected by the Supreme Court decision.
Ambry, in a countersuit filed in August, said Myriad is misusing
its patents to “intimidate and chill competition.”  Quest’s test “does not violate any valid BRCA patent that
Myriad Genetics may assert,” said Wendy Bost, a Quest
spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Quest said in an Oct. 10 complaint filed in federal court
in Santa Ana,  California , that it believes Myriad will bring a
patent-infringement lawsuit if it starts selling its BRCA test
products. The company seeks a court order that it doesn’t
infringe the Myriad patents and the relevant patent claims
aren’t valid.  “Myriad’s conduct, including Myriad’s  litigation history ,
threatens Quest’s legal rights and ability to market Quest’s
BRCA Assay,” Quest said in the complaint. “Quest, as the
largest entrant to the BRCA1/BRCA2 genetic testing market since
the Supreme Court’s June decision, has specific reason to
believe that it will be the target of a patent infringement
lawsuit from Myriad.”  Myriad has not yet been served with Quest’s complaint, said
Rogers. “Once we receive that we will read through it and weigh
our options,” he said.  Quest’s tests will return results within 14 days using
next-generation sequencing technologies, Bender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  