-- Machines Trading $400 Billion of Bonds as Humans Retreat
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-10-15T14:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/trading-electra-reaching-400-billion-corporates-credit-markets.html
A record share of U.S.  corporate-bond trading  has moved to computers as buyers who traditionally
transacted over the phone seek faster ways to buy and sell in a
market where Wall Street’s human traders are retreating.  Investment-grade volumes on MarketAxess Holdings Inc.’s
electronic system are on pace to exceed $400 billion in 2013
after surging 45 percent to $44 billion in September from a year
earlier, according to data from the company, which estimates it
captures about 90 percent of electronic trades among the dollar-denominated notes. That’s equal to 14.3 percent of all market
activity, including business done over the phone, up from 12.2
percent a year earlier.  Investors are seeking alternatives to establishing bond
prices by calling multiple Wall Street firms, which experienced
an estimated 20 percent decline in debt-trading revenue in the
third quarter as they curb holdings used to facilitate trades.
U.S. corporate-bond buyers expect to conduct 30 percent of their
volume electronically by 2015, according to McKinsey & Co. and
Greenwich Associates.  “The industry is very open to alternative solutions
because of the inventory challenge with the dealers,” said
 Niamh Alexander , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods who
expects MarketAxess to capture 20 percent of investment-grade
bond trading in the U.S. by the end of 2015. Investors are
“open to it and the dealers are open to it as well.”  BlackRock, Goldman  The shift has prompted firms from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. to explore creating their own platforms.
BlackRock, which managed $3.86 trillion in assets as of June 30,
considered helping to create its own network before saying in
April it would instead route trades through MarketAxess. Goldman
Sachs added trading sessions this year and increased the amount
of money it makes available to buy securities on an electronic
system it started in 2012, known as GSessions.  Deutsche Bank AG, the biggest bank in continental  Europe ,
combined its investment-grade credit and interest-rates units in
 North America  last year as it emphasizes its electronic debt-trading platform.  Cutting Costs  Moving to electronic bond-trading systems may reduce
transaction costs by as much as five times because it forces
dealers to compete more openly through automated auctions,
according to a study last year by Terrence Hendershott, an
associate professor at the Haas School of Business at the
 University of California  at Berkeley, and Ananth Madhavan,
global head of trading research at New York-based BlackRock.  “You want to induce more competition amongst the
dealers,” Hendershott said in a telephone interview last week.  The 21 primary dealers that do business with the  Federal
Reserve  have reduced net investment-grade bond holdings to $10
billion, an 11 percent decline since April 3, when the Fed
started reporting the data, after cutting a broader measure of
 corporate debt  by 76 percent since the October 2007 peak.  Investment-grade trading volumes on MarketAxess’s system
expanded 21 percent in the first nine months of the year to
$333.6 billion, from $275 billion in the corresponding period of
2012 and $248.1 billion in the first three quarters of 2011,
according to data from the New York-based company.  The growth is three times the 7 percent increase during the
same period in average daily transactions tracked by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Average volumes on a
given day increased to $12.7 billion from $11.9 billion,
bringing total trades for the first nine months of the year to
$2.4 trillion.  Liquidity Evaporating  MarketAxess’s share of all investment-grade bond
 transactions  in the U.S. swelled to as high as 16.6 percent in
June as trading volumes fell to about the lowest ever as a
proportion of the market.  “It’s harder and harder to call any one dealer and get
liquidity,” said Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based hedge-fund adviser TF Market Advisors. “Longer term, I expect more
bond and derivative trading to occur on electronic platforms.”  Investors use systems such as MarketAxess to request price
quotes on bonds from multiple dealers at the same time, with the
idea of accepting the best offer within a set period of time.  Traditionally, those prices have been negotiated directly
between investors and brokers over the phone. Dealers buy a bond
from a client at one price and sell the same security to another
for a higher amount, profiting from the gap.  Transactions Shrink  While the dollar-denominated investment-grade  bond market 
has increased 71 percent since 2008 to about $4.3 trillion, the
size of each transaction declined to about $565,000 in the three
months ended June 30, compared with about $970,000 in the first
three months of 2007, according to Trace, Finra’s bond-price
reporting system, which tracks both electronic transactions and
those negotiated over the phone. The average investment-grade
trade on MarketAxess’ system was $600,000, according to Rick McVey, the company’s chief executive officer.  “Dealers do not have the balance-sheet capacity to
warehouse large block trades from investors the way they used
to, so investors are breaking trades down into smaller sizes,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , also offers
electronic bond trading through its fixed-income trading
platform and doesn’t disclose volumes.  No Capacity  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest  U.S. bank , reported a 26
percent slump in fixed-income trading revenue in the three
months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, contributing to a
$3.23 billion profit for the period that missed analyst
estimates, according to a statement today from the New York-based lender.  Fixed-income trading revenue excluding an accounting
adjustment dropped to $2.78 billion, compared with an estimate
of $3.04 billion from Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Moshe Orenbuch.  The biggest U.S. banks’ fixed-income trading revenue
probably fell 20 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier on lower volumes, Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic
Equities LLP, said in a Sept. 23 report.  “It’s a reasonable-size business in terms of revenues for
them, but they don’t have the balance sheet capacity to be the
backstop for the market,” said Roger Rudisuli, a partner in
McKinsey’s corporate and investment banking practice, speaking
about dealers generally. “They cannot play this role anymore.”  Credit Benchmarks  Elsewhere in credit markets, a measure of corporate credit
risk in the U.S. fell to an almost five-month low as Senate
leaders were poised to reach an agreement as early as today to
bring a halt to a fiscal standoff that has threatened to tip the
nation into default. Creditors of Energy Future Holdings Corp.,
taken private in the biggest leveraged buyout on record, will
keep negotiating for a restructuring plan after one group quit
confidential talks.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.7
basis point to 76.2 basis points as of 10:01 a.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure is
trading at about the lowest level since May 22 in data that
adjusts for the effects of the market’s shift to a new version
of the index last month. Bond markets were closed yesterday in
the U.S. for the Columbus Day holiday.  Senate Talks  The emerging Senate deal would stave off a potential
default by extending the nation’s borrowing capacity, end the
15-day-old government shutdown and change the immediate
deadlines in favor of three new ones over the next four months.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, fell 2.4 basis points
to 89.3 basis points.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  In the Energy Future talks, outlines of three unadopted
proposals submitted by different groups were included in a
filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Each would have restructured more than $40 billion of debt via
pre-negotiated bankruptcy filings by the company and most of its
units, excluding regulated power-line group Oncor Electric
Delivery. All of the plans contemplated keeping the company and
its units together post-Chapter 11.  Lenders Divided  Creditors are seeking to reach terms on a pre-arranged
bankruptcy filing by Nov. 1, the filing shows. Lenders are
divided over how much of Energy Future’s $43.6 billion in debt
will be extinguished, and how lenders will carve up ownership of
the Texas power company. Energy Future is due to make about $270
million in interest payments Nov. 1 -- cash more senior
creditors want the company to retain by filing for bankruptcy.  Texas’s largest electricity provider has struggled to
reduce debt since it was taken over in a $48 billion deal in
2007 led by  KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners. The leveraged buyout left Energy Future with more than
$40 billion in debt in an unsuccessful bet natural gas prices
would rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  