-- Batista’s MMX Jumps After Takeover of Iron-Ore Port
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-10-15T18:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/trafigura-mubadala-take-over-batista-s-iron-ore-port-in-rio.html
Eike Batista ’s MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA mining company soared the most in three months
after Trafigura Beheer BV and Mubadala Development Co. agreed to
buy a controlling stake in its iron-ore port in  Brazil .  MMX rose 8.1 percent to 1.07 reais at 3:30 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo  after gaining as much as 18 percent, the most intraday
since July 15. The increase pared losses this year to 76
percent, compared with a 10 percent decline in the benchmark
Ibovespa. Securities linked to the port’s royalty revenues,
called MMXM11,  dropped  2.7 percent to 2.92 reais.  Trafigura, the world’s second-biggest metals trader, and
 Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala sovereign wealth fund agreed to buy 65
percent of a unit of MMX that controls the Sudeste port in  Rio
de Janeiro  state by paying $400 million and assuming debt, MMX
said in a  statement  late yesterday. With the new controlling
shareholders, the unit, known as PortCo, will assume about 1.3
billion reais ($596 million) in debt from MMX’s mining business,
the company said.  The agreement means Amsterdam-based Trafigura will control
the Sudeste project in Rio state’s Itaguai harbor and provide a
route to Asia and  Europe  for iron-ore producers based in
landlocked  Minas Gerais , Brazil’s largest mining state,
including an  ArcelorMittal (MT)  unit. Vale SA, the world’s biggest
iron-ore producer, and  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3)  also operate
terminals in Itaguai, which is linked to Minas Gerais by
railway.  After the deal, MMX will hold a 35 percent stake in PortCo
and as part of a shareholders agreement with Trafigura and
Mubadala, will have the right to designate a board member to the
venture. MMX will also have the option to buy an additional 7.5
percent stake of PortCo.  Deals’ Conditions  The agreement, which is contingent on government approvals
and the restructuring of existing debt at MMX and its units, is
expected to close before the end of this year, Trafigura and
Mubadala said in e-mailed statements. MMX shareholders won’t be
able to exercise preemptive rights on the transaction since
PortCo is not a fully owned subsidiary of the company, MMX said.  The Trafigura-Mubadala partnership will be able to buy iron
ore locally from smaller producers and ship it abroad at higher
prices, said Luis Nepomuceno, a partner at  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil-based consulting firm LCN Mining and Metals.  “A lot of iron ore, which is currently sold domestically
to bigger miners or steelmakers, will be exported through the
port,” he said by telephone. “They will also be able to sell
port services to other producers.”  Bastista’s Sales  Batista, 56, this year sold stakes in his power-generation,
oil and shipping ventures and relinquished control of his port
developer LLX Logistica SA after missed output targets triggered
a collapse in the valuation of his companies, erasing most of
his fortune. Oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
the centerpiece of Batista’s commodities group, is considering
filing for  bankruptcy protection  by the end this month, two
people with direct knowledge of the plan said on Oct. 4, after
the company said it would miss a $45 million payment on dollar-denominated bonds.  Sudeste, located about 90 kilometers (56 miles) west of
downtown Rio, can handle as many as 50 million metric tons of
 iron ore  a year and is scheduled to start operations in
mid-2014, MMX said in a Sept. 10 filing. That’s almost a three-year delay from Batista’s most optimistic  estimates .  Brazil  exported  234.4 million metric tons of iron-ore in
the first nine months of the year, 2.3 percent more than in
2012, according to the country’s Development and Trade Ministry.
 Australia  is the world’s largest exporter of the key raw
material in the production of steel.  Sale Talks  MMX, Brazil’s fourth-largest iron ore producer, said in
June it was in talks to sell a stake or assets to companies
including Trafigura and Glencore, the largest publicly traded
commodities supplier. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Gonzalez 
said Aug. 15 that MMX was seeking to sell the entire company.  Mubadala said in July that it restructured a $2 billion
investment in EBX Group Co., Batista’s holding company, after a
stock-market rout pushed down the value of the former
billionaire’s businesses. Mubadala, which had said that EBX had
redeemed a “significant portion” of its original investment,
will be repaid over four years, according to the wealth fund’s
first-half report published Sept. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  