-- Rain Slows Wheat Sowing, Erodes Sunflowers in Black Sea Region
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/rain-slows-wheat-sowing-erodes-sunflowers-in-black-sea-region.html
Sunflower crops in  Russia  and
Ukraine face damage after excess rain, while prospects for next
year’s production of wheat deteriorated as planting slowed, Oil
World said.  Only 26 percent of Russia’s  sunflower  area was harvested as
of Oct. 10, equal to a multi-year low of 1.88 million hectares
(4.6 million acres), the Hamburg-based researcher said.
Production so far is about 3.66 million metric tons, compared
with 6 million tons collected at the same time last year.
Ukraine’s harvest was 66 percent complete, compared with 88
percent a year earlier.  “Too wet conditions had a double effect: damaging this
year’s crops and preventing completion of winter crop
planting,” Oil World said. “The situation is more severe in
Russia.”  Planting of winter grain in Russia may be 4 million
hectares less than previously intended, with the biggest effect
on wheat, Oil World said. Farmers planted about 57 percent of
planned winter grains, or 9.35 million hectares, as of Oct. 10,
compared with 87 percent at the same time last year. Lower
planting “will substantially reduce next year’s production
prospects,” according to the report.  Ukrainian farmers had planted 3.7 million hectares of
winter grain as of Oct. 4, compared with 5.7 million hectares
sown a year earlier, Oil World said. Wheat accounted for 3.3
million hectares of plantings so far this year.  Excess rain also has eroded crops in some areas of  India .
The country’s soybean crop may be as much as 2 million tons
lower than previously estimated. Harvest delays have reduced
crushing and boosted soybean meal prices, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  