-- RBA Says Rate-Cut Impact Evident, Retains Option for Loosening
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-15T02:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/rba-says-rate-cuts-still-possible-signals-no-moves-imminent-1-.html
Australia’s central bank said
interest-rate reductions are affecting the nation’s economy,
while retaining the option to loosen policy further to spur
growth, minutes of the Oct. 1 meeting showed.  “The effect of low  interest rates  was evident across a
range of indicators and had further to run,” the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia said in the  minutes  released today in Sydney.
“Members agreed that the bank should again neither close off
the possibility of reducing rates further nor signal an imminent
intention to reduce them.”  The Australian dollar touched the highest level since June
and investors pared bets on cuts as they interpreted the central
bank shifting to a neutral bias. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board left rates at a record-low 2.5 percent this month after
cutting by 2.25 percentage points since late 2011 to try to
rebalance the economy as mining investment crests.  The minutes are “light forward guidance pointing to a
neutral stance,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “The assessment of the economic
outlook was generally favorable.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.4 percent to 95.28 U.S. cents
at 12:22 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, and touched the highest
since June at 95.34. Traders are now pricing in a 27 percent
chance of a rate reduction by May, compared with 47 percent odds
seen a week ago, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Currency, Confidence  Policy makers are weighing a resurgent currency as data
from China improved and the  Federal Reserve  delayed tapering its
stimulus, with better local sentiment since a Sept. 7 election.  “Members noted two developments over the past month,
namely the appreciation of the  exchange rate  and the pick-up in
measures of both consumer and business confidence over recent
weeks,” the minutes showed. “It was difficult to know how
significant the effects of either of these developments would
be, partly because it was uncertain whether they would be
sustained.”  A private report last week showed  business confidence 
surged in September to the highest level in 3 1/2 years after
the election ended a hung parliament and low rates spurred
sentiment.  Consumer confidence  dipped this month after rising
following the election of the Liberal-National coalition led by
 Tony Abbott .  Home prices  in Australia’s biggest cities rose 3.7
percent in the three months through September, according to the
RP Data-Rismark Home Value Index.  Credit Growth  “Leading indicators pointed to a pick-up in dwelling
investment over the period ahead,” the RBA said. “While credit
growth remained moderate, there were signs of an increased
appetite for borrowing, most notably among investors.”  While Australia’s  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined
to 5.6 percent in September as fewer people sought work, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a report last week that the
jobless rate would rise to a 10-year high of 6 percent next
year. The RBA said forward looking indicators of labor demand
“remained soft” and its liaison indicated that employment
intentions were “subdued” in recent months, particularly in
mining and related industries.  “The information to hand at the meeting was consistent
with growth of economic activity remaining below trend over the
next year or so before an expected pick-up,” the minutes said.
“Inflation was expected to be consistent with the target over
the next one to two years.” The RBA aims for inflation of
between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  Aussie Strength  The Australian dollar has jumped 7 percent since Aug. 30.,
supported by improving Chinese data and the Fed’s decision to
delay tapering its stimulus.  “The Australian dollar appreciated significantly against
the  U.S. dollar  on the day of the Fed decision and had
appreciated further over the past month following the release of
stronger-than-expected economic data, particularly in China,”
the minutes said. “However, members noted that the Australian
dollar was still around 10 percent below its peak in April.”  Craig James , a senior economist at a unit of  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia , said the economy is improving, indicating the
safest spot for the RBA is on the interest-rate sidelines.  “The Reserve Bank is seemingly in that ‘happy place’,”
James said. “It is showing no inclination of either cutting or
lifting interest rates and neither the firmer Aussie dollar nor
rising home prices are sparking concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  