-- T-Bill Rates Surge as Auction Demand Falls Amid Budget Impasse
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-15T21:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/treasuries-fall-after-officials-cite-progress-on-budget-deal.html
Rates on Treasury bills due in
October soared and the U.S. attracted the least demand at weekly
bill auctions since 2009 as Senate attempts to end the fiscal
impasse were put on hold, increasing speculation of a default.  The $35 billion in three-month bills were sold at the
lowest bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing the
amount bid with the amount offered, since July 2009. The ratio
for $30 billion six-month bills was the lowest since October
2009. Rates on bills due Oct. 24 jumped to the highest level
since the securities were sold in April.  Fitch Ratings  placed
the U.S. AAA on rating watch negative, citing the failure to
raise the debt ceiling in a timely manner before the Treasury
exhausts extraordinary measures.  “The tension and political risk is driving up bill yields
and the nervousness has shown itself in the short end,” said
Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 New York , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“Every headline is getting priced into the market. We are in
for more volatility as you might need a stronger market reaction
before congress gets their act together.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.73 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.5 percent note
due in August 2023 slid 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face value,
to 98 1/32. The yield reached 2.74 percent, the highest level
since Sept. 23.  The rate on bills due Oct. 24 rose 20 basis points to 0.46
percent after touching 0.51 percent, the highest since the bills
were sold. The rate was negative as recently as Sept. 27.  Bill Auctions  The three-month bills sold today drew a bid-to-cover ratio
of 3.13, below the 4.52 average over the past 10 auctions. The
high rate of 0.13 percent was the highest since February 2011.
The bid-to-cover ratio at the six-month bill auction was 3.52
versus an average of 5.07 at the previous 10 sales. It drew a
 rate  of 0.15 percent, the highest since November 2012.  This was the second consecutive week bill auctions
attracted poor demand amid budget wrangling in  Washington .  “The bill auctions were very poor,” said Thomas Simons, a
government-debt economist in New York at primary dealer
Jefferies LLC. “Unless there is some type of agreement in
Washington, the bill market will continue to trade choppily and
auctions will not go well.”  Rating Concerns  “Although Fitch continues to believe that the debt ceiling
will be raised soon, the political brinkmanship and reduced
financing flexibility could increase the risk of a U.S.
default,” Fitch analysts  Ed Parker ,  Tony Stringer  and Douglas Renwick wrote in a report published today. The company’s rating
for the U.S. remains AAA.  Moody’s, which rates the U.S. a stable Aaa grade,
reiterated yesterday that it expects the debt ceiling to be
raised, averting a default. The company also expects “that the
U.S. government will pay interest and principal on its debt even
if the statutory debt limit isn’t raised.” Fitch and  Standard &
Poor’s , which haven’t commented on Treasury’s ability to
prioritize payments, have also said they expect the U.S. to
avoid default.  S&P’s AA+ grade for the U.S. already “incorporates the
current level of discord” in Washington, John Piecuch, a
spokesman for S&P, said yesterday in an e-mail that reiterated
the firm’s stance. The company lowered the U.S. rating from AAA
in August 2011 after the previous debt ceiling impasse citing
“intractable” political disputes over fiscal policy.  Repo Rates  The overnight general collateral Treasury repurchase rate
closed today at 0.27 percent after opening at 0.23 percent,
according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.
That’s up from 0.21 percent last Friday and more than double the
0.09 percent open at the start of last week.  U.S. government securities due in a decade and longer have
fallen 10 percent this year, the biggest decline of 144 debt
indexes worldwide tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Senate talks aimed at ending the government shutdown and
preventing a default are on hold and haven’t broken down, while
the House considers its competing plan, said top leaders in the
 U.S. Senate .  Default Options  “We just need to wait and see what the House does,” said
Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Majority Leader  Harry Reid . “We
expect them to fail and then the Senate deal will re-emerge.”
Michael Brumas, a spokesman for Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ,
said the Kentucky Republican hasn’t walked away from talks.  “The question is still when an agreement will be reached,
and what will the damage to the economy and confidence have
been,” said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Securities LLC, a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors. “Any selloff we see will be
tempered.”  A default may not disrupt markets as long as the U.S.
alerted traders the night before a payment was due that it was
probably going to default, giving the  Federal Reserve ’s Fedwire,
an electronic service that transfers securities and payments,
enough time to adjust its programs and allow the defaulted debt
to be “transferable,” according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That
would allow them to continue to be used as collateral in repo
markets.  ‘Dangerous Flirtation’  “Treasury can, in principle, delay coupon or principal
payment dates,” wrote  Alex Roever , the head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Chicago . “If Treasury
announces its intention to postpone a payment date in advance,
the day before the payment is due, the security will remain in
Fedwire, and would therefore be transferable.”  Citigroup Inc. is bracing for a possible U.S. default by
avoiding some short-term Treasury investments amid what Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  called “a dangerous flirtation
with the debt ceiling.”  Corbat made the remark during a conference call today to
discuss third-quarter results at New York-based Citigroup. The
bank doesn’t own  Treasury securities  that mature in October and
holds few with terms ending before Nov. 16, Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach  said.  Although rates on bills have risen, they are lower than
historical levels. One-month  rates  have averaged 1.5 percent in
the past 10 years. During that time they touched a high of 5.26
percent in November 2006 and dropped to a low of negative 0.09
percent in December 2008.  ‘Trading Cheap’  Two years ago, one-month rates climbed to a 29-month high
of 0.18 percent as the Aug. 2, 2011, deadline set by Treasury to
avoid a default approached. They traded at negative 0.046
percent in December 2012 before a year-end trigger that forced
automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  “Anything that had principal payments or coupon payments
in October or November was trading cheap because people
preferred other securities,” Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of
macro and markets research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in
an interview with Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” in  London .  The Treasury Department will have no more than $30 billion
on hand after Oct. 17. Depending upon daily tax receipts and
incoming bills, the U.S. government could be forced to default
on its obligations at any date thereafter -- to bondholders and
millions of Social Security recipients.  The Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington-based nonprofit
research group, estimates that the Treasury will actually be
unable to pay all the government’s bills on time at some point
between Oct. 22 and Nov. 1. While the Treasury will probably be
able to delay the true drop-dead date for a few days, it is
unlikely to be able to do so beyond Nov. 1 because several large
payments are due before then, the center says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  