-- Cardinals at World Series Brink as Red Sox Beat Tigers
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-16T16:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/red-sox-top-tigers-in-alcs-game-delayed-by-detroit-power-failure.html
(Corrects Holliday’s postseason home-run total in fourth
paragraph.)  The  St. Louis Cardinals  drew within
one win of reaching the  World Series  and the Boston  Red Sox 
moved a step closer to joining them there.  Matt Holliday  and Shane Robinson hit home runs as the
Cardinals defeated the host Los Angeles Dodgers 4-2 last night.
St. Louis took a three-games-to-one lead in the best-of-seven
National League Championship Series and can finish off Los
Angeles in Game 5 this afternoon at Dodger Stadium.  In the American League,  Mike Napoli ’s seventh-inning home
run gave the Red Sox a 1-0 win against the  Detroit Tigers  and a
two-games-to-one series lead. The game was interrupted for 17
minutes when a cable failure caused lights to go out in the
second inning at Detroit’s Comerica Park.  It was the second home run this postseason for Holliday,
who had two hits last night after entering the game hitless in
12 at-bats in the first three games of the series.  “I felt like I hit the ball hard,” Holliday said in a
televised interview. “That’s about as good as I could hit
one.”  At Los Angeles, the Cardinals took a 3-0 lead in the third
inning on a run-scoring double by Matt Carpenter and a two-run
homer by Holliday. The Dodgers got two runs in the fourth on
run-scoring singles by Yasiel Puig and A.J. Ellis.  St. Louis  made it 4-2 in the seventh on a solo home run by
pinch-hitter Robinson.  At Detroit, the game was scoreless in the middle of the
second inning when the power went out on the scoreboard and on
light towers around the stadium. Utility officials said the
power outage was an isolated incident.  ‘Random’ Failure  “This was just a random cable failure,” Steve Kurmas,
president and chief operating officer of DTE Electric Co., a
unit of DTE Energy Co., said in a telephone interview.  The Red Sox lead the ALCS despite striking out 43 times in
the three games so far. Boston can move to the brink of reaching
the World Series with a win tonight in Game 4 at Detroit.  Napoli’s home run broke up a pitchers’ duel between
Detroit’s  Justin Verlander  and Boston’s  John Lackey . The
starters had overwhelmed hitters in the first six scoreless
innings -- each struck out eight batters and Lackey allowed
three hits in that span while Verlander allowed two hits before
the homer.  The home run by Napoli, who said he rubbed his bat on
teammate Jonny Gomes’s beard before going up to hit, broke a 21-inning scoreless streak by Verlander in these playoffs. Napoli
had struck out in his first two at-bats in the game.  “Having seen him a couple times already, I knew he wasn’t
seeing the fastball that great,” Verlander told reporters. “I
decided to challenge him. I made a little bit of a mistake. It
was a little bit up and in the middle.”  Calmed Down  Lackey got the victory by pitching the first 6 2/3 innings
and three Boston relievers closed out the game. Boston catcher
 Jarrod Saltalamacchia  said Lackey seemed to calm down after the
17-minute delay.  “That little time off gave him a chance to slow down,”
Saltalamacchia said in a televised interview. “He was very
excited and pumped in that first inning. Kind of getting excited
with his slider, throwing a little too hard and leaving it over
the middle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net  