-- Reid Slams House Plan as Senate Pauses for Boehner Move
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-10-15T18:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/reid-slams-house-plan-as-senate-pauses-for-boehner-move.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
rejected a House plan to halt the fiscal impasse, as Senate
leaders put on hold bipartisan talks aimed at ending the 15-day-old government shutdown and preventing a default.  The House plan, which Republican leaders presented to their
members this morning, “can’t pass the Senate and won’t pass the
Senate,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said on the floor today. It
is “an extreme piece of legislation and it’s nothing more than
a blatant attack on bipartisanship.”  Reid and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  had
been closing in on an agreement. Reid’s comments were an attempt
to pressure House Speaker  John Boehner  to fold by showing that a
Republican House proposal won’t succeed even if Boehner can get
his party behind it.  The House and Senate plans would both fund the government
through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspend the U.S. debt limit until
Feb. 7. As the differences narrow between the parties, a House
vote as soon as tonight would test whether Republicans are
willing to raise borrowing authority and end the shutdown
without major changes to the 2010 health-care law.  Nancy Pelosi , the House Democratic leader, said there’s a
“bipartisan path” to preventing the lapse in borrowing
authority. She urged Boehner to allow a vote on the Senate deal.  ‘Humor’ Troops  “Perhaps the speaker just needs to humor his troops so
they can sow their oats,” the California Democrat said on
Bloomberg Television. “They’ve hijacked the Republican name.
Republicans are not for jeopardizing our full faith and
credit.”  Boehner didn’t say that the House would move ahead with the
plan Republican aides and lawmakers described today. Senator
 Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said he hoped Boehner’s
plan would “collapse relatively soon” so the Senate proposal
can proceed as the primary path.  “My sense is they have control of this issue on the House
side for the next move and the Senate will wait and see what the
House sends,” said Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican.  Reid said on the Senate floor today that credit-rating
companies could downgrade the U.S. as soon as tonight. The main
ratings companies have made no statements signaling an imminent
downgrade.  Moody’s, S&P  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  have stable
outlooks on their U.S. ratings. John Piecuch, a spokesman for
S&P, reiterated yesterday in an e-mail that the firm’s AA+
ranking already “incorporates the current level of discord” in
 Washington .  Fitch Ratings , which has a negative outlook on the
U.S.’s AAA grade, has said that it’s considering the budget
impasse in its review of the ranking.  Benchmark Treasury 10-year yields rose four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.73 percent at 1:52 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The rate
touched 2.74 percent, the highest since Sept. 23. The rate on
bills due Feb. 20 rose eight basis points, more than tripling to
0.12 percent. It touched zero on Oct. 2.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.8 percent to close in
 London  today at its highest level in almost four weeks. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5 percent to 1,701.01 at
2:31 p.m.  The House proposal goes beyond the Senate with two smaller
changes to the health-care law. It would delay for two years a
medical-device tax and prevent the government from contributing
to the health insurance of members of Congress, the president,
the vice president and the Cabinet. It would also include
language requiring the government to verify the income of people
receiving health insurance subsidies.  Health Law  The plan falls far short of Republican efforts last month
to defund or delay major pieces of the 2010 health law. Boehner
told Republicans the approach was the chamber’s only possible
strategy to respond to the emerging Senate deal that he
described as a hand grenade being lobbed at the House, said
Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana Republican.  White House spokeswoman  Amy Brundage  in a statement today
said President  Barack Obama  has repeatedly said that lawmakers
“don’t get to demand ransom for fulfilling their basic
responsibilities to pass a budget and pay the nation’s bills,”
saying that’s what the House Republican proposal does.  There are obstacles, including the disagreements between
the Senate and the House. Furthermore, senators opposed to the
deal may stall a final vote.  Also, some  House Republicans  may oppose Boehner’s plan
because it doesn’t go far enough in changing the health law.  ‘Financially Irresponsible’  “Both plans are financially irresponsible,” said
Representative Mo Brooks, an Alabama Republican. “Both kick the
can down the road. Both force America to deal with a debt crisis
where we’re weaker because we incur more debt.”  Given objections from the White House and House Democratic
leaders, Boehner may need to find all the votes for the plan in
his own party, meaning that he can lose the support of no more
than 15 Republicans. Or, he may need to change the plan to
attract more Republicans.  “For the most part we’re on board,” Fleming said, “There
are a number of us that want to see more.”  The emerging contours of an agreement in the Senate would
stave off a potential default, open shuttered federal services
and change the immediate deadlines in favor of three new ones
over the next four months, including a Dec. 13 target date for a
budget conference between the House and Senate.  Comprehensive Deal  There is a potential obstacle to turning a Senate agreement
into law quickly. A single senator would be able to use
procedural tactics to push a final vote past the Oct. 17 lapse
in borrowing authority.  If the House votes tonight, the Senate would be able to
pass its plan no later than Oct. 18, before the government
starts missing promised payments. The U.S. will have enough cash
and income revenue to avoid missing payments until Oct. 22 at
the earliest, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Texas Republican Senator  Ted Cruz , who spoke for more than
21 hours during a budget debate last month, wouldn’t rule out
stalling maneuvers, saying he wants to see the details of the
plan.  The House Republican alternative would prevent the
government from making any employer-side contributions to the
health insurance of members of Congress, the president, the vice
president and the cabinet.  Obama has insisted that Congress raise the $16.7 trillion
U.S.  debt limit  without add-ons and that stopgap spending bills
be free of policy conditions.  Democrats Meeting  House Democratic leaders are scheduled to meet at the White
House with Obama at 3:15 p.m. today.  Possible sticking points to a Senate deal late yesterday
included whether Democrats would agree to Republican demands
that the Treasury Department be barred from using so-called
extraordinary measures to extend the debt-limit deadline after
Feb. 7. Such maneuvers pushed forward the deadline for five
months this year, though it’s not clear how much time they would
buy in 2014.  Obama spoke with McConnell yesterday and said the
administration wants flexibility for the Treasury Department’s
borrowing, according to a person familiar with the conversation
who requested anonymity to describe private discussions.  The House proposal would bar the extraordinary measures and
Reid cited that as one of his major objections.  Health Plans  Yesterday’s version of the Senate plan would postpone a
reinsurance fee the government is levying on health plans for
the first three years of the health-care exchanges -- amounting
to $63 a worker next year, said the person familiar with the
talks. Labor unions, aligned politically with Democrats, have
asked for the delay.  That provision and one sought by Senate Republicans on
verifying the income of those receiving subsidies may both be
dropped, said a person familiar with the Senate talks, speaking
on condition of anonymity to discuss the private conversations.  The Senate agreement also would give federal agencies
flexibility to manage the across-the-board spending cuts known
as sequestration if they occur in 2014.  The partial government shutdown began Oct. 1 after
Republicans insisted on changes to the 2010 Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act. Backed by Cruz, they started with a
plan to defund the law and ended up seeking a one-year delay of
the requirement for individuals to purchase health insurance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  