-- Rio Reports Record Iron Ore, Coal Output as China Demand Surges
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-10-15T05:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/rio-tinto-third-quarter-iron-ore-output-meets-analyst-estimates.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-largest mining company, reported record third-quarter  iron ore 
and power station coal output and raised its full-year copper
forecast as  China ’s commodities’ demand surged.  Iron ore production was 53.4 million metric tons in the
three months to Sept. 30, compared with 52.6 million tons a year
earlier, the London-based company said today in a statement.
That compares with the 53.3 million ton median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economic growth in China, Rio’s biggest customer, is
showing signs of rebound after a two-quarter slowdown.
 Australia , the largest iron ore exporter, this month raised its
price estimates on buying from  steel mills  in China, while the
Asian nation’s copper imports rose to an 18-month high.  “The highlights for us are obviously the growth in iron
ore shipments and production,” Peter Esho, chief market analyst
at Invast Securities Co., said in an e-mail. “Copper is also
the big standout.”  Rio, seeking to cut $5 billion in costs by the end of next
year, rose 2.5 percent to A$63.20 in Sydney trading. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest miner, gained 1 percent.  “In iron ore, we achieved record production and shipments
in  Western Australia ,” Chief Executive Officer  Sam Walsh  said
in the statement. “We are also making further important gains
in productivity across our operations and continue to drive
costs out of the business.”  Bull Market  Iron ore , Rio’s biggest-earning unit with 91 percent of
income last year, entered a  bull market  in July as users in
China replenished stockpiles that shrank in March to the lowest
level since 2009. Prices gained 12 percent in the three months
to Sept. 30 to trade at an average price of $132.55 a ton. That
compares with $112 a ton for the same period last year.  Rio’s iron ore expansion to 360 million tons, from 290
million tons, in Australia’s Pilbara region is underway, with
the company evaluating a number of options for the estimated $5
billion project.  Quarterly copper production beat analyst expectations and
the company boosted its 2013 mined copper output forecast 4.4
percent from a July estimate to 590,000 tons.  Copper Pit  Rio (RIO)  produced 162,300 tons of mined copper in the quarter,
up 23 percent on a year earlier, beating the 139,000 ton median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Refined copper
output fell 2 percent to 68,300 tons, while Rio boosted its 2013
refined copper output forecast 17 percent to 270,000 tons.  A recovery of open pit operations at Kennecott Utah Copper
in the U.S. after a pit wall slide in April continues to
progress better than originally planned, Rio said. Mined copper
output at Kennecott is expected to be 185,000 tons this year.  Mongolia and Rio are making progress in resolving  project
financing  and other disputes that have stalled an expansion of
the $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper mine in the Asian nation,
Ganzorig Temuulen, a Mongolian board member of the venture said
Oct. 2.  Rio Tinto  in July delayed work on a $5.1 billion
underground expansion pending financing agreements. Mongolia
controls 34 percent of the project.  “We achieved strong production results in the third
quarter, with copper volumes up as Oyu Tolgoi ramps up to full
capacity and Kennecott continues to recover ahead of
expectations,” Walsh said.  Oyu Tolgoi’s customers are making “good progress” with
Chinese customs officials to obtain necessary approvals to allow
collection of purchased concentrate from a bonded warehouse at
the Chinese-Mongolia border, Rio said. Customers have been
unable to collect the concentrate while they finalize
documentation with Chinese customs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  