-- Roland Berger Sees Widening Europe North-South Competitive Gap
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-15T07:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/roland-berger-sees-widening-europe-north-south-competitive-gap.html
Companies in northwest  Europe  will
benefit from a widening competitive advantage over their
southern European counterparts as growth returns, a survey of
executives by  Roland Berger  Strategy Consultants GmbH showed.  Even as Europe’s economy recovers in 2014, with significant
expansion in 2015, governments need to increase investment in
infrastructure and education while cutting public debt,
according to the study. A majority of the southwest European
respondents still sees the economy stagnating in 2015.  “People are asking whether it makes sense yet to invest in
southern Europe,” Max Falckenberg, a Berlin-based partner at
Roland Berger who led the survey, said in a telephone interview.
“The process will be slow, because the unit labor costs and
productivity in southern Europe need to become more competitive
and the market needs further stabilization.”  Switzerland  is the world’s most competitive economy, the
 World Economic Forum  said Sept. 4, holding the top spot for a
fifth year.  Germany  and the U.S. rose two slots to fourth and
fifth respectively in the Geneva-based organization’s 148-nation
league. Singapore and Finland retained their second and third
positions.  Of the 701 respondents, 70 percent forecast economic
expansion in 2014, with “significant” growth in 2015, the
Roland Berger study showed. About 53 percent of respondents in
northwest Europe expect their competitiveness relative to the
region to improve. By contrast, only 10 percent in southwest
Europe see an improvement in their position. No Swiss
respondents anticipated a worsening of their situation.  German Reforms  Germany, home to  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering
company, and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which is seeking to become the
world’s biggest carmaker by 2018, must continue reforming,
European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said
in a speech in Dautphetal-Buchenau on Aug. 27.  “Germany and Europe are dependent upon exports, so we have
to see to what extent regulatory issues lead to problems,”
Roland Berger’s Falckenberg said. “Competitiveness in  France  is
more difficult. The government is making it harder for
businesses to shut operations if the business does not work. And
this makes the French market less attractive to investors.”  Europe’s competitiveness compared to Asia will decline in
the next three years, according to 64 percent of respondents in
the survey, while 49 percent expect it to worsen when compared
to  North America . Only 14 percent see the competitive advantage
against North America improving in that period.  “All companies constantly have to improve profitability.
Automotive suppliers have to reduce their costs by 3 percent to
5 percent every year,” Falckenberg said. “If states would
start to act in a similar way, significant amounts would be
available for investments in infrastructure and education.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  