-- S&P Subpoenas Federal Reserve Board as Part of U.S. Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-15T00:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/s-p-subpoenas-federal-reserve-board-as-part-of-u-s-suit.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s
Standard & Poor’s unit seeks information from the board of
governors of the  Federal Reserve  to bolster its defense against
U.S. claims it misled investors in mortgage-backed securities.  The credit rating company said it served subpoenas on the
Federal Reserve board as well as the  Federal Open Market
Committee  and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, according to
a filing today in federal court in Santa Ana, California.  S&P is “seeking, among other things, information and
analyses supporting or relating to specifically identified
statements from high ranking government officials such as  Ben Bernanke  and  Timothy Geithner  about the housing market in 2006
and 2007,” it said in the filing, referring to the then-Fed
chairman and the former head of the New York Fed. “S&P seeks to
identify the data upon which the assessments, similar to those
made by S&P, were made.”  S&P, based in New York, and the  Justice Department  are
exchanging pre-trial evidence in the U.S. lawsuit that accuses
the company of knowingly downplaying the credit risks of
residential mortgage-backed securities, as well as that of
collateralized-debt obligations that contained those securities,
in order to win more business from investment banks.  S&P has denied the allegations and is seeking evidence that
the lawsuit was brought in retaliation for its downgrade of the
 U.S. debt  two years ago.  Information Request  The U.S. hasn’t agreed to obtain documents from the Federal
Reserve and the Federal Open Market Committee, saying they are
independent regulatory offices and that S&P has to submit its
information request to them directly, according to a separate
Justice Department filing.  The government also hasn’t agreed to provide certain
documents regarding its decision to sue because it wants S&P to
make an “as yet unspecified” showing to support its
retaliation defense, according to the company.  The government doesn’t think S&P can show that its
allegations that it was singled out warrant releasing documents
that would otherwise remain legally protected as confidential
internal communications, the Justice Department said.  S&P and the Justice Department both filed a status report
in response to a request from U.S. District Judge  David Carter ,
who is presiding over the lawsuit.  The Justice Department said in its filing that it has been
collecting information from federally insured financial
institutions, foreign banks, collateral managers, investment
banks and trustees. The U.S. said at a July 29 hearing it wants
to identify those securities rated by S&P that best support its
fraud claim when the case goes to trial.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779 U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Federal court in  Los Angeles  at  epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  