-- Same-Sex Marriage Fight Looms Next on IRS Estate Refunds: Taxes
-- B y   D i a n e   F r e d a
-- 2013-10-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/same-sex-marriage-fight-looms-next-on-irs-estate-refunds-taxes.html
Same-sex couples have reason to
wonder who will have the last word: the Supreme Court or the
IRS?  Same-sex couples may get a reprieve on estate and gift tax
paid when passing property from one spouse to another after the
U.S. high court decision that declared the Defense of Marriage
Act unconstitutional. It may take another ruling to make the
 Internal Revenue Service  change the statute of limitations for
amended returns, Bloomberg BNA reported.  “If a law is unconstitutional, that means it is void ab
initio, void from the start. It’s as if it never existed,” said
George Karibjanian, senior partner at Proskauer Rose LLP in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida . “Shouldn’t that trump whatever statute of
limitations says I can’t amend a return?”  The IRS and Treasury Department in August announced that
same-sex couples who were legally married in jurisdictions that
recognize their marriages will be treated as married for federal
tax purposes, whether they live in a state that recognizes same-sex marriage or not.  Taxpayers would be allowed to file a refund claim for gift
or estate taxes  paid  prior to the  Supreme Court  decision.
However, the IRS’s relief was confined to the current three-year
statute of limitations, meaning that amended returns will only
be accepted for 2010, 2011 and 2012.  There probably will be a challenge to the IRS’s decision,
possibly from a disgruntled beneficiary who wants to force the
IRS to open up other years to amend a return, Karibjanian said.  Estate Tax  The decision said the law that prevented same-sex couples
from taking the marital deduction was unconstitutional,
Karibjanian said. For U.S. estate and gift tax purposes, the
marital deduction allows a married person to transfer property
to a spouse during his or her lifetime or at death without
paying tax on the transfer.  If there is a further challenge to the law, Karibjanian
said, it will probably come in the area of estate tax.  “It’s very clear that without the marital deduction you
are paying a boatload of taxes for property passing to the
surviving spouse, which shouldn’t have been paid if you were
allowed to have the marital deduction,” he said.  Since it is unlikely that Congress or the IRS would allow
an exception to the limitations period, he said it would be up
to the courts to decide the issue.  Other practitioners agreed that the IRS isn’t likely to
expand the statute of limitations in this instance.  “I don’t think it’s going to happen,” Tamara Kolz Griffin
told Bloomberg BNA. Griffin is director of the Estate Planning
Clinic at  Harvard Law School  and an attorney in private practice
at the Law Office of Tamara Kolz Griffin in Wayland,
 Massachusetts . “It could open things up for a really long time
and I don’t see the IRS agreeing to that.”  Important Filing  The Supreme Court would probably say it has a rational
basis for having to close the loop at some point, and three
years is sufficient, “particularly since an aggrieved taxpayer
can file a protective claim when litigation is pending to claim
the refund which would otherwise be due him or her should the
resolution of the litigation extend beyond the statute of
limitations,” she said.  Whether the IRS will open up years prior to the statute of
limitations for refunds “is absolutely a concern,” said Joshua Rubenstein, partner with KattenMuchinRosenman LLP in  New York .  Rubenstein was advising same-sex married couples to file
for a protective refund claim even before the ruling. It is even
more important now because the statute of limitations is
running, he said.  Benefits Depend  Whether Treasury and the IRS agree to open years prior to
the current statute of limitations depends on which benefit is
involved, Rubenstein said.  “If we are only talking about the fact that a same-sex
couple didn’t file jointly and they could have filed jointly
because they were married, going past the statute of limitations
might not apply there,” he said.  Even with heterosexual couples, being married doesn’t mean
they have to file jointly, he said. Many people don’t. On the
other hand, if a couple was entitled to a marital deduction and
it was determined eight years later that it was wrong not to
have given them one, Rubenstein said he would argue there has
been an equitable tolling of the statute of limitations.  Because the Supreme Court ruling isn’t likely to affect
many same-sex couples, the IRS could afford to go past what
would normally be the limit in this case, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lydia Beyoud in Washington at  lbeyoud@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  