-- San Bruno Wants Penalty Settlement With PG&E on 2010 Pipe Blast
-- B y   P e t e r   W a r d
-- 2013-10-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/san-bruno-wants-settlement-with-pg-e-over-pipeline-explosion.html
Officials from the city of San
Bruno,  California , have sought to resume talks with  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ,
as state regulators move closer to a decision on penalties for a
2010 natural gas pipeline explosion that killed eight people.  “We have never met with” Anthony Earley, the chairman and
chief executive officer of San Francisco-based PG&E, City
Manager Connie Jackson said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters. PG&E ended settlement talks last year
and has rejected the city’s overtures to resume negotiations.
Earley, who took over in 2011, canceled a planned April 30
meeting as his office expressed “a level of dissatisfaction”
with press statements the city made, she said.  Earley said in an August interview that a recommended $2.25
billion penalty for the pipeline explosion in the San Francisco
suburb may force the company into bankruptcy. San Bruno said the
company’s own expert witness has refuted that notion. The recent
discovery of corrosion on a pipeline under the nearby city of
San Carlos is an indicator PG&E hasn’t learned from the
incident, Jackson said.  The San Carlos line was operating safely as determined by
industry standards that PG&E implemented following the San Bruno
accident, Brittany Chord, spokeswoman for PG&E, said in a
telephone interview.  “We want to discover these kinds of issues on our system
so that we can find, fix, and analyze problems and prevent them
from occurring in the future,” Chord said.  PG&E “have to pay and it has to hurt,” San Bruno Mayor
Jim Ruane said in the interview. “Not to the point where
they’re out of business, nobody wants that.”  Settlement Talks  Several parties including the California Public Utilities
Commission’s office of ratepayer advocates are involved with the
penalty investigation and would need to be included in
settlement talks, Chord said.  “The California Public Utilities Commission is our
regulator and makes the final decision regarding penalties,”
Chord said. “That said, we are committed to working with the
city and help them rebuild.”  PG&E has given San Bruno $120 million including a $50
million trust and $70 million as restitution for the pipeline
blast, Chord said. PG&E holds regular meetings with San Bruno
and executives including  Chris Johns , president of the company’s
utility unit, have met the city on several occasions, she said.  Time is running out for settlement talks between the city
and PG&E as the agency process nears its conclusion, Jackson
said. The commission’s administrative law judges have been
working on penalty rulings for some time, Steven Meyers, an
attorney with Oakland, California-based Meyers Nave, said in the
interview today.  “We expect that within the next two months we’ll be seeing
some conclusion from the ALJs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Ward in  New York  at 
 pward41@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  