-- Scene Pink: Breast Cancer Lunch Features Lufkin, Harvard
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-17T01:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/scene-pink-breast-cancer-lunch-features-lufkin-harvard.html
(Corrects amount raised, as opposed to grants given, in
last paragraph of story published Oct. 15.)  The  Breast Cancer Research
Foundation  gathered more than 170 scientists from around the
world this morning to talk with supporters including Maria Baum
of Baum Capital Management and Coco Kopelman, mother-in-law of
Drew Barrymore.  Titia de Lange, a professor at Rockefeller University, said
she studies “how DNA gets messed up during the formation of the
tumor.” She is looking at how a cancer that develops inside the
duct of the breast, which can’t spread and therefore isn’t
lethal, evolves into an invasive cancer.  Harvard University ’s Heather Eliassen said her studies have
shown “some associations between dairy intake and breast cancer
in premenopausal women” and “associations with meat intake.”  Clifford Hudis, chairman of BCRF’s Scientific Advisory
Board and chief of the Breast Cancer Medicine at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center , said his work with a gastroenterologist
helped explain why obesity is associated with a higher rate of
hormone-sensitive, post-menopausal breast cancer.  Sandra Swain of MedStar Washington Hospital Center said she
is working to increase the participation of blacks in clinical
trials. One of her tools is an unscripted video featuring black
men and women talking about their experiences with cancer.  The annual NYC Symposium and Awards Luncheon at the Waldorf
Astoria was dedicated to the foundation’s former co-chairman,
Cynthia Lufkin, and former advisory board member, Muriel
“Mickie” Siebert. Both died due to complications from cancer.  Great Tribute  “ Breast cancer  is a horrible, horrible disease,” said
Schuyler Hazard, Cynthia Lufkin’s eldest daughter. “We’re all
here to do our best to fight it and save the ones we love.”  “Your strength, beauty and courage are a great tribute to
your mother,” said Marisa Acocella Marchetto, an artist, author
and close friend of Lufkin’s.  The symposium was BCRF founder Evelyn Lauder’s favorite
event, said friend Marjorie Reed Gordon. Lauder, who died in
2011, oversaw healthy menus for BCRF events.  Today’s included herb-roasted chicken with bulgur-wheat
salad and a pumpkin-spiced cake. In the goody bag: a pumpkin-carving set and a bag of coffee by Grace Hightower and Coffees
of  Rwanda .  The foundation gave out $45 million in grants at the
luncheon. It has raised $450 million since its founding in 1993.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books, Katya
Kazakina on  auctions .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 