-- Schindler Lowers Profit Outlook for Second Successive Quarter
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-10-15T07:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/schindler-lowers-profit-outlook-for-second-successive-quarter.html
Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  cut a profit
target for the second successive quarter, partly because of a
restructuring charge the elevator maker expects in the last
three months of the year. The stock fell as much as 7.2 percent.  Schindler forecasts net income of as much as 550 million
Swiss francs ($605 million) this year including a 155 million-franc charge on its investment in Hyundai Elevator Co., the
Ebikon,  Switzerland  based company said in a  statement . It
previously forecast as much as 600 million francs. The company
will book restructuring costs of about 25 million francs in the
fourth quarter, it said, without giving further details.  The profit forecast comes as Silvio Napoli is due to
replace Juergen Tinggren as chief executive officer in January.
Napoli needs to boost profitability and fine-tune Schindler’s
expansion strategy as costly investments in China and  India 
weigh on profitability.  Third-quarter operating profit dropped 18 percent to 212
million francs and was “below expectations,” Schindler said.
Expenses relating to the strategic expansion of the business in
growth markets, delays in the execution of cost cuts and pricing
pressure contributed to lower operating profit, it said. Weak
currencies in important markets such as the U.S,  Brazil , India,
and  Australia  also crimped operating profit.  The shares dropped as much as 9.5 francs to 123.4 francs,
the biggest intraday fall since August 2011. The stock was down
6.6 percent to 124.1 francs at 9:09 a.m. in Zurich trading.  Schindler said last month that Tinggren will join Chairman
Alfred Schindler as an  executive director  on the board while
Napoli, who has led Schindler’s Asia-Pacific business since
2008, will be promoted to CEO partly because of his knowledge of
key Asian markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  