-- SEC Looks to Cut ‘Information Overload’ in Filings, White Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-10-15T14:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/sec-looks-to-cut-information-overload-in-filings-white-says.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White said the agency will review
corporate disclosure rules to root out requirements that may be
causing “information overload” for investors.  SEC rules, congressional mandates and company efforts to
protect against litigation have led to lengthy disclosures that
can make it difficult to find the content that is most relevant
to people making investment decisions, White said today in a
speech in Oxon Hill,  Maryland .  “We must continuously consider whether information
overload is occurring as rules proliferate and as we contemplate
what should and should not be required,” White said in her
prepared remarks at the National Association of Corporate
Directors annual conference.  The SEC will take a step toward a potential overhaul with
the release of a study of company-filing rules that will come
“very soon,” White said. The study was mandated by the 2012
Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, which requires the agency
to look for ways to simplify rules for smaller companies.  The widespread availability of information on the Internet
has made some disclosure details potentially unnecessary, White
said, citing forms that require companies to list historical
share prices.  “There are a number of similar examples, such as
requirements for dilution disclosure or the ratio of earnings to
fixed charges that also may be less relevant now than they may
have been in the past,” she said.  Social Media  The ability to share information almost instantly, via
social media and other tools, also may call into question the
deadlines for disclosing material information such as the buying
and selling stock by directors, officers and beneficial owners.  “Given the ever increasing use of technology by virtually
everyone, we need to think about whether the current timeframes
in our rules and forms continue to be appropriate,” White said.
“In some cases, investors may benefit from receiving the
information sooner than currently required. But we must also
consider whether shorter timeframes would impose an undue burden
on companies.”  Reports also have grown too long because businesses have
grown more defensive against potential lawsuits, White said.
Companies often insert excessive “cautionary language” in the
“Risk Factors” annual reports, she said.  She said the SEC has issued guidance on about when to
disclose cyber-security intrusions, calling on companies to tell
investors about breaches that are material, meaning they could
affect willingness to buy, sell or hold shares.  “We’ll be monitoring very closely to see if a rulemaking
step is necessary or desirable,” White said in a brief
interview after her speech.  The SEC expects to issue a proposal to authorize equity
crowd-funding “quite soon,” White told the conference during a
question-and-answer session. If approved, the proposal would be
issued for public comment before it could be adopted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  