-- Siemens Enterprise Pushes Software as CEO Works on Sale
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-15T14:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/siemens-enterprise-pushes-software-as-ceo-works-on-sale.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s last telecommunications
asset is betting a new name and software offerings will help it
compete with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and make it more attractive for a
potential share offering or merger.  Siemens Enterprise Communications, which is 49 percent
owned by Siemens and 51 percent by Los Angeles-based investor
Gores Group LLC, today unveiled a new software offering to make
it easier for workers to collaborate by combining phone and
electronic communications, while announcing the company will
henceforth be called “Unify.” Users can use swipe gestures to
move conversations from device to device, integrating voice,
video, text and remote screen sharing in one user interface.  “We’re putting ourselves in a different neighborhood,”
Siemens Enterprise Chief Executive Officer Hamid Akhavan said in
an interview. “That neighbourhood is boundless in terms of
opportunities, growth opportunities, IPO opportunities, M&A
opportunities.”  Siemens Enterprise, which in the past focussed on network
technologies and equipment for corporate clients, is positioning
itself more closely against Microsoft, whose Lync platform pulls
together calls, meetings and documents from its Skype, Office,
Outlook and other software. The business will also compete in
the so-called unified communications market with  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  Akhavan said he can differentiate his software by building
in support for applications from Google Inc. and  Salesforce.com
Inc. (CRM)   Technology Assets  The business represents the last telecommunications
investment for Siemens, whose origins can be traced back to the
formation of Telegraphen-Bauanstalt von Siemens & Halske in
1847, which built a telegraph line between Berlin and  Frankfurt 
that year.  Siemens, based in Munich and  Europe ’s biggest engineering
company, created the venture with Gores in 2008 as part of a
retreat from telecommunications activities. It was until 2007
part of the same division as the operations hived off to form
Nokia Siemens Networks, in which Siemens sold its 50 percent
stake to  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  in July for 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion).  “We flirted with an IPO for a couple of years,” Akhavan
said. “The market is not at all receptive to it -- it’s a very
hostile market in terms of traditional enterprise
communications. It’s a shrinking space, and it’s difficult to
excite and get proper valuations for the business in a shrinking
market space.”  Asked about a potential sale of the company or a
combination with a rival, Akhavan said that he’s looking at all
options.  M&A Options  “All possibilities are on the table,” he said. “Are we
looking at M&A? Every Tuesday. Have I talked to everybody in the
market? Sure. Was Siemens planning to stay in this business
forever? Of course not.”  Siemens Enterprise, which had sales of 2.1 billion euros in
2012, announced plans to cut 660 of its 4,000 employees in
 Germany  earlier this year. Akhavan said he may consider further
restructuring measures. Cisco in August said it’s cutting 4,000
jobs, bringing the total to 12,300 over the past two years.  “By ratio that’s higher than what I have done,” Akhavan
said. “And maybe that gives me a little bit of motivation to do
more.”  The new communications platform, which until today has been
known as  Project Ansible , will be more expensive than Siemens
Enterprise’s current offerings, which include the OpenScape
video, web and voice communications tool. It will be delivered
to customers, which include  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ,
starting next July, Akhavan said today.  Market Share  Differentiating itself from Siemens, whose products range
from x-ray scanners to factory automation, is essential to
ensuring the enterprise unit can gain market share, according to
Akhavan.  “At the same time as I’m trying to introduce myself as a
new company, Siemens has spent a billion dollars advertizing
itself as a high-speed train this and a turbine that,” he said.
“How do I capture my identity in this noise as who I am?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  