-- Siemens Said to Plan $800 Million Water Tech Sale to AEA
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-10-15T11:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/siemens-said-to-plan-800-million-water-technology-sale-to-aea.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, plans to sell its water-technologies
division to AEA Investors as it focuses on higher-margin
businesses, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The deal may value the unit at about $800 million and could
be announced this week, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the talks are private. Siemens and AEA, a New
York-based private-equity firm, declined to comment on a
potential deal.  Siemens, which replaced Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  with finance chief Joe Kaeser in August, is also
selling other units as it focusses on businesses it deems to
have better growth prospects. The water technologies unit,
including wastewater, municipal and industrial water
purification services as well as membrane filtration systems,
was put up for sale in 2012.  AEA Investors, a private-equity firm founded in 1968,
focuses on investments in industrials, specialty chemicals,
consumer products and services, according to its website. AEA’s
middle-market private-equity team manages about $3.6 billion of
invested and committed capital.  Missed Targets  Siemens, based in Munich, this year sold its 50 percent
stake in Nokia Siemens Networks, subsequently renamed Nokia
Solutions and Networks, for 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion),
and divested its loss-making solar-thermal power assets.
Loescher was ousted as CEO after saying the company wouldn’t
meet a 12 percent profit margin target in the 2014 fiscal year,
his fifth missed goal in six years.  While still CFO, Kaeser said he expected to complete
disposals of businesses including airport luggage systems, mail
automation and water technology in the fiscal year that starts
Oct. 1.  Kaeser is also widening job cuts from an initial plan after
the failure to catch up in profitability with rivals General
Electric Co. and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  cost his predecessor the job.  The company will eliminate 15,000 posts, representing 4
percent of its 370,000 workers worldwide, and a third of the
reduction will come in the German home market, Siemens said in
September. The company had first projected some 8,000 job cuts
globally, a person familiar with the program told Bloomberg in
October 2012.  Siemens had a profit margin of 9.5 percent in fiscal 2012,
while ABB and General Electric had margins of 10.3 percent and
15 percent, respectively. In August, Siemens’s debt was
downgraded by  Fitch Ratings , which cited an accelerating decline
in the manufacturer’s margins in the most recent quarter and
“insufficient progress” on restructuring measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  