-- SKF Drops After Third-Quarter Earnings Fall Short of Estimates
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-15T11:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/skf-drops-after-third-quarter-earnings-fall-short-of-estimates.html
SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s biggest maker of
bearings, fell the most in four months in Stockholm trading
after reporting third-quarter profit that missed analysts’
estimates.  Shares of SKF fell as much as 4.3 percent, the most since
June 24, and traded 3.8 percent lower at 173.6 kronor as of 1
p.m. local time.  Net income fell to 1.12 billion kronor ($180
million) from 1.25 billion kronor, the company said today.
Analysts  estimated  profit of 1.22 billion kronor. Revenue was
little changed at 15.6 billion kronor.  SKF said demand among industrial clients fell short of its
expectations, with no immediate market recovery in sight. The
manufacturer is targeting 3 billion-kronor in spending cuts
through 2015, including eliminating 2,500 jobs. The company,
which employs about 46,000 people, is moving production away
from western  Europe  to regions with faster-growing markets, such
as Asia and  Latin America .  “We see some lack of traction in a number of other
industrial markets - not getting worse but not getting better
yet either,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Johnstone said in the
statement. “The automotive business benefited from an improved
demand and better mix of sales.”  The manufacturer is considered a barometer for the health
of global industrial orders because its products are used in
construction, carmaking and aerospace manufacturing.  SKF’s bid to buy  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based competitor
 Kaydon Corp. (KDN)  prompted Moody’s Investors Service to say in
September that it may cut the Swedish manufacturer’s credit
rating should the takeover fail to help profitability.  Standard
& Poor’s  reiterated its negative watch on SKF debt that month
because of the possible effects of the bid on cash.  The Swedish company’s debt is rated A3 at Moody’s and A- at
S&P, the fourth-lowest investment grades at both credit-reporting companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  