-- SoftBank Buys ‘Clash of Clans’ Developer Majority Stake
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-10-15T16:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/softbank-buys-clash-of-clans-developer-majority-stake.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984)  took control of
Supercell Oy, the Finnish developer of games including “Clash
of Clans” and “Hay Day,” in a bid by the carrier to
capitalize on booming demand for titles played on mobile phones.  Japan ’s third-largest wireless carrier is buying a 51
percent stake in Supercell with its  GungHo Online Entertainment
Inc. (3765)  unit, which is paying 20 percent of the $1.53 billion
price, SoftBank said yesterday in a Tokyo Stock Exchange
statement. Supercell started in 2010 with six founders and has
grown to 130 employees. Its games rack up about 10 million
downloads daily, according to Chief Executive Officer Ilkka Paananen.  “Our long-term vision is to build the first truly global
games company, one with a strong foothold in the big western
markets as well as in each of the big three Asia markets,”
Paananen said in an interview.  SoftBank, owned by billionaire Masayoshi Son, is making
deals in  Europe  and  North America  to tap growth amid a declining
population at home. The Tokyo-based company paid $21.6 billion
for control of Sprint Corp. and invested $150 million in 2010 to
acquire a stake in Zynga Game Network Inc., which also found
success with an agriculture-theme game, FarmVille.  SoftBank bought the stake from a group of private equity
and venture capital investors led by  Accel Partners . Accel
bought a minority stake in the gamemaker in May 2011 for $12
million after investing in another Finnish mobile-phone
gamemaker, “Angry Birds” developer Rovio Mobile Oy.  ‘Completely’ Independent  In April, Supercell closed a $130 million round of
financing that valued it at $780 million. The Helsinki-based
gamemaker, which was raking in $2.5 million daily from virtual
goods sold on its two top games as of May, will operate
“completely independently,” said Paananen.  SoftBank plans to complete the transaction by early
November, it said in its statement.  SoftBank, founded in 1981, has stakes in more than 1,000
Internet operations including  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)  and Ustream
Inc., according to its  website . It owns more than a third of
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s largest e-commerce company.
Its $20 million investment in Alibaba.com could be worth more
than 1,000 times that if it proceeds with an initial public
offering. Analysts estimate Alibaba may be worth as much as $120
billion.  Farmers, Barbarians  GungHo, which makes the “Puzzle & Dragons” game, is led
by Taizo Son, the youngest brother of SoftBank’s President Son.  Supercell’s games are played on devices such as Apple
Inc.’s iPads and iPhones, and smartphones and tablets running
Google Inc.’s Android software. “Clash of Clans” focuses on
combat strategy, with users raising barbarian armies, while
“Hay Day” simulates crop-tending.  Son is forecasting record domestic earnings this year for
SoftBank as new subscribers are added more quickly and the
Sprint deal saves $2 billion annually by pooling purchases of
handsets and network equipment.  “SoftBank is trying to use Supercell’s content to increase
subscribers for Sprint,” Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace
Research Institute in  Tokyo  said in a phone interview. “The
company is buying Supercell’s growth potential in the future.
Content can help device sales.”  Rovio, whose headquarters are in nearby Espoo,  Finland ,
made its money by pushing tons of ads to free players and a
little more by charging users an extra buck or two to download
an ad-free version.   SoftBank rose 0.1 percent to 7,240 yen yesterday in Tokyo
trading. The shares have more than doubled this year while
Japan’s benchmark Topix index has added 39 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  