-- SoftBank in Talks for Stake in Mobile Distributor Brightstar
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-10-16T00:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/softbank-in-talks-to-buy-stake-in-mobile-distributor-brightstar.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , Japan’s third-largest wireless carrier, is in talks to buy a stake in
Brightstar Corp., a U.S.-based mobile-phone distributor.  No decision has been made on the acquisition, according to
a filing with the Tokyo Stock Exchange. An e-mail to Brightstar
Chairman Marcelo Claure outside normal business hours wasn’t
returned.  The Nikkei newspaper earlier reported SoftBank is in talks
to buy a majority stake in Brightstar in a deal that could be
worth more than 100 billion yen ($1 billion). The  news agency 
didn’t identify the source of the information.  SoftBank, controlled by billionaire Masayoshi Son, is
making deals in  Europe  and  North America  to tap growth amid a
declining population at home. The Tokyo-based company this year
paid $21.6 billion for control of Sprint Corp., the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, and yesterday said it will team
with  GungHo Online Entertainment Inc. (3765)  to buy a 51 percent stake
in Finnish game developer Supercell Oy for $1.53 billion.  Brightstar distributes mobile phones, provides handset
insurance and financial services with operations in about 50
countries, according to its  website .  SoftBank, founded in 1981, has stakes in more than 1,000
Internet operations including  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)  and Ustream
Inc., according to its  website . It owns more than a third of
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce company.  Son is forecasting record domestic earnings this year for
SoftBank as new subscribers are added more quickly and the
Sprint deal saves $2 billion annually by pooling purchases of
handsets and network equipment.  SoftBank  rose  2.1 percent to 7,390 yen at 9:03 a.m. in
Tokyo trading. The shares have more than doubled this year while
 Japan ’s benchmark Topix index has added 39 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  