-- Phoenix Drops as Solars Climb on Talks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-15T20:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/solars-climb-on-talks-as-phoenix-drops-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities declined the most
in a week in New York, as companies from  Phoenix New Media (FENG)  to
 Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  dropped.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  led gains
among Chinese solar manufacturers.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. fell 0.7 percent to 103.96 yesterday.
Phoenix, a TV and Internet news outlet sank 5.8 percent while
video website operator Youku slid the most in a week. American
depositary receipts of Suntech rose for the first time in five
days and wealth management company  Noah Holdings Ltd. (NOAH)  jumped to
the highest level since 2010.  U.S. lawmakers failed to reach an agreement to extend the
government’s borrowing limit less than two days before the
deadline. Ten-day volatility on the China-US gauge surged to 20
yesterday, from 14.6 two weeks ago as when a partial U.S.
shutdown started. The NYSE Bloomberg Global Solar Energy  Index (SOLAR) 
advanced to the highest since February 2012.  “Because Chinese ADRs are listed in the U.S., there’s an
inevitable correlation even if there’s no real basis for it,”
Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach Grayson &
Co. in New York, said by e-mail yesterday. “As we approach Oct.
17, we should naturally expect market volatility to continue and
to even increase as Wall Street waits for  Washington  to come to
a resolution to raise the nation’s debt limit.”  The iShares  China  Large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slumped 1 percent to $38.12 in
New York, snapping a four-day rally. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange China  ETF (FXI)  Volatility Index, measuring predictions of
price fluctuations in the ETF, surged the most in six days. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7 percent in its first
decline in a week.  Phoenix Slips  Phoenix New Media, a TV and Internet news outlet based in
Beijing, slid to $10.99, slumping the most in a week, while
Youku retreated 4.1 percent to $28.71 after a three-day rally.  China Lodging Group Ltd. (HTHT) , operator of a budget-hotel chain
based in  Shanghai , declined 3.6 percent to $22.10, falling the
most since August. Trading volume was four times the three-month
average, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Suntech’s ADRs advanced 3 percent to $1.38 in New York,
gaining the most in a week.  Holders of more than $1.5 million of defaulted securities
initiated involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against Suntech on
Oct. 14. Its China unit was forced into bankruptcy in March.  “Unfortunately solar stocks are not trading on
fundamentals right now,” Gordon Johnson, an analyst with Axiom
Capital Management Inc. in New York, said by phone. “Positive
headlines have been more of a driver of the solar stocks than
the actual fundamental performance.”  Noah Jumps  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , China’s second-biggest maker of solar
wafers, climbed 1.8 percent to $1.74, after surging as much as
9.4 percent earlier. The stock has gained 21 percent this year
after falling 66 percent in 2012.  Noah’s ADRs surged 13 percent to $19.79, the highest level
since December 2010. Trading volume was 5.4 times the 90-day
average. The company had the biggest jump on the China-US gauge.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index advanced 0.9 percent
to 10,671.17 yesterday, the highest level in three weeks, while
the Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.2 percent to 2,233.41,
after rising the previous two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  