-- Somalis Killed in Explosion Targeted Soccer Match, Ethiopia Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-10-15T11:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/somalis-killed-in-explosion-targeted-soccer-match-ethiopia-says.html
Two Somali nationals who died in an
explosion in  Ethiopia ’s capital may have been planning to carry
out suicide attacks on people watching an international soccer
match, Communications Minister Redwan Hussein said.  Investigators found Ethiopian national football team shirts
and four hand grenades at a house in a wealthy suburb of  Addis
Ababa  where the blast occurred on Oct. 13, Redwan said in a
phone interview today from the city. Explosive materials
including a battery, a belt suitable for carrying explosives, a
“jacket for suicide bombing” and a Makarov pistol with
ammunition were also recovered, he said.  “The investigation has indicated that they must have
thought of exploding in two separate places where the spectators
were watching,” he said. “From the T-shirts that were found,
maybe they were trying to disguise themselves as one of the
Ethiopian football fans to get into the halls to explode.”  Ethiopia deployed its military in neighboring  Somalia  in
2011 to help that country’s government fight al-Shabaab, an al-Qaeda-linked group that’s seeking to establish an Islamic state.
Last month, al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for an attack in
the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, in which 67 civilians and security
forces died. The Islamist militants had threatened to strike
 Kenya  in response to an incursion into southern Somalia by the
Kenyan military in 2011.  The blast at a house next to the residence of a U.S.
government worker in Addis Ababa’s Bole district occurred 80
minutes before the start of a World Cup-qualifier soccer match
between Ethiopia and  Nigeria , Redwan said. One of the Somalis
rented the property 20 days ago and the other joined him a few
hours before the explosion, according to Redwan. Both were in
Ethiopia illegally, he said.  Ugandan Attacks  Al-Shabaab carried out coordinated bomb attacks in  Uganda 
in July 2010 that killed 76 people watching the  World Cup  final.
The militia said it targeted Uganda because the country has
troops serving in the African Union Mission in Somalia.  The U.S. Embassy in Ethiopia said al-Shabaab claimed
responsibility for the Addis Ababa explosion on Twitter and
warned of two more bombs in the Churchill Avenue area of the
city, which include federal government buildings, and in the
city’s Piazza area.  “At this time, we cannot determine the credibility of this
threat but, given its gravity, we are sharing it widely,” the
Embassy said in a statement posted on its website yesterday.  Three people are being investigated for suspected links to
the plot, Redwan said. The government has yet to determine who
is behind it, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  