-- South Africa Banks Hit by Fast-Food Restaurant Card Fraud
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-15T15:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/south-africa-banks-hit-by-fast-food-restaurant-card-fraud.html
South Africa ’s banks have lost tens
of millions of rand after an “unauthorized international
organization” hacked the card details of fast food restaurant
customers, according to  Payments Association of South Africa .  “There’s not a single bank that hasn’t been affected,”
PASA Chief Executive Officer Walter Volker said in a phone
interview today. “We first detected higher volumes of fraud
early in the new year.”  The syndicate probably loaded software intended to damage
computers onto a server at fast food outlets, before capturing
data stored on the magnetic strip of a bank card. It then either
produced its own fraudulent cards or sold the compromised data
to a third party, Volker said.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , Africa’s biggest lender, is aware
of the breach and is trying to limit its potential exposure,
spokesman Ross Linstrom said in an e-mailed statement. The fraud
affects its debit, credit and check card customers, he said.  Hundreds of thousands of customers have probably been
affected by the fraud, which has been traced back to Europe,
according to Volker. Some of the stolen funds have been spent
using compromised cards in the U.S., he said.  “These guys are quite clever at hiding their tracks
because they go through multiple service providers,” Volker
said. “The syndicates could be anywhere in the world.”  KFC Security Breach  Yum! Restaurants International, a unit of Yum! Brands Inc.,
is aware of the software that’s infected point of sale equipment
used by retailers in its South Africa KFC stores, according to
an e-mailed statement.  “We take this extremely seriously,” the company said.
“Our first priority is to make sure that the impact on our
customers remains minimal.”  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) , which opened its first South
African restaurant in  Cape Town  in May, hasn’t been affected by
the security breach, according to Jaye Sinclair, CEO of the
company’s local unit.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , which has been operating
in Africa’s biggest economy since 1995, hasn’t detected any
increase in South African bank card fraud in the past three
months, a spokeswoman said by phone.  Famous Brands Ltd. (FBR) , the South African operator of Steers
burger chain and Debonairs pizzas, has two restaurants out of
its 2,180 chain network exposed to the fraud, according to an e-mailed statement from the company.  Absa Group Ltd., the South African bank controlled by
Barclays Plc, and  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , didn’t respond to phone
calls seeking comment.  FNB, part of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  