-- South American Soybean Planting Pegged at Record by Oil World
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/south-american-soybean-planting-pegged-at-record-by-oil-world.html
Soybean planting in  South America 
may climb to a record as moisture conditions improve in some
areas, Oil World said.  Farmers in South America’s top five producing countries may
plant 54.2 million hectares (133.9 million acres) in the 2013-14
season, 2 million hectares more than last year, the Hamburg-based researcher said in an e-mailed report. Brazil may plant a
record 29 million hectares, up from 27.7 million the prior year.
Argentina’s sowing at 19.7 million hectares will be 3 percent
larger than a year earlier. South American production in early
2014 may top last year’s record of 145 million tons if rain
expands in dry regions, according to the report.  “Brazil could become the world’s largest producer of
soybeans in 2013-14 if our current estimate of soybean plantings
is achieved and if weather cooperates,” Oil World said. “The
biggest question mark currently surrounds the planting prospects
in  Argentina , where recent rains were much too light to break
the drought in the central and northern areas.”  Growing conditions are favorable in southern Brazil,
 Paraguay ,  Uruguay  and  Bolivia , Oil World said. Rain is forecast
by the end of the month for dry areas in Brazil’s Mato Grosso,
the top growing region, where planting has been delayed.
Argentine farmers may shift some corn and sunflower area to
soybeans, because the oilseed is usually planted later and there
is still time for moisture conditions to improve, it said.  Argentina’s corn area was estimated at 4.3 million
hectares, down from 4.6 million a year earlier, while sunflower
area at 1.6 million hectares will drop 3.6 percent, Oil World
said. Brazil’s corn area was pegged at 15.4 million hectares,
down from 15.9 million in the prior season, and cotton area may
jump 33 percent to 1.2 million hectares, the report showed.  South American soybean exports have been “unusually high”
in recent months, with shipments 4 million tons larger than the
prior year in August and 2.25 million tons bigger in September,
Oil World said. Exports have increased to  China , the European
Union, Japan, Thailand and  Egypt , it said. The U.S. has
historically been the largest producer of the oilseed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  