-- South Africa Says Fracking Fluids Must Be Disclosed by Explorers
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-10-15T19:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/south-africa-says-fracking-fluids-must-be-disclosed-by-explorers.html
South Africa  proposed regulations
for hydraulic fracturing that would require disclosure of
chemicals used and meet standards set by the  American Petroleum
Institute , a year after lifting a moratorium on the technique.  “Equipment used in hydraulic fracturing operations must be
fit for purpose and must meet relevant API standards,” the
government said today on the website of its national gazette.
“Fluids and their status as hazardous/non-hazardous
substances” must be submitted as part of an impact assessment,
it said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other explorers have applied for
permits to explore the semi-desert Karoo region. South Africa,
which in 2012 ended a ban on the practice known as fracking,
estimates shale gas may generate 1 trillion rand ($100 billion)
of sales in 30 years.  “The purpose of the draft regulations is to augment gaps
identified in the current regulatory framework,” particularly
in relation to fracking, Minister of  Mineral Resources  Susan Shabangu said in the gazette. The draft rules are open for
public comment for 30 days.  Farmers and other opponents of fracking, which injects
pressurized water, chemicals and sand underground to shatter
rock and release natural gas, say the drilling technique risks
contaminating ground water. While shale extraction helped the
U.S. overtake Russia as the world’s biggest gas producer in
2009, countries including France have banned the practice.  “In order for fracking to go ahead it must be done in line
with a proper charter with stringent control measures,” James
Lorimer, a spokesman on mineral resources for South Africa’s
opposition  Democratic Alliance , said in an Oct. 10 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  