-- South Korea, Malaysia May Face Renewed EU Duties on Fittings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-10-15T11:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/south-korea-malaysia-may-face-renewed-eu-duties-on-fittings.html
The European Union threatened to
renew tariffs on steel tube fittings from South Korea and
 Malaysia  for another five years, saying EU producers may need
longer protection.  The EU said it would examine whether to re-impose the
duties as high as 75 percent on imports from the two Asian
countries of the fittings, which are used to join tubes or pipes
mainly in the chemical, energy, construction and shipbuilding
industries. The levies are meant to counter alleged below-cost
sales, a practice known as  dumping .  The review will determine whether the expiration of the
measures would likely lead to “a continuation or recurrence”
of dumping by Korean and Malaysian exporters and of injury to
the EU industry, the European Commission, the 28-nation bloc’s
trade authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal .
The anti-dumping duties were due to lapse this week and will now
stay in place during the probe, which can last as long as 15
months.  The inquiry into whether to renew the levies stems from a
June 26 request by a European  industry group  on behalf of
manufacturers that account for more than a quarter of the EU’s
output of the steel tube fittings covered by the measures,
according to the commission, which didn’t identify any
companies. The duty rates are 44 percent against South Korea and
up to 75 percent against Malaysia.  In  October 2008 , when it last renewed the levies, the EU
listed among its producers Interfit SA of  France , Virgilio CENA
& Figli SpA of  Italy  and Erne Fittings GmbH of  Austria . At the
time, the EU said Korean and Malaysian exports of steel tube
fittings to the bloc had dropped 97 percent since the trade
protection was introduced in 2002.  The two countries’ combined EU market share fell to 0.01
percent, or 11 metric tons, in the 12 months through June 2007
from 1 percent, or 404 tons, in 2002, the bloc said in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  