-- Sports Agent Jim Tanner Leaves Williams: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-10-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/sports-agent-jim-tanner-leaves-williams-business-of-law.html
Jim Tanner , a partner at Williams &
Connolly LLP who represents basketball players including point
guard Jeremy Lin of the  Houston Rockets , is leaving the
Washington-based  law firm  to start a sports and entertainment
management business.  Tanner’s clients will follow him to Arlington, Virginia-based Tandem Sports & Entertainment, which opens for business
this week, he said in a telephone interview.  “We chose Tandem because collaboration is our hallmark --
collaboration with clients as well as each other,” said Tanner,
whose last day at Williams & Connolly was Oct. 11. “Our vision
for Tandem is to combine the best elements of an agency with the
best elements of a law firm.”  Tanner said changes in the National Basketball Association
landscape, from team management to the top job of commissioner,
where  Adam Silver  will replace  David Stern  in February,
persuaded him to leave the firm where he’s worked for 16 years.  Leaving a firm known for its litigators enables Tanner and
his colleagues to focus matters outside law and negotiating,
such as marketing and communications, he said, adding that
Tandem will add new agents.  Besides Lin, Tanner’s clients include former NBA Most
Valuable Player  Tim Duncan , 10-time All-Star  Ray Allen  and  Shane
Battier  of the two-time NBA champion  Miami Heat , and retired
player  Grant Hill , who last month was named the co-host of NBA
TV’s “Inside Stuff” program.  Senior Partner Robert B. Barnett, a member of Williams &
Connolly’s executive committee, said in a telephone interview
the firm would continue to represent athletes, coaches and
sportscasters in whatever role is required. He praised Tanner as
“a first-class lawyer and a first-class person.”  “He is following his dream, and I can only admire that and
wish for its success,” Barnett said.  Helen Dooley, who had been counsel at Williams & Connolly,
is joining Tanner in his new firm.  For more, click here.  Law Firm Moves  Davis Polk Adds Real Estate Partner in Its New York Office  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP has hired Brian S. Lichter, who
had been a partner at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson
LLP, as a partner in its real estate practice.  The firm said in a statement that the addition will help
the firm “meet strong client demand in its growing real estate
practice.”  Lichter has extensive experience representing owners,
developers and real estate investment trusts, or REITS, in
commercial transactions, concentrating in the acquisition and
sale of office and retail properties, commercial mortgages,
mezzanine and construction financings, debt restructurings and
joint ventures.  For Davis Polk, which has only grown infrequently through
lateral hires, this is the third such announcement this year. In
June, the former head of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission,
Jonathan Leibowitz, joined the firm as a partner in its
Washington office. In July, Monica L. Holland left Shearman &
Sterling LLP to join the firm’s  New York  office as a partner in
its credit group.  Weil Partner Tabor Leaves Dallas Office to Join Gibson Dunn  R. Jay Tabor , a corporate attorney who focuses on mergers
and acquisitions and private equity, is joining the  Dallas 
office of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP as a partner.  “Jay will be a tremendous addition to the firm,” Ken Doran, Chairman and Managing Partner of  Gibson Dunn , said in a
statement. “He is a highly skilled and experienced dealmaker
who has a strong reputation in Texas and nationally.”  Tabor had been with Weil since 1999, according to Gibson
Dunn’s statement. He has extensive experience in the  energy
industry , particularly in the midstream and equipment and
services sectors.  Tabor is the latest partner to depart the Dallas office
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP. Last week, S. Scott Parel moved to
Sidley Austin LLP in Dallas, joining eight other partners who
had recently departed Weil.  Litigator Joins Patterson Belknap from Blank Rome in New York  James V. Masella III joined Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler
LLP as a partner. Masella, previously a partner at Blank Rome
LLP, focuses on complex securities litigation, white-collar
criminal and commercial matters. He represents corporate and
individual clients in civil and regulatory matters nationally
before trial and appellate courts and regulatory agencies. He
regularly counsels clients in disputes arising out of mergers
and acquisitions.  Firm Co-Chairman and Managing Partner Robert P. LoBue said
in a statement that Masella’s “experience in high-stakes
financial litigation and regulatory investigations will further
strengthen our Litigation Department, which comprises more than
130 lawyers active in complex commercial litigation across the
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York
at   erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 