-- Sri Lanka Unexpectedly Cuts Rates as U.S. Default Deadline Nears
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2013-10-15T05:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/sri-lanka-unexpectedly-cuts-rates-as-u-s-default-deadline-nears.html
Sri Lanka  unexpectedly cut  interest
rates  to protect economic growth from the risk of a U.S.
default, as time runs short for Congress to agree on raising the
debt ceiling to pay back the world’s benchmark bonds.  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  cut the  reverse repurchase
rate  to 8.5 percent from 9 percent and the  repurchase rate  to
6.5 percent from 7 percent, it said in a statement today. Most
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expected no change. The
reductions were the first since May this year.  “We felt that the max space available should be given to
the economy,” Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “The looming debt crisis and
basically the fact that there has been no agreement, which is
very, very difficult for us to understand, is going to be
something we will really fret about in the next few months.”  Senate Democratic and Republican leaders said yesterday
they made significant progress toward an accord to end a partial
U.S. government shutdown and prevent the nation from running out
of borrowing authority on Oct. 17, which would raise the risk of
missed debt payments. Lower rates should help Sri Lankan
expansion from the start of 2014, even as the impasse in the
U.S. weighs on the global economy, Cabraal said.  “The global scenario would partly have played a role in
the bigger-than-expected cut,” said Sanjeewa Fernando, an
economist at CT Smith Stockbrokers Pvt. in  Colombo . “With
global demand expected to be subdued, the rate cut will be a
stimulus to exporters through lower borrowing costs and a more
favorable  exchange rate .”  Policy Signal  The yield on the Sri Lankan government bond maturing in
April 2018 slid about 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point,
to 11.1 percent after being mostly unchanged last week,
according to prices from Hatton National Bank Plc. The rupee was
little changed at 130.9 per dollar as of 10 a.m. in Colombo. The
Colombo All-Share Index fell 0.1 percent.  Cabraal said he’s comfortable with Sri Lanka’s inflation
outlook, adding that the central bank is “very likely” done
with interest-rate actions for the rest of this year.  Eight of nine economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted no
change in the repurchase rate today, with one expecting a cut of
a quarter of a percentage point. Seven of nine economists in
another  survey  predicted no change in the reverse repurchase
rate, with two calling for a 25 basis-point cut.  Economic growth  will be close to 7.5 percent in 2013,
Cabraal said.  Consumer prices  rose 6.2 percent in September from
a year earlier.  The emerging agreement in the U.S. would suspend the debt
limit through Feb. 7, 2014, fund the government through Jan. 15
and require a House-Senate budget conference by Dec. 13,
according to a Senate source familiar with the talks, who spoke
on condition of anonymity to discuss them.  “Even if the U.S. were to get their act together and get
past the debt ceiling, I think the fact that the global economy
has been put under so much stress, is something that many policy
makers would not forget,” Cabraal said. That’s going to lead to
“various changes in the way central banks will perceive the
safety and quality of investments,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  