-- Aquino to Visit Philippine Earthquake Zone as Deaths Rise
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-10-16T01:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/strongest-philippine-quake-in-a-year-kills-4-damages-buildings.html
Philippine President Benigno Aquino
will visit areas devastated by the strongest earthquake to hit
the nation in a year, a temblor that destroyed buildings and
triggered landslides that killed at least 99 people in Visayas.  The magnitude-7.2 earthquake struck 2 kilometers (1.2
miles) south of Carmen, Bohol at 8:12 a.m. yesterday, according
to the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology.
Aquino plans to visit Bohol and the resort island of Cebu, and
may cancel a state visit to South Korea scheduled for tomorrow.  “Things that have to be done are being done,” Aquino told
reporters yesterday after presiding over a national disaster
council meeting in Manila. “We need to be sure that people are
not put in danger by the effects of this earthquake.”  A state of calamity was declared in Bohol and Cebu,
prompting schools to close until officials determine the safety
of buildings and bridges. The government  disaster monitoring
agency  said today the official death toll was 99, with 276
injured. A police official in Bohol said 97 people were killed
in the province when the quake caused walls to collapse and
triggered landslides.  The  Philippines  lies along the so-called Pacific Ring of
Fire, where tectonic plates collide and about 80 percent of the
world’s largest temblors occur. Yesterday’s jolt was the
strongest since a magnitude-7.6 temblor struck northeast of
Surigao City on Aug. 31, 2012.  The magnitude was equivalent to about “32 Hiroshima atomic
bombs,” according to Renato Solidum, director of the Philippine
Institute of Volcanology and Seismology. At least 289
aftershocks were recorded, the disaster agency said.  Malls Closed  Philippine offices and markets were shut yesterday for the
Eid Ul-Adha holiday, reducing the number of fatalities, Defense
Secretary Voltaire Gazmin said.  “If this happened on a Sunday, especially the time was
eight o’clock, then this is another story,” he said.  Robinsons Land Corp. (RLC)  didn’t open its malls in Cebu
yesterday because of a request from the local government,
spokeswoman Roseann Villegas said in a mobile-phone message. A
portion of the Gaisano Country Mall and Ayala Center in Cebu
collapsed, the disaster monitoring agency said.  Seventeen churches were damaged in Bohol, including the
centuries-old Baclayon and Loboc churches that are considered
heritage sites, provincial police officer Carl John Legazpi
said. The façade and belfry of the Baclayon church were
destroyed, according to the disaster monitoring agency.  Flight Disruptions  The bell tower collapsed at the Basilica Minore del Santo
Nino in Cebu, one of the country’s oldest churches, the agency
said. The Cebu Doctors’ University, St. Vincent Hospital and the
Cebu City Medical Center were also damaged.  The  Mactan Cebu International Airport  and Tagbilaran
airfield resumed operations before midday yesterday after
flights were suspended earlier because of damage to terminal
buildings, John Andrews, Deputy Director of the Civil Aviation
Authority of the Philippines, said by phone.  A four-year-old girl died and six people were injured after
a stampede in Pinamungahan in Cebu, Social Welfare Secretary
Dinky Soliman said at a briefing. The number of people killed in
Bohol rose to 97, police officer Herminigildo Gargar said by
phone.  Ayala Center mall and other offices of  Cebu Holdings Inc. (CHI) ,
a unit of  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , will remain closed today to assess
any impact from the quake, Cebu Holdings said in a statement.  In  July 1990 , an earthquake killed more than 1,500 people
on the main island of  Luzon . In February last year, a  6.8-magnitude quake  killed 51 people and left more than 60 missing
in the Negros and Cebu regions. That temblor damaged homes and
bridges and forced the closure of offices, schools and malls in
the central Philippines. A magnitude 7.9 quake in the Celebes
Sea off Mindanao in 1976 triggered a tsunami that left an
estimated 6,000 people dead or missing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  