-- Suez Environnement Settles Legal Spat Over Melbourne Site
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-15T13:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/suez-environnement-settles-legal-spat-over-melbourne-site.html
Suez Environnement,  Europe ’s second-biggest water company, resolved a dispute over construction
delays at a  Melbourne  desalination plant and obtained A$3.7
billion ($3.5 billion) to refinance the project.  A “satisfactory resolution” to the legal wrangle will end
all outstanding claims, the French utility said today in a
statement, without elaborating. The refinancing will result in a
“significant reduction in financial costs,” it said.  Development of the AquaSure plant, which removes salt from
seawater and can produce 450,000 cubic meters of drinking water
a day, was completed at the end of 2012 after a delay of about a
year. Suez Environnement and its partners requested compensation
from Victoria’s state government after storms and strikes pushed
back construction and drove up costs.  The utility, which has a 21 percent stake in the AquaSure
group, had set aside 58 million euros ($78 million) by the end
of last year to cover the cost overruns. All remaining
provisions will now be “reversed,” it said in today’s filing.  Suez Environnement (SEV) , based outside Paris, rose as much as
1.4 percent to 12.63 euros in the city, the highest intraday
price in four weeks. The stock was at 12.50 euros as of 3:09
p.m. local time.  The resolution announced today may push the utility’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
this year above its target of 2.55 billion euros to reach 2.58
billion euros, Julien Desmaretz, an analyst at Bryan, Garnier &
Co., wrote in a note, keeping his  neutral  rating on the stock.  The AquaSure facility began a 27-year operating contract in
December, which Suez Environnement expects to generate 800
million euros in sales over the period. The desalination plant,
 Australia ’s largest, is located in Wonthaggi on the Bass coast
near Melbourne. Suez Environnement is Europe’s biggest water
company after  Veolia Environnement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  