-- Summers Says U.S. Policy Must Aid Demand, Sees No Debt Default
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-10-15T04:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/summers-says-u-s-policy-must-aid-demand-sees-no-debt-default.html
Former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  said American economic policy must remain focused on
addressing inadequate demand, and predicted the U.S. would avoid
defaulting on its debt, as the federal government approaches its
debt ceiling.  “Years after financial repair, we have made very little
progress in restoring the level of GDP to its potential,”
Summers said at a conference in Seoul today, according to a
transcript provided by the organizers, the World Knowledge
Forum. “The fraction of the population that is employed has
barely increased since the trough of the recession.”  Summers, who withdrew as a candidate to lead the  Federal
Reserve  before President  Barack Obama  nominated Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  earlier this month, said “the challenge
of assuring adequate demand remains a critical one for the
 United States . In my view it remains essential that fiscal and
monetary policy be focused on pushing the economy forward.”  The Harvard University professor, who served at the
Treasury during debt-limit battles in the 1990s, predicted the
U.S. would again veer away from the brink of defaulting on its
obligations. “We will not default. I cannot say exactly how the
political machinations will work out, but I am as certain as
anything that any dollar of interest will be paid, and paid on
time.”  Debt Talks  Summers, who was Obama’s first White House National
Economic Council director, spoke after Senate Democratic and
Republican leaders said they made significant progress toward an
accord that would end a partial government shutdown and prevent
the nation from breaching the U.S. debt ceiling on Oct. 17.  The prospect of the Fed scaling back its asset purchases is
an issue that needs “frank” discussion among the Group of 20
emerging and developed economies, Summers also said. Fed policy
makers have so far held off on any tapering of its stimulus,
with the central bank last month highlighting an  unemployment
rate  that remains “elevated.”  The U.S. Commerce Department is scheduled to release its
report on third quarter gross domestic product on Oct. 30, when
it may say growth slowed to an annualized rate of 2 percent,
from 2.5 percent in April-to-June, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  