-- U.K. September Inflation Rate Unexpectedly Stays at 2.7%
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-15T08:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/u-k-september-inflation-rate-unexpectedly-stays-at-2-7-.html
U.K.  inflation  was unexpectedly
unchanged in September as air fares offset a decline in gasoline
prices.  Consumer prices  increased 2.7 percent from a year earlier,
the  Office for National Statistics  said in  London  today. The
median forecast of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was
2.6 percent. A separate report showed house-price growth
accelerated in August, with increases in London driving a
national index of values to a record.  The Bank of England has pledged to hold its key  interest
rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent as long as  inflation 
expectations remain anchored to its 2 percent target. With the
economy strengthening and consumers facing the prospect of
energy-price increases, inflation may be slow to return to the
central bank’s goal. Utility  SSE Plc (SSE)  plans to raise household
energy prices by three times the rate of inflation next month.  “The main risk is utility bills, which could rise sharply
in coming months and keep inflation remaining well above the 2
percent central target,” said  James Knightley , an economist at
ING Bank NV in London. “We continue to look for an early 2015
rate hike with sterling remaining under upside pressure.”  The pound was trading at $1.5995 as of 9:54 a.m. London
time, up 0.1 percent on the day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.K. government bond climbed 6 basis points to 2.8 percent.  Air Fares  The largest upward contribution to the annual inflation
rate came from air fares, which fell less last month than in
September 2012. That offset a decline in gasoline prices. From
the previous month, total consumer prices rose 0.4 percent.  Core inflation , which excludes food and energy prices,
accelerated to 2.2 percent in September from 2 percent in
August, according to the statistics office.  Retail-price inflation, used in wage negotiations and as a
basis for the inflation-linked  bond market , slowed to 3.2
percent from 3.3 percent. Excluding mortgage interest payments,
inflation by that measure was also 3.2 percent.  In the housing-market report, the ONS said prices for
first-time buyers rose an annual 4.9 percent in August, the most
in three years. The government this month accelerated its Help
to Buy program, aimed at helping first-time buyers to get on the
property ladder.  The annual increase in  home prices  for all buyers was the
biggest since October 2010. That pushed the index to 185.5, the
highest since records began in 1968.  London Boom  In London, prices were up 8.7 percent in August from a year
earlier. Excluding the capital and the south east, values rose
2.1 percent.  Jon Cunliffe, who will join the  Bank of England  as deputy
governor for financial stability next month, said yesterday the
U.K. is not in a housing bubble.  “The picture emerging is that prices are starting to rise,
but we’re still coming back from a relatively low base,”
Cunliffe said. “And of course it’s a patchy picture because
there’s quite a dispersion across the country.”  Separate ONS data showed that  factory-gate prices  fell 0.1
percent in September from August and were up 1.2 percent
compared with a year earlier. Input prices fell 1.2 percent on
the month and rose 1.1 percent on the year.  Consumer-price pressures may build following the decision
by SSE to raise U.K. household energy prices by an inflation-busting average 8.2 percent, a move that may be followed by
other suppliers.  While Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government is seeking a more competitive market to drive down
prices, the opposition  Labour Party  has pledged to freeze energy
prices until the start of 2017 if it wins power in the 2015
general election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  