-- U.K. to Ease Access for China Banks in Yuan-Hub Campaign
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-15T17:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/u-k-to-ease-market-access-for-china-banks-in-yuan-hub-campaign.html
The U.K. will allow Chinese banks to
set up branches for wholesale banking, offering them an
opportunity to expand as the British government seeks to
establish  London  as a hub for offshore  yuan  trading.  Lenders including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , the world’s largest by market value, have operated in the
U.K. through subsidiaries, regulated the same way as local banks
and subject to the same  capital requirements , rather than
branches. The new structure will let them “significantly scale
up their activity in the U.K.,” Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said in Beijing yesterday.  The change is part of a series of agreements including the
introduction of direct trading between the yuan and the British
pound, which may help London steal a march on Frankfurt and
Paris to become Europe’s hub for the Chinese currency. Osborne
is in Beijing on a five-day trade mission seeking to strengthen
links with the world’s second-largest economy.  “With branches you’re not talking about a separately
capitalized legal entity, so potentially there is a lower
absolute capital requirement,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at
Investec Plc in London.  The two countries also agreed on an 80 billion-yuan ($13
billion) quota for financial institutions in London to invest in
China’s domestic securities under the  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor program, Osborne said at a briefing after
meeting Chinese Vice Premier Ma Kai. China and the U.K. will
ensure access to yuan liquidity through additional settlement
and clearing agreements in London, he said.  Press officers at ICBC and its two largest peers,  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., had
no immediate comment on whether they will apply to open
branches.  By allowing Chinese banks in the U.K. to access their
parents’ balance sheets, the new rules may increase funding for
U.K. investment in industries such as infrastructure, TheCityUK,
a lobby group for British financial-services companies, said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  