-- U.K. High-Speed Rail Case Over Land Impact Reaches High Court
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-10-15T11:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/u-k-high-speed-rail-case-over-land-impact-reaches-high-court.html
Opponents of a U.K. government plan
to construct a 50 billion-pound ($80 billion) high-speed rail
line through parts of rural  England  made a final bid to block
the project at the highest court.  The government didn’t adequately take into account the
environmental impact of the project during its consultation,
which would fell 14 ancient forests and divert seven major
rivers, lawyers for the  HS2 Action Alliance , a non-profit group,
said at the U.K.  Supreme Court  in  London  on the first day of the
two day appeal.  The railway is “the most important strategic decision the
country has taken for at least a century,”  David Elvin , a
lawyer for the non-profit, said in court. “Quite apart from the
cost it affects many lives, businesses and the environment.”  HS2 trains would reach speeds as high as 225 miles (362
kilometers) per hour and run between London and Birmingham, with
future lines planned to Leeds and Manchester. The line would run
through the Chiltern Hills, designated by the government as an
area of outstanding natural beauty. Local governments, residents
and a golf club near the route oppose it as noisy and intrusive.  Two lower courts have already dismissed most of the claims
made by the group. The Supreme Court will also decide whether
the case should be referred to the  European Court  of Justice in
Luxembourg.  Improved Access  The government approved the rail line in January 2012,
saying it would improve rail infrastructure, reduce journey
times, ease overcrowding on existing lines and improve northern
cities’ access to London’s economy.  Ministers should delay sending legislation on the line
through Parliament so the economic case for the project can be
properly examined, the House of Commons Treasury Committee said
in a report published in London Oct. 8. The cross-party panel
said the construction costs have increased by 17 percent to 42.6
billion pounds even before building has started.  Opposition to the project has increased in recent months.
The Institute of Directors, a business lobby group, said in
August the plan is too expensive. The opposition  Labour Party ’s
Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , repeated a warning last month that
the line would be scrapped under a future Labour government if
costs run out of control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  