-- U.K. Food-Bank Users Return What Needs Cooking as Bills Rise
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-10-16T13:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/u-k-food-bank-users-return-what-needs-cooking-as-demand-triples.html
The number of users of food banks in
the U.K. tripled in the past year, with some of them abandoning
cooking because of increasing energy prices, an anti-poverty
charity said.  The  Trussell Trust , which supports food banks that provide
three days’ emergency supplies to people in need, said today
355,985 people had been helped between May and September this
year, compared with 113,570 in the same period last year. It
wrote to Prime Minister  David Cameron  requesting an inquiry.  “The level of food poverty in the U.K. is not acceptable.
It’s scandalous and it is causing deep distress to thousands of
people,” Trussell Trust Executive Chairman Chris Mould said in
an e-mailed statement. “The time has come for an official and
in-depth inquiry into the causes of food poverty and the
consequent rise in the usage of food banks.”  Food prices have risen by 12.6 percent more than inflation
over the past six years, outstripping wages, and higher energy
prices are likely to see more people forced to choose between
eating and heating this winter, the charity said. Food-bank
clients are giving back food items that need cooking because
they can’t afford to turn on the electricity, the trust said.  There are twice as many food banks as last year, accounting
for some of the increase in demand, the trust said, though
“well-established” food banks are also reporting that they’re
helping more people.  Welfare Overhaul  An overhaul of the welfare system has led more people to
seek help, the trust said, with 117,442 people referred to food
banks by agencies including the health service, social workers
and police because of delays in welfare payments compared with
35,597 last year.  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, said the
increase had been driven by the government axing restrictions on
officials referring people to food banks and reflected a British
tradition of charitable help for the poor. Use of the facilities
increased 10 times under the Labour government that left office
in 2010, he added.  “It’s this government that has lifted the block on job
centers being able to point people in the direction of the type
of additional assistance that food banks provide,” Gray told
reporters in  London . “The U.K. has a proud tradition of
voluntary and charitable organisations providing additional
support alongside the welfare system.”  The previous government stopped job centers, where job
seekers register for unemployment benefit and seek work, issuing
vouchers for food banks because they said other help was
available and they could not provide consistent support as they
were unevenly distributed around the country.  Food-bank use increased from 2,814 people in 2005-2006 to
40,898 in 2009-2010, when Labour lost power, the Trussell Trust
said. Food banks supported by the charity were used by 346,992
people in 2012-2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  