-- U.S. Seeks $10.8 Billion Weapons Sale to U.A.E., Saudis
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-10-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/u-s-seeks-10-8-billion-weapons-sale-to-u-a-e-saudis.html
The U.S. Defense Department plans to
sell Saudi Arabia and the  United Arab Emirates  $10.8 billion in
advanced weaponry, including air-launched cruise missiles and
precision munitions.  Notice yesterday of the planned sales of advanced weapons
made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  sends a message of support
from the Obama administration to two close allies in the Middle
East as the U.S. and five other nations are engaged in talks to
curb  Iran ’s suspected nuclear weapons program.  The Saudi regime has pressed the U.S. to maintain tough
economic sanctions on Iran, both to discourage it from
developing a nuclear arsenal and to limit Iran’s capacity to
help its embattled ally, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
according to two U.S. officials who spoke on condition of
anonymity about diplomatic relations.  The proposal includes the first U.S. sales to  Middle East 
allies of new Raytheon and Boeing weapons that can be launched
at a distance from Saudi F-15 and U.A.E. F-16 fighters.  The Boeing Expanded-Response Standoff Land  Attack Missile 
and Raytheon  Joint Standoff Weapon  give those nations new
capabilities to strike at air defense sites and radar
installations, such as those possessed by Iran, from beyond the
range of enemy air-defense systems so pilots aren’t put at risk.  The Boeing missile, a derivative of the Harpoon anti-ship
missile, can be launched more than 135 nautical miles from a
target and be redirected in flight. The Navy says the Raytheon
missile can fly 12 to 52 nautical miles and attack industrial
facilities, logistics systems and “hardened tactical targets.”  Sales Detailed  The Pentagon’s Defense Security Cooperation Agency said  in
a statement  yesterday that it was seeking congressional approval
to sell the Saudi kingdom $6.8 billion in munitions and
equipment. Among the systems that would be provided are 650 of
the missiles known as the SLAM-ER, 1,000 GBU-39/B Small Diameter
Bombs and 400 Harpoon Block II anti-ship weapons, all made by
Chicago-based Boeing; and 973 of the Joint Standoff Weapons made
by Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon.  The U.A.E. would be able to buy $4 billion in weapons,
including 5,000 of the GBU-39/B bombs, 1,200 Joint Standoff
weapons and 300 of the SLAM-ER missiles, the Pentagon said in a
 separate statement .  Hagel’s Plans  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel in April outlined $10 billion
in arms sales to  Israel ,  Saudi Arabia  and the U.A.E. The
Pentagon proposal included an offer to sell Israel a fleet of
V-22 tiltrotor aircraft.  Yesterday’s announcement by the Pentagon offers details of
the munitions that the Saudis and Emiratis are seeking.  In April, after Hagel’s announcement, defense officials
began a process of consultation with the countries leading to
“letters of request” from the buyers and negotiations on
pricing and availability of weapons.  The Pentagon’s notification to Congress, which was dated
Oct. 11, began a 30-day period of review by lawmakers and comes
after a 20-day informal notice to Congress. The sales can go
ahead unless Congress acts to block them.  Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. already are among the largest
buyers of U.S. weapons. In 2011, the Obama administration signed
a $29.4 billion deal with Saudi Arabia to sell 84 Boeing-made
F-15 jets and upgrade 70 planes already owned by the kingdom.
The Obama administration also has sold the U.A.E. an advanced
missile defense system called the Terminal High-Altitude Area
Defense made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  