-- Affirmative Action Ban Gets Support at High Court Hearing
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-15T21:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/u-s-justices-show-support-for-michigan-affirmative-action-ban.html
U.S.  Supreme Court  justices
indicated they are poised to deliver a fresh blow to affirmative
action, hinting they will uphold a voter-approved ban on racial
preferences at Michigan’s state-run universities.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the court’s
Republican-appointed justices suggested they saw the measure as
a legitimate ban on racial discrimination. A federal appeals
court said the opposite, ruling that the affirmative action ban
unconstitutionally stripped racial minorities of their rights.  “Is it unreasonable for the state to say, ‘Look, race is a
lightning rod’?” Chief Justice  John Roberts  said. He asked why
a state couldn’t take racial classifications “off the table”
and try to achieve diversity through other means.  A decision backing the initiative would have symbolic as
well as substantive importance. A decade ago the  University of
Michigan  won a Supreme Court decision that let institutions
across the country continue to use race as an admissions factor.  Three years later, the Michigan ballot initiative amended
the state constitution to block race-based admissions at state
schools, nullifying the Supreme Court decision for the very
university that secured it. Black enrollment is down about 30
percent at the undergraduate and law schools since the measure
took effect, according to the university’s figures.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , the court’s lone Hispanic, said
that one of the sponsors of the measure had said the goal was to
“bring back” segregation. “And it appears to have done just
that,” she said.  Color-Blind Approach  As the justices heard arguments, about 200 affirmative
action supporters gathered on the sidewalk in front of the court
building, displaying signs and listening to speakers. Most
members of the group were college-age or younger.  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in the argument.
Although she didn’t give a reason, she was President  Barack Obama ’s solicitor general when the administration had a chance
to get involved in the litigation.  Roberts has sought to steer the court toward a color-blind
approach to the Constitution. The justices last year overturned
a core part of the Voting Rights Act, the law designed to
protect minorities at the polls. The court also issued a
compromise ruling that ordered tougher judicial scrutiny of
university affirmative action programs.  Past Cases  The latest case involves different legal issues from those
in past affirmative action disputes. Rather than debating
whether universities violate the rights of white students with
affirmative action programs, the court is considering whether
state bans on racial preferences amount to discrimination
against minorities.  Michigan is one of 10 states where race-conscious
admissions are barred as a matter of law.  A federal appeals court said the Michigan measure put
racial minorities at a unique disadvantage. The 8-7 decision
said minorities are barred from asking universities for special
preferences -- something athletes, band members and children of
alumni could still do.  The measure “singles out race for different treatment,”
Mark Rosenbaum, a lawyer with the  American Civil Liberties Union 
arguing against the law, said today.  That position gained little traction among the court’s
conservative wing. Justice  Anthony Kennedy , usually the swing
vote on issues involving race, questioned the limits of
Rosenbaum’s argument.  Justices’ Questions  Kennedy asked whether the state legislature, a state
executive department or a university president could bar the use
of race in admissions. Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito asked
similar questions.  “At what point is it that your objection takes force?”
Kennedy asked.  The appeals court ruling pointed to decades-old Supreme
Court decisions barring government actions that restructure the
political process along racial lines. In a 1982 case, the court
invalidated a Washington ballot initiative that had prohibited
busing for purposes of desegregating schools.  Michigan says that, to uphold the ballot measure, the
Supreme Court may have to overturn at least some parts of that
“political process doctrine.”  Michigan  Solicitor General John Bursch said today that “it
does not violate equal protection to require equal treatment.”  Proposal 2  Proposal 2, as the initiative is known, bars preferences on
the basis of gender or race in public education, contracting and
employment. The university admissions aspect of the law is the
only part that is before the Supreme Court.  Proposal 2 was spearheaded by Jennifer Gratz, whose
reverse-discrimination lawsuit against Michigan became one of
the two 2003 Supreme Court cases and who was in the courtroom
today. Michigan voters approved Proposal 2, a constitutional
amendment, 58 percent to 42 percent.  The Supreme Court has grown more skeptical of affirmative
action since upholding it in 2003. That’s largely because of
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor’s 2006 retirement and the
appointment of Justice  Samuel Alito  to fill her seat.  Alito today asked Rosenbaum how he could square his
argument with Supreme Court cases that say racial
classifications are suspect no matter which race is benefiting.  “What if it’s a white student who comes in and says, ‘I
want to talk about race. I’m white and therefore you should
admit me. You should give me a preference,’” Alito said. “The
state can’t say, ‘No, we don’t want to hear that’?”  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said the political-process
doctrine was based on the notion that the court needed to
protect minorities who lack political clout.  The court’s reasoning was “the notion that we can’t put
hurdles in the way of a disadvantaged minority,” she said.  The court will rule by July in the case, Schuette v.
Coalition to Defend, 12-682.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  