-- Ubisoft Plunges as Delayed Games to Miss Christmas: Paris Mover
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-16T09:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/ubisoft-says-delayed-games-will-cause-full-year-operating-loss.html
Ubisoft SA (UBI)  fell the most ever after
 Europe ’s largest video-game maker said two new games would be
postponed and Christmas tent-pole “Watch Dogs” will miss
holiday sales.  Ubisoft predicted an operating loss of 40 million euros
($54 million) to 70 million euros in the year ending in March
after delaying “Watch Dogs” and “The Crew” to improve game-play quality. The shares fell as much as 32 percent, the most
since its 1996 debut on the Paris exchange.  “We made a choice that will pay off in the long run,”
Chief Executive Officer Yves Guillemot said in an interview.
“The market has changed -- we need huge blockbusters, and that
means making very high-quality games.”  The Christmas season accounted for more than half of
Ubisoft’s sales last year. Delayed releases are becoming more
common in the industry as games become more complex.  Take-Two
Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) ’s latest “Grand Theft Auto” was
slated for spring 2013 before being delayed for further
development. The game, which features gangsters, cost $250
million to develop and market. It surpassed $1 billion in retail
sales in its first three days.  Ubisoft, based in Montreuil, dropped 23 percent to 8.50
euros at 10:44 a.m. in Paris trading, parring the advance this
year to 7.6 percent.  “Watch Dogs” was originally set for release in November.
A debut between March and September 2014 will give the gamemaker
a better view of how new consoles by Microsoft Corp. and Sony
Corp. gain traction after they’re released next month.  ‘Fine Tuning’  “It’s little bits of polish and fine-tuning, but they
really matter -- we want these games to be the best out there
for new-generation consoles,” said Guillemot, the 53-year-old
Ubisoft co-founder. “‘Watch Dogs’ could be as big as
‘Assassin’s Creed,’ even bigger. It’s a great opportunity to
increase our market share.”  Ubisoft cut its full-year sales forecast by as much as a
third to 995 million euros to 1.05 billion euros. It previously
forecast operating profit of as much as 125 million euros on
sales of as much as 1.45 billion euros.  Operating profit will be at least 150 million euros next
fiscal year and 200 million euros or more in the following one
ending March 2016, Ubisoft said, using figures that aren’t based
on International Financial Reporting Standards. That compares
with operating profit of 100 million euros last year.  Ubisoft had the idea behind “Watch Dogs” four years ago
and has been developing the game for more than three years.  ‘Assassin’s Creed’  To differentiate from cheap games for tablets, smartphones
and Facebook Inc.’s platform, game developers are releasing
fewer titles, focusing instead on quality, with high-end titles
priced around $60.  Ubisoft, which is smaller than American gamemakers
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  or  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , has bet it can
gain market share by improving graphics and storylines, hiring
real actors to do voice-overs and making movies, comic books and
stuffed animals to promote brands like its multimillion-unit
franchise “Assassin’s Creed.”  Ubisoft will start selling “Assassin’s Creed IV” this
month after it sold 12.5 million units of the previous edition
last year. Like “Assassin’s Creed,” the “Watch Dogs” brand
will be developed into a game, film and action figures, all
based on the world of a hacker roaming the streets of  Chicago .  Development costs run from 60 million euros to 70 million
euros on average for Ubisoft’s biggest games, according to the
company. Games go through an extensive testing process involving
testers who spot bugs and complain when the game gets too slow
or fast, easy or hard. In “Watch Dogs,” how quickly players
access the hacking functionality is one example of something
developers want to tweak to perfection, Guillemot said.  “In our market, console cycles are five to eight years
long, and our brands outlive that,” Guillemot said. “If
consumers see enough potential, they’ll give us the time we need
until the next release.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  