-- Munis Prove Haven in Impasse Over U.S. Shutdown, Default
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-15T18:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/munis-prove-haven-in-impasse-over-u-s-shutdown-default.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market is proving a haven from political turmoil over a partial
U.S. government shutdown and possible default.  While  interest rates  on 12-month Treasuries have  almost
doubled  since the closure began on Oct. 1,  yields  on AAA munis
securities maturing in a year have declined. The ratio of the
yields, a measure of relative value, has fallen to about 208
percent, from 370 percent on Sept. 30, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The narrowest gap since April indicates that
state and city bonds have become more expensive.  The shift shows investors are betting that improving state
and local tax revenue will cushion munis from a fallout should
U.S. lawmakers fail to raise the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.
The federal government will run out of room to borrow more on
Oct. 17, according to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew.  “You have a safe haven in municipal bonds because of the
diversification of issuers and the strength of repayment
capacity on the state and local level,” said Benjamin Thompson,
chief executive officer in New York at Samson Capital Advisors,
which oversees about $6 billion in local debt.  “There’s stability and predictability to this market that
you’re not going to see in the Treasury market, which is going
to come down to a few key political decisions made at the top
echelon of government,” he said in a telephone interview.  Healthy Cities  U.S. cities are projecting their first increase in revenue
since 2006, according to a survey released last week from the
Washington-based  National League of Cities . States have already
benefited from 15 straight quarters of rising tax collections,
Census Bureau data show.  Benchmark 1-year munis yielded 0.31 percent at 2 p.m. in
New York, down from 0.33 percent on Sept. 30, Bloomberg data
show. The interest rate on 12-month Treasuries rose to 0.15
percent at 1:53 p.m., up from 0.086 percent on Sept. 30.  Interest payments on most munis aren’t directly tied to the
federal government. Moody’s Investors Service said in a report
last month that local bonds backed by federal mass-transit aid,
called Grant Anticipation Revenue Vehicles, are the most
vulnerable. At least $10 billion of the bonds are outstanding,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  