-- LVMH Falls as Fashion and Leather Goods Sales Slow Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-10-16T15:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/lvmh-quarterly-revenue-trails-estimates-as-fashion-growth-slows.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy  Louis Vuitton  SA
fell in Paris trading after slowing fashion and leather-goods
growth suggested that efforts to turn around its biggest brand
have yet to take hold.  Revenue at LVMH’s fashion and leather-goods division rose 4
percent on an organic basis in the first nine months of 2013,
the company said yesterday, slowing from the first-half’s 5
percent gain and trailing the 6 percent estimate of analysts.  Vuitton, which Exane BNP Paribas estimates accounts for
more than half of LVMH’s earnings, is slowing retail expansion,
including more precious materials in its collections and adding
products with fewer logos in an effort to appeal to the
wealthiest shoppers. Such initiatives will take “at least
another 12 months” to produce tangible results, Allegra Perry,
an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald , said after the report.  Although the reaction of clients to Louis Vuitton’s new
soft leather-product ranges is “very good, in terms of impact
on global sales it’s not a major thing,” Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Jacques Guiony said today on a conference call,
adding that the brand’s organic revenue growth was “slightly
below” the fashion and leather-goods division’s 3 percent rate
last quarter. The transition “is going to take some time.”  The  stock  dropped 4.3 percent to 138.70 euros, wiping out
this year’s gain.  Capucine Bag  Louis Vuitton this year introduced bags such as the
Capucine bag, which has been worn by actress  Angelina Jolie , and
the W, a combination of a canvas and calfskin leather purse that
can sell for $4,000.  LVMH’s fashion and leather-goods growth “is very
disappointing following significant excitement” around these
bags when they were introduced, said Julian Easthope, an analyst
at  Barclays Capital  in  London .  The company, which published its sales numbers after
markets closed yesterday, said it remains confident for 2013,
even in the face of an uncertain European economic climate. LVMH
will continue to focus on innovation and geographic expansion in
selected markets, it said.  The world’s largest luxury goods maker is boosting
investment in some of its smaller fashion brands and buying
stakes in others to help offset slowing growth at Vuitton, its
biggest source of revenue. It’s also shuffling Vuitton’s
management, with Delphine Arnault joining as executive vice
president and artistic director  Marc Jacobs  leaving after 16
years to focus on his own label.  “We think the opportunity on the contemporary market is
extremely strong and we intend to benefit from it,” said
Guiony. “That’s the logic of Marc Jacobs focusing on his own
brand.”  New Normal  Total third-quarter revenue advanced to 7.02 billion euros
($9.5 billion) from 6.9 billion euros, LVMH said. Analysts
predicted 7.24 billion euros, according to the median of 15
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 8 percent
excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency moves, missing
the 10 percent gain analysts had expected.  LVMH’s performance “seems to suggest growth is moderating
to a new normal, which is weighing on the whole sector,” said
 Luca Solca , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  Gucci-owner Kering SA fell 0.9 percent, Swatch Group
dropped 1.4 percent and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA slid 1.5
percent.  Do Better  L’Oreal SA (OR)  declined 1.5 percent in Paris after LVMH said
nine-month organic revenue at its perfume and cosmetics unit
rose 5 percent, slowing from the first-half’s 6 percent
increase. Analysts predicted a 7 percent gain.  Perfume and cosmetics demand softened in Europe and  China 
in the third-quarter, Guiony said. New product introductions
should help LVMH “do better in the last part of the year, which
is awfully important for this business,” he said.  Growth accelerated however at the wines and spirits and
watches and jewelry divisions, while the selective retailing
unit, which includes the Sephora beauty chain and DFS duty-free
stores, maintained its 19 percent growth pace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  