-- Vornado to Build Condo Tower on NYC’s Central Park South
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-10-16T17:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/vornado-to-build-condo-tower-on-nyc-s-central-park-south.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  acquired land
and air rights above a development site it owns on  Manhattan ’s
 Central Park  South, enabling the company to begin work on a
luxury-condominium tower.  The real estate investment trust paid $194 million for the
development rights and will begin construction on a 920-foot
(280-meter) building at 220 Central Park South, according to a
statement yesterday. The seller was Extell Development Co.,
builder of the nearby One57 luxury-condo tower, that company
said in a separate statement.  Vornado, which primarily owns office and retail properties,
is starting the condo project at a time when demand for
Manhattan homes has pushed sales to a six-year high. The New
York-based REIT purchased the rent-controlled apartment building
at the site in 2005, when home sales and prices hadn’t yet
reached their pre-recession peaks. While residential properties
are outside Vornado’s expertise, investors should welcome the
project, said  David Harris , an analyst at Imperial Capital LLC.  “This is an unusual opportunity, with a low land cost as a
result of their historic involvement,” Harris, who is based in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “It should generate
very satisfactory returns to shareholders, without incurring
substantial risk. There aren’t too many sites on Central Park
South available for residential development.”  He said he doesn’t expect Vornado, which owns more than 100
million square feet (930,000 square meters) of U.S. commercial
real estate, to get involved with condos “wholesale.”  Moving West  Under the deal, Vornado will acquire a parcel at 225 West
58th St. that was owned by Extell,  Gary Barnett , president of
Extell, said in an interview today. The trade allows Vornado to
build a taller property that is further west than initially
planned, which means it won’t obstruct views of a condominium
Extell is planning within the same block, he said.  “It made sense for both of us,” Barnett said of his
company’s talks with Vornado Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Steven Roth . “They’re able to move forward with their
project and they’re also accommodating us in terms of shifting
the building to the west and we’re shifting our building to the
east. We both have very good views of Central Park.”  The deal gives Vornado an additional 137,000 zoning square
feet at its Central Park South site, according to the statement.
The REIT’s planned tower will be designed by Robert A.M. Stern
Architects, the firm behind 15 Central Park West, the nearby
dual limestone buildings that have been favored by celebrities
and Wall Street bankers.  Nordstrom Tower  Extell’s plans for the block include 150 luxury
condominiums in a tower that could rise as high as 1,550 feet.
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  has agreed to open a seven-floor flagship store
at the base.  Extell is completing One57, currently Manhattan’s tallest
residential project at 1,004 feet. Buyers at the tower have
smashed price records with two deals valued at more than $90
million each for upper-floor duplexes that were purchased when
the building was still a shell.  In the third quarter, Manhattan apartment sales jumped 30
percent from a year earlier to the highest level since 2007,
appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and brokerage Douglas Elliman Real
Estate said in a report on Oct. 2. The number of homes on the
market at the end of September was the lowest since Miller
Samuel began keeping the data 13 years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  