-- WDH Falls as Goldman Sees End to Share Rally: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-15T08:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/wdh-falls-as-goldman-sees-end-to-share-rally-copenhagen-mover.html
William Demant Holding A/S (WDH) , the
Nordic region’s biggest hearing-aid maker, fell the most among
Copenhagen’s benchmark stocks today after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said a rally in the share is coming to an end.  WDH dropped as much as 2.1 percent, making it  today’s
biggest loser  in the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen 20 index. (KFX)  The stock
lost 1.1 percent to 525 kroner at 10:11 a.m. in the Danish
capital, with trading volume at 30 percent of the three-month
daily average.  WDH shares had  jumped  14 percent in the six months through
yesterday, compared with a 6.5 percent gain in the C20 index, on
bets that the company will win market share and increase
profitability amid the introduction of new hearing aids. In a
note distributed today, Goldman lowered its recommendation on
the stock to neutral from buy and said recent share gains leave
little room for further advances.  “While we view WDH as well-positioned within European
Medtech, our 12-month price target implies limited upside
potential from current levels,” Goldman analysts, including
Veronika Dubajova, said in the note. “In addition, the company
has not achieved any significant market share gains following
the  Alta  launch at the beginning of 2013; this is contrary to
our expectation.”  Goldman has a price estimate of 550 kroner on WDH shares,
which compares with an average target of 489 kroner among 22
analysts tracking the stock, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Smoerum, Denmark-based WDH, which is scheduled to publish a
third-quarter trading update on Nov. 5, has  missed  analysts’
average net income estimates in seven of its last eight half-year earnings reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  