-- Twitter Revenue More Than Doubles in Third Quarter
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/twitter-revenue-more-than-doubles-in-third-quarter.html
Twitter Inc. continued its torrid
growth pace ahead of an initial public offering, as the
microblogging service said revenue more than doubled in the
third quarter even as losses widened.  The San Francisco-based company said in a  filing  yesterday
that its revenue was $168.6 million in the period, up from $82.3
million a year ago. Its net loss expanded to $64.6 million from
$21.6 million. Twitter also said it will list its shares on the
New York Stock Exchange.  The filing gives investors another report card on the
health of Twitter’s business as the company readies for what has
become the most-anticipated U.S. technology offering since
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  last year. While Twitter now pervades popular
culture, it is still in the early stages of building its
advertising business and faces more competition in social media.  “Near-term you’re going to see this company grow very
quickly,” Robert Peck, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
who has a buy rating on Twitter stock, said in an interview
before the filing was released. “Before they can be profitable,
they still have a long way to invest in their infrastructure and
the future of the platform.”  The company is seeking to raise more than $1 billion in its
IPO, people with knowledge of the matter have said. Twitter will
probably start a roadshow with bankers to promote the deal in
the last week of October, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the details aren’t public.  More Usage  In the filing, Twitter also boosted the tally of people
using its service, to more than 230 million users per month, up
from 215 million.  The document also showed the company is deriving a greater
share of its revenue from mobile devices than just a quarter
ago. More than 70 percent of advertising revenue came from
mobile devices in the third quarter, compared with 65 percent in
the second quarter.  The filing updated the shareholder list with the amount
owned by major backers. Entities affiliated with Rizvi  Travers (TRAV) ,
which include funds managed by investor Chris Sacca, control
17.9 percent, more than any individual or institution. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and affiliates own 10.3 percent, followed by
venture-capital firms Spark Capital with 6.8 percent, Benchmark
with 6.6 percent and Union Square Ventures with 5.9 percent. DST
Global, founded by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, owns 5
percent.  Rapid Hiring  Twitter also added 300 employees, for a total of 2,300. The
hiring helped spur a jump in unrecognized stock-based
compensation expenses from restricted stock units, which rose to
$698.3 million, up from $297 million three months ago, according
to the filing.  As it ramps up growth, Twitter’s spending is exceeding that
of other Internet companies as a percentage of revenue. In the
third quarter, Twitter spent more than half of its revenue on
research and development. In the second quarter, the latest for
which numbers are available, Facebook spent 19 percent of
revenue on research and development, while  Google Inc. (GOOG)  spent 14
percent.  Twitter said it was trimming spending in other areas. The
company’s capital expenditure projection for 2013 was revised to
between $215 million and $235 million, down from $225 million to
$275 million previously.  The company, which has nine patents, has filed 95
applications in the U.S. as of Sept. 30, up from 80 last
quarter.  Twitter also chose to list its shares on the New York Stock
Exchange. The NYSE Euronext market won the listing about 17
months after Facebook started trading on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s
rival platform, a debut marred by a software malfunction that
delayed trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  