-- Two Out of Five Americans Cut Spending Amid Government Shutdown
-- B y   M i n s i   C h u n g
-- 2013-10-15T19:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/two-out-of-five-americans-cut-spending-amid-government-shutdown.html
The U.S. government shutdown
prompted two out of five Americans to curb spending, according
to a survey commissioned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The survey of 1,025 people, conducted from Oct. 10 to Oct.
13, found that the shutdown had a greater impact on lower income
consumers, with 47 percent of respondents who earned $35,000 or
less saying they would curb spending. Among those with income of
more than $100,000, 32 percent said they would tighten spending.  The pullback shows the effect on consumers from the partial
closing of the government that began on Oct. 1 with furloughs
for about 800,000 federal workers. Uncertainty over when the
impasse will be resolved led to  consumer confidence  falling to a
nine-month low this month to 75.2 from 77.5 in September,
according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary consumer sentiment index.  “It is clear that the fallout of the past two-week impasse
in Congress has affected consumers’ willingness and maybe their
ability to spend,”  Michael Niemira , vice president of research
for the International Council of Shopping Centers, who co-commissioned the survey, said in a statement today.  While the majority of those surveyed who were directly or
indirectly affected by the shutdown said they would only scale
back their spending “a little,” the remainder of respondents
indicated they would have to “considerably” hold back.  Retail Concern  Retailers are already concerned that slow sales will
continue into the holiday shopping season after companies
including  Macy’s Inc. (M) ,  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
reported second-quarter sales that trailed analysts’ estimates.
Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  mentioned the
shutdown while addressing analysts at a meeting today.  “It’s on the minds of our U.S. customers,” Duke said.
“We’re following this situation very closely.”  The damage to consumer confidence from the shutdown may
reduce October new-vehicle sales by as much as 10 percent,
according to  John Krafcik , chief executive officer of Hyundai
Motor Co.’s U.S. sales unit. Hyundai at the start of the month
announced a program to allow federal workers affected by the
shutdown to defer loan and lease payments to the Seoul-based
automaker.  “It’s that anxiety that keeps customers, potential buyers,
on the sidelines when making a big purchase like an
automobile,” Krafcik said in an interview today with Bloomberg
Television.  Senate Proposal  U.S. Senate Democratic and Republican leaders were working
on the details of an agreement late yesterday to end the partial
government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling before Oct. 17.
The House of Representatives made its own proposal today, which
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  rejected.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  CEO Muhtar Kent today said that if the
shutdown continues, the impact will spread throughout the
economy.  “If it continues there’s no question that the negative
consumer sentiment is most likely going to impact businesses of
all nature -- credit, investments, employment, just overall
sentiment,” Kent said on a conference call with analysts to
discuss the company’s quarterly earnings. “No question about
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Minsi Chung in New York at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  