-- WTI Fluctuates Near Three-Month Low on U.S. Debt, Iran
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-16T12:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/wti-crude-trades-at-three-month-low-as-u-s-debt-talks-falter.html
West Texas Intermediate swung
between gains and losses near a three-month low before
tomorrow’s deadline for U.S. lawmakers to reach a deal on
raising the debt limit and avoid a default.  Futures fluctuated in New York after losing 1.2 percent
yesterday, the most in almost a week. U.S. Senate leaders will
resume talks today after the House of Representatives scrapped a
vote on its plan to suspend the debt limit until February.
Western diplomats are meeting for a second day in Geneva with
Iranian counterparts for talks on the country’s nuclear program.
A strike at a refinery in  Scotland , which could have led to 45
percent of U.K. crude output being halted, was canceled.  “The U.S. is going to do the right thing, but only after
exhausting all the alternatives,” said Guy Wolf, global head of
market analytics at Marex Spectron Group in  London . “If they
technically breach the deadline, as it appears they might, it
will lead to some volatility but I don’t see it as a prolonged
issue. This is not  Greece .”  WTI for November delivery was 32 cents lower at $100.89 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:14 p.m. London time. The contract declined $1.20 to $101.21
yesterday, the lowest settlement since July 2. The volume of all
futures traded was about 21 percent below the 100-day average.  U.S. Debt  Brent for November settlement, which expires today, lost 46
cents to $109.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The more-active December contract fell 23 cents to
$109.19. The front-month European benchmark was at a premium of
$8.57 to WTI, down from $8.75 yesterday.  The U.S. Energy Department won’t release weekly inventory
data this week because of the partial government shutdown. The
American Petroleum Institute is  scheduled  to release its own
weekly inventory report later today.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat, and Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, suspended talks yesterday
while the Republican-controlled House was considering its own
bill. They must reach a final agreement, get all 100 senators to
permit an expedited vote and persuade House Speaker John Boehner
to allow a vote that would pass largely with Democratic support.  The deadlock is threatening the U.S. and world economies,
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde
said this week. The U.S., the world’s largest user of crude,
will account for 21 percent of global oil consumption this year,
according to the International Energy Agency.  Iran Talks  Iran  and world powers may hold another round of
negotiations this month, a sign that compromises offered by the
Persian Gulf country over its disputed nuclear program are being
taken seriously. A new round of talks may take place in two
weeks, said a European official attending the meeting, who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private.  Iran told diplomats from the U.S.,  China ,  France ,  Germany ,
 Russia  and the U.K. that it’s prepared to take confidence-building measures by the second quarter of next year, Deputy
Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said to reporters yesterday,
without specifying the steps.  The two-day meeting is the first since Iran’s new
president, Hassan Rouhani, and his U.S. counterpart  Barack Obama 
spoke by phone last month in the highest-level contact between
the countries since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. Rouhani’s
overtures have raised expectations of progress in the talks
aimed at curbing Iran’s nuclear program.  A strike was called off at Ineos Group Holdings SA’s
210,000 barrel-a-day refinery in Grangemouth, Scotland,
according to a statement by labor union Unite. The plant
supplies power and steam to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s neighboring Kinneil
processing plant, which handles oil from the company’s  Forties
Pipeline System  gathered from more than 80 North Sea fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  