-- Wumart to Buy Retail Stores From CP Lotus, Stocks Surge
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-10-16T03:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/wumart-said-in-talks-to-buy-stores-from-cp-lotus-in-stock-deal.html
Wumart Stores Inc. (1025) , the Chinese
supermarket operator, said it will buy 36 stores from  CP Lotus
Corp. (121)  for HK$2.3 billion ($302 million) through a share swap to
expand in Northern  China . The stocks surged.  As part of the deal both companies will take minority
stakes in each other, according to a Hong Kong stock exchange
statement yesterday. CP Lotus, partly owned by a unit of Thai
billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s Charoen Pokphand Group, will
keep some outlets in China’s Guangdong and Hunan regions.  A slowing economy and rising competition are encouraging
consolidation in China’s retail industry. CP Lotus, which gets
all its revenue from the Asian nation, reported a loss of 392
million yuan ($64 million) last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “China’s existing retail market is very fragmented,” Xu
Ying, Wumart executive director and president said at press
conference. “We hope to expand into new geographical markets,
increase efficiency and reduce costs with this strategic
alliance with CP Group and CP Lotus.”  CP Lotus surged as much as 41 percent before trading 37
percent higher at 41  Hong Kong  cents at 11:04 a.m. in Hong Kong
trading today. Wumart rose as much as 4.9 percent.  The stocks were both halted from trading in Hong Kong
yesterday.  The CP unit that owns the stores being sold also had net
debt of 434 million yuan as of June 30, according to the
statement. As part of the transaction, Wumart will gain a  stake
of about 10 percent in CP Lotus worth about HK$548 million,
while CP Lotus will obtain about 14 percent of Wumart valued at
HK$2.9 billion.  CP Lotus has 55 stores in China, with 36 in Beijing,
 Shanghai  and other provinces. It has 19 stores in Guangdong and
Hunan, according to the company. Beijing-based Wumart’s net
income rose 2.7 percent to 602 million  yuan  last year. As of
June 30 this year, it had a retail network of 541 stores, with
145 superstores and 396 mini-marts.  Market Share  Wumart’s stock has gained 23 percent over the past year. It
held a 1.8 percent share in China’s hypermarket industry in 2012
and Charoen Pokphand Group had 2.3 percent, according to
Euromonitor International. The two companies compete with larger
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  China Resources  and Sun Art Retail Group
Ltd. in the country.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  this year announced a joint venture with  China
Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291)  that will see the U.K. firm merge its
more than 130 stores in China with the Hong Kong-listed company.  Tesco, the largest U.K. retailer, said in October it will
pay HK$4.33 billion ($558 million) to gain 20 percent of the
venture with China Resources, which will hold 80 percent.  Charoen Pokphand Group is bidding for  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) ’s ParknShop supermarket chain, three people with knowledge
of the matter said earlier this year.  Dhanin is buying at home and abroad with deals including CP
Group’s purchase of a $9.4 billion stake in China’s Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. CP All Pcl, a Bangkok-based 7-Eleven
operator controlled by the billionaire, recently struck a deal
for the purchase of discount wholesaler Siam Makro Pcl.  Dhanin has a net worth of $6.5 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Many of his assets are owned
through closely held holding companies that he shares with his
three brothers. Dhanin’s net worth calculation excludes the
stakes held by his brothers, Jaran Chiaravanont, Montri
Jiaravanont and Sumet Jiaravanon.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is the sole financial adviser to
Wumart on the planned acquisition and the proposed subscription
by Wumart for a minority interest in CP Lotus.  Private equity firm Ascendent Capital will in a separate
transaction subscribe for 16.6 million new Hong Kong listed
shares in Wumart at HK$14 each and potentially up to an
additional 16.6 million after completion of the CP Lotus
transaction. The shares will have a lock-up period of six months
for Ascendent Capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  