-- XenoPort Investor Clinton Group Urges Changing Focus, CEO
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-10-15T20:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-15/xenoport-investor-clinton-group-urges-horizant-shift-ceo-change.html
XenoPort Inc. (XNPT) , the maker of the drug
Horizant to treat restless-legs syndrome, should shift spending
to an experimental multiple sclerosis treatment and replace its
chief executive officer, shareholder Clinton Group Inc. said in
a letter to management. The shares rose.  Clinton Group has increased its stake in the drugmaker to
more than 1.3 million shares, President Greg Taxin said in the
letter today addressed to XenoPort CEO Ronald Barrett, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News. That stake would make
Clinton Group one of Santa Clara, California-based XenoPort’s 10
 largest investors , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Planned spending to market Horizant should be redirected to
further clinical trials of the company’s compound XP23829, to
potentially treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and
psoriasis, Taxin said in the letter. XenoPort’s shares had
fallen 27 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a
48 percent increase in the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index.  “ Capital markets  have largely ignored the prospects for
829 because XenoPort’s operational, strategic and capital
allocation history suggests that XenoPort will not execute well
on this golden opportunity,” Taxin said. “The stock market is
betting against our management team and strategy, not against
our compound.”  XenoPort didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Shares Increase  The drugmaker’s shares gained 5.8 percent to $6.02 at the
close in New York. After called-for changes that could position
829 as a better treatment than existing options, XenoPort’s fair
value may be $13 to $16 a share, Taxin said in the letter.  XenoPort and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  agreed in November to end
a partnership in which London-based Glaxo manufactured and sold
Horizant in the U.S., after a marketing dispute.  Activist funds generally acquire equity stakes in companies
and try to force corporate management and directors to make
changes that boost share prices and investor returns. Clinton
Group has also set its sights in recent weeks on weight-loss
companies  Nutrisystem Inc. (NTRI)  and  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)   XenoPort’s experimental drug is similar to  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tecfidera, a pill approved in March to treat multiple
sclerosis, Taxin said in his letter. He contends that XP23829
has a more favorable side effect profile than Biogen’s drug,
which analysts  estimate  will draw $3.4 billion in 2016 revenue
for the Weston, Massachusetts-based biotechnology company.  Biotech Blockbusters  “It appears to us that 829 is poised to follow in the
footsteps of other ‘second generation’ biotechnology
blockbusters that, even with just small improvements in
efficacy, dosing or side effects, have proven to be substantial
clinical and commercial successes,” Taxin wrote, citing  Celgene
Corp. (CELG) ’s Abraxane,  Shire Plc (SHP) ’s Vyvanse and  Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ’s Eylea.  It could take many years to get a clear picture of 829’s
potential and differentiation from Tecfidera,  Eric Schmidt , an
analyst with Cowen & Co., wrote in a research report this month.
Based in New York, he has a “market perform” rating on the
stock.  “Given Tecfidera’s clean label and early commercial
success, management claims that ’829 has received a lot of
attention from potential partners,” Schmidt wrote. “We believe
that trials of ’829 in MS will require much investment over many
years’ time, and be associated with uncertain commercial
rewards.”  Taxin also called for a new CEO “who will think like an
owner, with a mandate to urgently execute on the company’s best
prospects and grow the value of its most promising asset, 829.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  