-- H&M Gains Most in More Than 3 Years After Beating Estimates
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-09-26T10:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/h-m-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-first-time-this-fiscal-year.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest clothing retailer, reported profit that topped
estimates for the first quarter in three as the company pared
costs while adding new brands and a U.S. online store.  The shares rose as much as 8 percent, the most since
January 2010, after H&M said net income rose to 4.43 billion
kronor ($690 million) in the three months ended Aug. 31, beating
the 4.15 billion-kronor average estimate of 16 analysts.  The Swedish company, which sells imitation leather pants
for $9.95 and has signed up supermodel  Gisele Bundchen  as the
face and voice of its fall campaign, is investing in online
retailing and new concepts as it chases bigger rival Inditex SA.
H&M didn’t explain its improved profitability, though analysts
said the gains were partly because of lower expenses.  “They’ve had very good cost control and all those
initiatives and investments are starting to pay off,” said
Soeren Loentoft Hansen, an analyst at Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa,
 Denmark . “That’s reflected in these better earnings today.”  H&M  shares  rose as much as 21.1 kroner to a record 285
kronor and were up 6.5 percent to 281.1 kronor as of 12 p.m. in
 Stockholm , extending their gain this year to 25 percent.  The company said its gross margin expanded to 58.8 percent
of sales from 58.2 percent a year earlier. Discounts in relation
to sales had a negative effect on the gross margin of 0.2
percentage points compared with a year earlier, it said.  Past Misses  The margin expansion was “likely driven by the anniversary
of cost investments,” Exane BNP Paribas analyst Simon Bowler
said in a note, referring to past steps taken by the retailer to
reduce prices and improve product quality.  Costs in comparable stores were down, both as a share of
sales and in absolute figures, H&M said.  Before today, the retailer had  missed earnings estimates  in
nine of the 12 most-recent quarters, including the last two,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  H&M is following the example of Inditex by expanding
online, while also boosting growth of existing brands. The
retailer will add new online markets in 2014, while growing
brands such as the COS and & Other Stories lines, Chief
Executive Officer Karl-Johan Persson said.  H&M reported last week that third-quarter sales increased
by 11 percent to 32 billion kronor, excluding value-added tax.  Also last week, Zara owner Inditex posted an unexpected
rise in first-half profit and said sales growth accelerated
since the end of July helped by faster expansion.  Sports Offering  H&M in August started an online store in the U.S. after
previous delays and has said it will add several new e-commerce
markets during the next two years. The retailer is also
expanding its sports offering and earlier this year opened &
Other Stories, a chain featuring more accessories.  The cheap-chic retailer had 2,964 stores at the end of
August and stood by its plans to add a net 350 this year. Next
year, H&M will open a first store in  Australia  and in 2015 the
retailer will expand to  South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  