-- Abe Tells Wall Street Japan’s Economy Is Exceptionally Good
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-09-26T09:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/abe-tells-wall-street-japan-s-economy-is-exceptionally-good.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
urged Wall Street traders to invest in Japan, promising in a
speech at the  New York  Stock Exchange yesterday that its economy
will become a driving force for global recovery.  Abe vowed to conclude regional free trade talks by the end
of the year and promoted Japanese products from sushi to LED
 light bulbs  and a high-speed train system he said could link New
York and Washington D.C. in less than an hour. In a second
speech at the conservative Hudson Institute he defended a
military spending increases and said he wants Japan to be a
“proactive contributor to peace.”  Abe took office in December vowing to revive the moribund
economy with what’s been dubbed Abenomics, a combination of
drastic monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and regulatory reform.
The  economy  has since seen three straight quarters of economic
expansion and the  Topix index  has risen 41 percent this year.  “The Japanese economy that now surrounds us is
exceptionally good,” Abe said in his New York Stock Exchange
speech, urging traders to “buy my Abenomics.”  In separate comments yesterday on  Japan ’s security policy,
Abe brushed off criticism of his plans for a more assertive
defense posture. “We have an immediate neighbor whose military
expenditure is at least twice as large as Japan’s,” he said, in
a reference to  China , with whom Japan is embroiled in a
territorial dispute.  Defense Budget  He added that he had increased Japan’s defense budget by
just 0.8 percent this year. “So call me, if you want, a right-wing militarist,” he told the Hudson Institute, where he was
the first non-American to receive the group’s Herman Kahn Award,
named after the physicist-turned-political commentator who
founded the research organization and predicted in the early
1960s that Japan would become an economic superpower.  In response to Abe’s remarks, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said today that Japan should take “concrete
actions” to promote regional stability.  “The Japanese side should not create tensions and play up
such tensions and stir up confrontation so as to create excuses
for its military buildup and adjustments of its military
policies,” Hong told a briefing in Beijing.  Abe’s speeches came before an address to the  United Nations 
in which he will focus on the themes of women’s contribution to
the economy and human rights. Abe, who also visited  Canada  for
talks with Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  this week, is then set
to give a press conference in New York before returning to
Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  