-- Accenture Forecasts Profit That May Fall Short of Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-27T20:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/accenture-forecasts-profit-that-may-fall-short-of-estimates.html
Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s second-largest technology-consulting company, forecast earnings that
may fall short of analysts’ estimates amid increasing
competition from Indian providers.  Profit for fiscal 2014, which began this month, will be
$4.42 to $4.54 a share, the company said yesterday in a
statement. That compared with a $4.51 average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter earnings were
$1.01 a share, matching the average forecast, while revenue rose
to $7.09 billion, beating the $6.9 billion average estimate.  The company is facing a mounting challenge from emerging
providers of information-technology services, mostly out of
 India , such as  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,  Cognizant
Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH)  and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  Bookings were $8.4
billion, down from $9.2 billion a year earlier, with 46 percent
coming from the more profitable consulting business.  “The bookings number is disappointing,” said Arvind Ramnani, an analyst with BNP Paribas who has a hold rating on
the shares. “Consulting is a little bit lighter than I
expected.”  Accenture fell 2.3 percent to $74.09 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 11 percent this year.  More Competition  Slow growth in the global economy is causing some
businesses to pare back their spending, said Keith Bachman, an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York.  “Accenture’s growth is slowing even as the performance of
large Indian IT vendors has improved,” Bachman said in a note
to investors before earnings were released. “As these companies
have become larger, they are now in a position to deliver
consulting projects in certain areas such as analytics, mobility
and cloud.”  The company also raised its semiannual dividend 15 percent
to 93 cents a share.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to $671 million, or $1.01 a
share, from $578 million, or 88 cents, a year earlier, the
company said.  The company is considered a bellwether for the information-technology market because its earnings cycle ends one month
sooner than competitors.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
the largest technology-services provider, is scheduled to
announce earnings Oct. 16.  While IBM has also seen revenue slow in its consulting
division, it has a better plan for buybacks and dividends that
return money to shareholders, said Steven Milunovich, an analyst
at UBS AG in New York.  “We would argue -- and activists may take notice -- that
with no debt Accenture could be doing more,” Milunovich said in
a note to investors this week. “If recent soft results
continue, shareholders might get antsy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  