-- Lacker Says Expanding Fed Assets Increases Costs of Any Missteps
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-09-26T06:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/lacker-says-expanding-fed-assets-increases-costs-of-any-missteps.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker , who voted repeatedly last year against
expanding stimulus, said the Fed’s $3.72 trillion-dollar balance
sheet and guidance on the likely path of interest rates increase
the risks and costs of policy mistakes.  “My concern is that the combination of  forward guidance 
and a very large balance sheet has raised the likelihood of
policy mistakes going forward, and also has raised the cost of
such mistakes, should they occur,” Lacker said today in a
speech at the Swedbank Economic Outlook Seminar in  Stockholm .  The Fed has expanded its balance sheet to a record level to
hold down long-term interest rates and stoke economic growth.
Policy makers last week refrained from reducing $85 billion in
monthly bond buying, saying they need to see more evidence of
lasting improvement in the economy.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  also affirmed its plan,
known as “forward guidance,” to keep the main interest rate
between zero and 0.25 percent so long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed
2.5 percent. The FOMC released a statement on Sept. 18 after a
two-day gathering.  Lacker, 57, dissented against FOMC decisions at all eight
policy meetings last year, including the announcement of a third
round of quantitative easing last September.  The economic gains from bond buying by the Fed “have been
minimal,” Lacker said today in the text of prepared remarks. He
won’t hold a policy vote again until 2015.  Faced Difficulty  The FOMC has faced difficulty ensuring the public
differentiates between its communications about the asset
purchases and its guidance about the likely path of the
benchmark  interest rate , Lacker said.  “Both asset purchases and interest-rate settings reflect
the central bank’s reading of economic prospects,” Lacker said.
“A change in one policy will inevitably be attributed to some
extent to a change in the central bank’s views on economic
conditions, which will in turn be informative about the likely
path of the other policy instrument.”  While increasing its balance sheet by purchasing Treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities, the central bank has also held
the benchmark lending rate near zero since December 2008. The
Fed faces constraints in providing additional stimulus while
confronting the so-called “zero lower bound.”  The FOMC sees as appropriate holding down interest rates
“for a considerable time after the asset-purchase program ends
and the economic recovery strengthens,” Lacker said, citing a
commitment by the panel. Such language may be interpreted as
“promising” lower short-term interest rates than normal policy
“would dictate,” he said.  ‘Greater Risk’  “Surely it indicates a willingness to tolerate a greater
risk of keeping rates too low for too long,” Lacker said,
adding that he doesn’t doubt the committee will defend its 2
percent inflation target.  “The need for vigilance regarding the emergence of these
risks suggests that we pay more attention to monetary and bank
credit aggregates than we typically do in more conventional
times,” he said.  Lacker also criticized the Fed’s purchase of mortgage-backed securities as channeling credit to a specific segment of
the economy.  “When a central bank uses its independent balance sheet to
choose among private sector assets, it invites special pleading
from interest groups and risks entanglement in distributional
politics,” Lacker said.  “Of the risks associated with unconventional monetary
policies, those associated with central bank holdings of
unconventional asset classes may be the most consequential,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  