-- Lacker Sees Potential for October Tapering as Fed in Tough Spot
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-09-26T10:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/lacker-sees-potential-for-october-tapering-as-fed-in-tough-spot.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker , who voted repeatedly last year against
expanding stimulus, said the Fed could scale back support as
soon next month after this month “disappointing” expectations.  “I don’t see any reason why we couldn’t do it in December
or potentially in October depending on what the data looks
like,” Lacker said to reporters today in Stockholm. “We’re in
a tough spot because of the communications coming into the
September meeting and having disappointed expectations.”  U.S. policy makers last week unexpectedly kept in place
their $85 billion in monthly bond buying, saying they need to
see more evidence of lasting improvement in the economy. The Fed
has expanded its balance sheet to a record level to hold down
long-term interest rates and stoke economic growth.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  also affirmed its plan,
known as “forward guidance,” to keep the main  interest rate 
between zero and 0.25 percent so long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed
2.5 percent. The FOMC released a statement on Sept. 18 after a
two-day gathering.  Lacker, 57, dissented against FOMC decisions at all eight
policy meetings last year, including the announcement of a third
round of quantitative easing last September. The economic gains
from bond buying by the Fed “have been minimal,” Lacker also
said today in the text of prepared remarks. He won’t hold a
policy vote again until 2015.  Lacker said the unexpected decision not to taper this month
will make it more difficult to steer policy.  “It will be harder for us to communicate credibly in the
future” as markets “will doubt things we say in a way they
didn’t before this,” he said. “I think forward-guidance will
be more difficult. I think that the credibility of our
thresholds will be questioned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  