-- Ladbrokes Shares Decline on Digital ‘Disarray’: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-09-26T08:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/ladbrokes-shares-decline-on-digital-disarray-london-mover.html
Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) , the U.K. operator of
about 2,100 betting shops, fell the most in 15 months after
saying full-year earnings from online gambling may be less than
half the amount predicted by analysts.  “Our digital earnings have been disappointing, reflecting
a lack of competitiveness in sportsbook, lower margins than
planned and a greater disruptive impact than expected from the
transition necessary,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Glynn
said today in a statement.  Operating profit before exceptional items from the online
unit will be 10 million pounds ($16 million) to 14 million
pounds this year, while the average analyst estimate had
predicted 27.5 million pounds by that measure, according to the
Harrow, England-based company.  The  shares fell  as much as 9.9 percent to 169.5 pence, the
biggest decline since June 2012 and the lowest price since
August last year. The stock was down 8 percent at 9:45 a.m. in
 London , the biggest decline on the FTSE All-Share Index. Trading
was triple the three-month daily average.  Ladbrokes has “apparent disarray” in its digital
operations, said Ivor Jones, an analyst at Numis Securities who
had predicted online earnings of 28 million pounds. Jones cut
his full-year estimate of earnings before interest and taxes for
the whole company by 16 percent to 144 million pounds.  Ladbrokes shares have fallen about 13 percent this year,
while  William Hill Plc (WMH) , another operator of both betting shops
and online gaming, has gained 26 percent.  ‘Another Disappointment’  “Yet another disappointment from Ladbrokes digital
operation,”  Greg Johnson , an analyst at Shore Capital who has a
hold rating on the stock, said in a note. “We continue to be
frustrated by the lack of progress online and struggle to get a
value of more than 140 pence per share for retail alone.”  After a “difficult” July, footfall at Ladbrokes retail
outlets has recovered, with “significant improvement” in
amounts wagered, Ladbrokes said today.  At the same time, margins across the business are lower
than the company expected. Ladbrokes is confident its current
management team has the right strategy to adapt to online
betting and gaming, Chairman Peter Erskine said.  Of 23  analysts  who share estimates on Ladbrokes with
Bloomberg, 7 advise buying the stock, 12 recommend holding and 4
say sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ; 