-- Madoff Ex-Accountant Pleads Not Guilty in Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-09-26T20:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/madoff-accountant-konigsberg-arrested-in-fraud-case-fbi-says.html
Bernard Madoff’s former accountant
pleaded not guilty to charges he helped the convicted con man
carry out a Ponzi scheme, less than two weeks before the start
of a trial of five ex-employees who are accused of aiding the
fraud.  Paul Konigsberg, 77, entered his plea today before U.S.
Magistrate Debra Freeman, who allowed him to be freed on $2
million bail. He was arrested this morning by the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  in  New York , said  Peter Donald , an FBI
spokesman.  Madoff steered “important” clients to Konigsberg, who
helped cover up fraudulent transactions by fabricating books and
trading records, prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara allege in a five-count indictment
unsealed today in federal court in Manhattan.  Konigsberg is accused of participating in the conspiracy
from 1992 until Madoff’s arrest in December 2008. The scheme
cost investors about $17 billion in lost principal, the U.S.
said.  “Madoff needed the assistance of certain willing outsiders
that could be trusted to handle otherwise suspicious activity,”
the U.S. said. “Madoff directed many of his clients --
including some of his most important customers, in whose
accounts Madoff executed the most glaring fraudulent
transactions” to use Konigsberg as their accountant.  ‘A Victim’  Konigsberg “is a victim of  Bernie Madoff ,” his lawyer,
 Reed Brodsky , said in an interview. “He looks forward to
clearing his good name.”  Madoff, who masterminded the Ponzi scheme for decades, was
arrested and charged after he confessed to federal authorities
about the scheme on Dec. 11, 2008.  Konigsberg also was sued today by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, which claims Madoff paid him a monthly
retainer of $15,000 to $20,000 to provide accounting services
for his long-time wealthy clients who invested $1 billion with
the con man.  Konigsberg handled various accounting assignments in
connection with more than 300 of the accounts at Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, according to the U.S.  At times Konigsberg dictated the transaction activity in
his customers’ accounts to Madoff employees, including Frank DiPascali Jr., Madoff’s former chief financial officer, and a
second unidentified co-conspirator who reported to DiPascali,
the U.S. said.  Madoff guaranteed clients a specific rate of return and
fabricated trades that Konigsberg was “well aware” of,
prosecutors said. Madoff steered clients to Konigsberg, who is
accused of helping create back-dated trading records that helped
conceal the scheme, the U.S. alleges.  Handwritten Notes  The indictment is based “solely” on information provided
by DiPascali, who pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the
U.S., Brodsky said. Brodsky attacked the government’s charges,
saying DiPascali wasn’t credible because he has “a long pattern
of deception that went on for decades.” Brodsky said the
U.S. also relied upon handwritten notes of former Madoff
employee Annette Bongiorno, which investigators have found.  In arguing his client should be released on bond, Brodsky
said “for months and months” Konigsberg and prosecutors had
been in talks about the case and he hadn’t fled the country.  Konigsberg was also accused of arranging a “no show” job
at Madoff Securities for a second unidentified co-conspirator.  The indictment against Konigsberg includes charges of
conspiracy, falsifying records of a broker-dealer, fabricating
records of an  investment adviser  and falsifying statements to
the U.S. about employee benefit plans.  Feeder Fund  Konigsberg was one of dozens of defendants, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp., which
were custodians of  Bernard Madoff ’s bank accounts, named as
defendants in a lawsuit against the con man filed in New York
State Supreme Court in 2009.  Jay Wexler claimed in the suit that he invested “hundreds
of thousands of dollars” in Rye Select Broad Market Prime Fund
LP, which was managed by Tremont Partners Inc., a Madoff feeder
fund.  Konigsberg was described in the suit as serving as Madoff’s
personal accountant, and it alleged he signed off on Madoff’s
family investments in 2006 and 2007 and received more than
$350,000 from Madoff for his services.  The former Madoff employees, Daniel Bonventre, Jerome O’Hara,  George Perez , Joann Crupi and Bongiorno are set to go on
trial Oct. 7 in Manhattan on charges they aided the largest
 Ponzi scheme  in history.  Luxury Items  The defendants appeared yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan for a pre-trial hearing in which U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain ruled the jury won’t be told about the
suicide of Madoff’s son Mark, or about luxury items bought by
several defendants. Prosecutors may tell jurors about a beach
house Crupi bought with a $2.7 million bonus, the judge said.  The five defendants, who deny wrongdoing, are accused of
helping maintain fake trading records at Madoff’s firm and
aiding him in other ways. Prosecutors said their case may last
12 weeks, followed by defense cases.  Yesterday Swain barred the government from telling jurors
about a sculpture of a screw Madoff kept in his office, after
defense lawyers said the evidence would be crude. The sculpture
was recovered after his 2008 arrest.  Swain prohibited jurors from seeing the sculpture or
photographs of it. The defense noted the artwork’s “colloquial
inference.”  “See if you can get that screw out of the pictures” of
Madoff’s office, Swain told prosecutors.  Madoff, 75, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina . His fraud collapsed in 2008 when he
could no longer lure new money to fund withdrawals.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  