-- Airbus Throws Out Workshare Rule as Government Involvement Wanes
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-09-26T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/airbus-throws-out-workshare-rule-as-government-involvement-wanes.html
Airbus SAS said it won’t return to
a previous practice of apportioning work on new programs by
national ownership structure, adding to signs that the European
manufacturer is emancipating itself from political meddling.  Airbus first dropped the practice on its A350 wide-body
jet, where the fact that  France  got more work so riled the
German government that it continues to withhold some financial
aid. Even so, the Toulouse, France-based company will continue
in its new vein, said Tom Enders, the chief executive officer of
Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  “We broke with previous decades’ practice of work-share
being assigned according to an artificial kind of national
split,” Ender told journalists in Paris. “It was the first
program where we looked at what is the best, most competitive
supplier, and that’s certainly something we’ll insist on going
forward.”  The comment highlights a liberation from government ties
that Enders, a German and vocal critic of political involvement
in his company has sought to push through. Airbus contributes 80
percent of revenue to the parent company, and Enders sought to
balance out civil and defense sales last year with a merger with
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , which failed because of opposition from
 Germany ’s government.  German Complaint  Germany has complained that Airbus’s factories there were
given less work than those in France on the long-range A350
jet, due to  enter service in 2014.  Germany has pledged 1.1 billion euros ($1.56 billion)
toward the A350, or one third of the contribution made together
with France and the U.K. The A350’s development costs amount to
about 11 billion euros.  EADS, also based in Toulouse, has overhauled its
shareholder structure since the collapse of the BAE discussions
late last year. Germany, which previously held no direct stake
in the company, gained a 12 percent to match France’s reduced
holding.  At the same time, governments no longer have the special
veto rights that they possessed under the old structure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  