-- Taiwan Holds Key Rate to Support Economy as Inflation Slows
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-09-26T10:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/taiwan-holds-interest-rate-to-support-economy-as-inflation-slows.html
Taiwan  kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged for a ninth straight meeting to bolster the
island’s economic recovery as inflation cools.  The central bank held the  discount rate  on 10-day loans to
banks at 1.875 percent, it said in a statement in Taipei today,
as predicted by all 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The monetary authority has kept borrowing costs unchanged since
June 2011.  Taiwan’s  inflation  has slowed since February this year and
prices fell last month for the first time since 2010, which gave
policy makers room to support the economic rebound. Exports,
which account for about three-quarters of  gross domestic
product , climbed for a fourth straight month in August as data
from  China  and the U.S. showed global demand may be improving.  “The economy isn’t so strong that it warrants a rate hike,
especially since inflation is so close to deflation,”  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB, said before the decision. “With China’s economy bottoming
out and the American economy continuing to recover, we’re
positive about Taiwan.”  Taiwan’s dollar has risen about 1.5 percent this quarter
against its U.S. counterpart, even as earlier concern that the
Federal Reserve would taper monetary stimulus as early as this
month triggered an emerging-market rout. Global funds bought
more local equities than they sold for a 19th day yesterday,
taking net purchases in 2013 to $5.41 billion, exchange data
show.  Output Falls  China is taking steps to stabilize growth and can achieve
its main economic targets this year, Premier Li Keqiang said
this month. A manufacturing index climbed to a six-month high in
September, data showed earlier this week, signaling that a
rebound in Taiwan’s largest export market is gaining steam.  Pressure to support growth remains. Taiwan’s statistics
bureau last month cut its 2013 forecasts for expansion and
exports growth. Industrial production fell 0.7 percent in August
from a year earlier, data showed today.  Taiwan will maintain a “moderately loose” monetary
policy, the central bank said. “The economy is growing modestly
and there are no inflation concerns. However, the global
recovery is still slow and the economic outlook is still
uncertain.”  Trade Deals  Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou has simplified investment
procedures, pursued trade agreements with the U.S. and Asia and
relaxed immigration rules to bolster the economy. He has also
boosted ties with the mainland by allowing domestic banks to
conduct business in  yuan  and agreeing to lower tariffs on items
from auto parts to textiles.  The government has taken measures to contain real-estate
prices and said in July it is looking into changes in luxury-tax
rules to narrow the gap between property prices and incomes. The
finance ministry is considering a new tax on home buyers who own
more than three housing units to crack down on hoarding, the
Economic Daily News reported last month.  Controls have yielded effects in the real-estate market and
the central bank will continue to monitor mortgage risks, it
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  