-- Alitalia’s Higher Loss Risks Deterring Air France Investment
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-27T08:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/alitalia-board-seeks-capital-increase-as-losses-rise-46-percent.html
Alitalia  SpA’s crisis deepened as
its deficit rose and reserves shrank, forcing the board to seek
fresh capital and potentially souring  Air France-KLM Group’s (AF) 
appetite to lift its stake and support the Italian partner.  Board members for the Italian flag carrier are seeking at
least 100 million euros ($135 million) in fresh capital after
the first-half net loss swelled 46 percent to 294 million euros,
the Rome-based carrier said in a statement yesterday. Liquidity
reserves that include credit lines fell to 128 million euros
from 159 million euros at the end of the first quarter.  Air France-KLM, which has held a 25 percent stake in
Alitalia since 2009, has pondered raising its holding, and said
this week it needs more information before deciding. Alitalia,
which has been been losing money amid a weak Italian economy and
competition from discount carriers, has undergone a management
reshuffle this year after Chief Executive Officer  Andrea Ragnetti  resigned in February following widening losses.  “Clearly the mounting losses pose a challenge,” said
Donal O’Neill, an analyst at Goodbody Stockbrokers. “Despite
the apparent synergies it may have with Alitalia, it would be
deleterious, in my view, for Air France-KLM to invest in a
business that faces significant competitive threat on both its
long haul and short haul operations.”  Convertible Bond  Air France declined as much as 1.6 percent to 7.22 euros
and traded at 7.25 euros as of 10:57 a.m. in Paris, valuing the
airline at 2.2 billion euros ($3 billion)  The Italian airline proposed investors boost funding by
completing a subscription of 55 million euros through a bond
convertible into stock. Shareholders, including  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-largest bank, and toll-road operator
 Atlantia SpA (ATL) , will meet Oct. 14 to vote on the increase.  Air France members on the Alitalia board opposed the plan,
news agency Ansa reported, without saying where it got the
information. An Air France spokesman declined to comment. Air
France said Sept. 23 it would await more information from the
Italian carrier’s board before committing to any move.  Hiring Advisers  The relatively small capital increase being sought suggests
the move is only a short or mid-term solution, said Yan Derocle,
an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris.  Air France has hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  as
advisers to consider its options on Alitalia,  Italy ’s Messaggero
reported this week, without saying where it obtained the
information. Alitalia in turn has hired Gruppo Banca Leonardo as
seeks to end operating losses in 2014.  While owning Alitalia would give Europe’s largest airline
access to one of the regions’ biggest aviation markets and help
feed trans-Atlantic routes, the need for capital comes as Air
France’s domestic unit struggles to stem its own losses. The
Paris-based carrier last week scrapped a target of reaching
break-even at Air France as it sought to cut 2,800 more jobs.  Italy’s Infrastructure and Transport Minister, Maurizio Lupi, met with his French counterpart yesterday to discuss the
situation. He has said the government is not against Air France
doubling its stake, while seeking guarantees on jobs and
investments for the flagship carrier.  Falling Traffic  The Italian airline’s passenger traffic retreated 4 percent
to 10.7 million passengers in the first six months, with revenue
falling to 1.62 billion euros. Net financial debt for the
carrier reached 946 million euros, including 600 million euros
for aircraft liabilities, it said. Alitalia’s board will
reconvene on Oct. 3, the airline said.  In July, Alitalia management, which in March promised to
reach break-even in 2013, put the requirement for additional
financial resources at 300 million euros this year.  Air France could work with a partner, such as Etihad
Airways PJSC, to raise its Alitalia stake. James Hogan, Etihad’s
CEO, said Sept. 24 that the airline is willing to pursue
additional equity investments if they add value.  Etihad, the third-biggest Gulf carrier, has been an ally of
Air France since 2012, and may be a potential Alitalia investor
after taking stakes in European operators including  Air Berlin
Plc (AB1)  and  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)  A tie-up would enhance Italy’s
connections with Asia via Abu Dhabi, complementing links to the
west through Air France-KLM bases in Paris and Amsterdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  