-- All Blacks Pick Cruden, Hore for Rugby Championship Match
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-26T10:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/all-blacks-pick-cruden-hore-to-face-pumas-in-rugby-championship.html
New Zealand made two starting
changes for its Rugby Championship match against Argentina in
two days in La Plata, bringing in Aaron Cruden for injured fly-half  Dan Carter  and recalling  Andrew Hore  at hooker.  Cruden takes over the playmaking role after Carter suffered
a tournament-ending shoulder injury in the All Blacks’ 29-15 win
against South Africa on Sept. 14. Hore replaces Dane Coles.  “We are very happy with where Dane is at and with his
performances of late,” All Blacks coach Steve Hansen said in a
statement. “But like a lot of the young players, we are also
mindful of managing their game time as part of their development
so have brought in Andrew to start this week.”  With two rounds remaining, defending champion New Zealand
has a four-point lead atop the standings over the Springboks,
who host Australia in Cape Town this weekend.  Wallabies captain  James Horwill  will return from injury
against the Springboks, while outside center Tevita Kirudrani
was named for his first Test start. Nic White was retained as
starting scrum-half ahead of Will Genia.  NEW ZEALAND: Israel Dagg, Ben Smith, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Julian Savea, Aaron Cruden, Aaron Smith, Kieran Read
(captain), Sam Cane, Liam Messam, Sam Whitelock, Brodie
Retallick, Owen Franks, Andrew Hore, Tony Woodcock.  Replacements: Keven Mealamu,  Wyatt Crockett , Charlie
Faumuina, Jeremy Thrush, Steven Luatua, Tawera Kerr-Barlow,
Beauden Barrett, Charles Piutau.  AUSTRALIA: Israel Folau, Adam Ashley-Cooper, Tevita
Kuridrani, Christian Leali’ifano, Joe Tomane, Quade Cooper, Nic
White, Ben Mowen, Michael Hooper, Scott Fardy, James Horwill
(captain), Rob Simmons, Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore, James
Slipper.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a,  Benn Robinson , Sekope Kepu,
Sitaleki Timani, Ben McCalman, Will Genia, Matt Toomua, Chris
Feauai-Sautia.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  