-- America’s Cup Collapse May End New Zealand’s Involvement
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-09-26T04:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/america-s-cup-sailing-collapse-may-end-new-zealand-s-involvement.html
New Zealand ’s America’s Cup defeat
dashed the nation’s hopes of hosting a title defense worth
hundreds of millions of dollars and put in doubt its future
involvement in the 162-year-old sailing contest.  While Prime Minister John Key didn’t rule out renewed
public financing for Emirates Team New Zealand after the loss,
he said earlier this month it was unlikely unless the team
brought the trophy home. The Royal New Zealand Yacht Squadron,
which served as the challenger of record, said another campaign
may not be possible if expensive catamarans remain the boat of
choice.  “It will be difficult for the team to stay together,
particularly financially,” Team New Zealand Managing Director
Grant Dalton said in a televised interview immediately after the
final race on San Francisco Bay yesterday. “There’s probably
will there, but I’ve probably done my time.”  New Zealand’s 9-8 defeat came after it led the first-to-nine points regatta 8-1. Over the past week, New Zealanders
watched with increasing nervousness and ultimately dismay as
Oracle Team USA, financed by billionaire  Larry Ellison , put
together eight straight wins for the biggest comeback in the
event’s history.  Facebook Inc. said there’s been a 3,000 percent increase in
the use of the word “choke” by New Zealand’s two million
Facebook users since yesterday.  ‘Bugger’  “Bugger,” Key wrote in a one-word  Twitter post  from  New
York  after the final race, summing up the mood in New Zealand,
where thousands had gathered to watch in pubs and yacht clubs
around the country.  Politicians paid tribute to Team New Zealand in parliament
today, with Finance Minister  Bill English  saying while the
result wasn’t the desired one, “you have made us proud.”  New Zealand first won the Auld Mug, as the America’s Cup is
known, in  San Diego  in 1995 with the yacht “Black Magic.” Its
title defense in Auckland in 2000 and subsequent loss to
 Switzerland ’s Alinghi in 2003 were worth about NZ$500 million
($413 million) each, according to impact studies conducted by
Market Economics.  “We’re bitterly disappointed that New Zealand won’t be
hosting the next America’s Cup,” said Peter Busfield,  executive
director  at the Marine Industry Association, whose forecast for
growth in exports of boats, marine technology and equipment was
based on a future Cup defense. “It will make it more
challenging for us to step up and get the international profile
we were looking forward to.”  $100 Million  Mounting another challenge will be difficult unless the
costs are reduced, said Andy Anderson, vice commodore of the
Royal New Zealand Yacht Squadron in Auckland.  “We’d love to be involved,” he said in a telephone
interview. “The issues will be around the funding.”  Dalton said at a news conference in  San Francisco  that Team
New Zealand’s challenge cost about $100 million. The government
contributed NZ$36 million, with the remainder met by corporate
and private sponsors.  The AC72 boats used in the series -- 72-foot (22-meter)
catamarans with carbon-fiber sails that are bigger than the wing
on a Boeing Co. 747 jet -- are too expensive, Dalton said. “You
need something that’s more realistic price-wise.”  Ellison’s Plan  Ellison, who is the eighth-richest person in the world
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, said he’d like to
get more countries involved in the next challenge.  “We’re all going to sit down and talk about what sort of
boats we want to use going forward,” he said at a news
conference. “The America’s Cup without New Zealand is just
impossible to conceive. I think they’re going to be back.”  Even if funding constraints rule out another challenge from
New Zealand, Busfield said the country still stands to benefit
from the America’s Cup.  As well as constructing New Zealand’s boat, local companies
built the wing-sails and appendages for Oracle and for  Italy ’s
Luna Rossa Challenge. Those three projects alone generated
NZ$350 million over four years, according to the Marine
Association.  “New Zealanders built the winning boat,” Busfield said.
“They came to New Zealanders to beat New Zealanders. We’re
still on top of the world, we just don’t have the silverware.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  