-- ANZ’s Chronican Says Australian House Bubble Concerns Overstated
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-09-26T04:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/anz-s-chronican-says-australian-house-bubble-concerns-overstated.html
Concerns of a housing bubble in
 Australia  are overstated because weak jobs growth and buyer
caution will damp gains in  home prices ,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd.’s (ANZ)  local chief executive officer said.  House prices  will rise about 5 percent over the next 12
months, while rising costs and regulation constrain the number
of new homes, ANZ’s Philip Chronican said in a speech today. The
Melbourne-based bank expects the shortfall of dwellings in
Australia to increase from 270,000, which is equal to 20 months
of construction, to 370,000 by 2015, he said.  Home prices in Australia’s biggest cities rose 5.1 percent
in the eight months to Aug. 31, according to the RP Data-Rismark
Home Value Index. Prices in the six months to August increased
at the fastest pace in three years. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia, in its Financial Stability Review yesterday, urged
banks to maintain prudent lending standards in the face of
growing housing market activity.  “The increase in prices recently has reignited speculation
of a potential house price bubble,” Chronican said. “I do
think this concern is overstated. At least part of the recent
strength has simply been a rebound after a period of quite soft
prices.”  In May, ANZ, the smallest mortgage lender among Australia’s
big four banks, reduced its benchmark mortgage rate by 27 basis
points, the first time since 2008 that one of the nation’s four
major lenders had passed on more than the central bank’s own
rate reduction, which was 25 basis points. ANZ lowered its
mortgage rate again in August by 25 basis points, matching the
RBA’s cash rate reduction in that month.  ANZ and National Australia Bank Ltd. are offering the
lowest standard mortgage rate among the big four banks.  “Of particular importance is that banks maintain prudent
risk appetite and lending practices, especially in the current
low interest rate environment,” the RBA said in its review.
“It is important that those purchasing property do so with
realistic expectations of future dwelling price growth.”  ANZ’s  shares  fell 0.2 percent to A$31.36 as of 2:48 p.m.
and the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index was 0.1 percent higher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  