-- Argentine Wheat Surplus Seen Replacing Brazil Imports From U.S
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-09-26T19:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/argentine-wheat-surplus-seen-replacing-brazil-imports-from-u-s.html
Argentina , Latin America’s largest
wheat producer, is poised to supply neighboring Brazil’s imports
in the coming harvest, eliminating the need for surging
purchases from the U.S.  Argentina expects a 6-million-ton surplus out of a 12-million-ton 2013-2014 crop that growers will start harvesting
next month, allowing it to ensure supplies to Brazil, Brazilian
Agriculture Minister Antonio Andrade said, citing information
from a meeting with Argentine authorities yesterday. Daniel
Bestty, a spokesman for Argentine Agriculture Minister Norberto
Yauhar, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the country’s
outlook for the crop and exports.  “If they can get to that output we won’t need to import
any more wheat from outside the Mercosur,” Andrade said today
in an interview in Brasilia, referring to the trade bloc led by
the two South American countries. “We will only seek wheat
purchases from elsewhere in case they have any output losses.”  Brazil ’s imports of U.S. wheat surged 46-fold this year
through August to 1.46 million tons after domestic output
declined and Argentina, traditionally the main supplier of the
grain, restricted exports to ensure local supply. Purchases from
Argentina slumped 30 percent to 2.5 million tons in the same
span.  Frost this week harmed about 15 percent of Argentina’s
planted wheat crops, said Juan Ignacio Dreiling and Aldana
Ferradas, analysts from Buenos Aires and Bahia Blanca Grains
Exchanges, respectively.  Wheat crops in the Bahia Blanca area, which produces 50
percent of Argentina’s wheat, weren’t affected by frost because
they are in an early development stage, Ferradas said. The grain
is growing healthy, received good rainfall, and yields should
rise if rain continues without frost, he said.  Halted Exports  Argentina halted wheat exports in December to meet domestic
demand estimated at about 6 million tons after the 2012-2013
crop amounted to 8.2 million tons, the lowest in more than three
decades.  Brazil scrapped an import tax on wheat from outside the
Mercosur trade bloc to meet internal demand for a maximum of 2.7
million tons to be imported until November. The U.S. became the
biggest wheat exporter to Brazil in July and August, according
to data from the country’s Trade Ministry.  Frost in July cut wheat output by 26 percent in the
southern Brazilian state of Parana, the biggest growing area for
the grain in the country, according to government data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  