-- Mariano Rivera Tops Matt Harvey With Best-Selling MLB Jersey
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-26T18:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/mariano-rivera-tops-matt-harvey-with-best-selling-mlb-jersey.html
Mariano Rivera  of the  New York
Yankees  has Major League Baseball’s best-selling jersey over the
second half of the season, the final chance for fans to snatch
up his No. 42 before the sport’s all-time saves leader retires.  Rivera, a 43-year-old right-hander, finished ahead of a
pair of young standouts in jersey sales at MLB.com’s official
online shop: the New York Mets’ 24-year-old pitcher Matt Harvey
and the Los Angeles Dodgers’ 22-year-old outfielder Yasiel Puig.
Sales figures weren’t available through MLB and its players’
union.  Rivera has spent his 19-year major-league career with the
Yankees and has a record 652 saves. He’s the sport’s oldest
active player and the Yankees retired his No. 42 this week
during a ceremony in New York.  Rivera was the last major league player to wear No. 42, a
uniform number retired throughout MLB to honor  Jackie Robinson ,
who broke the modern sport’s color barrier with the  Brooklyn
Dodgers  in 1947.  Harvey had a 9-5 record with a 2.27 earned-run-average in
26 starts for the Mets before a torn ligament in his pitching
elbow ended his season.  Puig has hit .325 with 19 home runs, 42 runs batted in and
11 stolen bases since joining the Dodgers in June and has helped
the team to a 44-20 post All-Star break record.  Manny Machado of the Baltimore Orioles ranked fourth in
jersey sales over the second half of the season, followed by San
Francisco Giants catcher  Buster Posey , who had the top-selling
shirt over the season’s first 3 1/2 months.  Dodgers pitcher  Clayton Kershaw , St. Louis Cardinals
catcher Yadier Molina, Pittsburgh Pirates outfielder Andrew McCutchen, Oakland Athletics outfielder Yoenis Cespedes and Los
Angeles Angels outfielder Mike Trout round out the top 10 in
second-half jersey sales on MLB.com’s online store. The Dodgers
were the only team with two players in the top 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  