-- Market Favors Sexton Vision With NYU Best Since ‘10: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/market-favors-sexton-vision-with-nyu-best-since-10-muni-credit.html
New York University ’s $1.9 billion
plan to expand its campus has alienated faculty, angered
residents and prompted lawsuits. Municipal bondholders remain
unfazed, rewarding the school with the lowest borrowing costs
since 2010.  The school, whose alumni range from former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Alan Greenspan  to film director Spike Lee, is selling
about $160 million of tax-free and taxable munis this week to
pay for renovating and constructing buildings near its Greenwich
Village campus. Some university bonds are trading with the
smallest amount of extra yield over benchmark debt in almost
three years.  Lawsuits from faculty and neighborhood groups against the
school serve as the backdrop for the borrowing. They claim the
university’s NYU 2031 expansion plan will destroy the character
of the area. It’s the latest round in a decades-long fight, said
Howard Cure, head of research at Evercore Wealth Management LLC
in New York.  “When you’re located in an activist community like the
Village, there’s always concern about expanding and how it might
change the neighborhood,” said Cure, whose company oversees
about $4.7 billion in assets, including NYU bonds.  “They have done very well fundraising and they have
ambitious goals for expanding and improving programs,” Cure
said in an interview. “The school has maintained its
reputation. The sale should do well.”  International Reach  In a generation, NYU transformed from a regional school to
an international research university with campuses in  Abu Dhabi 
and  Shanghai  and study centers in  Europe ,  Asia ,  Africa  and  South
America . President John Sexton has more than doubled the
school’s endowment and its financial-aid budget since his tenure
began in 2002. With about 45,000 students, NYU is one of the
largest U.S. private, nonprofit universities.  The school said last month that Sexton, who has pushed for
the 2031 expansion, will leave when his term ends in 2016, when
he will be 74. The Faculty of Arts & Science passed a vote of
no-confidence in Sexton in March, saying he failed to consult
with them on the expansion. The result was non-binding.  Planners hired by NYU initially discussed adding 6 million
square feet (557,400 square meters), which could have cost $6
billion. NYU is moving forward with a $1.9 billion, 1.9 million-square-foot plan. This week’s borrowing, through the Dormitory
Authority of the State of New York, isn’t funding the 2031
expansion, which still needs approval from the school’s board of
trustees.  Shrinking Spread  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market are betting
the school’s approach will pay off.  NYU bonds issued by the dormitory authority and maturing in
July 2019 yielded 1.95 percent on Sept. 23, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was 0.09 percentage point more than the
 interest rate  on benchmark munis, the narrowest spread since
December 2010.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the NYU securities Aa3, the
fourth-highest grade, citing a “growing global presence” and
“highly marketable real estate holdings in  Manhattan .”  NYU offered tax-exempt bonds yesterday, with debt maturing
in July 2023 priced to yield 2.89 percent, Bloomberg data show.
That compares with 3.09 percent on benchmark AA revenue bonds.  Education Benefit  Education bonds lost 1 percent in the three months through
Sept. 20, the least among 10 revenue-debt segments tracked by
Barclays Plc. The average rating on the group is the same as
NYU’s grade.  “Education gives you some diversification and a different
source of revenue,” said Dan Solender, head of munis in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey , at Lord Abbett & Co., which oversees $16.5
billion of local debt. “If they have a good market position and
endowment, it’s a whole different source of  credit quality .”  The second-biggest  holding  in Lord Abbett’s $324 million
New York tax-free muni fund is NYU debt maturing in July 2034,
Bloomberg data show. Over the past five years the fund has
beaten 97 percent of its peers, the data show.  U.S. News & World Report  ranks  NYU 32nd among national
universities. The Stern School of Business’s graduate program
places 10th, and its law school is sixth.  Greenwich Village has been home to artists, writers and
musicians, including  Bob Dylan ,  Jackson Pollock ,  Mark Twain  and
Edith Wharton. The actor  Matthew Broderick  joined hundreds of
neighbors at a council meeting in 2012 to oppose the
construction.  Concerned Chef  “It’s 2 million square feet of construction crammed into
two small square-blocks, literally in the heart of the
Village,” Randy Mastro, an attorney representing faculty and
neighborhood organizations, told state Supreme Court Justice
Donna Mills at a hearing in Manhattan in July.  More than 100 people packed the courtroom two months ago,
many holding signs and wearing stickers opposing the expansion.
Audience members included Padma Lakshmi, co-host of the
television show “Top Chef,” who said in an interview afterward
that she lives in the neighborhood and attended the hearing as a
“concerned mother.” The parties await a decision.  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Ellen M. Coin in March
dismissed a similar suit filed by tenants of Washington Square
Village, a group of high-rise buildings. The tenants who filed
the suit have appealed.  “We believe we will prevail on the merits, but whatever
the outcome of the litigation, it will not have a material
effect on the financial position of the university or its
ability to make its required debt-service payments,” Philip
Lentz, an NYU spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Reputation Comfort  The legal actions against NYU matter less to bondholders
than the school’s reputation and student demand, said Regina Shafer, who oversees $5.4 billion, including NYU debt, at USAA
Investment Management in San Antonio.  NYU has maintained its student population even as it raised
tuition 16 percent in the past four years. Undergraduates paid
as much as $49,242 during the 2013-2014 academic year, bond
documents show. The total cost of attending the university is
the highest among a 25-member peer group of private colleges
because of  housing prices  in the city, according to the
documents.  Activism Tradeoff  The university’s plan to grow its campus has a benefit
beyond providing space for new programs. Adding real-estate
gives the school assets should it need to raise money,
Evercore’s Cure said.  “As long as the city maintains its desirability for people
to visit, work and take part in a dynamic cultural center, there
will be demand for NYU’s programs,” Cure said. “The tradeoff
in being located in such a desirable area is you have to deal
with community activism. They usually end up working it out.”  In the municipal market this week, localities from
 Connecticut  to  California  are selling $5.4 billion in long-term
debt as benchmark yields fall to the lowest in three months.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield  2.69 percent , the lowest
since June 21, Bloomberg data show. The interest rate compares
with  2.63 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 102 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  