-- Market Outages Highlight Exchanges’ Conflicts Over Data Streams
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s ,   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   M a t t h e w   P h i l i p s
-- 2013-09-26T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/market-outages-highlight-exchanges-conflicts-over-data-streams.html
On the morning of Sept. 12,
executives of the nation’s major stock and options exchanges
traveled to  Washington  to meet with Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White. The summons was prompted by a
rash of technical glitches on the exchanges, the most glaring of
which hit on Aug. 22, when a software failure forced the Nasdaq
to halt trading for three hours.  White told the executives to come back in two months with a
“comprehensive action plan” for making the markets more
resilient, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 30 issue.
“Our homework assignments are clear,”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief
Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said to reporters afterward.
“They require collaboration, and we’ve got 60 days.” Four days
later, a glitch at an NYSE subsidiary helped bring the entire
U.S. options market to a halt for 20 minutes.  Over the past decade, exchanges in the U.S. have evolved
from physical places where trading is conducted by humans into
vast electronic networks where computers buy and sell stocks in
milliseconds. Despite -- or because of -- this complexity, one
glitch can crash the entire system. This weakness was most
apparent with the Nasdaq outage. The failure occurred in a piece
of software called a securities information processor, or SIP,
which is responsible for distributing stock price data to
brokers, traders, and media outlets. The SIP is what feeds the
tickers crawling along the bottom of the screen on CNBC or
Bloomberg TV, and on financial websites. When that failed,
exchange officials decided to shut down all trading so that
investors who still had access to price data couldn’t exploit
the situation.  40-year-old System  The system for conveying trading information dates to
regulations put in place almost 40 years ago. Brokers and money
managers contend that this basic pricing function, the backbone
of the market, has not kept up with technological advancements
that have spread across the exchanges, resulting in a two-tier
system where most investors get inferior information.  “Everyone will tell you the SIP is fair,” says R. Cromwell Coulson, president and CEO of the OTC Markets Group,
which operates a trading venue for 10,000 stocks that aren’t
listed on NYSE or Nasdaq. “But the SIP isn’t fair.”  In 1975, the SEC forced the exchanges -- the New York Stock
Exchange, the  American Stock Exchange , Nasdaq, and a handful of
regional exchanges -- to combine their trading data and publish
the latest prices at which stocks changed hands on one central
data feed accessible to brokers and investors. The idea was to
level the playing field so all market participants could see the
best prices for every stock, no matter where it was listed.  Mergers, Acquisitions  NYSE merged with Euronext in 2007, then bought Amex a year
later. Nasdaq bought the Boston and Philadelphia stock exchanges
in 2007, then purchased the Nordic stock exchange group OMX in
early 2008. Both are now public companies that face investor
pressure to boost revenue and earnings. As trading has become
more automated they have lost share to new electronic exchanges
such as BATS and Direct Edge. Even so, the SIP operated by
 Nasdaq  and NYSE remains responsible for disseminating market
data to the public.  The SEC allows the exchanges to charge brokers, money
managers, and media a fee for the information. That money is
split among all the exchanges based roughly on their market
share of total trading volume. Over the years, the public data
had been a lucrative source of revenue. They generated $463.9
million in 2008, according to the SEC. After deducting $14.8
million for expenses associated with collecting the data, the
exchanges divvied up $449.1 million.  Revenue Declines  As trading volumes have diminished over the last five
years, though, so has the revenue. According to data compiled by
financial market consultant Tabb Group, public data revenue fell
to $445 million in 2012 and is expected to come in at about $430
million in 2013.  NYSE and Nasdaq have helped offset the decline in public
data revenue by selling proprietary data feeds to a variety of
clients including high-frequency traders. These feeds arrive
sooner and contain more information than the SIP -- including
all prices being offered, not just the best ones. By law, prices
must be entered into the public and proprietary feeds at the
same time, but the proprietary systems process and transmit the
information more quickly. From 2006 to 2012, Nasdaq’s
proprietary market data revenue more than doubled, to $150
million from $69.6 million, while its public data revenue fell
to $117 million last year from $149 million in 2007.  Some market participants suggest there is a clear conflict
of interest that has led Nasdaq and NYSE to neglect the public
feed, making it more susceptible to breakdowns.  ‘No Question’  “There is no question they have underinvested” in the
SIP, says Jeffrey Brown, a senior vice president at  Charles
Schwab . As a discount brokerage, Brown says, Schwab can’t afford
to buy the proprietary feeds for all its clients, which puts
them at a disadvantage. The system is “flawed and degrades the
data we can provide to our clients,” he says.  Brokers should have a choice of market data providers
operating multiple versions of the SIP, says OTC Markets’
Coulson. Not only would that add some redundancy to the system,
it would give independent companies an incentive to make the
public feed as fast and efficient as possible. “There is zero
competition or choice,” he says. “What kind of information
provider doesn’t change their data? Doesn’t make it deeper?
Doesn’t improve the quality every year?”  Nasdaq and NYSE maintain that they’ve invested adequately
in the public feed. While the system has been made faster over
the past few years, both exchanges admit that the public data
feed is still slower than proprietary ones.  Committee Budget  The amount that Nasdaq and NYSE must spend to maintain the
public feed is determined by a committee comprised of executives
from the exchanges and from the brokerage industry’s self-regulator, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Neither
the committee nor Finra would comment.  The issue of public vs. private data is shaping up to be a
core part of White’s effort to make the exchanges more
resilient. Even before the Nasdaq outage, the SEC introduced a
proposed rule that would require exchanges to adopt policies to
prevent failures, stress-test their systems, and report
disruptions to the SEC. The proposal, Regulation SCI, would
replace a voluntary program created after the crash of 1987 and
expand the SEC’s oversight.  “White needs to be convinced these guys, all of them, take
this with the utmost seriousness,” says Andrew Klein, a former
director of trading and markets at the SEC and now a partner at
New York-based law firm Schiff Hardin. “It’s starting to look
like Nasdaq can’t stop these problems, and they need to stop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Philips in Washington at 
 mphilips3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  