-- Harper Says He’s Confident Keystone XL Will Be Approved
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-26T19:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/harper-says-he-s-confident-keystone-xl-will-be-approved.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said his government will continue to push for approval of
the Keystone XL pipeline even if President  Barack Obama  rejects
the project.  “My view is that you don’t take ‘no’ for an answer,”
Harper said in New York today at an event hosted by the Canadian
American Business Council. “We haven’t had that, but if we were
to get that, this won’t be final. This won’t be final until it’s
approved.”  Harper said he’s optimistic the U.S. will recognize the
project is in the national interest, adding there’s an
“overwhelming” case for it to be approved. He said he’s in
regular contact with Obama about the proposed $5.3 billion
pipeline, which would carry crude from the Alberta  oil sands  to
U.S. Gulf Coast refineries.  “Ultimately, over time, bad politics make bad policies,”
Harper said. “I believe that in strong advanced countries and
economies like ours, bad policies ultimately get reversed.”  Obama has assured him “he’ll make a decision that’s in
what he believes is the best interests of the  United States 
based on the facts, and the facts are clear,” Harper said.  Harper, who has called Canada an emerging “energy
superpower,” is seeking to secure new markets for the world’s
third largest crude reserves.  New Route  The project entered its sixth year of U.S. review this
month. Obama initially rejected the conduit in January 2012,
citing concerns with its path through ecologically sensitive
lands in Nebraska.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  reapplied with a new
Nebraska route last year and split the project in two,
proceeding with the southern portion that doesn’t require a
permit.  Oil industry executives and trade groups including the
Laborers International Union of  North America  have rallied
around the project, calling it a job creator, while
environmental opponents including the Natural Resources Defense
Fund say it would increase oil-spill risks and exacerbate
 climate change  by enabling higher oil-sands production.  Harper has offered to participate in joint efforts with the
U.S. to cut greenhouse-gas emissions to win approval of the
pipeline, a person familiar with the matter said this month.  The prime minister sent a letter to Obama last month as
part of an effort to mollify U.S. concerns about the project,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because he is
not authorized to discuss it publicly.  Environmental Impact  In June, at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , Obama
declared in a speech Keystone shouldn’t be approved if it were
found to “significantly exacerbate” carbon pollution. A March
draft environmental impact statement found that the project
wouldn’t significantly increase greenhouse-gas emissions because
the oil sands would be developed without Keystone, and shipped
out through other pipelines or by rail.  The State Department said it won’t complete its
environmental-impact review until after reviewing and publishing
1.5 million public comments, a months-long process. Mandatory
comment periods could push the decision to late this year or
early next year.  TransCanada Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said in
July he hopes for a U.S. decision on the pipeline this year and
that transporting the oil in the second half of 2015 as planned
may be difficult amid approval delays.  Canadian oil producers are depending on new pipelines to
export rising supplies of crude. Canadian energy companies have
underperformed U.S. peers by 28 percentage points on  Standard &
Poor’s  indexes during the past five years amid price discounts
for the nation’s heavy oil relative to the U.S. benchmark crude
as pipelines are delayed.  A more than doubling of oil-sands production, to 5.2
million barrels a day by 2030, hinges on construction of new
pipelines including Keystone XL, the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers said in a June forecast.  Canada ’s oil sands are the world’s largest source of proven
crude reserves after  Saudi Arabia  and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  