-- Kiwi Dollar Climbs Against Major Peers on Rate Bets, Stock Gains
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-09-26T07:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/aussie-kiwi-hold-loss-versus-peers-amid-u-s-debt-limit-concern.html
New Zealand ’s dollar climbed
against all its 16 major peers amid bets the country’s central
bank will be the first among developed nations to raise  interest
rates .  The kiwi and Aussie gained against the greenback, snapping
two-day declines, as Asian stocks rallied. The South Pacific
nations’ currencies fell to their lowest levels in a week
yesterday as the risk of a U.S. government shutdown cut demand
for higher-yielding assets. Australian government bond yields
touched a six-week low.  “With all the talk about a U.S. government shutdown,
everybody’s forgotten that the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand is
one of the most hawkish central banks out there,” said  Annette Beacher , Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific research  at TD
Securities Inc. “I’m not surprised that the kiwi has picked up
a little bit. I think it’s got more to do.”  The  New Zealand dollar  jumped 0.5 percent to 82.82 U.S.
cents at 5:20 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched
82.17, the lowest since Sept. 18. Australia’s dollar gained 0.2
percent to 93.86 U.S. cents, after reaching 93.39 yesterday,
also the lowest since Sept. 18.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks advanced 0.2 percent,
snapping a two-day decline.  The kiwi and Aussie fell this week against the dollar, yen
and euro as U.S. lawmakers continued to debate the budget,
before federal spending authority runs out on Sept. 30 and a few
weeks until the country hits its borrowing limit.  Lew’s Warning  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told Congress in a
letter yesterday that the extraordinary measures being used to
avoid breaching the debt ceiling “will be exhausted no later
than Oct. 17.”  “Everyone’s been talking about the U.S. debt ceiling
debate a little bit more, and using it as an excuse to take a
little bit of risk off the table given the run-up in both
antipodean currencies in the past few weeks,” said  Michael Turner , a debt and currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada
in Sydney.  The kiwi has advanced 7.2 percent this month against the
 U.S. dollar , and has climbed 7.1 percent so far this quarter,
making it the best performer among 16 major peers over both
periods. The Aussie has risen 5.5 percent for the month, and 2.8
percent for the quarter.  Rate Bets  Traders see an 84 percent chance the RBNZ will raise
borrowing costs from a record-low 2.5 percent by April next
year,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show. They
see a 58 percent probability the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will
lower its cash target rate from a record low of 2.5 percent in
the same period.  Australia ’s benchmark 10-year government bond  yield  slid as
low as 3.845 percent today, a level unseen since Aug. 14.  Australia extended its inflation-linked bond maturities to
22 years, selling A$2.1 billion ($2 billion) with the yield at
the bottom of the target range. The 2 percent security due Aug.
21, 2035, sold at a price of A$96.943 per A$100 face amount,
according to an e-mailed statement today from the Australian
Office of Financial Management.  Foreign investors sold a net A$2.6 billion of Australian
state government bonds in the second quarter, according to a
separate report today by the statistics bureau. Australian banks
bought a net A$5.9 billion of the debt in the same period,
raising holdings to a record A$83 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  