-- Aussies Swept by Rental-Home Mania Raising Bank Risks
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-27T06:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/aussies-swept-by-rental-home-mania-raising-bank-risks.html
Dharmendra Singh has spent A$1.3
million ($1.2 million) since July on two houses 39 kilometers
(24 miles) northwest of Sydney, drawing on an existing mortgage
to pay a deposit on one and taking out two new loans.  “Low interest rates and rental yields make it easy,” said
Singh, who now has three investment properties with his wife
Pranita. “The rental and tax savings can pay off your mortgage.
You just sit tight and wait for the property to appreciate.”  Singh, 38, is one of thousands of Australian investors
snapping up properties, attracted by the  lowest  mortgage rates
in four years and rising demand for housing.  Home prices  gained
about 5 percent this year in the country’s biggest cities, led
by an 8 percent increase in Sydney. With no signs that the
central bank will start raising rates, prices will jump as much
as 11 percent next year, property researcher  SQM Research Pty .
said Sept. 17, with Sydney values soaring as much as 20 percent.  Banks have been eager to attract rental investors, with
home-loan approvals in the second quarter at the highest in at
least five years. That’s provided a boost amid otherwise slow
credit growth while exposing lenders to possible house-price
declines in the longer-term.  “We see strong earnings-per-share growth for the big four
Australian banks in 2014 and 2015 on cost cuts and higher credit
growth,”  David Ellis , a Sydney-based banking analyst with
Morningstar Inc., said in a telephone interview. “Investor
appetite for houses or mortgages is good to some degree, but if
it pushes  house prices  into a bubble, it isn’t good in the long
term for the Australian economy or for the banks.”  Approvals Jump  Fueling the strong investor demand is the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia ’s record-low 2.5 percent benchmark rate, which has
seen the country’s average standard variable home loan rate
 offered  by banks fall 0.9 percentage point from a year earlier
to 5.95 percent in August.  In New South Wales, the country’s most populous state,
investor housing-loan approvals account for about 40 percent of
all approved mortgages by value, the highest since 2004, the RBA
said in its semi-annual Financial Stability Review Sept. 25.
“It is important that those purchasing property maintain
realistic expectations of future dwelling price growth.”  Australian Treasurer  Joe Hockey  told reporters today that
he isn’t concerned about a housing bubble. “Rising house prices
help to make marginal property development viable,” he said in
Canberra. “There is a shortage of supply out there and what
this will do is make supply more readily available.”  Fastest Pace  Home prices in Australia’s biggest cities rose 5.1 percent
in the eight months to Aug. 31, according to the RP Data-Rismark
Home Value Index, with prices increasing in the six months to
August at the fastest pace in three years.  Singh, who works in the finance sector, drew a 20 percent
deposit from his partly repaid mortgage in August to buy a
A$660,000 three-bedroom show home on 564 square meters (6,071
square feet) of land in Stanhope Gardens, two months after
buying a similar property in the same suburb. He funded the
purchases through separate loans from  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , the nation’s biggest mortgage lender, and  Suncorp
Group Ltd. (SUN)   “It is a good time to buy as the risk is very low,” Singh
said.  Australian mortgages are the largest asset class for the
country’s four main banks and the biggest profit contributor for
three of them. Banks have bolstered their mortgage margins by
lowering home-loan rates by less than the RBA’s rate cuts. While
the central bank dropped its benchmark rate by 225 basis points,
or 2.25 percentage points, since November 2011, the average
variable rate on bank mortgages has fallen by only 185 basis
points, according RBA data.  Investor loan approvals  climbed  to A$27.8 billion in the
three months to June, the highest since March 2008 when the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority, known as APRA,
started compiling the data.  ‘Systemic Risk’  The banks are “substantially more exposed to investment
property loans than peers,” UBS AG analysts, led by Jonathan Mott, said in a research note Sept. 24. Investment property
accounts for 32 percent of Australian banks’ mortgage books,
compared with 20 percent in  New Zealand  and 12 percent in the
U.K., they said.  “Australia’s large exposure to a very highly leveraged
landlord population is a significant  systemic risk ,” the UBS
analysts said, while noting that Australian banks’ mortgage
books are generally considered to be very high quality.  Mortgages represent 61 percent of gross loans for  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , 60 percent for Commonwealth Bank, 45 percent at
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , and 42 percent at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , according to UBS.  Investor Uplift  “All the data is pointing to the fact that investors are
helping to drive the uplift in home loans and we are certainly
getting our fair share of that,” said Danny John, a spokesman
at Sydney-based Westpac, the second-largest home lender.  Investment property loan demand has picked up, Gavin Slater, the head of Melbourne-based National Australia Bank’s
retail bank said in an interview Sept. 12. The bank’s market
share has risen 2.5 percentage points to more than 15 percent
since August 2009, making it the fastest-growing home lender,
data from APRA show.  Commonwealth Bank has seen investors active over the last
quarter, Steve Batten, a Sydney-based spokesman said by e-mail.
The bank continues to apply a “sound risk management
approach,” he said. ANZ, the smallest mortgage lender among the
four, has seen an increase in investor appetite and maintains
prudent lending standards, Melbourne-based spokesman Stephen Ries said.  Incentives  The share of banks’ housing loans that were non-performing
has remained around 0.7 percent since September 2012 after
falling modestly over the previous year and a half, the central
bank said.  Mortgage rates  are also high relative to other countries,
including the U.S., where a 30-year fixed mortgage is 4.32
percent, according to  Freddie Mac .  The average rate in Hong Kong in July was about 2.14
percent, up from a low of less than 1 percent in 2010, according
to Referral Mortgage Brokerage Services. A fixed 35-year
mortgage rate in  Japan  is 1.9 percent, near April’s all-time low
of 1.8 percent, according to the government-affiliated Japan
Housing Finance Agency. In  Singapore , the average floating rate
for 25-to-30-year mortgages has risen to 1.3 percent from about
0.9 percent a year ago, Keff Hui, a director at brokerage
Mortgage Supermart Pte, said.  Commonwealth Bank, Westpac, ANZ and National Australia Bank
are named the so-called four pillar lenders for a law that
prevents them from buying each other.  Rental Income  As banks endeavor to maintain market share, some are
handing customers a cash incentive. National Australia Bank is
offering A$1,000 till Sept. 30 to shift a mortgage from a
competitor, while Westpac says its front-line staff can offer as
much as A$1,500 cash to new mortgage holders. Commonwealth Bank
is offering A$700 to customers that switch their mortgage to the
bank before Sept. 27.  Investors such as Singh are relying on rising rental rates
along with price appreciation in making their purchases. Sydney
has seen a 32 percent surge in residential rents since 2008,
according to a report by broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)  The city is among
five globally with the highest-yielding residential markets, at
4.8 percent, the broker said.  Singh will get about A$40,000 a year in rent from his most
recently purchased house, he said. Based on Suncorp’s benchmark
rate, he will pay about A$41,000 a year in interest and
principal over 25 years, according to the bank’s  home loan
repayment calculator . Borrowers typically get a discount on the
benchmark rate with Brisbane, Queensland state-based Suncorp
offering a 70-basis-point reduction on its website for loans
above A$250,000.  Pension Demand  The shortfall between interest paid and rent received along
with other expenses, including council fees, insurance and
maintenance, can be claimed as  tax deductions  from an
individual’s income, according to the Australian Taxation
Office.  The high yields and expected price appreciation are also
luring Australians that manage their own pension fund, known as
self-managed superannuation funds or SMSFs.  “There’s been a rapid increase in self-managed super funds
looking to invest in property along with general investors,”
John McGrath, chief executive officer of McGrath Estate Agents,
which has offices in New South Wales, Queensland and Canberra,
said in an interview.  SMSFs, which have between one and four members and together
manage A$506 billion, are permitted to borrow to invest in
property and certain other assets, prompting the central bank to
say in the  minutes  of its Sept. 3 meeting that households could
be taking financial risks and would be closely monitored.  Constrained Supply  Increased demand from investors comes amid constrained
supply of new homes. ANZ estimates that there is a shortfall of
270,000 dwellings in Australia, equal to around 20 months of
housing construction, and this will rise to 370,000 dwellings by
2015.  Sydney’s median house price has risen 8 percent this year
to A$666,900, according to RP Data. That compares with the
average cost of $779,000 for a home in  New York  City last
quarter, as tracked by the Real Estate Board of New York. The
average house price in London was 452,821 pounds ($726,008) as
of July, a 7 percent increase from a year ago, according to
researcher  LSL Property Services Plc. (LSL)   The price gains have made Australian homes the sixth- most
overvalued  globally and the house-price-to-income ratio was 21
percent above its long-term average, the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development said in in  May .  “Investor appetite will continue as long as rates are
low,” John Buonaccorsi, a Sydney-based bank analyst at CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd, said. “The problem will be when rates
turn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 