-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Debt Ceiling as Treasuries, Yen Rise
-- B y   W i l l   H a d f i e l d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-09-27T20:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/australian-futures-rise-after-u-s-rebound-as-gas-surges.html
U.S. stocks fell, extending a
weekly drop, amid concern a political impasse over the  federal
budget  will hurt the economy. Treasuries rose and the yen
strengthened while metals rallied.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,691.75 at 4 p.m. in  New York  while the rate on 10-year
Treasury notes lost 2.5 basis points to 2.62 percent. The yen
appreciated against all 16 major peers as  Japan ’s finance
minister damped speculation the government will cut the
corporate  tax rate . The pound advanced against most major
currencies as Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  told a U.K.
newspaper he does not support increasing asset purchases.
Italian bonds and European shares slid following a debt auction.  The  U.S. Senate  voted to finance the government through
Nov. 15 after removing language to choke off funding for the
health care law, putting pressure on the House to avoid a
federal shutdown set to start Oct. 1. Federal Reserve Bank of
New York President William C. Dudley said budget battles in
 Washington  are among risks to the economic outlook.  “The data does seem to be seeing some improvement here,
but with the overhang from Washington, that clouds the outlook
for the immediate future,” Derek Hamilton, a global economist
at Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , said
in a phone interview. His firm manages $114 billion. “If we do
have an extended government shutdown, and more importantly, an
inability to pass the debt ceiling raise, that will probably
have a fairly significant impact on the stock market.”  Data Watch  The  S&P 500  extended its weekly decline to 1.1 percent,
snapping a three-week rally. The benchmark index is up 5.3
percent in the third quarter and 19 percent in 2013.  Treasuries have lost 0.7 percent in the quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America Corp.
Investors should expect $23.5 billion in selling of equities and
buying of bonds as pension fund managers rebalance their
portfolios at the end of the third quarter, Ramon Verastegui,
head of engineering and strategy at Societe Generale SA in New
York, wrote in a Sept. 25 note.  A Commerce Department report today showed  consumer spending 
in the U.S. rose in August for a fourth consecutive month,
climbing 0.3 percent. A separate report showed confidence among
consumers declined to a five-month low in September as
Americans’ views on the economy dimmed. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of sentiment
decreased to 77.5 this month from 82.1 in August, compared with
a median estimate for a drop to 78 seen by economists in a
survey.  ‘Creates Uncertainty’  The Fed’s Dudley said he wants to see more momentum in the
economy before paring the pace of the central bank’s bond
buying. Debates in Congress on how to fund the government for
the next fiscal year and raising the debt ceiling “creates
uncertainty about the fiscal outlook and may exert a restraining
influence on household and business spending,” Dudley said
today in the text of remarks in Syracuse, New York.  The vote in the Senate today set up a weekend of
negotiating that could continue until spending authority expires
on Sept. 30.  House Republicans  are insisting that the short-term
spending bill include limits on the health-care law’s reach, a
demand that Democrats say they won’t accept.  Among stocks moving in the U.S., J.C. Penney Co. slid 13
percent after the retailer began selling 84 million shares to
raise cash. Nektar Therapeutics tumbled 24 percent after a study
of the slow-release painkiller NKTR-181 failed to meet its
goals. Nike Inc. surged 4.7 percent as fiscal first-quarter
profit topped analysts’ estimates.  Dollar, Pound  The U.S. Bloomberg Dollar Index slipped 0.2 percent. The
pound rose 0.6 percent to $1.6136, near the eight month high of
$1.6163 reached on Sept. 18.  “Given the recovery has strengthened and broadened, I
don’t see a case for quantitative easing and I have not
supported it,” Carney said, according to the  Yorkshire Post .  Italian  government bonds  declined, extending a weekly loss,
as the nation auctioned 6 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of debt
maturing in 2018 and 2024. The yield on the country’s  10-year
securities (GBTPGR10)  climbed nine basis points to 4.42 percent.  Italy ’s
Rome-based Treasury sold 3 billion euros of the 2024 bonds at an
average yield of 4.5 percent, more than the 4.46 percent at a
previous auction on Aug. 29.  Auction ‘Weak’  Italy’s government bonds fell amid speculation that traders
who deal directly with the Treasury had to hold on to most of
the securities on offer at today’s auction as political tension
deterred other buyers.  “The Italian auction was weak,” said  Harvinder Sian , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  London . “The issue is that it was a dealer-led affair
and there wasn’t much real money buying. That -- allied to the
political concerns -- means that sentiment toward Italian debt
is poor.”  Yields on German  10-year bunds  fell five basis points to
1.78 percent, their lowest level in six weeks.  Italy’s FTSE MIB Index dropped 1.3 percent. UniCredit SpA
and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s two largest lenders, declined
more than 1 percent to pace losses among lenders. Telecom Italia
SpA retreated 2.6 percent.  The yen strengthened 0.8 percent to 98.24 per dollar.  Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters today
that reducing the corporate tax rate needs to be considered over
a medium- to long-term perspective.  ‘Little Avenue’  “The market is obviously looking at the comments by
minister Aso,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London, in a telephone
interview. “If you are concerned about shutdown risks then it
probably does provide a little avenue of opportunity just to see
the yen make some gains.”  West Texas Intermediate oil slipped 16 cents to $102.87 a
barrel, capping a third straight weekly loss.  The five permanent members of the UN Security Council
agreed on a resolution to find and destroy Syria’s chemical
weapons. The agreement does not specify how the UN will
determine whether Bashar al-Assad’s regime has complied.  Gold for immediate delivery rose 1 percent to $1,337.38 an
ounce. Silver for immediate delivery gained 0.2 percent to
$21.77 an ounce in London trading, paring its loss this month to
7.5 percent. Copper added 0.7 percent to $7,300 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.4 percent,
trimming the gain since June to 6.3 percent, its best quarterly
performance in a year. Turkey’s  Borsa Istanbul National 100
Index (XU100)  fell 1.1 percent for a sixth straight loss. Argentina’s
Merval Index tumbled 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Hadfield in London at 
 whadfield@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  