-- Avianca’s Chairman Backed Citigroup Loans With Airline Shares
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-09-26T17:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/avianca-s-chairman-backed-citigroup-loans-with-airline-shares.html
Avianca Holdings SA Chairman German Efromovich has pledged 19 percent of his investment company’s
common shares in the Colombian airline as collateral for loans
from banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C) , a filing showed.  Synergy Aerospace Corp., the closely held company through
which Efromovich and his brother control Bogota-based Avianca,
pledged the shares for the bank loans, according to the Sept. 19
filing with U.S. regulators. The amount of the loans and their
dates weren’t disclosed.  Avianca has disclosed plans to spend at least $4 billion
through 2019 as it buys more than 100 planes to meet rising
passenger traffic in Latin America. The company has increased
its debt load, including a sale of $300 million of seven-year
dollar-denominated bonds in May. Efromovich may be looking for
ways to help finance the airline’s growth, said Nicolas Garavito, an analyst at Ultrabursatiles brokerage in Bogota.  “Avianca has a large expansion plan in Latin America but
they don’t necessarily have enough funds for all that they’re
planning,” Garavito said. Efromovich may be “trying out other
ways to get cash.”  Efromovich, 63, said in a Sept. 10 interview that Synergy
is getting eight planes, some of which could be leased to
Avianca.  A press official for the airline declined to comment. An e-mail and phone call to Efromovich’s office in Bogota weren’t
returned. Natalie Marin, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Leverage Increase  Avianca’s preferred shares have tumbled by 18 percent this
year. They fell 0.8 percent today to 3,720 pesos as of 12:18
p.m. today in Bogota. The common shares aren’t publicly traded.
The yield on the bonds has dropped 92 basis points, or 0.92
percentage point, to 7.71 percent since they were issued.  The airline’s net debt was 2.8 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization as of June 30, up
from 2.6 times a year earlier, according to Bloomberg data. That
compares with 0.8 times for  Mexico ’s Grupo Aeromexico SAB and
0.6 times for  Panama ’s Copa Holdings SA, the data show.  The filing was made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in connection with Avianca’s planned sale of as much
as $100 million of American Depositary Receipts backed by
preferred shares.  Synergy owns 7 million preferred shares as of Aug. 31,
according to the filing. Those were worth about 26.4 billion
pesos ($14 million) at yesterday’s closing price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in  New York  at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  