-- Axiata Unit Buys Axis Telekom by Assuming $865 Million Debt
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-09-26T08:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/axiata-unit-acquires-axis-telekom-by-assuming-865-million-debt.html
PT XL Axiata Tbk., (EXCL)  a unit of
Malaysia’s largest mobile-phone operator, will acquire PT Axis
Telekom Indonesia from  Saudi Telecom Co. (STC)  and settle $865 million
of the closely held carrier’s debts.  XL Axiata, a 66.5 percent-owned subsidiary of  Axiata Group
Bhd. (AXIATA) , is paying $100 cash for the share capital of Axis,
according to a stock exchange filing in Kuala Lumpur today. The
price represents Axis’s enterprise value on a cash-free and
debt-free basis, parent Axiata Group said in the filing.  The acquisition will allow XL Axiata to add services and
coverage after the company said in August second-quarter profit
slumped 55 percent to 354.92 billion rupiah ($31 million) from a
year earlier. Ten operators compete for subscribers in
 Indonesia ’s mobile market, the second-highest number in Asia
after India, in what XL Axiata described in May as an
“unsustainable situation.”  “All industry participants are in agreement that the
industry must consolidate,” XL Axiata President Director Hasnul
Suhaimi said in the statement. “This will be driven by
companies like XL who have the will and ability to accelerate
the development of high quality communication services in
Indonesia.”  XL Axiata jumped 4.8 percent to 4,400 rupiah as of 3:22
p.m. in Jakarta, paring the stock’s decline this year to 23
percent. It had the third-biggest percentage gain in the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index today. Axiata Group increased 0.4 percent
to 6.93 ringgit in  Kuala Lumpur  trading.  “For companies that want to grow in Indonesia like Axiata,
acquisition is the fastest way,” Ang Kok Heng, who helps manage
$428 million of assets as chief investment officer at Phillip
Capital Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, including Axiata Group
shares, said by phone today. “You’d get customers, people and
the broadband.”  The transaction still needs regulatory approvals and is
expected to be completed by the end of March, the filing shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  