-- Mayor Bloomberg to Chair London’s Serpentine Gallery
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-09-26T15:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/mayor-bloomberg-to-chair-london-s-serpentine-gallery.html
New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg
will be the next chairman of the Serpentine Gallery, a London
arts institution, taking the post after his mayoral term ends.  The mayor’s press secretary  Marc LaVorgna  and the
 Serpentine Gallery  confirmed the appointment. It was announced
at a Sept. 24 dinner to mark the opening of the Serpentine
Sackler Gallery, the Serpentine’s new extension, LaVorgna said.
Mayor Bloomberg, whose 12-year tenure ends Dec. 31, is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News’s parent Bloomberg LP.  Housed in a former Hyde Park tearoom built in 1934, the
Serpentine -- led by Julia Peyton-Jones and Hans Ulrich Obrist -
- is one of London’s better-known art galleries.  It commissions a temporary pavilion each summer from a
prominent international architect and hosts a fund-raising
event. The gallery’s parties gained royal cachet when Princess Diana attended in June 1994.  The gallery gets limited government funding -- its 2013-2014 grant from Arts Council England totals 1.21 million pounds
($1.94 million) -- and relies on donors and sponsors. Entrance
to the gallery is free.  Peter Palumbo, a property developer who is a member of the
House of Lords, has been chairman of the gallery since 1994.
Palumbo has also chaired the jury of the Pritzker Architecture
Prize since 2005. As at other  London  museums, the chairman
oversees the gallery’s operations and leads its fundraising
efforts.  This weekend, the Serpentine opens its new extension, the
Serpentine Sackler Gallery, designed by architect Zaha Hadid.
The Serpentine Sackler has received funding from Bloomberg,
which sponsored its opening exhibition.  Bloomberg previously served on the board of the Serpentine
Gallery.  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on restaurants and
Frederik Balfour on the Asian art market.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 