-- Azeri State Oil Fund to Boost Gold Holdings by Third Next Year
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-09-26T11:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/azeri-state-oil-fund-to-boost-gold-holdings-by-third-next-year.html
Azerbaijan ’s State Oil Fund plans
to increase its gold holdings by a third next year as the
largest crude producer in the former  Soviet Union  after  Russia 
and  Kazakhstan  seeks to diversify its reserves.  The fund, known as  Sofaz , will buy 10 metric tons of
bullion in 2014 after reaching its previous target of 30 tons by
the end of this year, Executive Director Shahmar Movsumov told
reporters today in Baku, the Azeri capital.  Sofaz, which started weekly purchases of the precious metal
in the first quarter of 2012, has bought 26 tons so far,
Movsumov said. Investing in gold was a “strategic decision” by
Sofaz to diversify assets and the fund has no plans to sell
bullion, Movsumov has said.  Gold is heading for its first annual decline since 2000
after some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value
amid evidence of faster economic growth. The price climbed 6.3
percent in August, partly because of escalating tensions between
the U.S. and Syria. Last month, Azerbaijan, Russia and
Kazakhstan were among nations that increased  gold reserves ,
International Monetary Fund data showed yesterday.  Gold for immediate delivery gained 0.2 percent to $1,337.48
an ounce by 8:53 a.m. in  London , advancing for a third day. It’s
poised for its first quarterly increase in a year, having risen
8.3 percent since July 1.  Sofaz broadened its mandate last year to keep as much as 5
percent of its assets in gold, real estate, stocks, Australian
dollars, Russian rubles and Turkish lira. The Azeri fund,
established in 1999 to manage the country’s income from the sale
of oil and natural gas, had $34.68 billion of assets as of July
1, almost half of the Caspian Sea nation’s economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  