-- BAE Backs Portsmouth Suppliers as Shipbuilding Under Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-26T12:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/bae-backs-government-cash-to-help-portsmouth-shipyard-suppliers.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest
defense company, is taking part in a U.K. government effort to
strengthen suppliers at the historic Portsmouth,  England , naval
base at a time when shipbuilding there is in doubt.  The  company  will help allocate grant money under a 3.2
billion-pound ($5 billion) government effort to bolster small
and medium-sized businesses, Derren Chamberlain, head of BAE’s
maritime supply chain, said in an interview. Some funds are
dedicated for suppliers at Portsmouth, he said.  BAE, which consolidated the U.K.’s warship building
capacity in 2009, lacks work to sustain its three surface
shipyards located in Portsmouth, 70 miles southwest of London,
and Scotstoun and Govan in  Scotland . After completion of two
Queen Elizabeth-class aircraft carriers, due to start coming
into service in 2018, activity will dip before building of Type
26 Global Combat Ships commences. The company and the defense
ministry are in talks on whether to shut one site.  “For maritime services there will be a significant
footprint here,” Chamberlain said. “It is absolutely
worthwhile for the small and medium-sized enterprises to apply
for this funding.”  Carrier Support  Should full-scale shipbuilding cease at Portsmouth, BAE
would retain services and technical operations at the naval base
involved in activities such as support of the new Queen
Elizabeth-class aircraft carriers, Chamberlain said.  Each supplier will have to provide 80 percent of their own
capital to get 20 percent of government backing, with a maximum
allocation of 300,000 pounds out of a total funding pool of 4.7
million pounds, Chamberlain said. The first applications are due
this month, and initial funds will be provided in October.  Companies can seek support for various initiatives,
including efforts to improve quality or comply with onerous U.S.
arms-transfer rules. Day-to-day overhead costs are not eligible,
Chamberlain said.  BAE personnel and government representatives will evaluate
funding applications. Chamberlain said the judgment will not
focus on lowering BAE’s costs. “This is about the future,” he
said “We get a stronger, fit-for-purpose supply chain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  