-- Bangladesh Deploys Paramilitary in Garment Zone After Protests
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-09-26T10:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/bangladesh-deploys-paramilitary-in-garment-zone-after-protests.html
Bangladesh ’s government deployed
paramilitary troops in the industrial belt of Gazipur to deter
further protests as garment factories reopened after five days
of violent demonstrations.  “The situation is now relatively calm,” Mostafijur
Rahman, additional superintendent of police for Gazipur
district, said in a phone interview. Television footage showed
the troops patrolling streets where workers attacked factories
and blocked traffic earlier this week to demand wage increases.  The government is acting after factory owners met Home
Minister Muhiuddin Khan Alamgir yesterday to urge tighter
security. Thousands of garment workers clashed with police this
week in the industrial belt on the outskirts of Dhaka, forcing
about 400 factories that supply companies such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. to close.  “Unrest in the garment sector will be firmly dealt with,”
the minister told reporters, after the meeting.  The labor unrest came five months after the collapse of the
eight-story Rana Plaza factory complex killed more than 1,000
people in the worst industrial accident in the South Asian
country’s history. Low wages and production costs have helped
spawn the country’s $19 billion manufacturing industry that
supplies global retailers with cheap clothes.  Blocked Highway  The protestors, some of whom pelted factories with bricks
and blocked a highway, demanded a minimum monthly salary of
8,114 taka ($104), up from 3,000 taka now. Retailers such as
Wal-Mart, Inditex SA, Gap Inc. and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  source
goods from Gazipur, according to Abdus Salam Murshedy, president
of the Exporters Association of Bangladesh.  While Shipping Minister Shajahan Khan met this week with
factory owners and labor leaders in an effort to end
demonstrations, no agreement on wages has emerged so far.  Khan has said that he asked a panel known as the Minimum
Wage Board to complete and submit a new salary structure for
workers to the government by November, a month earlier than the
previous deadline. He didn’t say how much wages might be
increased.  Factory owners urged law enforcement agencies to tighten
security in all industrial areas where garment factories are
concentrated, Khan said.  Khan is known for his influence over workers as he is
simultaneously vice president of the Jatiya Sramik League, the
labor unit of the ruling Awami League party, and executive
president of the Bangladesh Road Transport Worker Federation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  