-- Barrick Weighs Cooperation in Nevada With Newmont
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-26T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/barrick-weighs-u-s-cooperation-with-newmont-corporate-canada.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM) , the world’s largest gold producers, will consider
a cooperative venture in Nevada in a sign of how far companies
will go to cut costs after the metal’s plunge.  Barrick Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky and Newmont
CEO Gary Goldberg said in separate interviews they would weigh
holding talks on finding efficiencies in their operations in
Nevada. They said it’s something that has been discussed
previously. According to Sokalsky, the “next-door neighbors”
could combine those assets into a single, independently managed
joint venture with separate ownership of the respective assets.  The biggest quarterly drop in gold’s price in more than 90
years and rising production costs have forced mining companies
to fire workers, close inefficient operations and cut dividend
payments. It would be positive for both Barrick and Newmont if
they found new ways to get rid of inefficiencies by cooperating
in  Nevada , said Chris Mancini, an analyst for the Gabelli Gold
Fund.  “You could get millions and millions of dollars of
synergies,” he said in an interview in Denver. “In today’s
environment with gold and gold mining companies, we need that.”  An agreement in Nevada would add a chapter to the shared
history of Barrick and Newmont. The two companies held merger
talks in 1991 and 2000, according to “Going for Gold: the
History of Newmont Mining Corporation” by Jack H. Morris (2010,
The University of Alabama Press).  Nevada Powerhouses  Further discussions took place as recently as the past five
years, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions
who asked not to be named because the talks were private.
Spokesmen for Barrick and Newmont declined to comment yesterday
on the potential for a merger.  Both companies built out their businesses on production
from mines in northern Nevada, where they have the largest
concentration of neighboring mines in the area known as the
Carlin Trend. The zone, which is more than 50 miles (80
kilometers) long and 5 miles wide, has produced more than 70
million ounces of gold since the 1860s, according to the Nevada
Bureau of Mines and Geology  website .  “It’s conventional wisdom that there’s some synergies out
there any time there’s adjacent properties, and this is one
example,” said Jason Neal, the Toronto-based co-head of metals
and mining at BMO Capital Markets.  ‘Increase Efficiency’  “The overall investor mood out there is to try and find
ways to overall increase efficiency,” Neal said in an interview
at the Denver Gold Forum, an annual industry conference in the
city. “Senior executives, they genuinely are out there looking
for those opportunities without a whole lot of restraint.”  Gold, which fell into a  bear market  in April, has tumbled
24 percent in the past year.  Sokalsky is selling assets and closing mines in a bid to
boost profits and reduce costs, which crept up steadily over the
past decade. The Toronto-based company cut 30 percent of
corporate office staff, slashed spending plans and continues to
seek savings, Sokalsky said. Working with Newmont in Nevada
could help toward that goal, he said this week.  “In an environment like this, having discussions jointly
where you can save costs, you’d have to be interested,”
Sokalsky said in a Sept. 24 interview in Denver. “One of the
ways to do that would be to combine the operations into a joint
venture and then manage it as a single venture with separate
ownership.”  Possible Cooperation  Goldberg said in Denver this week his company will consider
partnerships on acquisitions and could cooperate with other
companies on developing infrastructure for a project in  Peru .  Goldberg, who took over as CEO in March, said there are
some overlaps between the companies’ Nevada operations and
opportunities for cost savings, something that’s “worthy of
more conversations.”  Newmont, based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , took a $1.77
billion writedown in the second quarter. Its  shares  have fallen
39 percent this year in  New York , a bigger decline than the 20
percent drop in the price of New York gold futures.  In that time, Barrick has plunged 45 percent in Toronto and
took $8.7 billion of writedowns in the second quarter.  Newmont has 18 mines in Nevada, while Barrick owns six and
operates another three as joint ventures, according to their
websites. The companies already jointly own the Turquoise Ridge
mine 45 miles west of the Carlin Trend, with Barrick controlling
75 percent. The companies also are 50-50 partners in the
 Kalgoorlie  mine in  Australia .  Barrick’s Goldstrike  Goldstrike, Barrick’s biggest mining operation, which it
bought for $65 million in 1987 according to Morris, is
surrounded on three sides by Newmont mines. Multiple pits, pools
and roads form a complicated pattern on a 20-square-mile patch
of Nevada hills. Both companies have processing facilities in
the area.  Barrick and Newmont would be able to optimize their
operations if they were to cooperate in Nevada, said Rachel Benepe, who helps manage $1.4 billion at First Eagle Investment
Management LLC. The current gold price environment is pushing
all miners to rethink their operations, she said.  It’s “forcing them to think about their business models,
it’s forcing them to think about what they’re good at
comparatively,” Benepe said in Denver Sept. 24.  There has been more dialogue among company executives in
the last couple of years on what needs to be done to fix the
industry, said Sean Boyd, vice chairman and CEO of Toronto-based
competitor Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd.  “If Barrick and Newmont actually finally do cooperate in
Nevada, which was something that was talked about for a long,
long time, that’s a great sign for the industry,” Boyd said
yesterday in an interview in Denver. “Because it’s all about
synergies and doing things on a more cost-effective basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  