-- BHP Bond Sale Makes Light of Mining Peak Gloom: Australia Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-09-26T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/bhp-bond-sale-makes-light-of-mining-peak-gloom-australia-credit.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  was able to
extend the maturity of its debt in a $5 billion sale, showing
investor demand for mining bonds even as much of  Australia  frets
that the best of a record resources boom is over.  Half of the securities sold this week by Melbourne-based
BHP had a tenor of 30 years, compared with just 19 percent at
its previous U.S. sale in February 2012. The 2043 notes were
sold to yield 5.001 percent, compared with an average of 6.353
percent on bonds maturing in 20 to 30 years among debt in Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Metals, Mining & Steel Index.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp. also sold
bonds this quarter as signs the global economy is rebounding
improve the outlook for commodities. The Australian dollar
climbed more than 6 percent since reaching a three year-low in
August, as manufacturing picked up in  China , the nation’s
biggest export market.  “There’s obviously a fair bit of demand there for BHP’s
paper and the pricing they achieved is pretty good,” said Scott Rundell, chief credit strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  in Sydney. “The  U.S. economy  is showing an improving
trend,  Europe  is starting to get better and that has to bode
well for China, which is showing signs of perking up, and that
in turn is good for miners.”  Bond Sale  The producer of coal,  iron ore  and petroleum sold four
separate bonds in its Sept. 25 offering, with maturities ranging
from 2016 through to 2043. The $2.5 billion in 30-year notes
were priced to yield 130 basis points more than Treasuries,
while $1.5 billion of 3.85 percent 10-year notes were sold at a
spread of 125 basis points.  The spread over government debt on the company’s previous
longest note, a 2042 issue, jumped by 10 basis points to 111 the
day the new bond was sold, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
That security was initially sold last year at a 102-basis-point
gap.  Yields dropped worldwide after the decision last week by
the U.S. central bank to refrain from tapering stimulus.
 Interest rates  are predicted to rise over the longer term.  Government Yields  Benchmark Australian 10-year yields fell six basis points
this week to 3.88 percent, paring their increase this year to 61
basis points. The Australian dollar bought 93.91 U.S. cents at 5
p.m. in Sydney yesterday, after reaching 88.48 cents on Aug. 5,
the weakest since August 2010.  The Australian government raised A$2.1 billion yesterday,
more than four times the minimum sought, in extending the
maturity of its debt at a sale of 2035 indexed bonds. The notes
priced at 25 basis points more than the government’s 2030
inflation-linked notes, which had been the country’s longest-dated sovereign securities. The spread was at the bottom of the
range sought by the government funding arm.  The 30-year U.S. yield will rise to 4.30 percent at the end
of 2014, from 3.69 percent yesterday in Sydney, while the
benchmark 10-year rate will climb to 3.35 percent from 2.65
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of forecasters.  “There’s going to be upward pressure on rate structures
through time as the economy normalizes,” said Paul McTaggart, a
Sydney-based resources analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.
“Rates are still low by historic standards for borrowing, so
it’s quite possible that you probably want to load up as much
long term debt at pretty reasonable rates as you could, as you
still can do it cheaply.”  The average yield in the Merrill Lynch Mining & Metals
index fell to 4.32 percent on Sept. 25, a level unseen since
June 19. The average spread over Treasuries this week slipped to
232 basis points, the least since June 5.  Improving Outlook  Miners have been bolstered by an improving global economic
outlook. Economic indicators suggest that China is slowing less
than previously forecast, and that is helping to buoy commodity
prices. The benchmark iron ore price has risen 15 percent this
quarter to $133.80 per to on Sept. 25, data from The Steel Index
Ltd. show.  “The ongoing strength in the iron-ore price is helping,”
said  Michael Bush , head of credit research at National Australia
Bank Ltd. “Iron ore has held up a lot better than most people
had envisaged it would do.”  BHP is committed to maintaining a “solid A  credit
rating ,” it said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. The miner carries the fifth-highest credit  rating  of
A1 at Moody’s Investors Service, and the equivalent A+ at both
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  The cost of protecting BHP’s debt against non-payment
dropped to 69 basis points on Sept. 25, the lowest since May 29,
according to data from CMA. BHP is the fifth-best performer this
month in the 25-member Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps.  Outstanding Debt  Following the latest offering, the company has $35.3
billion in bonds outstanding globally, of which $5.12 billion is
due by the end of 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This week’s transaction is in line with BHP’s funding strategy
and won’t increase net debt, the company said.  BHP’s U.S. dollar transaction on Sept. 25 follows a 750
million euro ($1 billion) note sale in April and a C$750 million
($727 million) deal in May, Bloomberg-compiled data show. BHP
last sold into the U.S. market in February 2012, when it priced
$5.25 billion of debt in a five-part sale.  “From an underlying credit perspective, we remain very
positive” about the company, said Bush at NAB. “At current
levels, we continue to see longer-term value. There’s probably
others in the sector that offer a bit more, but they certainly
don’t offer the sort of stability that you would have in some of
those higher-grade names.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  