-- Blackstone, KKR Say Buyout Good Times Just Starting
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-09-26T15:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/blackstone-says-private-equity-good-times-just-starting.html
Blackstone Group LP President  Tony James  said the “good times” are just starting for private-equity firms because the U.S. economic recovery is still in its
early stages, Europe has stabilized and  China  is rebounding.  “I don’t see the good times coming to an end for quite a
while, absent some global shock,” James said in an interview
airing today with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  at the
 Clinton Global Initiative  in  New York . “I’m not sure the stock
market doesn’t have a long way to run still, and the economy
certainly still has a long way to run.”  Profit at New York-based Blackstone more than tripled in
the second quarter from a year earlier as the firm, led by James
and Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman , took advantage
of rising stock markets to sell holdings and take portfolio
companies public. Now is a better time to sell than to buy as
 interest rates  kept low by the U.S. Federal Reserve allow buyers
to finance acquisitions at high prices, Schwarzman said at the
Sept. 24  Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit  in New York.  ‘Recovery Thesis’  Private-equity firms depend on both selling and buying
companies to make money for investors, who expect to earn their
money back with a return five to six years after it’s put into a
deal. Bill Conway, Carlyle Group LP’s co-chief executive
officer, said on Aug. 7 that the investment environment has
grown more challenging, sending shares of Washington-based
Carlyle down 1.2 percent.  Even in a competitive climate, Carlyle has raised more than
$10 billion for its newest buyout fund, Carlyle Partners VI,
exceeding its target.  James’s comments were echoed today by Alex Navab, co-head
of private equity for the Americas at  KKR & Co. (KKR) , who said the
 U.S. economy  will continue to grow over the next three to four
years. The U.S. private sector is growing at a healthy pace
despite obstacles such as the federal debt and lack of action in
Congress.  “Our view is that the private sector has grown three-plus
percent and what’s really been a drag to GDP has been the
government issues,” Navab said at the Dow Jones Private Equity
Analyst Conference in New York. “We think the economy has
further to go, through 2016 or 2017. Today is actually a good
time to be investing, particularly in a recovery thesis in the
U.S.”  European Deals  Higher interest rates would create “turmoil,” giving
 Blackstone (BX)  and its private-equity peers opportunities to buy
assets at low prices, James said in the interview at the Clinton
Global Initiative. The benchmark 10-year  U.S. Treasury  yield
rose to 2.64 percent as of yesterday from as low as 1.63 percent
in early May, before the Fed began stoking speculation that its
asset purchases may be nearing an end.  Blackstone has shifted its focus for new deals to Europe
and Asia from the U.S., said James, as Europe stabilizes and
China finds its economic footing.  Deal making in the U.S. has slowed. The number of private-equity transactions announced this year through yesterday
dropped 16 percent compared to the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s just not much out there to buy,” James said.
“There aren’t many corporate sellers -- why that is, we can
speculate -- but there just aren’t.”  James said he’s disturbed that markets haven’t reacted more
negatively to the impending breach of the U.S. debt ceiling.
Investor “complacency” allows Congress and President  Barack Obama  to delay deciding whether to raise the ceiling until the
last minute, he said.  “That’s one of the most dangerous things about this
cycle,” James said. “If you can push it to the limit, there’s
a high possibility of miscalculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  