-- Boehner Plan on Debt Limit Collapses Amid Shutdown Fight
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n ,   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-09-26T23:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/boehner-plan-on-debt-limit-collapses-amid-shutdown-fight.html
House Speaker John Boehner’s plan
to avert a shutdown by shifting to a debt-ceiling fight ran into
opposition from some Republicans today -- another setback in
efforts to keep the government operating after Sept. 30.  As the U.S. Senate plans to vote tomorrow on a $986.3
billion stopgap spending bill and send it back to the House,
it’s uncertain if both chambers can strike a deal before funding
authority expires.  The options are complicated after the Senate strips out the
House’s plan to defund Obamacare. Boehner and House Republicans
say they will offer other proposals before sending the measure
back to the Senate, which could require another series of votes
-- as time runs out before an Oct. 1 shutdown.  Boehner said today the House wouldn’t pass a “clean”
spending bill after the Senate acts and then said he has “no
interest in seeing a government shutdown.”  “There will be options available to us, there’s not going
to be any speculation about what we’re going to do or not do,
until the Senate passes their bill,” he said.  Boehner today had outlined for members a plan that would
pair spending cuts, looser regulations and a delay in Obamacare
with an increase in U.S. borrowing authority. Representatives
Paul Broun of  Georgia , Louie Gohmert of  Texas , Tim Huelskamp of
 Kansas  and Mo Brooks of  Alabama  said today were opposed.  “It looks like a $1 trillion increase and it doesn’t meet
the Boehner one-for-one rule,” Huelskamp, who opposed Boehner
as speaker, said today in an interview. He said the debt-limit
bill also doesn’t balance the U.S. budget in 10 years.  Republican Opposition  At this point, Huelskamp  said “at least 18” members
would oppose the plan. Starting tomorrow, Republicans will hold
a 232-200 House majority, and can lose only 15 members on a
party-line vote.  In 2011, Boehner had supported a dollar-for-dollar match
between spending cuts and the debt ceiling increase. Now he’s
pairing “reforms and cuts” with the debt-limit increase and
counting the expected revenue that would stem from faster growth
caused by lighter regulation.  “This debt-ceiling package does not fix the underlying
cause of the problem, which are the deficits,” Brooks told
reporters at the Capitol today. “We need to significantly cut
government spending.”  In the Senate today, Majority Leader Harry Reid’s effort to
move up a vote on the spending measure to tonight was thwarted
by the objection of Republican Mike Lee of  Utah . Instead, the
Senate will hold several votes tomorrow on the stopgap bill,
which party leaders said will exclude Republican language
denying funds for the health-care law.  Lee, Cruz  After Lee and Ted Cruz, the Texas Republican who opposed
Obamacare in a 21-hour Senate floor speech this week, voiced
their objections, Senator Bob Corker said he was confused that
both men wanted to delay the vote.  “It’s not the Republican side that’s asking to stall,”
said Corker, a Tennessee Republican. “We only have two
Republican senators who are asking to put this off” and most
party members ’’would actually like to give the House time to
respond in an adequate way.’’  Reid has said the Senate will remove the defunding language
before sending the spending measure back to the House. The
Senate also will shorten by a month to Nov. 15 the period for
the stopgap funding.  Republicans said they think they can force President  Barack Obama  to accept concessions in a debt-limit fight, although he
has said repeatedly that he won’t negotiate. According to a
Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept. 20-23, 61 percent of
respondents say that it’s “right to require spending cuts when
the debt ceiling is raised even if it risks default,” because
Congress lacks spending discipline.  Means Testing  The Republican debt-limit bill would seek to increase
means-testing for Medicare, reduce the Medicaid provider tax,
revise medical malpractice law and eliminate a public-health
fund as part of the 2010 law. Republicans also want to eliminate
a tax on medical devices and require a Social Security number in
order to receive a child tax credit, according to the proposal.  U.S. stocks rose, ending the longest slump this year for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after an unexpected drop in
jobless claims overshadowed growing concern that a budget
impasse could hurt the economic recovery.  Obama said Republicans are becoming increasingly
“irresponsible” in their attempts to thwart the health-care
law and are trying to “blackmail” him.  No Negotiations  “I will not negotiate on anything when it comes to the
full faith and credit of the United States,” Obama said in a
speech today to promote his health-care law at Prince George’s
Community College in Largo,  Maryland , a suburb of Washington.
“Congress needs to put an end to governing crisis-to-crisis.”  Without congressional action on the debt limit, the
government will run out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17,
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told lawmakers yesterday.  After that, the government would have to operate on a cash
basis and would be unable to pay its bills sometime from Oct. 22
to Oct. 31, the Congressional Budget Office said.  Representative John Fleming, a Louisiana Republican, said
House Republicans would “continue to fight” for limits on the
health-care law in the spending bill. Fleming said leaders also
discussed contingency plans for a shutdown.  “There is always a possibility, that is not the goal at
all, we don’t want to shut down government but we can’t control
what the Senate does,” Fleming said.  ‘Adult Approach’  Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s second
ranking Democrat, said it wouldn’t be responsible for the Senate
to take longer than necessary to return send the proposal back
to the House.  “What we’re trying to do is a responsible, adult approach:
Do it in a timely fashion so that agencies of government are not
sweating bullets about Tuesday morning,” Durbin said. “We’re
not playing games here and waiting until the last minute. We’re
trying to get this done as quickly as we can.”  The divided Congress is still in the early stages of a
dispute that will play out over the next few weeks as the U.S.
nears the end of its fiscal 2013 spending authority and reaches
the $16.7 trillion cap on  borrowing .  With a few exceptions, Democrats are steadfast as they fend
off major policy changes in the health law, particularly if
attached to what they see as a routine bill to keep the
government running or legislation to prevent a first-ever U.S.
default.  Playing ‘Poker’  Republicans are “playing high-stakes poker with other
people’s money,” Durbin said. “The next step is to threaten
the debt ceiling. The victims will include not just federal
employees but employees all across America.”  Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, said today
at a Bloomberg Government breakfast that he would support a one-year delay in the individual mandate to buy health insurance,
which begins in 2014, breaking with his party. He called a delay
“very reasonable and sensible.”  Republicans are considering a one-year delay in the
implementation of the health law’s individual mandate and
postponing the federal data hub connecting state health
exchanges with agencies including the Internal Revenue Service.  The spending bill is H.J. Res 59. The device tax repeal is
H.R. 523.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  