-- Bonds-for-Chickens Barter Feeds Debt Selloff in Venezuela
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-09-26T19:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/bonds-for-chickens-barter-feeds-debt-selloff-in-venezuela.html
Venezuela  will pay for $600 million
of food imports including milk and live chicks from  Colombia 
with dollar-denominated bonds, a sign the nation is running out
of money to address the chronic shortages of basic goods fueling
the world’s fastest inflation.  Venezuela’s borrowing costs, which fell this month on
speculation it would start a foreign-exchange system to boost
the dollars needed to buy necessities from abroad and alleviate
inflation of 45 percent, surged by the most in three weeks
yesterday after El Nacional newspaper said  China  wouldn’t loan
the cash intended to fund the change. Yields on the benchmark
2027 bonds rose 0.49 percentage point to 11.9 percent at 2:52
p.m. in  New York  today, the biggest daily increase on a closing
basis since June 20.  With Venezuela’s foreign  reserves  plummeting to an almost
nine-year low, the South American country is seeking to trade
dollar bonds issued by state oil producer  Petroleos de Venezuela
SA  for food, Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  told
exporters Sept. 13. Investors such as EM Quest Capital LLP’s
Phillip Blackwood say the bond selloff will deepen unless
Venezuelan President  Nicolas Maduro  immediately introduces a
more flexible currency-exchange model because the country
imports almost everything besides oil.  “They’re at that point now where there is no other choice
but to do something,” Blackwood, a managing partner who
oversees $3.5 billion of developing-nation debt, said by
telephone from  London . “If it doesn’t come, then the market is
going to be massively disappointed and will sell off
dramatically.”  Dollar Debt  The issuance of new dollar debt is probable in the coming
weeks as Venezuela runs out of options, Deutsche Bank AG
economist Gustavo Canonero wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
today.  A bonds-for-food agreement would help boost Colombia’s
exports to its neighbor, which have slumped 60 percent from a
peak of $6.8 billion in 2008 as producers struggle to get paid.  “The bonds that trade in international markets can be sold
and converted into dollars,” Colombian Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  told reporters in Bogota on Sept. 25. That’s
“what our exporters need. We are studying the mechanism for
that sale.”  Venezuela Vice President Jorge Arreaza told reporters in
Caracas yesterday that Maduro had approved economic measures to
fight an “economic war” and will guarantee the supply of
Christmas food and toys.  Inflation Quickens  An official at Venezuela’s  Finance Ministry , who asked not
to be identified because he isn’t allowed to speak publicly,
declined to comment on how the government would pay for
Colombian imports. He wouldn’t confirm the report in El Nacional
about Chinese aid, which the newspaper obtained from a source it
didn’t identify.  Shortages of goods in Venezuela ranging from sugar to beef
are stoking consumer prices as importers struggle to obtain
foreign currency. Inflation accelerated to 45.4 percent last
month from 42.6 percent in July, the highest rate among 114
economies tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank’s scarcity
index is 20 percent, meaning that one out of about every five
consumer staples is out of stock at any given time.  Using external debt to buy basic goods “speaks volumes
about the difficulties that the country is grappling with,”
Marco Santamaria, who helps oversee $25 billion in emerging-market debt at  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB)  in New York, said by
phone.  Narrow Gap  Venezuela Finance Minister Nelson Merentes said Sept. 17
that the country would unveil a new foreign-exchange system to
increase the supply of dollars and narrow the gap between the
official and black-market exchange rates.  One dollar buys 41.2 bolivars on the black market, compared
with 6.3 bolivars at the official rate, according to rate-tracking website dolartoday.com, which tracks the exchange rate
on the border with Colombia.  “We want to use this market to encourage the private
sector to sell their dollars in a transparent, logical and
rational way,” Merentes said in an interview on the Globovision
television network, referring to the new system.  Speculation the new exchange system will increase the
supply of dollars has given a boost to Venezuela’s bond market,
EM Quest Capital’s Blackwood said.  Venezuelan notes returned 5.6 percent since Merentes said
on Sept. 1 the government was drafting changes to its foreign-exchange system. That compares with a 2.9 percent average gain
for speculative-grade notes from 37 developing nations tracked
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ‘Initial Step’  “The expectation is that they actually deliver something
at least,” Blackwood said. “It’s certainly not going to be a
panacea, but it’s going to be an initial step.”  If the government fails to act, the bolivar may depreciate
to 60 per dollar by December,  Alejandro Grisanti , an analyst at
Barclays Plc, said in an interview.  Venezuela’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
climbed 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 889 basis
points.  Venezuela’s  average bond yield  climbed 23 basis points to
11.6 percent yesterday, while JPMorgan’s  high-yield index  rose
six basis points to 9.06 percent.  “If this becomes a bigger program, it certainly could
start raising questions on what is the strategy in Venezuela,”
 Daniel Volberg , an economist at Morgan Stanley, said by phone.
“Is there a longer term plan so you don’t issue long-term debt
to buy food?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  