-- Bond Insurers Seen Avoiding Puerto Rico Losses: Chart
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-09-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/bond-insurers-seen-avoiding-puerto-rico-losses-chart.html
Puerto Rico may avoid generating
losses for bond-insurance companies even though their stock
performance suggests otherwise, according to Harry Fong, an
analyst at MKM Partners LLC.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, shares of Ambac Financial
Group Inc., Assured Guaranty Ltd. and MBIA Inc. have fallen in
tandem with Puerto Rico general obligation bonds that mature in
July 2041. The chart tracks their performance since July, when
 Detroit  filed the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.  “The territory is taking the right steps” to bolster its
finances, Fong wrote yesterday in a report. Legislation passed
in June imposed a corporate income tax for the first time and
cut the sales-tax rate to 6.5 percent from 7 percent. A bill was
introduced yesterday to increase the proportion of sales taxes
used for debt reduction, the Government Development Bank said.  Puerto Rico forecast a budget deficit of $820 million for
the fiscal year ending next June, and had a $2.2 billion gap in
the middle of fiscal 2013. The economy contracted 5 percent in
July from a year earlier, according to data compiled by the
development bank, in its worst performance since 2010.  Ambac, based in New York, has about $2.5 billion of
exposure to the territory’s debt, according to Fong. Assured
Guaranty, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , and Armonk, New York-based
MBIA have about $5 billion each, his report said.  “It is far too early to assume the financial guarantors
will experience Puerto Rico-related losses,” Fong wrote. The
 Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst has buy ratings on Assured
Guaranty and MBIA. He’s neutral on Ambac, which emerged from
bankruptcy protection on May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  