-- Brumbies Release Rugby Coach White From Last 2 Years of Contract
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-26T06:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/brumbies-release-rugby-coach-white-from-last-2-years-of-contract.html
The ACT Brumbies released Jake White from the final two years of his coaching contract, eight
weeks after he took the Australian Super Rugby team to the
championship game.  White, who coached his native South Africa to the 2007
Rugby World Cup title, requested the release last week because
he wants to pursue coaching options from his home country,
Brumbies Chief Executive Officer Andrew Fagan said.  “I’d have to say that I was shocked when Jake called to
tell me that he was intending to stay in South Africa. We are
well into our planning for next season,” Fagan said today in a
 statement . “To have Jake decide that he wants to pursue his
international coaching ambitions from South Africa at this late
stage is disappointing.”  The 50-year-old White, who began a four-year contract with
the Canberra-based team in July 2011, took the Brumbies from
13th place that year to second in 2013. As well as reaching the
Aug. 3 Super Rugby final, where they lost 27-22 to New Zealand’s
Chiefs, the Brumbies became the first provincial team since 1997
to beat the touring British and Irish Lions in June.  Three weeks later, White was overlooked for the job as head
coach of  Australia ’s national team when the Australian Rugby
Union appointed Ewen McKenzie.  “I understand his reasons for seeking the release,” Fagan
said. “He was obviously very disappointed in missing out on the
Wallabies’ job and he sees his best opportunity to further his
international coaching career is from South Africa.”  The Brumbies said assistant coaches Laurie Fisher and
Stephen Larkham, a World Cup winner with the Wallabies in 1999,
will take control of the team in the short term while
“permanent options are investigated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  