-- Bulgaria Debates No-Cofidence Vote Without Opposition
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-09-26T11:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/bulgaria-debates-no-cofidence-vote-without-opposition.html
Bulgaria’s opposition Gerb party of
former Premier Boyko Borissov walked out of a parliamentary
debate on a no-confidence vote against Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski’s government, boycotting its own motion.  Gerb claimed the assembly lacked a quorum to hold the
debate after its lawmakers declined to register in the
electronic system. Parliamentary Speaker Mihail Mikov refuted
that claim, saying there were physically 207 members of the 240-seat legislature present. The ruling Socialists and the Movement
for Rights and Freedoms continued and scheduled the vote for 11
a.m. tomorrow in Sofia.  “Confrontation between the ruling parties and the
opposition is escalating,” Daniel Smilov, an analyst at the
Center for Liberal Strategies in Sofia, said by phone. “Both
are using procedural tricks. Gerb is undermining the credibility
of this parliament and wants to show the unstable majority of
this government.”  Political leaders are working to maintain public confidence
as voters rallied against what they considered a corrupt
political system in the poorest European Union member.
Oresharski came to power on May 29 after anti-austerity protests
forced out Borissov and triggered a snap vote.  Oresharski, under pressure to resign from street protests
in the past four months, said in parliament Gerb’s arguments
about their no-confidence motion “were untrue and
hypothetical.”  Borissov’s Gerb controls 97 seats and wasn’t able to form a
cabinet after failing to win an outright majority in May 12
elections.  Second Motion  After the walkout, Borissov introduced to parliament the
same no-confidence motion over investment policies for a second
time, indicating he considers the debate invalid. The vote is
unlikely to succeed, Smilov said.  “I don’t want to be constructive, I want this government
to resign,” Borissov told reporters in Sofia today.  The Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms,
which represents ethnic Turks, control 120 seats in the
assembly, one lawmaker short of an outright majority, and draw
support from the radical nationalist Attack party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  