-- Caesars Tumbles With Sale of Stock, Outlines New Debt Terms
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-09-26T20:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/caesars-selling-10-million-shares-in-fresh-public-offering.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
casino company with more than $23 billion in debt, is selling at
least 10 million new shares and adjusting a $4.8 billion bond
and loan offer. The shares fell for a second day.  Proceeds of the stock sale could total $260.2 million,
excluding fees, based on Caesars’ Sept. 24 closing price, if
Credit Suisse, the investment bank running the sale, exercises
an option to buy 1.5 million additional shares, the Las Vegas-based resort operator said today in a  filing .  Coping with a sluggish recovery in domestic gambling
markets, the largest U.S. casino owner is restructuring debts
that originated in a $30 billion buyout in 2008 led by  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  and TPG Capital. Caesars is also selling a
piece of its new online gambling business in a deal that may
raise $1.18 billion.  “It’s consistent with them trying to increase their cash
balances to further their ability to keep from running out of
cash in 2015,” Alex Bumazhny an analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said
in an interview. “This doesn’t really move the needle much.
They still remain very overleveraged and still free-cash-flow
negative.”  Caesars fell 5.2 percent to $19.84 at the close in  New York 
after retreating 7.6 percent yesterday. The stock has almost
tripled this year.  Proceeds of the stock sale will be used for general
corporate purposes, including development projects, retirement
of debt and  capital expenditures , Caesars said in the filing.
The company had 126.3 million shares outstanding on Aug. 1,
according to the latest quarterly report.  Debt Terms  Caesars today also said it’s adjusting the terms of a debt
sale, increasing the amount of bonds to refinance debt, while
cutting the size of a loan offering, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  An offering of first-lien debentures was increased to $1
billion to $1.5 billion from $500 million, while the company
reduced the loans it’s seeking to $2 billion to $2.5 billion
from $3 billion, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the terms aren’t set. The company also trimmed a second-lien notes offering to $1.25 billion from $1.35 billion.  Caesars will use proceeds from the debt offering to
refinance commercial mortgage-backed securities and a $450
million senior-secured facility, according to a Sept. 18
regulatory filing.  Bond Prices  The company’s $3.3 billion 10 percent notes maturing in
December 2018 declined 1 cent to 53.75 cents on the dollar, to
yield 27 percent at 3:41 p.m., according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Caesars may have had multiple reasons for the stock sale,
John Kempf, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in New York,
said in a research note.  The company may want to increase the supply of shares
available for short-sellers who need to purchase stock to cover
their positions or for investors looking to participate in an
pending rights offering, wrote Kempf, who  rates  the stock
underperform, the equivalent of a sell recommendation.  Along with the debt refinancing, Caesars is looking to
raise as much as $1.18 billion by offering investors the right
to buy shares in Caesars Acquisition Co., a new entity that will
own stock in its online gaming business as well as two casinos
in  Las Vegas  and Baltimore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  