-- California Teacher Pension Gap Poses Risk, Auditor Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-09-26T18:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/california-teacher-pension-gap-poses-risk-auditor-says.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System’s financing has declined below a prudent level
and poses a “high risk” to the state, according to an audit.  The ratio of funding to obligations for the second-biggest
U.S. pension fell to 67 percent in 2012 from 98 percent in 2001,
“well below the 80 percent considered fiscally sound,” auditor
Elaine Howle said in an annual  report .  “At the current contribution rate and actuarially
estimated rate of return on investments, the defined benefit
program’s funding ratio will continue to drop and assets will
eventually be depleted,” Howle said today.  Pension costs for retired public employees are mounting
nationwide while resources have declined. Unlike the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension
with $270 billion of assets, the Calstrs board doesn’t have the
authority to set contribution rates from teachers, school
districts and the state. Changes can only be made through
legislation.  California now pays about 5 percent of teacher payroll into
Calstrs. School districts provide 8.25 percent of payroll, while
teachers and other employees surrender 8 percent of their pay.
The fund’s board last year lowered its assumed rate of return on
investments to 7.5 percent from 7.75 percent.  The $170 billion pension system said in February that it
would need teachers, school districts and the state to boost
their contributions by 15 percent combined annually to erase its
funding gap.  In March, the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office
called the funding gap one of the state’s most difficult fiscal
challenges. The longer lawmakers wait to increase funding, the
more it will cost to close the gap because the additional money
could have been invested to boost returns, the analyst’s office
said.  Despite the looming pension liability, the risk penalty
that investors demand to own California bonds has narrowed to
the  lowest  level in five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  