-- Canadian Dollar Touches Week Low as U.S. Economy Shows Growth
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-09-26T21:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/canadian-dollar-pares-gains-after-u-s-economy-shows-growth.html
Canada’s dollar dropped to a more
than one-week low after reports signaled a pickup in U.S. growth
and the price of oil, the nation’s biggest export, traded at
almost the weakest level since July.  The Canadian dollar was little changed against its U.S.
peer as American lawmakers remained deadlocked over the  federal
budget  in a confrontation that risks a government shutdown on
Oct. 1. The discount for crude oil sold by Canadian companies
over the U.S. benchmark rose to its largest since February.  “The Canadian dollar continues to be driven by factors
outside its border,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in  New York . “The U.S.
dollar is rebounding after a few sessions after this fiasco in
 Washington , and that’s weighing on all other currencies.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, traded at C$1.0310 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching C$1.0341, the weakest
level since Sept. 16. One loonie buys 96.99 U.S. cents.  Canada’s dollar has gained 2 percent this quarter, trimming
its yearly decline to 3.8 percent.  Government bonds  fell, with the yield on benchmark 10-year
debt up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.59
percent as the price of the 1.5 percent securities due in June
2023 dropped 13 cents to C$90.75.  Oil Discount  The  discount   Canada ’s benchmark crude oil-grade, Western
Canada Select, faced to West Texas Intermediate, its U.S. peer,
was at $31 per barrel, the most since Feb. 4.  Futures on WTI rose for the first time in six days, gaining
0.2 percent to $102.87 per barrel in New York after falling to
$102.20, lowest since July 8. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
 U.S. stocks  added 0.4 percent.  Jobless claims in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner,
decreased by 5,000 to 305,000 in the week ended Sept. 21, a
Labor Department report showed. The median forecast of 49
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase in jobs
to 325,000.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate, unrevised from the previous estimate, after
expanding 1.1 percent in the first quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was a 2.6 percent pace.  Canada’s  economy  grew at a 1.7 percent annualized pace in
the second quarter,  Statistics Canada  reported Aug. 30, and is
forecast to rise 0.5 percent in July after dropping that much
the prior month.  Buying Greenbacks  The clash in Washington and the  Federal Reserve ’s decision
to prolong stimulus that initially pushed down the U.S. dollar
is “giving people opportunities to buy U.S. dollars more
cheaply,” Darcy Browne, managing director of currencies at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit,
said by phone from Toronto. “People are happy it’s happening.”  The  U.S. Congress  has yet to pass a U.S. budget as
Republicans and Democrats tussle over whether to stop funding
the 2010 health-care overhaul known as Obamacare, threatening a
a government shutdown by Oct. 1.  “Once the U.S. fiscal concerns dissipate,” the
relationship between the U.S. and Canadian dollars “will
realign relatively quickly,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note to
clients. “We currently hold a short Canadian dollar basket in
our portfolio and continue to believe the Canadian dollar will
weaken in the medium term.” A short position is a bet an asset
will decline in value.  Weakest Forecast  Nomura said it will revise its forecast for the Canadian
dollar next week. It currently projects the loonie to end the
year at C$1.10, the weakest among 61 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News , and shared only by Denmark’s Saxo Bank A/S. The
median forecast is C$1.05.  Canada’s dollar rose to a three-month high on Sept. 18
after the Fed’s surprise decision to refrain from reducing the
$85 billion of monthly bond purchases it uses to cap borrowing
costs. Twenty-four of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg on
Sept. 18-19 said the Fed won’t take the first step in slowing
its bond purchases until December.  The loonie is little changed over the past month against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has climbed 2
percent while the  New Zealand dollar  has had the biggest
increase at 4 percent. The U.S. dollar has dropped 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  