-- Carbon Markets Need Global Regulator to Spur Climate Funding
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-09-26T16:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/carbon-markets-need-global-regulator-to-spur-climate-investment.html
United Nations envoys meeting in
November should appoint a regulator to link carbon markets
emerging from China to  California  and stimulate investment in
emission-reduction projects, according to a carbon lobby group.  A global overseer would coordinate markets and boost
private-sector confidence in efforts to cut greenhouse gas, said
Anthony Hobley, president of the Climate Markets & Investment
Association, whose members include JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Cargill Inc. More than 50 jurisdictions have set up or are
considering carbon markets, UN and World Bank data show.  UN envoys meet in Warsaw on Nov. 11 to lay the groundwork
for talks on a climate treaty in Paris in 2015, due to come into
force five years later. An outline of international trading
standards is needed as negotiators hammer out emission-measuring
rules, according to  submissions  to the UN from the European
Union,  Ecuador  and  Indonesia .  “It allows whatever is implemented in Paris to be
implemented that much faster,” Hobley, head of sustainability
at law firm Norton Rose Fulbright LLP in London, said in a Sept.
24 interview. “If you could put in place some rules and
standards that would allow markets to interact more efficiently,
that would be good.”  A set of market rules, known as the framework for various
approaches, is needed because UN envoys have failed in past
talks to agree on a system to impose emission limits on nations
and boost demand for carbon credits and allowances, Hobley said.  Carbon Markets  “There has to be order and environmental integrity, and it
makes sense to take advantage of the efficiencies that would
come from proper linkage of the various market mechanisms and
approaches,” David Abbass, a spokesman for the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change secretariat in Bonn, said today by
phone. The UNFCCC hosts the climate talks, where nations
negotiate ways to stem human-induced temperature increases.  In cap-and-trade markets, emission allowances are auctioned
or allocated for free to power plants, factories and even
countries, which must surrender the permits to cover discharges.
The EU’s carbon market, the world’s biggest, started in 2005 to
help meet its Kyoto Protocol target of reducing emissions by 8
percent in the five years through 2012 compared with 1990.  Those favoring international carbon trading, including the
EU, want to begin work on a system to ensure greenhouse-gas
markets are credible, because the programs cost less than
regimes such as subsidized renewable energy, Hobley said.  “If you don’t have minimum standards, you can’t link
anything,” he said.  Permanent Regulator  A permanent regulator would “only address the
international aspect” of national policies that create emission
reduction credits or allowances that could be used for
compliance with UN carbon limits, the EU said in a submission
dated Sept. 12. The framework could also oversee emission
reduction from non-market measures or “outcomes,” it said.  Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for the European
Commission in Brussels, said Sept. 24 that officials weren’t
immediately available to comment further.  Instead of UN-imposed budgets, nations will probably retain
most control over their response to climate change, Hobley said.  It’s a big challenge for envoys to set up a system that
will help switch the world away from fossil fuels and the heat-trapping gases they produce, Hobley said.  “It’s a stretch for international law,” he said.  Trading Limits  Before setting up the framework, UN envoys first need to
decide whether there should be limits on carbon trading in the
2020 agreement, especially if some nations’ emission-reduction
targets aren’t ambitious enough, said  Eva Filzmoser , a director
at Carbon Market Watch in Brussels, which lobbies for effective
climate policy.  “We are in favor of international oversight,” Filzmoser
said today by phone. “If it’s done wrong, it can undermine the
whole thing.”  Carbon markets being set up in  China  and  Japan  already
demonstrate the need for a framework, the Climate Markets &
Investment Association, or CMIA, said in a  submission  to the UN.  China’s pilot markets include a carbon offset program that
produces China Certified Emission Reduction credits, which can
be used by emitters to meet their compliance obligations. This
“may become a barrier to linkage” if the country establishes a
national emissions-trading market, according to CMIA.  “To overcome this problem, China would need recognition
for their China CERs from the UNFCCC” or use CERs issued by UN-endorsed regulators to comply with UN targets, CMIA said.  While a market framework would take months to set up, “it
would be telling the business community that nations have not
abandoned this concept of carbon prices,” Andrei Marcu, the
head of carbon for the Centre for European Policy Studies in
Brussels, said in an interview yesterday. “We are starting the
engines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  