-- CFPB Rejects Bid by Tribal Online Lenders to Block Probe
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-09-26T21:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/cfpb-rejects-bid-by-tribal-online-lenders-to-block-investigation.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau rejected a bid by three Native American online
lenders to end a probe of possible abuses of consumers, and gave
them 21 days to provide details about their businesses.  In a document posted on the agency’s website today, CFPB
Director  Richard Cordray  turned back a July 2012 request from
the tribes to stop an investigation of whether they broke
federal laws. The tribes argued that the consumer bureau doesn’t
have jurisdiction over them, a point Cordray rejected.  “Every court of appeals to address the issue has agreed
that  Indian tribes , like individual states, do not enjoy
immunity from suits by the federal government,” Cordray wrote.  The Native American Financial Services Association, a trade
group for tribal lenders, said that the CFPB probe “willfully
and flagrantly” violates the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that created
the bureau.  “We will act swiftly to rectify this situation and will
continue our proactive dialogue with the CFPB on the issues that
are most crucial to Indian country,” John Shotton, chairman of
the Otoe-Missouria tribe and association board member said in
the e-mailed statement.  Robert Rosette, a Phoenix-based lawyer for tribal lenders,
said the CFPB ignored a portion of the Dodd-Frank law that he
said calls for calls for “a system of respectful co-regulation” between the federal government and the tribes.  Tribes’ Laws  Rosette, who helped draft the initial challenge, said the
tribes may sue CFPB to stop the probe. He said the tribes have
their own  consumer protection laws  and want to work with the
agency.  State attorneys general, who have had their authority to
enforce consumer-protection laws challenged by tribal lenders,
are backing the CFPB probe, said Justin Kolber, the assistant
attorney general of  Vermont . The lenders assert that states can
regulate them on the grounds that tribes enjoy sovereign
immunity, a doctrine that limits state authority over Indian
governments.  “We see a lot of these online loans coming into Vermont,
and a growing portion are coming from tribal entities,” Kolber
said in an interview.  The consumer bureau began its inquiry as lenders affiliated
with tribes began capturing a share of the market for online
short-term, small-dollar loans sometimes called payday loans.
Online lenders made $18.6 billion in loans in 2012, according to
John Hecht, an analyst with investment advisory firm Stephens
Inc.  Blocking Subpoenas  Last year, three tribes used a CFPB administrative
procedure to contest the agency’s civil investigative demands, a
kind of subpoena seeking documents, which were issued in June
2012.  The decision today relates to a consumer bureau probe aimed
at Plain Green Loans LLC, operated by the Chippewa-Cree tribe in
 Montana , Mobiloans LLC of the Tunica-Biloxi tribe of  Louisiana 
and Great Plains Lending LLC of the Otoe-Missouria tribe of
 Oklahoma .  Since at least August, the tribes have also faced a
crackdown by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the
 Department of Justice , which have pressured banks to cut ties
with short-term lenders who operate over the Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  