-- Chevron Argues Against Judge Switch in Case Over Ecuador
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-26T23:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/chevron-argues-against-judge-switch-in-case-over-ecuador.html
A group of Ecuadorians lost a bid
to remove a U.S. judge set to oversee a trial over  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ’s claims that a $19 billion pollution verdict against it
in the South American country was obtained fraudulently.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, today won a
decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  rejecting
the Ecuadorians’ attempt to have a new judge take up the case
and to reverse several orders by the current judge. The three-judge appeals panel issued its ruling just hours after hearing
arguments over the matter.  Theodore Olson , a lawyer for the  San Ramon , California-based company, argued today that U.S. District Judge Lewis A. Kaplan has been “comprehensive” and “thorough,” and that a
switch would be a waste of resources.  “That remedy they seek is utterly unwarranted,” he said
of the Ecuadorians’ request.  Residents from the country’s  Lago Agrio  area near the
Colombian border have sought damages for about 20 years for
pollution in the Amazon rainforest that they allege was caused
by Texaco. Chevron, which bought Texaco in 2001, claims the
Ecuadorians and their legal adviser, Steven Donziger, improperly
influenced a court in that country to issue a $19 billion
verdict in 2011.  A trial over the fraud allegations is scheduled for Oct. 15
in Manhattan.  “I can’t tell you how many motions or proceedings there
have been” in the case before Kaplan, Olson told the appeals
panel, referencing years of litigation and more than 1,400
docket entries. “Our opponents have won a lot of those.”  Inappropriate Findings  James Tyrrell, a lawyer for two of the Ecuadorian
claimants, argued that Kaplan issued inappropriate findings in
previous orders that conflicted with an earlier decision by the
appeals court. Tyrrell also contended that the judge is
accommodating the  oil company ’s effort to encourage courts
around the world not to enforce the Ecuador verdict.  Chevron denies there was company wrongdoing in Ecuador and
claims that Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at its
former  oil fields , which were taken over by state-owned
PetroEcuador. The U.S. company also said that it was released
from future liability by an agreement between Texaco and
Ecuador.  This month, Chevron said it won’t seek money damages
against the two Ecuadorians in the fraud case. The oil company
asked that a jury determine liability claims against Donziger
and his  law firm .  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The appeals court case is In Re Naranjo, 13-00772,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in New York at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  