-- Chicago Bears Biggest Pension Load of Debt-Laden Locales
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/chicago-bears-biggest-pension-load-of-debt-laden-locales.html
Chicago  and surrounding Cook County
have the largest pension burdens among the 50 most-indebted U.S.
local governments, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The third-most-populous U.S. city’s pension liabilities
represent 678 percent of its revenue, a Moody’s study released
today shows. Cook County had the second-worst ratio at about 382
percent, while the  Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago  had the sixth-highest burden at 323 percent.  Moody’s cut Chicago’s bond rating three levels to A3,
seventh-highest, in July and dropped Cook County a step to A1,
fifth-best, in August, citing pension liabilities in both cases.  “There are several large local governments with outsized
pension burdens large enough to cause material financial
strain,” notably Chicago and Cook County, according to Moody’s.
“Chicago’s tax base is pressured by the unfunded pension
liabilities of the city and overlapping local governments.”  The findings mirror those in the New York-based company’s
June study of state pensions. That report showed that  Illinois ,
Moody’s lowest-rated U.S. state with an A3 grade, had the
highest ratio of retiree obligations to revenue, at 241 percent.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have
penalized Chicago since Moody’s cut its rating on July 17, the
day before  Detroit ’s record U.S. municipal-bankruptcy filing.
Chicago’s pension obligations relative to the full value of its
taxable real estate, a measure of total economic wealth, is 12.6
percent, compared with Detroit’s 10.8 percent, according to
today’s report. The average among the 50 issuers is 2.7 percent.  City Pays  The extra yield buyers demanded to own Chicago general-obligation bonds maturing in January 2042 instead of benchmark
AAA munis rose to 3.69 percentage points this week, close to the
highest since at least February and up from 2.57 percentage
points on July 17, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Moody’s has also lowered ratings on the  Chicago Board of
Education , the Cook County Forest Preserve District and the
Chicago Park District because of pension liabilities. All the
retiree funds were created by the state, and changing them
requires legislative approval.  Chicago’s Democratic Mayor,  Rahm Emanuel , 53, has said
Detroit’s bankruptcy “should be a wake-up call for all of those
who try to put their head in the sand and say that we don’t have
a problem” with pensions. His administration has said that
retirement contributions will cost Chicago about $1.2 billion in
2015, more than twice the $467 million forecast for 2014, if the
state legislature doesn’t restructure the system.  Weakest Funding  The Illinois pension system is the worst-funded among U.S.
states, and a fix has eluded lawmakers for years. In the past
100 days, legislators have failed twice to reach an agreement in
special sessions called by Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat, to
deal specifically with retiree obligations.  Not all local governments face such severe pension strains.
The  District of Columbia ’s retiree obligations represent 11
percent of revenue, lower than all the other localities in the
Moody’s report. In all, 30 of the 50 have annual net pension
liabilities that exceed tax receipts.  Moody’s calculates adjusted net pension liabilities using
the difference between the actuarial value of the plan’s assets
and adjusted liabilities, according to the report. The 50
issuers it analyzed were selected because they have the most
debt outstanding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  