-- China Swap Rate Drops to Six-Week Low on PBOC Cash Supply
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-26T02:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/china-swap-rate-drops-to-six-week-low-on-pboc-cash-supply.html
China ’s one-year interest rate swap
fell to a six-week low after the central bank injected funds
into the financial system for a second time this week.  The People’s Bank of China added 80 billion  yuan  ($13
billion) today by selling 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements
at 4.1 percent, according to a statement on its website. This
followed an addition of 88 billion yuan on Sept. 24 via six-day
reverse repos to help commercial banks meet quarter-end cash
demand. Financial markets in China will be closed Oct. 1-7 for
the National Day holidays.  “After adding money twice this week, the interbank market
should be able to go through the quarter-end smoothly this
time,” said Zhang Guoyu, an analyst at Orient Futures Co. in
Shanghai. “The central bank obviously wants to calm the market
with a huge amount of injections.”  The cost of the one-year rate swap, the fixed payment to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, declined for a third
day, falling two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.96
percent as of 10:34 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It touched 3.94 percent, the lowest since Aug. 13.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, fell one basis point to 4.02 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The rate dropped 50 basis points
yesterday, the most since Aug. 30.  China should stick to its prudent monetary policy, as
stability and financial reforms are important, the China
Securities Journal reported today, citing central bank Deputy
Governor Pan Gongsheng.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 was steady at 4.02 percent, according to prices from the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  