-- China Seeks to Repeat Deng’s Shenzhen Success in Shanghai
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T08:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/china-seeks-to-repeat-deng-s-shenzhen-success-in-shanghai-zone.html
Three decades after  Deng Xiaoping ’s
experiments with capitalism in the southern city of Shenzhen
began lifting millions from poverty, his successors are applying
that same strategy to the tougher task of making China rich.  Playing the role of Shenzhen is 11 square miles of low-rise
office buildings, white warehouses and concrete parking lots on
the outskirts of  Shanghai . The State Council said today that it
will reduce state controls on  interest rates , the currency and
investment in the zone. By giving markets and the private sector
a bigger economic role, China may become a high-income nation by
2030, according to the  World Bank .  “Reforms unleash huge dividends,” Premier  Li Keqiang   told 
an economic work meeting in March, two weeks after taking
office. “It’s time for the country to choose a new trial for
opening. Shanghai is qualified and has the foundation.”  Li and President Xi Jinping are seeking new growth engines
as rising wages and a shrinking workforce erode the returns of
policies that transformed China into the world’s biggest
 exporter . The challenge for Deng’s successors will be to control
Shanghai’s free-trade zone enough so that side effects don’t
derail the broader economy, while ensuring the experiments
aren’t so constrained as to be ineffectual.  “The new leaders have staked their credibility on the
zone,” said Willy Lam Wo-lap, a professor at the  Chinese
University  of  Hong Kong .  Yuan Trials  China will allow trials of  yuan  convertibility in capital
flows in the zone as long as risks are controlled, the State
Council said today without elaborating on how the currency would
be more easily exchanged for others.  A foreign-exchange management system “appropriate for the
zone” will also be set up to facilitate trade and investment,
and the area will make cross-border financing easier, according
to a statement posted to the central government’s website.  Eighteen  service industries  will be liberalized including
banking and shipping, with foreign financial institutions
allowed to team with private-capital partners in China to set up
joint-venture banks, the nation’s top decision-making body said.
Wholly foreign-owned shipping management companies will also be
permitted, the State Council said.  Bank Supervision  Qualified Chinese banks will be allowed to conduct offshore
business “after strengthening supervision,” the government
said.　A “negative list” approach will be explored for foreign
investment that would treat non-Chinese companies as domestic
ones except in prohibited industries, the State Council said.  Premier Li may travel to Shanghai to officiate over the
opening of the zone, two people with knowledge of the matter
said Sept. 13.  Shares of companies related to the zone have surged.
 Shanghai International Port Group Co. (600018) , which operates berths in
the zone, has more than doubled in market value. A statement the
company issued Sept. 5 saying it couldn’t quantify the impact of
the free-trade zone on earnings was followed by two consecutive
days in which its shares gained by the 10 percent daily limit.  The opening of Shanghai’s free-trade zone also comes ahead
of a November meeting of the Communist Party’s central
committee, at which Xi and Li are expected to push forward more
detailed economic plans. It was at such a plenary meeting in
1978 that Deng laid out his plans for reforms.  Shenzhen Zone  Officially established in 1980, the Shenzhen Special
Economic Zone allowed foreign investors to set up factories that
employed workers to make shoes, toys and electronics for export.
Policies tested there were later spread nationwide, sparking a
more than 97-fold fold expansion of  China’s economy . More than
600 million people have been lifted out of poverty, according to
the  United Nations .  It also transformed China from an agrarian society into one
where urban residents now outnumber those in the countryside and
where rising wages have pushed  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Top Form International
Ltd. (333)  and other companies to seek lower labor costs in countries
such as Vietnam and Cambodia.  China’s leaders must now avoid the “middle income trap”
as productivity gains from low-cost labor and technology
transfers disappear, the World Bank said in a report last year.
That won’t be easy. To become a high-income nation, China would
need per capita gross domestic product of $24,079, the report
said. It was  $6,188  in 2012, according to World Bank
calculations.  Successful Moves  Japan , South Korea,  Taiwan , Hong Kong and  Singapore  are the
only economies that have moved from middle-income to developed
nation status while maintaining relatively high growth rates,
according to Nobel laureate  Michael Spence , a professor at  New
York  University’s Stern School of Business.  Testing policies in the Shanghai zone that may help China
make that leap isn’t without risk. Restricting trials to zones
such as Shanghai may encourage capital inflows seeking to
exploit loopholes,  Wu Xiaoling , a former deputy governor of the
People’s Bank of China, said at a business conference in Beijing
this month.  Some senior Chinese central bank officials disagree with
allowing interest-rate liberalization in the zone, Ma Yu, a
researcher with the Ministry of Commerce, wrote in an article
published by the Southern Metropolis Daily on its website
yesterday. Shanghai’s free-trade zone may lure too much money
from other parts of China if controls on rates are loosened, Ma
wrote, without identifying the central bank officials.  Trials Confined  To limit risks, authorities are confining the trials to
four bonded zones in the far eastern part of Shanghai. That
segregation may also limit the benefits.  Eight of 17 respondents to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts said the zone will have no effect or a negligible
impact on growth over the next five years, while eight said it
will boost annual expansion by 0.1-0.5 percentage points. One
economist in the survey, conducted Sept. 18-25, said growth
would increase by 0.5-0.9 points.  The effects may be different if policies tested in the zone
are applied more broadly.  China ’s leaders need a lab that helps
them build political support so that they can implement
difficult reforms on a national scale, said Fred Hu, the founder
of private-equity firm Primavera Capital Group and a former
Greater China chairman at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The use of well-defined areas such as Shenzhen’s economic
zone, pioneered and applied by Deng, is “a proven reform
strategy that today’s leaders would do well to emulate,” he
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Gregory Turk in Shanghai at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  