-- Chinese Coatmaker Bosideng Close to Buying U.K. Apparel Chain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-26T04:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/chinese-coatmaker-bosideng-seeks-europe-deals-to-boost-sales.html
Bosideng International Holdings
Ltd. (3998) , the Chinese coatmaker that runs a store in  London ’s West
End, said it is close to buying a U.K. chain and has met with
European luxury companies as it seeks deals on the continent.  Bosideng is close to acquiring an 80-store apparel chain in
 England  to sell its down jackets, and is also in early talks
with European high-end coat brands about making a possible
acquisition, Julie Sun, the company’s vice-president for
corporate strategy and investor relations, said in a Sept. 24
interview.  The Hong Kong-listed coatmaker, which sells down jackets
and winter coats under brands such as Bosideng and Snow Flying
on the mainland, is pushing to build a European presence to
boost its image at home and increase sales outside  China . Close
to a third of Chinese luxury buyers will shop in Europe in 2013,
up from a fifth last year, according to McKinsey & Co.  “The majority of Chinese consumers still prefer Western
brands and products over local ones,” Sun said. “With so many
Chinese traveling abroad, if they go to New York’s Fifth Avenue,
Paris, Milan and they see your store, it would help your sales
and help brand recognition.”  The acquisition of the U.K. chain, which is privately owned
and currently loss-making, will likely be completed by the end
of next month, Sun said. Bosideng will pay a minimal sum for the
chain, she said, declining to specify the amount.  British Designers  Chinese fashion brands heading overseas face challenges
such as limited brand awareness and fierce competition from
domestic brands there, said Doreen Wang, Beijing-based head of
client solutions at Millward Brown China, which runs annual
brand surveys in the Asian nation.  “They need to invest in the long term and establish
visibility,” Wang said.  Bosideng, run by chairman Gao Dekang, invested 300 million
 yuan  ($49 million) to open a flagship store last year at a six-story property on London’s South Molton Street. The company
hired British designers Nick Holland and Ash Gangotra, and sells
formal shirts for 90 pounds ($145) made with Italian fabric and
down jackets for 160 pounds in its London  store . In July, the
company signed a sponsorship deal with English Premier League
Club Tottenham Hotspur.  European Deals  The Chinese coatmaker had 13,009 down-jacket retail outlets
as of March 31 and calls itself China’s top-selling down-jacket
brand. It is separately looking into a possible European
acquisition or partnership to help it enter the luxury jacket
market, Sun said.  It is searching for a high-end European coat maker with
global recognition and is open to working through a licensing
deal or joint venture, the executive said.  The company is working with investment bankers now and has
met with three European coat makers during a recent trip to the
region, she said.  “Bosideng is well-positioned in China in the mid- to low-end market,” Sun said. “But for the growing population of the
middle class, they moved to other higher brands to pursue
lifestyle. We need to get a foothold in this sector to improve
our profit margin.”  Slowing Economy  Bosideng and domestic rivals have faced weakening economic
growth on the mainland, where the economy expanded 7.5 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier in its second straight
deceleration.  China’s slowing economic growth, trends such as online
shopping and the entrance of new foreign fast-fashion brands
weighed on the nation’s apparel industry, Bosideng said in a
June 26 earnings statement. The company’s shares plunged a day
later after it reported net income for the year ending March 31
fell 25 percent from a year earlier to 1.08 billion yuan. The
stock is down 23 percent this year, compared with a 2 percent
gain for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Other Chinese companies have also made overseas
acquisitions in luxury retail.  Fosun International Ltd. (656) , the
investment arm of China’s biggest closely held industrial group,
has agreed to buy a stake in Raffaele Caruso SpA, an Italian
maker of suits for companies including  Christian Dior SA. (CDI)  The
purchase of 35 percent of Caruso through a capital increase will
be completed this month, the clothier’s Chief Executive Officer
Umberto Angeloni said in a Sept. 6 interview.  Bosideng has built a strong brand in outerwear, has a
unique design and invested in technology to improve its
products, Millward Brown’s Wang said. “It’s early stages, but
if they continue the efforts that they are doing, they will have
the best chance to be successful among the Chinese fashion
brands going overseas.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  