-- China Stocks Drop to 3-Week Low as Free-Trade Firms Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-26T07:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/china-s-stock-index-futures-decline-as-developers-may-be-active.html
China’s stocks  fell to the lowest
level in almost three weeks as companies linked to the  Shanghai 
free-trade zone tumbled amid concern gains were excessive.  Shanghai International Port Group Co. (600018)  and Shanghai Material
Trading Co. slumped by the 10 percent daily limit after more
than doubling this quarter.  Haitong Securities Co. (600837) , the
country’s second-largest listed brokerage by market value,
declined for a third day after saying it plans to buy a
Shanghai-based leasing company from private-equity firm TPG.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.9 percent to
2,155.81 at the close, the lowest level since Sept. 6. Companies
with the word Shanghai in their names have led the gauge’s 8.9
percent advance since June, the biggest quarterly increase since
the three months ending in September 2010, on speculation they
will benefit from the government’s plan to reduce regulation in
the free-trade area.  “The Shanghai free-trade zone concept stocks have gone too
far and valuations are too high given their current earnings
outlook,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West  China  Securities Co.
in Shanghai. “When it’s getting closer to when the zone will
officially open, it’s time to dump these shares as all good news
is priced in.”  The CSI 300 Index declined 1.8 percent to 2,384.44. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 0.6 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index, the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.4 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  National Day  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 3.2 percent
lower than the 30-day average today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The index is valued at 8.6  times  projected
earnings for the next 12 months, compared with the five-year
average of 12.6 times.  China’s local markets will be shut Oct. 1-7 for National
Day holidays. The statistics bureau is due to release August
data on industrial companies’ profits at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.  Shanghai International Port sank 10 percent to 6.24 yuan.
Shanghai Material Trading tumbled 10 percent to 15.75  yuan .  Shanghai International Port traded at 27.5 times 12-month
projected earnings on Sept. 25, the highest level since April
2010, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The 14-day relative strength measure for the stock,
measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped during a
specified time period, was at 75.5 yesterday. Readings above 70
indicate a price may be poised to fall.  Shanghai Jielong Industry Corp. (600836)  slumped 10 percent to 10.12
yuan after saying in an exchange statement that the approval of
the Shanghai free-trade zone will have no direct impact on the
company’s earnings in the short term. The stock jumped 50
percent in the past month through yesterday.  Free-Trade Zone  The city’s free-trade area will open on Sept. 29, the
Xinhua News Agency reported on its microblog on Sept. 24, citing
the local government.  A media report that the trade zone will lift a ban on
Facebook Internet access is incorrect, the People’s Daily online
reported, citing an unidentified person.  South China Morning
Post  reported Sept. 24 that China will lift a ban on access to
Facebook, Twitter and the New York Times in the zone.  Haitong Securities dropped 1.7 percent to 12.16 yuan. It
will buy 100 percent of UT Capital, the Shanghai-based brokerage
said in a filing to the city’s stock exchange yesterday. Haitong
will pay cash for UT Capital, which TPG bought in 2008, TPG said
in a separate e-mailed statement.  China must prevent rising land prices, which in some in
cases have been prompted by local governments selling plots in
prime locations because they are under debt pressures, the China
Securities Journal reported.  Alibaba Talks  The Beijing city government suggested cutting its average
annual economic growth target to about 7.5 percent from 8
percent for the five years through 2015, the People’s Daily
reported, citing the standing committee of the municipality’s
people’s congress.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s planned initial public
offering in New York will help Chinese Internet companies from
Sina Corp. to  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  extend rallies, Baron Capital Inc.
said.  Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, is seeking
U.S. law firms to help with an IPO after talks for a Hong Kong
listing broke down following management’s proposal to keep
control in a share sale, according to two people familiar with
the matter.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  