-- China’s Cnooc Offers Debut Euro Bonds as Yields at Six-Week Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-26T10:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/china-s-cnooc-offers-debut-euro-bonds-as-yields-at-six-week-low.html
China  National Offshore Oil Corp.
is marketing its first bonds in euros as the average yield
investors demand to hold investment-grade securities in the
currency holds at the lowest in more than six weeks.  China’s largest offshore oil and gas producer is selling
seven-year benchmark-sized notes to yield about 140 basis points
more than the mid-swap rate, according to a person familiar with
the matter. The average yield on high-grade debt is 1.9 percent,
with the premium over swaps 81 basis points, Bloomberg  bond
index  data show.  Cnooc is adding to 164 billion euros ($221 billion) of
corporate bond sales in  Europe  this quarter, 20 percent less
than the same period last year. High-grade yields fell 12 basis
points this month as the  Federal Reserve  refrained from reducing
its monthly asset purchases and the  European Central Bank 
considers further stimulus measures.  “Funds will find this deal attractive for the pickup of
extra yield and diversification,” said Christian Wildmann, a
fixed-income portfolio manager in Frankfurt at Union Investment
Privatfonds GmbH, part of Germany’s Union Investment Group that
oversees about 201 billion euros of assets. “Crossover
investors who look at emerging market debt in euros have been
quite cautious due to tapering as well as the improving European
outlook causing rising yields.”  Dollar Deal  Cnooc is also selling 10-year securities in dollars
yielding about 210 basis points more than Treasuries, according
to a person familiar with the matter. The Beijing-based company
is offering the euro and dollar securities through its Cnooc
Curtis Funding No. 1 Pty Ltd. unit.  Also in the European credit market today, Italian utility
 Hera SpA (HER)  is selling 500 million euros of eight-year bonds
yielding about 150 basis points to 155 basis points more than
swaps, according to a person familiar with the deal. The
Bologna-based company last issued benchmark-sized notes in
January, Bloomberg data show.  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO) , the U.K. services company offering
pest control and hygiene services, is holding a conference call
with investors at 2 p.m. in  London  for a possible sale of bonds
in euros. Rentokil last sold notes a year ago when it priced 500
million euros of seven-year securities to yield 195 basis points
more than swaps, according to Bloomberg data.  In the high-yield market,  Medical Properties Trust Inc. (MPW) , a
U.S. healthcare real estate investment trust, is raising 200
million euros of seven-year notes to yield about 5.75 percent.
The sale through the company’s MPT Operating Partnership LP and
MPT Finance Corp. unit is the first in euros for the Birmingham,
Alabama-based company.  The average yield on high-yield debt is 4.79 percent, near
the lowest since Aug. 20, Bloomberg  bond index  data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  