-- China to Allow Interbank Trading of Certificates of Deposit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-26T12:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/china-set-to-allow-interbank-trading-of-certificates-of-deposit.html
China said it will allow trading of
certificates of deposit between banks, another step toward
loosening state control over  interest rates .  Trading will be permitted in the “near term” as the
central bank aims to “create conditions for steady and
orderly promotion of deposit-rate liberalization,”  Hu Xiaolian ,
a People’s Bank of China deputy governor, said in a Sept. 24
comment in Beijing posted today on the authority’s website.  The action would build on July’s removal of the floor on
borrowing costs, with the PBOC saying at the time that deposit-rate reform was the “the most critical and risky” element of
banking reforms. Forcing lenders to compete for funds would
offer consumers more spending power, while undermining the model
of state-directed, subsidized credit.  “It’s a necessary step to continue to liberalize the
interest-rate regime,” said Becky Liu, senior rate strategist
at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong . “The first step is to
introduce substitute products to onshore deposits.”  In May, China signaled it will propose plans this year to
allow freer flows of its currency in and out of the nation as
part of measures to loosen control over the  yuan  and borrowing
costs, which the  World Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund 
have said is a priority in financial reforms.  Bond Futures  China allowed trading in bond futures on Sept. 6 for the
first time since a 1995 scandal pushed the nation’s biggest
brokerage to the brink of bankruptcy. Policy makers have also
expanded programs to allow more foreign institutional investors
in domestic  capital markets .  The State Council has approved a free-trade zone in
Shanghai, scheduled to open this month. A draft plan seen by
 Bloomberg News  shows the zone may liberalize 19 industries from
banking to shipping and allow freer convertibility of the yuan.  The nation would probably allow onshore trading of large-denomination, negotiable certificates sold by big banks by year-end, Linan Liu, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Deutsche Bank
AG, wrote in a Sept. 16 research note.  Certificates of deposit will provide flexibility for banks
to manage cash because the securities, unlike interbank loans,
are tradable, Hong Kong-based Liu Li-gang and Shanghai-based Hao Zhou, economists at Australia & New Zealand Banking Corp., wrote
in a note to clients today after Hu’s comments.  China also needs to find a new rate as a benchmark for its
monetary-policy stance, Liu wrote, adding either the Shanghai
interbank offering rates or bond repurchase rates are “the
potential candidate.”  Premier  Li Keqiang  said this month the nation will start
 deposit insurance  at a right time.  “The PBOC should probably consider a cap on the rates for
the negotiable CDs as there’s a risk of price war,” said Hu Yifan, Hong Kong-based chief economist at Haitong International
Securities Co. “A deposit insurance system should also be
introduced as soon as possible to make sure risks come under
control.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net ;
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  