-- Chinese Military Singer’s Son Sentenced to 10 Years for Rape
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-26T05:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/china-military-singer-s-son-sentenced-to-10-years-for-gang-rape.html
A Chinese court sentenced the
teenage son of a famous military singer to 10 years in prison
for gang rape, closing a case that became a magnet for criticism
of the privileged lifestyles of the country’s elite.  Li Tianyi, 17, was one of five people convicted at the
Haidian District People’s Court in Beijing today, the state-run
China Daily newspaper said on its website. Li, who had pleaded
not guilty, and the others allegedly got drunk with a woman at a
bar and raped her at a hotel earlier this year.  The punishment fits into a broader a government campaign to
crack down on corruption and improve the Communist Party’s image
amid criticism of privilege and impunity among the politically
connected elite. As a 15-year-old in 2011, Li had attacked a
couple who blocked the way of his BMW sports car, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported at the time.  The group started drinking with the woman at a Haidian
district bar on Feb. 17, according to the court’s  verdict . They
took her to a hotel where they forced her to take off her
clothes and raped her. Li and another defendant later gave the
woman 2,000  yuan  ($327), the court said.  Li’s family mounted a public defense in his case, arguing
that prostitution was involved. His mother, Meng Ge, said in a
statement before the verdict that the victim was a bar girl paid
to have drinks with customers, according to the  South China
Morning Post .  Red Star  Li is the teenage son of Li Shuangjiang, dean of the music
department at the People’s Liberation Army Academy of Arts. He
is known nationwide for his renditions of patriotic songs.  After Li attacked the couple in 2011,  Internet users  mocked
the song that made Li Shuangjiang famous in the 1970s -- “Red
Star Guides Me To Fight.”  The other four people convicted in the gang rape case today
got prison sentences ranging from three to 12 years, Xinhua
reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  