-- Citigroup Offers Second Exchange-Traded Note, Tied to MLP Index
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-09-26T17:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/citigroup-offers-second-exchange-traded-note-tied-to-mlp-index.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is offering an
exchange-traded note tied to an index of energy master-limited
partnerships, a category that makes up more than a third of the
total ETN assets in the U.S.  The  C-Tracks ETNs Based on the Performance of the
Miller/Howard MLP Fundamental Index , which started trading today
under the ticker MLPC, charge 0.95 percent in annual fees that
accrue daily, according to a prospectus filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The notes pay quarterly
coupons based on distributions made by securities in the index.  The rules-based  Miller/Howard gauge  tracks 25 MLPs selected
on the basis of criteria such as distribution growth and
estimated  capital expenditures , according to the document.  Securities tied to the dividend-paying energy companies are
the most popular among investors, with $8.09 billion in assets
as of Sept. 24, Bloomberg data show. Total ETN assets have risen
by a third this year to $21.5 billion from $16.1 billion,
according to the data.  Scott Helfman, a spokeswoman for the bank in  New York ,
declined to comment.  Master limited partnerships, which trade publicly,
typically invest in assets ranging from pipelines to ships
transporting commodities.  The largest ETN in the U.S., JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Alerian
MLP Index (AMJ)  note, links to MLPs and pays variable coupons each
quarter, according to offering documents filed with the SEC. It
has about $5.6 billion in assets, Bloomberg data show. The
fourth-largest, the  Etracs Alerian MLP Infrastructure Index ETN (MLPI) ,
has $1.2 billion in assets, Bloomberg data show.  Citigroup offers one other ETN, the  C-Tracks ETN on Citi
Volatility Index Total Return , which has about $4.1 million in
assets, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  