-- Climate Deniers Misinterpret Data, UN’s Figueres Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-09-26T18:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/climate-deniers-misinterpret-data-un-s-figueres-says.html
Critics of efforts to address
 climate change  are misinterpreting a slowdown in the pace of
global warming, the  United Nations ’ top climate official said.  Those who deny mankind’s contribution to warming have a
“primitive understanding” of the science behind the Earth’s
climate,  Christiana Figueres , head of the  Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change , said today in an interview. She spoke a
day ahead of the release of the group’s updated assessment of
climate science.  It will show a slowdown in the rate of warming since 1998,
along with estimates that melting ice will make sea levels rise
faster than previously projected, according to drafts of the
report.  “To say that the temperatures have plateaued misrepresents
the understanding of the science,” Figueres said. “It’s a very
primitive understanding of the science.”  New data has caused the organization to lower predictions
of the pace of global temperature increases by 2100, according
to draft documents obtained by Bloomberg.  The draft refers to a slowdown in the rate of warming since
1998. Global average temperatures are likely to rise by 0.3
degree to 4.8 degrees Celsius (0.5 to 8.6 degrees Fahrenheit) by
2100, according to a draft issued on Aug. 12. That’s less than
the 1.1 degree to 6.4 degree gain forecast in 2007. The world
already has warmed about 0.89 degree since the industrial
revolution.  Bloggers Question  Leaks from the report have been used by bloggers and
newspapers to question whether the planet is warming at all.  The newspaper The Australian on Sept. 16 published an
article headlined “We got it wrong on warming, says IPCC,” a
day after the U.K.’s Daily Telegraph had a story announcing
“Top Climate Scientists Admit Global Warming Forecasts Were
Wrong.”  In a Sept. 8 article whose headline included the words
“now it’s global COOLING!,” the  Daily Mail  said the IPCC was
forced to call a “crisis meeting.” The IPCC issued a press
release denying the claim.  “There are some years in which the temperature has not
spiked over the past decade, but if you compare this decade to
the past decade you see that this decade on average is clearly
much warmer than the previous decade,” Figueres said. “It
doesn’t follow a straight line. Nature never does, but there is
a very clear tendency and very clear trajectory toward
increasing temperatures and certainly toward increasing
greenhouse gas concentrations.”  Agreement Sought  Figueres is trying to guide the governments of more than
190 nations toward a legally binding deal to cut  greenhouse
gases  by 2015 that will take effect in 2020. The effort requires
balancing the interests of small island nations at risk from
rising seas to Middle Eastern oil producers whose economies
depend on fossil fuels, as well as closing gaps between the two
biggest emitters: the U.S. and  China .  The report identifies volcanic eruptions, a periodic
decline in the sun’s warmth and natural variation in the weather
as possible contributors to the lull in the overall pace of
climate change, though computer models aren’t able to simulate
the temperatures that have been observed.  Nobel Prize  When the panel finished its last work six years ago, it was
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The scientists were criticized
over inaccuracies in their work and the content of leaked e-mails between climate researchers.  Spanning thousands of pages, the report was written by 830
scientists. A summary is due tomorrow in  Stockholm  from the
IPCC, an  organization  set up by the UN to compile research for
policy makers. Further installments are due in March and April,
with a final summary in October 2014.  The report says sea levels may increase 26 centimeters to
81 centimeters (10 to 32 inches) by the end of the century, more
than the 2007 range for gains of 18 to 59 centimeters. The level
already has risen about 19 centimeters.  It also signals that the sensitivity to a hypothetical
doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere may be lower,
leading to a temperature increase of 1.5 to 4.5 degrees. That’s
a half degree lower at the bottom end of the range than in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  