-- Coeure Says ECB Guidance Set to Keep Market Volatility in Check
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-09-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/coeure-says-ecb-guidance-set-to-keep-market-volatility-in-check.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said the bank’s forward guidance on
monetary policy is directed at keeping money-market rates within
a range that doesn’t derail the euro-area recovery.  “Increased volatility in money-market rates made
expectations of the effective stance vulnerable to shocks that
were disconnected from underlying economic conditions,” Coeure
said at an event in  New York  late yesterday. “Our objective is
therefore not to steer money-market rates towards a predefined
value but to ensure that their fluctuations remain within
reasonable bounds and do not hurt economic recovery.”  Euro-area money-market rates rose to a level this year that
ECB President  Mario Draghi  described as “unwarranted.”
Borrowing costs climbed after the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled
in June it would start to reduce stimulus and signs emerged the
17-nation euro region’s longest-ever recession was ending. While
rates have since declined, falling liquidity in the region’s
financial system risks pushing them higher again.  Draghi said this week that he’s ready to deploy another
long-term refinancing operation to provide funds to  Europe ’s
banks if needed.  Excess liquidity  in the euro-area financial
system has dropped since reaching a high of 813 billion euros
($1.1 trillion) in March 2012 and is approaching a 200 billion
euro level the ECB has previously signaled as a lower limit.  Adding liquidity to the system isn’t an “urgent
necessity,” Coeure said late yesterday.  Differing Guidance  Longer-term refinancing operations are “a means to an end,
which is to inject liquidity into the market,” Coeure told
reporters. “If there is a need to act, the ECB has a range of
options to address it.”  The ECB cut its main refinancing rate to a record low of
0.5 percent in May, and Draghi said in July that borrowing costs
will stay at current levels or lower for an extended period. He
reiterated the pledge after the monthly policy meetings in
 Frankfurt  in August and September.  “The decision to adopt forward guidance was motivated by
the sustained upward and steepening trend displayed by the
structure of money-market  interest rates ,” Coeure said
yesterday. “This trend had led to a situation in which part of
the accommodation introduced through earlier policy action was
being withdrawn.”  BOE, Fed  The ECB’s guidance differs from the Fed and the  Bank of
England  in that it’s not tied to a time frame or explicit
economic data.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pledged in December that he
wouldn’t raise interest rates as long as unemployment remained
above 6.5 percent and policy makers project inflation of no more
than 2.5 percent. BOE Governor  Mark Carney  said he would keep
borrowing costs low until unemployment falls to 7 percent. His
guidance includes so-called knockouts linked to the bank’s 2
percent inflation goal.  ECB Executive Board member Vitor Constancio said yesterday
that the central bank’s forward guidance is still dependent on
the economic situation.  “Guidance, as it must be, is conditional,” Constancio
said at an event in Frankfurt. “Otherwise it’s something that
doesn’t seem appropriate just to say ‘well we will keep rates
until 2017.’ That would be rash to make such a statement. No one
can know what developments can come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  