-- Colruyt Slumps After ‘Cautious’ Forecast as Food Spending Drops
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-09-26T08:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/colruyt-slumps-after-cautious-forecast-as-food-spending-drops.html
Colruyt NV (COLR) , Belgium’s biggest
discount food retailer, fell the most in almost eight weeks in
Brussels trading after forecasting  profit growth  will stall
because consumers are reducing their food purchases.  Colruyt dropped as much as 4.7 percent on Euronext
Brussels, the biggest intraday decline since Aug. 1, and traded
1.74 euros lower at 42.31 euros by 9:48 a.m. local time. Almost
70,000 shares changed hands so far, or about 55 percent of the
daily average in the past three months.  Net income in the fiscal year ending in March will be
little changed from 353.7 million euros ($478.1 million) a year
earlier when adjusting for a 15.3 million-euro impairment,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jef Colruyt told
shareholders late yesterday at the annual meeting in Halle,
 Belgium . Analysts projected profit of 381.2 million euros,
according to the average of 18  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Belgian consumers have been reducing food purchases as a
proportion of their total spending in recent months, Chief
Financial Officer Marc Hofman told investors. He said sales
growth at the retailer’s flagship Colruyt stores will be at the
low end of a 4 percent to 6 percent range that Colruyt provided
to analysts in June. While  consumer confidence  climbed to the
highest level in almost two years in September, it recovered
from a four-year low in December and Belgium’s unemployment rate
is still rising.  ‘Remains Challenging’  “The current market remains challenging and management
explicitly stated that it does not see seemingly better macro
indicators in the present performance of its outlets,” Hans D’Haese, an analyst at Banque Degroof in Brussels, wrote in an
investor note. D’Haese said he slightly trimmed his estimate for
net income to 373 million euros because Colruyt management is
usually rather cautious.  Colruyt’s fiscal first-quarter sales of 2.11 billion euros
missed analyst estimates as revenue growth in its retail
division slowed to 3.4 percent from 5.6 percent in the preceding
quarter, while Belgian food inflation accelerated during the
period. Hofman said yesterday internal inflation in Colruyt’s
stores is “significantly below” the 4.7 percent annual
increase in Belgian food prices as consumers buy more lower-priced items and Colruyt maintains its strategy of offering the
lowest prices among Belgian supermarkets.  “Given that sales growth will probably land at 4 percent,
while inflation is higher than expected, like-for-like volumes
are probably flattish,”  Pascale Weber , an analyst at KBC
Securities NV in Brussels, wrote in a note today. “Colruyt
continues to gain market share, but the pace is slowing down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  