-- Conde Nast Traveler Said to Cut Half of Editorial Staff
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-26T15:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/conde-nast-traveler-said-to-cut-half-of-editorial-staff.html
Conde Nast Traveler , the glossy
travel magazine from Conde Nast, eliminated about 14 editorial
positions, more than half its staff, according to two people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The job cuts include five editors, the entire photo desk
and the the graphics department, according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly.  The eliminations come as editor-in-chief Pilar Guzman,
appointed last month by Vogue editor and Conde Nast artistic
director Anna Wintour, works to change the magazine’s editorial
focus. Sarina Sanandaji, a spokeswoman for the magazine,
confirmed there were job cuts and declined to discuss details.  “This is part of a broader restructuring effort that will
shift the focus on more of a lifestyle lens and the growing
digital business,” Sanandaji said. The magazine is likely to
replace some of the positions, she said.  Conde Nast, led by billionaire Si Newhouse, produces 18
consumer magazines that draw high-end, brand marketers, mostly
from the fashion and beauty industries. The publisher, closely
held by the Newhouse family through Advance Publications Inc.,
reported a 5 percent gain in advertising pages for its September
issues, typically the biggest of the year.  Conde Nast Traveler had $58.1 million in advertising for
the first half of this year, up 4.1 percent from a year earlier,
according to  data  from the Publisher’s Information Bureau. The
growth came despite a 1.1 percent drop in the number of ad pages
the magazine sold in that same period.  Guzman was previously editor-in-chief of Martha Stewart
Living magazine. She had earlier worked for Conde Nast as the
founding chief editor of parenting magazine Cookie, which was
eventually closed down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  