-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Increases for Third Consecutive Week
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-09-26T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-increases-for-third-consecutive-week.html
Consumer confidence  increased for a
third straight week as households grew more optimistic about
their finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose in the week ended
Sept. 22 to minus 28.1, the highest since the period ended Aug.
11, from minus 29.4. A gauge of personal finances advanced to a
seven-week high as the fewest respondents since late April
viewed their budgets as “poor.”  Improvements in the stock and housing markets are leading
to gains in household wealth, laying the groundwork for a
sustained increase in the  consumer spending  that is the biggest
part of the economy. At the same time, more job opportunities
and higher wages are needed to narrow a growing gap between
upper- and lower-income Americans.  “Rising equities over the past few weeks have bolstered
the confidence and portfolios of Americans, most notably those
at the upper end,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York. “Sentiment remains low for almost
everyone else.”  Another report today showed jobless claims unexpectedly
declined last week, showing further progress in the labor
market. Initial claims for  unemployment benefits  fell by 5,000
to 305,000 in the week ended Sept. 21, according to data
released by the Labor Department in  Washington . The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for an increase to 325,000
applications.  Stocks rose, following the longest slump this year for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the claims figures showed
improvement in the labor marketa. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.4
percent to 1,699.34 at 9:36 a.m. in  New York .  The consumer comfort index is well below its long-term
average of minus 16.2 in weekly surveys since late 1985. All
three components of the comfort measure picked up last week.  Personal Finances  The reading of  personal finances  climbed to 4 from 1.6 as
rising home values augment balance sheets. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities advanced 12.4 percent in
July from the same month in 2012, the biggest gain in more than
seven years, a report showed this week.  Today’s figures also showed a less-pessimistic view of the
shopping environment. The Bloomberg  buying-climate  measure
increased to minus 35.8 from minus 36.3 the week before.  The gauge of Americans’ current  views on the economy  rose
to minus 52.5, the highest since the week ended Aug. 11, from
minus 53.5.  Federal Reserve  At their meeting last week,  Federal Reserve  policy makers
unexpectedly refrained from reducing the pace of monthly bond
purchases, saying they need more evidence of lasting improvement
in the economy.  Mortgage rates  began rising at the end of May after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central bank may begin to
dial back stimulus. Rates on 30-year mortgages averaged 4.50
percent in the week ended Sept. 19, close to the highest level
since July 2011, according to data from  Freddie Mac  in McLean,
Virginia.  A report yesterday showed the effect that gains in home and
stock prices are having on Americans’ wealth. Household net
worth climbed to $74.8 trillion in the second quarter, an
increase of 1.8 percent from the previous three months, the Fed
said.  The value of financial assets, including stocks and pension
fund holdings, held by American households increased $674
billion in the second quarter. Household real-estate assets grew
by $602.3 billion.  Vehicle Sales  The gains are helping underpin spending. Motor vehicles
sold in August at the  fastest  annualized rate since November
2007, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. The latest
results at General Motors Co.,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , and Toyota Motor
Corp. surpassed analysts’ estimates.  At the same time, some Americans are cutting back
elsewhere, a sign spending will be slow to accelerate heading
into the  holiday shopping season  without faster growth in income
and wages. U.S. chains are bracing for a tough holiday season,
when sales are projected to rise 2.4 percent, the smallest gain
since 2009, according to Chicago-based ShopperTrak.  “The general sentiment is somewhat more conservative,”
Clay Creasey, chief financial officer at Toys R Us Inc., said on
a Sept. 24 earnings call. “I have seen the numbers or surveys
or whatever that talk about continued slowness in the toy
category.”  Washington politics may be restraining consumer sentiment
as Republicans and Democrats spar over the  federal budget  and
increasing the debt ceiling.  Income Gap  Today’s figures also showed a growing gap between upper and
lower-income Americans, which was the widest since late July. A
gauge of those earning more than $100,000 a year climbed to 17.6
last week from 13.4. An index of people making less than $15,000
showed less improvement -- rising to minus 64 from minus 66.8.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and older. Each week,
250 respondents are asked for their views on the  U.S. economy ,
personal finances and buying climate. The margin of error for
the headline figure is 3 percentage points.  The percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the
share of positive views and divided by three. The most recent
reading is based on the average of responses over the previous
four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  