-- Copper Rises Most in a Week on U.S. Economic Expansion
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-09-26T17:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/copper-climbs-before-report-seen-showing-stronger-u-s-growth.html
Copper futures climbed the most in
a week as a report showed the economy expanded at a faster pace
in the second quarter in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest
consumer of the metal.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annualized
rate after expanding 1.1 percent in the first quarter, according
to government figures. A separate report today showed
applications for  unemployment benefits  unexpectedly fell last
week. Asian investors bought copper to close out bets on a
decline before national holidays next week in  China , the top
metal consumer, Korea Exchange Bank Futures Co. said.  “The growth report is a good number, and as long as that
holds up, it’s good for copper,”  Michael Smith , the president
of T&K Futures & Options in  Port St. Lucie ,  Florida , said in a
telephone interview. “China and Europe have also bottomed, so
industrial demand is going to be higher.”  Copper futures for December delivery rose 1.1 percent to
settle at $3.307 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest increase for a most-active contract since Sept. 19.
The metal headed for the first quarterly gain in a year.  Yields on China long-term bonds climbed this quarter by the
most since 2010 as the economy showed signs of improvement.
Markets will close from Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 for National Day
holidays.  Copper stockpiles tracked by the London Metal Exchange fell
for the 16th straight session to 545,625 metric tons. They have
dropped 18 percent in the third quarter.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months rose 0.7
percent to $7,251 a ton ($3.29 a pound). Aluminum, lead, tin and
zinc gained. Nickel was unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  