-- Cramo Declines as Hartwall Family Reduces Stake: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-09-26T10:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/cramo-declines-as-hartwall-family-reduces-stake-helsinki-mover.html
Cramo Oyj (CRA1V)  fell the most in almost
five months in Helsinki trading after its biggest shareholder,
 Finland ’s Hartwall family, sold about half of its stake in the
company that leases construction equipment.  Cramo declined as much as 7.8 percent, the most since May
3. Shares in the Vantaa, Finland-based company slid 5.2 percent
to 12.52 euros as of 1:15 p.m. in the capital city. Hartwall’s
trade pushed volume on the stock to about 70 times the three-month daily average.  “Generally, it’s not in the company’s favor when the main
owner reduces its stake,” Johannes Grasberger, an analyst at
Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki, said by phone. Still, it’s not “a
negative signal” as there is no change in fundamentals, he
said. “The stock has been astoundingly strong this year.”  Cramo has gained 58 percent in 2013 even after today’s
decline. The company benefits from its exposure to neighboring
 Sweden , where construction demand is stronger than in Finland,
Grasberger said. Sweden accounted for 46 percent of Cramo’s
revenue last year, compared with 29 percent at Helsinki-based
 Ramirent Oyj. (RMR1V)   Investment companies for the Hartwall family including
Hartwall Capital Oy and K. Hartwall Invest Oy sold 4.6 million
shares today, about 10.9 percent of the total stock, according
to a statement. The sale was valued at about 57 million euros
($77 million), or about 12.25 euros a share, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. This represents a 7.2 percent discount to
yesterday’s closing price of 13.20 euros.  Beverage Wealth  The Hartwall family, whose wealth originates from a
mineral-water bottling plant set up in 1836 in the capital city
and later breweries, remain Cramo’s largest shareholders with
about 11 percent holding after the trade.  “If the price is attractive, we are normally willing to
buy or sell,” Lauri Pietarinen, investment director at Hartwall
Capital in Helsinki, said by phone. “There was nothing
exceptional about this case.”  Hartwall Capital  paid  583 million kroner ($106 million) for
9.4 percent of  Royal Unibrew A/S (RBREW)  shares last month, becoming its
 second-largest shareholder . The company could be willing to
increase its ownership in the future, Pietarinen said. Cramo
Chairman Stig Gustavson’s plan to step down next year was not
related to the trade, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  