-- Credit Suisse’s Buy Spurs Dangdang Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-26T20:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/credit-suisse-s-buy-spurs-dangdang-rally-china-overnight.html
E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  and
 Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  led gains in Chinese equities traded in  New York 
after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  recommended buying the shares.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. added 0.5 percent to 102.7 yesterday,
rallying the most in a week. Dangdang, China’s biggest online
book seller, surged 8.1 percent and Sohu climbed to a one-week
high.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  rose 5.4 percent after Citigroup Inc.
reiterated a buy rating on the video website operator. LDK Solar
Co. fell to the lowest level in three weeks.  Credit Suisse started coverage of Dangdang and Sohu with
the equivalent of a buy rating. “As Internet becomes much more
engaging in daily consumer life, value creation from Internet-based businesses is taking a more important role in the overall
economy,” Dick Wei, an analyst at Credit Suisse in  Hong Kong ,
wrote in an e-mailed report dated yesterday. Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd.’s planned initial public offering in New York will
also help Chinese Internet companies, Oppenheimer & Co. said.  “People think Dangdang’s stock should be worth more as
it’s probably the most well-known Chinese e-commerce brand among
those publicly listed in the U.S.,” Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer, said in a phone interview.
“Alibaba’s pending IPO should have a halo effect on all e-commerce companies. Dangdang’s stock price hasn’t gone up as
much as its main peers in this year’s Internet stock rally.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at a two-week low of $37.90 in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.3 percent as an unexpected drop in jobless claims
overshadowed concern that a budget impasse could hurt the
recovery.  ‘Tangible Progress’  Dangdang’s American depositary receipts surged to $10.40,
the highest close since Aug. 13. The ADRs have rallied 151
percent this year,  compared with  a 225 percent surge in  Vipshop
Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , an online fashion clothing retailer.  Dangdang is not a bookstore anymore as it has made
“tangible progress” in transforming into a comprehensive web-based retailer, Credit Suisse’s Wei wrote in the note. “We see
Dangdang as a key beneficiary of China’s rapid growth” in the
online retailing sector, he wrote.  Sohu, based in Beijing, climbed 3.1 percent to $76.14,
gaining the most in a week.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s
biggest Internet company by market value, last week paid $448
million for a 36.5 percent  stake  in Sohu’s Sogou search unit.  Mobile Ads  Sogou’s value could be as much as $3 billion based on
Tencent’s investment, exceeding analysts’ average estimate of
$1.2 billion, Credit Suisse’s Wei said in his note. Sohu “is
one of the leading Internet companies in China with top three
positions in online portal, games and online search,” he wrote,
setting a price target of $98, which implies a  33 percent gain 
from the closing level on Sept. 25.  Credit Suisse also recommended buying Sohu’s game unit
Changyou.com Ltd., which surged 10 percent yesterday for the
largest rally in two months. Baidu Inc.,  China ’s most-used web
search engine, and Ctrip.com International Ltd. advanced at
least 2 percent after they were given ratings equivalent to buy
at Credit Suisse.  Youku, based in Beijing, advanced to a one-week high of
$28.46 in New York. It has rallied 56 percent this year.  Youku will start ads on mobile Internet, targeting
advertisers such as game developers and retailers, to profit
from its rising video traffic, Citigroup analysts led by Muzhi Li wrote in a report yesterday. “We view the company’s attempt
to commercialize mobile traffic beyond brands ads positively,”
they wrote, reiterating a price goal of $35.80.  Forbearance Arrangement  LDK, the second-biggest maker of solar wafers, declined 2.6
percent to $1.48 in New York, the lowest level since Sept. 3.  The Xinyu, China-based company said it got a 30-day
reprieve from having to pay interest on bonds that were due Aug.
28. The forbearance arrangement, covering payments on the
company’s 2014 securities, will expire on Oct. 27, LDK said
yesterday in a statement.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.5 percent
to 10,541.03 yesterday for a four-day slump, the longest in
three months. The Shanghai Composite Index sank 1.9 percent to
2,155.81, the lowest since Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  