-- Czechs Refrain From Koruna Sales as Main Rate Unchanged
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-09-26T14:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/czech-refrain-from-koruna-sales-as-main-rate-unchanged.html
The Czech central bank rejected
koruna sales endorsed by Governor Miroslav Singer for a second
meeting as the economy shows signs it’s recovering from a
record-long recession.  The Ceska Narodni Banka kept the benchmark  interest rate  at
what it calls a “technical zero” of 0.05 percent today, almost
half a point below the  European Central Bank ’s benchmark and
matching the forecasts of all 15 analysts in a Bloomberg  survey .
Twelve of 14 economists in a separate poll said interventions
wouldn’t be announced.  Rate setters are debating whether slowing inflation
warrants the first koruna sales since 2002 after three  rate cuts 
last year exhausted room for traditional monetary easing. The
central bank is weighing the strength of an economic rebound
after the country exited a 1 1/2-year recession. The chance of
koruna sales remains high, Singer told reporters today.  “As for currency interventions, we voted again, didn’t
start them, but we more or less agreed that the likelihood
basically isn’t changing,” said Singer, who’s repeatedly spoken
in favor of more policy easing this year. He didn’t disclose a
breakdown of the ballot.  The koruna gained as much as 0.8 percent, the most in
almost three months, after Singer’s comments, to trade 0.6
percent stronger at 25.708 as of 2:55 p.m. in  Prague , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deflation Risk  The currency, which has lost 2.5 percent to the euro this
year, has moved to the center of policy deliberations because
its depreciation would make imports more expensive and boost the
competitiveness of exports, curbing deflation risks.  There are “slight” disinflationary risks to the central
bank’s forecast, showing the need of “slightly looser monetary
conditions,” Singer said today. “On the other hand, the first
signs of a recovery are appearing.”  Industrial output and retail sales both beat economist
predictions in July, advancing 2.1 percent and 4 percent from a
year earlier.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.6 percent from the
previous three months in the second quarter.  Eastern European policy makers are diverging as their
economies show varying degrees of recovery.  Hungary ’s central
bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of 3.6
percent Sept. 24, while Poland kept its main rate at a record-low 2.5 percent Sept. 4 and promised to leave borrowing costs
unchanged through at least year-end.  More Easing  More policy easing will be needed to bring  inflation (CZCPYOY)  closer
to the 2 percent target, Singer said in an August interview with
Euromoney magazine, posted Sept. 18 on the central bank website,
his last published comments before today’s meting.  Inflation unexpectedly slowed for a second month in August,
reaching 1.3 percent from a year earlier after consumer prices
rose 1.4 percent in July, the statistics office said Sept. 9.  Inflation relevant to monetary policy and adjusted for the
primary effect of changes in indirect taxes slowed to 0.5
percent in August from 0.7 percent the previous month. It’s
stayed below the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent tolerance
band since February.  Economic conditions are preventing the central bank from
further policy easing, namely intervention to weaken the koruna,
according to  William Jackson , an emerging-markets analyst at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  “With the economic recovery still fragile, the policy
board is likely to keep the threat of intervention on the
table,” Jackson said by e-mail after Singer’s comments. “But
barring a relapse in growth, we suspect that it won’t ultimately
be adopted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  