-- Democrat Manchin Breaks Ranks to Back Mandate Delay
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-09-26T19:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/democrat-manchin-breaks-ranks-to-back-mandate-delay.html
U.S. Senator Joe Manchin of West
Virginia broke ranks with fellow Democrats and said he’d support
a stopgap spending plan that delays the individual mandate in
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  “There’s no way I could not vote for it,” Manchin said at
a Bloomberg Government breakfast today. “It’s very reasonable
and sensible.”  The individual mandate is the linchpin of the law that
requires Americans who lack insurance to purchase health care
through government-run exchanges. Republicans, led by a group of
newcomers in the House, are pushing to dismantle the health-care
law and are using a ticking clock on a possible Oct. 1
government shutdown as leverage.  The Democratic-led Senate will vote in coming days on the
stopgap spending plan and before sending it back to the House
will remove language that defunds Obamacare. Obama and House
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat, have said they won’t
support using the budget to change the health law.  Manchin, 66, said he’d be willing to delay the individual
mandate as part of the budget negotiations because the Obama
administration in July gave businesses an extra year to provide
their workers with health insurance.  No Shutdown  In a statement later in the day, Manchin said the
individual mandate shouldn’t “be used to shut down the
government.”  “I will not vote to shut down the government,” he said.  White House spokesman Jay Carney said Manchin’s position on
the individual mandate “doesn’t change anything.”  A temporary spending plan that delays the requirement
“will not pass the Senate, will not become law, but will only
draw us closer to a shutdown,” Carney told reporters.  At the breakfast, Manchin said the individual health-insurance rule should be delayed at least a year.  “Don’t put the mandate on the American public right now,”
he said. “If you know you couldn’t bring the corporate sector,
you gave them a year, don’t you think it’d be fair?”  Manchin also said he’d be willing to negotiate in a debate
over raising the nation’s $16.7 trillion  debt  limit. He said
he’d support “efficiencies” in Medicare and Social Security
and using most of the savings for debt reduction.  Obama Conflict  “Can’t we agree that we have one hell of a debt here that
we’ve got to get a handle on?” Manchin said.  That conflicts with Obama’s stance. The president said
today that “I will not negotiate on anything” regarding an
increase in the borrowing authority.  “Congress needs to put an end to governing crisis-to-crisis,” Obama said at a Largo, Maryland, community college.  Manchin doesn’t face re-election until 2016. He was elected
after the health-care bill passed Congress in 2010, and said his
approval rating has dropped about 20 percentage points, to about
47 percent.  “When you get caught in this quagmire, this swamp, if you
will of  Washington , you’re going to get a little stink on you,”
he said.  House Republicans are considering whether to make changes
once they get back the stopgap bill and send the measure to the
Senate another time. They are mulling a one-year delay in the
implementation of the health law’s individual mandate, among
other potential changes.  Campus Lobbying  Many of the House Republicans are backed by the limited-government Tea Party movement, which is trying to cripple the
law. FreedomWorks, an organization tied to the Tea Party, is
targeting college campuses, telling young adults to not sign up
for the government-run insurance exchanges scheduled to roll out
on Oct. 1.  Americans for Prosperity, a small-government group funded
by billionaire industrialists David and  Charles Koch , is
spending almost $1 million on TV ads to do the same.  Postponing the individual mandate would increase premiums
and risk coverage for adults with pre-existing coverage, said
David Simas, White House deputy senior adviser for
communications.  “A delay of the individual requirement results in fewer
people having insurance,” Simas said yesterday at the “Inside
Politics with Bill Schneider” breakfast at the Third Way, a
Washington research group aligned with Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  