-- Detroit Union Seeks to Revive `13th' Pension Check Policy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-09-26T15:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/detroit-union-seeks-to-revive-13th-pension-check-policy.html
Detroit’s bankruptcy judge should
allow a state employment panel to reinstate a pension program
that gave an extra check to retirees every year using excess
earnings, a city union said in court papers.  Before it ended in 2011, the policy of issuing a “13th”
check and related payments cost the city $1.92 billion from 1985
to 2008, according to a report commissioned by the city. Before
the  Michigan  Employment Relations Commission could consider
restoring the checks, the city filed for bankruptcy, putting the
issue on hold, according to court records filed Sept. 24 in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Detroit.  The city allowed the pension board to give out an extra
check almost every year for so long that the payment became a
right that couldn’t be revoked unilaterally, according to a
ruling by Doyle O’Connor, an administrative law judge with the
commission.  “A practice that continues for three decades is a tacit
agreement,” O’Connor said in an oral ruling in February. The
city should have negotiated the change with the union as part of
a new employment contract.  Detroit  has said its biggest unsecured debt is an unfunded
pension liability of $3.5 billion. The city also owes about
$1.4 billion on bonds it issued to bolster city employee pension
systems.  Automatic Stay  In its motion, the American Federation of State County and
Municipal Employees asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to
lift the so-called automatic stay, which prevents lawsuits
against the city while it is in bankruptcy. Because of the stay,
O’Connor hasn’t issued a written recommendation that the
commission can use to force the city to restore the power of the
pension board to issue the extra checks, the union said in its
filing.  Resuming the 13th-check policy “would bring back a
practice that would really damage the funds,” Bill Nowling, a
spokesman for Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr, said in a
telephone interview today.  Sharon Levine, an attorney for the union, didn’t
immediately return e-mails requesting comment on the filing.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  