-- Diageo Goes Gangnam With Johnnie Walker for Korean Revival
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   H e e s u   L e e
-- 2013-09-27T07:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/diageo-goes-gangnam-with-johnnie-walker-for-korea-whisky-revival.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, is trusting Gangnam to do the same for whisky as the
song named after it did for dance moves.  Seoul’s luxury retail district, best known for the Gangnam
Style music video that became a global phenomenon, is the
location for today’s opening by Diageo of a  Johnnie Walker House 
as the liquor maker goes after high-net worth consumers seeking
a bespoke bottle of its biggest whisky brand to take home.  The distiller is aiming to spice up a whisky market that’s
plunged into decline as drinkers choose trendier watering holes
or stay at home. Gangnam’s  Johnnie Walker  House will become the
third such outlet after the Shanghai and Beijing branches in
 China , and forms part of Diageo’s attempts to tap growing demand
for luxury products across  Asia  as  sales stagnate  in  Europe .  “Korea is a very important market for Diageo,” Gilbert Ghostine, president of the company’s Asia-Pacific unit, said in
an interview yesterday. The country “is the biggest Scotch
whisky market in Asia-Pacific and also it is the biggest super-deluxe whisky market in the world. We are very excited about the
potential of Johnnie Walker House in Korea.”  The six-floor building in Seoul has a distillery room,
blending suite, VIP lounge and a rooftop bar where visitors get
exclusive access to rare whiskies including Johnnie Walker 1949,
a tribute to the year when the brand was first imported to
 Korea . Super-deluxe whiskies -- richly priced, highly profitable
bottlings -- will be available, such as a limited edition of
Johnnie Walker 1949 for 2.35 million won ($2,186).  Weakening Sales  The opening comes as overall whisky demand in  South Korea 
is weakening. Diageo’s net sales in the country fell 17 percent
on an organic basis in the  year ended June 30  as sales in the
so-called traditional on-trade declined. Diageo gets about 80
percent of sales from such bars, Ghostine said in May.  Competitor  Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , which generates about 60
percent of sales from that route, sees whisky drinking in more
traditional outlets as being in structural decline, Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet said in August.  “The drinking cultures in Korea are changing, but there
isn’t enough growth in the modern on-trade yet to offset
whisky’s decline in traditional bars,” said  Trevor Stirling , an
analyst at Stanford C. Bernstein in  London . It could be a
“glacial process” to return whisky to its previous popularity.  Modern Drinking  South Koreans are gravitating away from “traditional”
hostess bars that are populated by businessmen and dominated by
whisky brands including Diageo’s Windsor and Pernod’s Imperial.
Instead, a new generation of younger Koreans are either choosing
more modern bars or drinking at home.  Diageo was the largest international liquor company in the
Asian country last year, according to researcher Euromonitor.
Whiskies are the most popular spirits by volume in South Korea,
where sales of the U.K. company’s other brands such as Baileys
cream liquor, Guinness stout and Smirnoff vodka have increased.  Diageo is seeking to grow  organic sales  6 percent globally
in the year ended June 2014, Ghostine said.  The company is looking to open 10 to 15 Johnnie Walker
Houses in big cities in Europe and  Latin America  after sales in
its properties in China doubled, the executive said. It opened
the Shanghai venue in 2011 and a Beijing one this year.  Diageo shares  fell 0.3 percent  to 1,982 pence at 8:25 a.m.
in London trading. They’ve gained 11 percent this year.  To counter the decline in the South Korean market, Diageo
is seeking to boost the proportion of sales to customers seeking
to drink in more modern establishments -- say karaoke venues --
or at home, Ghostine said earlier this year. The company is also
seeking to increase profitability by selling more expensive
brands. Sales of super-deluxe whiskies under the Johnnie Walker
label in South Korea rose 20 percent last year and Diageo
expects a similar growth rate in future, he said.  “The whisky market is declining, but through the Johnnie
Walker House, we don’t want people to buy more, we want them to
buy better,” Ghostine said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Heesu Lee in  Seoul  at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  