-- Digicel Said to Bid for Orange Dominican Republic Unit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-09-27T07:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/digicel-said-to-bid-for-orange-dominican-republic-unit.html
Digicel Group Ltd., seeking to
expand its position as the Caribbean’s largest phone company, is
bidding for  Orange SA’s (ORA)  Dominican Republic unit, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  The company run by billionaire  Denis O’Brien  is one of five
bidders interested in Orange Dominicana, which is expected to be
sold by the end of the year, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the process in confidential. The sale is
expected to generate more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion),
one of the people said.  An acquisition would give Kingston, Jamaica-based Digicel
control of the Caribbean nation’s second-biggest mobile-phone
company, with 38 percent of the market, trailing America Movil
SAB’s 51 percent, according to Orange. Digicel is already the
largest carrier in neighboring  Haiti , one of its 31 markets in
the Caribbean, Central and  South America  and the South Pacific.  Orange Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard said in
July that the Paris-based company was examining the sale of the
Dominican unit. Richard is focusing on reducing debt, cutting
costs and restoring growth at home, where competition from
discounter  Iliad SA (ILD)  has weighed on phone bills.  Antonia Graham, a spokeswoman for closely held Digicel,
declined to comment. Olivier Emberger, a spokesman for Orange,
said the company is reviewing its Dominican operation.  Bids Solicited  “As is usual practice for such a review, this includes a
process in which potential buyers are invited to submit
offers,” Emberger said. “The group emphasizes that the sale of
its activity in the Dominican Republic is only one of several
options available and that no decision has been made in this
respect.”  The Dominican unit reported wireless sales of 451 million
euros in 2012, or about 1 percent of Orange’s total revenue. The
division’s sales were up 7.6 percent from the previous year.  Orange slipped 0.5 percent to 9.39 euros at 9:41 a.m. in
Paris. At the parent company’s enterprise value of about 1.4
times sales, the  Dominican Republic  unit would be valued at
about 600 million euros.  The yield on Digicel’s 7 percent bonds due in 2020 climbed
0.04 percentage point to 7.15 percent, the highest since August
2012.  Stocks on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Telecommunications
Services Sector Index trade at about  2 times  sales, which would
value the unit at about 900 million euros.  Orange’s net debt at the end of June was 29.6 billion
euros, for a ratio of net debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 2.21 times. Orange’s
forecast is to bring the debt ratio back to about 2 times by the
end of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  