-- Yen Advances as Aso Damps Bets on Corporate-Tax Cut; Pound Gains
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-27T21:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/dollar-poised-for-weekly-advance-before-consumer-data-fed-speak.html
The yen advanced versus the dollar,
heading for its second weekly gain, after comments by  Japan ’s
Finance Minister Taro Aso damped bets the government will cut
corporate taxes, boosting demand for the currency as a haven.  Japan’s currency gained as  inflation  in the country
accelerated to the fastest pace since 2008 in August. The euro
rose versus most of its major counterparts as economic data in
the region exceeded forecasts in September. The pound rose
against the dollar after Bank of  England  Governor  Mark Carney 
told a U.K. newspaper he sees no case for further stimulus. The
greenback was weaker amid concern a U.S. budget deadlock will
shut down the government of the world’s largest economy.  “The yen is up amid rising inflation that could ease the
Bank of Japan’s burden and as the finance minister suggested a
corporate tax cut still needs to be evaluated,”  Camilla Sutton ,
head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , wrote today in
a client note.  The yen appreciated 0.8 percent to 98.24 per dollar at 5:02
p.m. New York time. It strengthened 0.5 percent to 132.86 per
euro. The 17-nation currency added 0.2 percent to $1.3522 per
dollar.  Market Rankings  The  New Zealand dollar  has gained 7.1 percent versus the
greenback this month, while the yen has declined 0.1 percent.  This quarter, the kiwi has led all major gainers with a 6.9
percent increase, while the worst-performing South African rand
has slipped 2.1 percent. Denmark’s krone is the best-performing
currency in 2013 and the rand has plunged 16 percent.  South Korea’s won gained versus most of its major peers as
data showed foreign funds pumped money into the nation’s stocks.  The won rose 0.1 percent to 1,073.65 per dollar, having
surged 3.8 percent in September, the biggest monthly gain in
almost two years. Overseas investors bought $6.8 billion more
South Korean equities than they sold this month, exchange data
show.  South Africa’s rand slid for a fourth day and headed for
its longest losing streak in almost two months against the
dollar as companies in the country demanded foreign currency to
pay for imports. The rand depreciated 1 percent to 10.0886 per
dollar after touching the weakest level since Sept. 6.  Japan Pricing  Consumer prices in Japan, excluding fresh food, increased
0.8 percent from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
today in  Tokyo . The median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was for a gain of 0.7 percent. Stripping out
energy and perishables, prices fell 0.1 percent.  Aso told reporters today that funding sources would be
needed if corporate tax rates were to be reduced. Kyodo News
reported yesterday that the government of Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe had pledged to begin a study on cutting the levy.  “The comment today that there may not be a  tax cut  is
risk-negative, which has been a negative for dollar-yen,” Dan Dorrow, head of research at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “There have also
been uncertainties over the last week or so about a potential
Washington shutdown, and the increase in risk has been yen-positive.”  The  U.S. Senate  passed a short-term spending bill, three
days before federal spending authority runs out and a few weeks
until the country hits its borrowing limit.  The yen tends to strengthen during periods of financial and
economic turmoil because Japan isn’t reliant on foreign capital
to fund its deficits.  European Data  An index of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the  euro
zone  rose for a fifth month to 96.9 from a revised 95.3 in
August, the European Commission in Brussels said today. That
beat the median estimate of 96 in a Bloomberg  survey  of 26
economists.  Carney told the Yorkshire Post that the  Bank of England 
would consider expanding its asset-purchase target, known as
quantitative easing, should the economic recovery falter.  “Given the recovery has strengthened and broadened, I
don’t see a case for quantitative easing and I have not
supported it,” he said, according to the newspaper.  The pound increased 0.6 percent to $1.6139 after climbing
to $1.6163 on Sept. 18, the highest since Jan. 11.  Asset Purchases  “This sits with the tone we’ve seen recently from the Bank
of England, where there was an absence of very dovish
rhetoric,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “The message is that there
may be further asset purchases should the recovery stall, but
the data suggest that things are returning to normal. The market
has quashed most of its hopes that there could be more QE,”
supporting the pound.  The greenback was lower this week as investors weighed
whether the  Federal Reserve  will reduce its bond purchases,
which tend to weaken the currency. Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota , a voter on policy next year, said
yesterday that the central bank must do “whatever it takes” to
strengthen a jobs market that is healing too slowly.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, fell 0.3 percent to 1,012.75,
leaving its monthly decline at 2.1 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $25.7 billion, from $23.5 billion yesterday, according
to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $8.8 billion, the largest share of
trades at 34 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$3.3 billion.  Dollar-yen options trading was 116 percent more than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
also 75 percent more than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  