-- Dollar Bond Sales in Asia Rise to 37-Week High as Cnooc Markets
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-09-26T05:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/dollar-bond-sales-in-asia-rise-to-37-week-high-as-cnooc-markets.html
Sales of U.S. dollar-denominated
bonds in the Asia-Pacific region including Japan rose to a 37-week high as  China National Offshore Oil Corp. (883)  and  China  General
Nuclear Power Holding Corp. market notes.  Regional issuance this week of $7.4 billion is the highest
since $8.9 billion in the seven-day period ended Jan. 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cnooc, China’s largest
offshore oil and gas producer, is offering a 10-year security to
yield 210 basis points more than Treasuries, according to people
familiar with the matter. China General Nuclear is planning a
five-year debenture at a spread of about 240 basis points,
another person said.  The Federal Reserve’s decision to defer paring stimulus has
sparked a 31 basis point drop since Aug. 30 in corporate dollar
borrowing costs in Asia to 4.61 percent, set for the biggest
monthly drop since July 2012, according to HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes. Yields had surged to an almost two-year high of 5.09
percent on Sept. 6.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest
mining company, sold its first dollar bonds in 19 months
yesterday, the data show.  “We expect USD bond issuance to remain robust as companies
seek low cost funding to take advantage of the recent pull back
in treasury yields,” said Michele Barlow, Hong Kong-based head
of Asia-Pacific credit and convertible bonds research at Bank of
America Corp. “We would expect to see supply from a wide range
of issuers as long as the markets remain receptive.”  The benchmark U.S. 10-year yield dropped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.63 percent at 5 p.m.
yesterday in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. It touched 2.61 percent, the lowest since Aug. 12.  BHP Finance  Vista Land & Lifescapes Inc., a Philippines developer owned
by the family of ex-senator Manuel ‘Manny’ Villar, is in the
market with a five-year security at a yield of about 7 percent,
another person said.  BHP’s finance unit issued $500 million each of three-year,
floating-rate notes to yield 25 basis points more than the
three-month London interbank offered rate and 2.05 percent,
five-year debentures to yield 70 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
also sold $1.5 billion of 10-year debt at a spread of 125 basis
points and $2.5 billion of 30-year securities at a 130 basis-point spread.  Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. issued $500 million of
2.875 percent notes yesterday, the data show. Investors bought
$750 million of 7.25 percent debt yesterday from Country Garden
Holdings Co.  Japan Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  was little changed at 149 basis points
as of 8:09 a.m. in Hong Kong, Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. prices show. Series 20 of the index began trading on
Sept. 23 with Export-Import Bank of  India  and Shinhan Bank the
newest members.  Fresh versions of the benchmarks are created every six
months when companies are added or dropped depending on their
ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading. The indexes
typically have a maturity of five years.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced 0.5 of a basis point
to 93 basis points as of 9:17 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to
Citigroup Inc. prices. The measure is poised to rise 4 basis
points this week, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was also little changed
at 119 basis points as of 10:55 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. prices. The gauge is set for its lowest
close since Sept. 20, when the new series 20 of the index began
trading, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  