-- Dow, Dupont Lose EU Top Court Appeal Over Cartel Fine Liability
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-26T09:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/dow-dupont-lose-eu-top-court-appeal-over-cartel-fine-liability.html
Dow Chemical Co. and DuPont Co.
lost appeals at the European Union’s top court to overturn
decisions that fined and held them liable for colluding to fix
prices of a synthetic rubber used to make hoses and condoms.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg today rejected the
appeals and arguments that the companies’ responsibility for a
unit that was part of a joint venture, had been wrongly
assessed. The ruling is final.  The European Commission fines against companies including
Dow, DuPont and  Eni SpA (ENI)  totaled 247.6 million euros ($334.4
million) and were the third in two years against companies in
the rubber chemical industry.  Dow, the largest U.S. chemical maker, and DuPont were
initially fined a combined 59.3 million euros. The companies
were accused of colluding on prices for chloroprene rubber, used
in the rubber industry or as latex, from at least 1993 to 2002.  Both companies lost challenges at a lower EU court last
year. Dow challenged the EU decision as incorrect for assigning
direct liability to the company, instead of limiting its
liability for the subsidiary’s actions based on its joint
venture with DuPont. Dow Chemical transferred its stake in the
joint venture to Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont in 2005 and
it was renamed DuPont Performance Elastomers LLC.  Dow today lost with arguments that it is “impossible for
the parent companies of a joint venture” to exercise decisive
influence and to be held liable in a cartel case.  The EU court said Dow’s claims are “unfounded” because
the commission’s had decided that the company had exercised a
decisive influence over the unit “on the basis of factors
which, unless they have been distorted, cannot be called into
question on appeal.”  The cases are: C-172/12 P, EI du Pont de Nemours v.
Commission; C-179/12 P, Dow Chemical v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  