-- DSM Said to Seek Final Bids for Entire Caprolactam Unit
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-09-26T09:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/dsm-said-to-seek-final-bids-for-entire-caprolactam-unit.html
Royal DSM NV (DSM)  is in advanced talks
to sell its business making caprolactam, used in plastics and
car parts, and may announce a deal before year-end, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The bidding process is in the second round, with buyout
firms and corporate rivals preparing detailed offers, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. The asset may fetch more than 200 million euros ($270
million), the people said.  Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma is trying to focus
the Dutch chemical company, which has produced caprolactam for
more than 60 years, on more profitable food ingredients and
high-performance materials. While caprolactam is an important
feedstock for DSM’s polyamide resins and materials, competition
from low-cost Chinese manufacturers has increased supplies and
damped prices. Valence Group is advising on the potential sale,
according to the people.  DSM, which has said it’s reviewing options for just the
merchant side of the caprolactam business, declined to comment
on whether the whole unit is up for sale.  DSM, which has spent $3.2 billion on nutrition-ingredient
acquisitions, said earlier today that profit this year may fall
short of an initial target, weighed down by stagnant markets in
 Europe , lower pricing for chemicals, exchange-rate moves and
Dutch tax legislation.  Cut Target  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization may be ’’slightly below’’ 1.35 billion euros, the
Heerlen, Netherlands-based company said. After originally
setting a target of 1.4 billion euros, DSM reiterated today it
would be ’’moving towards’’ that level of profit.  DSM shares dropped as much as 6.9 percent to 54.28 euros
and were down 5.9 percent as of 11:18 a.m. in Amsterdam, valuing
the company at 10 billion euros.  Caprolactam accounted for the bulk of DSM’s 1.6 billion
euros in sales last year at its polymer intermediates business,
which employs about 1,500 workers. Revenue declined 16 percent
last year on lower volumes and prices, with profit at the
division slumping about 68 percent as it struggled to pass on
higher benzene prices to customers.  Caprolactam, also produced by  Germany ’s  BASF SE (BAS) , is used in
a broad range of products from plastics and films to carpets and
tire cords. DSM is currently putting the final touches on a $300
million plant in a partnership with  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (386) , known as Sinopec. The factory will be the world’s
largest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  