-- Dubai Doubles Real Estate Fees as Prices Surge
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-09-26T15:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/dubai-doubles-real-estate-fees-as-prices-surge.html
Dubai, the emirate that suffered
one of the world’s worst property crashes in 2008, doubled
property-sale fees in a bid to limit speculation and avert
another housing bubble.  The Dubai Land Department will raise the transaction fee to
4 percent from 2 percent effective Oct. 6, Director General
Sultan Bin Mejren said at a press conference today. The change
will apply to residential and commercial properties, including
those sold before they are built, he said. It won’t be
retroactive and won’t affect industrial real estate.  “This decision will limit quick property speculation,
which is harmful to the market,” Bin Mejren said. “The market
is recovering and we want to help boost stability and
sustainability.”  Dubai  home prices  increased 21.7 percent in the second
quarter, the fastest pace in the world, raising concerns that a
second bubble is in the making, a survey by broker Knight Frank
LLP showed. The market’s revival has prompted a return of
advance sales, known as off-plan transactions, that fueled
speculation before the market collapsed and caused prices to
drop by as much as 65 percent.  The increase “may negatively impact property sentiment and
demand for the next three to six months,” said Digvijay Singh,
an analyst at VTB Capital Plc. However, “it’s the prudent thing
to do because the more stable Dubai’s fiscal situation is, the
better the long-term prospects for property values.”  Further Regulations  Dubai will introduce further regulations in the next few
months, Bin Mejren said. The government this week established a
center to settle rental disputes to replace an existing
committee. The center will have the capacity to review 250 cases
a week, up from the current capacity of 100 cases, the Land
Department director said.  The average price of a mid-range villa has  soared  34
percent this year to 1,275 dirhams ($347) a square foot, the
highest since October 2008 when property prices began to fall,
according to Cluttons LLC data on Bloomberg. The value of real
estate transactions rose to 162 billion dirhams this year, from
90 billion dirhams a year earlier, Bin Mejren said.  Even after the fee increase, investors in Dubai will still
pay a comparatively low property tax, Bin Mejren said. Property-sales tax in the U.K. ranges from 4 percent to 15 percent, while
people pay 6 percent in  France  and 5.8 percent in  Japan , he
said.  Little Effect  The higher fee will probably have little effect on the rate
at which home prices are growing,  Knight Frank  said in a note
today. Purchases will still be relatively inexpensive by global
standards after the increase, the broker said.  The higher fees will generate additional revenue for the
government, which doesn’t impose an income tax. Dubai’s
government debt is estimated at $25.6 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s economy grew the most in five years in 2012,
expanding  4.4 percent  compared with 3.6 percent the previous
year. The emirate’s consumer price index rose  1.7 percent  in
August from the same period last year, the biggest jump since
December 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “The additional property fees are a first step, but they
are not enough on their own,” said  Simon Williams , the Dubai-based chief  Middle East  economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “I’m
looking to see what other measures Dubai and the U.A.E. will
take to guard against a repeat of the boom-and-bust cycle.”  Advance Sales  Developers including  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the
world’s tallest tower, and Damac Properties Co. have started
selling off-plan properties as the economic turnaround sparks
new projects. Nakheel PJSC, which built three palm-shaped
islands off Dubai’s coast, said today it will start selling
1,200 homes to be built in its International City development.  The recovering real estate market prompted the United Arab
Emirates Central Bank to propose caps on the size of  mortgage
loans  relative to the value of the property. Lenders and the
 Central Bank  are currently in talks over limits.  The Land Department also said court fees will be waived for
buyers in stalled projects that will be liquidated, Bin Mejren
said. The fees amount to about 30,000 dirhams per property, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  