-- Dublin Home Prices Rise Most Since 2007 Amid Signs of Growth
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-09-26T14:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/dublin-home-prices-rise-most-since-2007-as-economy-stabilizes.html
Dublin  home prices  rose in August
by the most in more than six years on an annual basis, adding to
evidence of a stabilization in the economy.  Residential property prices in the Irish capital climbed
10.6 percent from a year earlier, the most since April 2007,
Ireland’s central statistics office  said today . Across the
country, prices increased 2.8 percent from a year earlier and
0.9 percent from the previous month.  “There is no doubt that lack of supply has driven Dublin
house prices up,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Merrion
Capital in Dublin. “The recent signs of general improvement in
the labor market and on the jobs front should help sustain the
housing market recovery, especially in Dublin, but it may take
some time for the rest of the country to pick up.”  Irish home prices have fallen by 49 percent since peaking
in 2007, pushing the financial system to the bring of collapse.
Now, signs are emerging that the economy is  stabilizing , with
unemployment  beginning  to drop.  The country’s economy expanded 0.4 percent in the second
quarter, ending its second recession since 2008. Payrolls have
risen in recent months, while manufacturing and services have
strengthened.  While prices soared in Dublin, the country’s largest city,
they fell 2.6 percent in the rest of Ireland, the statistics
show. They gained 0.1 percent from July.  “The market is likely to remain a two-tier one,” Ryan McGrath, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, wrote in a note to
clients today. “We note the encouraging decline in unemployment
in recent months but, again, there is likely to be a bias
towards Dublin at the expense of rural areas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  