-- EBay Expands Mobile Payments With Braintree Deal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-09-26T20:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/ebay-to-buy-payments-firm-braintree-for-800-million-in-cash.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of electronic-payments service PayPal, said it will bolster that business by
buying Braintree for $800 million in cash to expand its mobile-transactions business.  Braintree, a global payments platform, works with online
and mobile-only startups such as room-rental service Airbnb and
online restaurant-reservation company  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN) , EBay said
in a statement today. Braintree, which is based in  Chicago , will
become a unit of PayPal.  PayPal, which is one of EBay’s fastest-growing businesses,
is pushing beyond processing payments for goods sold online and
expanding its service into physical stores and other areas. The
payments industry -- and especially mobile payments -- has
become highly competitive in recent years as startups including
Square Inc. and large technology companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
have plunged in, with more consumers making purchases through
devices like smartphones and tablets.  “We’ve made a significant investment in mobile over the
past couple of years,” EBay Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe said in an interview. “It’s a natural fit.”  EBay rose 4.5 percent to $56.64 today. The shares are up 11
percent this year, compared with a 19 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  More Mobile  EBay, which acquired PayPal in 2002 for $1.18 billion, said
Braintree projects payments volume of $12 billion this year,
adding to $20 billion the company expects to process over the
same period. Braintree CEO Bill Ready will report to PayPal
President David Marcus.  “This deal makes reasonable sense strategically as it
expands PayPal’s distribution and removes a competitor,” said
Mark Mahaney, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, in a note.  The deal is EBay’s biggest since March 2011, when it
acquired GSI Commerce Inc. for $2.4 billion, a company that
hosts retailers’ websites and offers marketing services to
customers.  PayPal and Braintree have worked together for more than a
year, and the two companies began discussing an acquisition
about six weeks ago, Donahoe said. The deal solidified over the
past month, he added.  Braintree, which was founded in 2007 and has more than 180
employees, in 2012 acquired payments startup Venmo. Venmo’s
technology allows users to authenticate themselves in one app
and automatically be recognized in other apps. EBay said the
Venmo mobile app is part of the acquisition.  One Touch  “Some of the early opportunity is to take Venmo one-touch
payments and have it extend to other properties,” Donahoe said.  He said the Braintree team will stay “very focused” on
building products that are attractive to developers and
entrepreneurs.  Marcus, who took PayPal’s helm in 2012, has been trying to
reduce bureaucracy and give developers more freedom to be
creative after the business drew criticism for antiquated
technology that wasn’t developer friendly.  EBay, based in San Jose,  California , said PayPal
contributed 40 percent of total revenue last year. In the second
quarter, PayPal’s revenue rose 20 percent to $1.6 billion, while
EBay’s total revenue growth rate was 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  