-- ECB Says Private Sector Loans Fell for a 16th Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-09-26T08:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/ecb-says-private-sector-loans-fell-for-a-16th-month.html
Lending to companies and households
in the euro area fell the most on record in August, signaling
that the economy is still struggling to recover from its
longest-ever recession.  Loans to the private sector dropped 2 percent from a year
earlier, the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today.
That’s 16th monthly decline and the biggest since the start of
the single currency in 1999. Adjusted for loan sales and
securitization, lending contracted 1.5 percent in August.  The ECB has pledged to keep  interest rates  at or below
current levels to support the 17-nation euro economy, which
expanded 0.3 percent in the three months through June after six
quarterly contractions. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said this
month that while there has been “substantial progress” in bank
funding, non-financial corporations are still suffering from
“weak loan dynamics.”  The data shows a “depressing picture for the credit
market,” said Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group in
 London . “Although the ECB made clear that the ECB cannot do
much to boost credit to the corporate sector, we expect the
current picture for loans to remain one of the key reasons
behind expectations of a prolonged period of accommodation.”  Market Rates  The ECB predicts the euro-area economy will shrink 0.4
percent this year before growing 1 percent in 2014. Draghi said
this week that he’s ready to use any instrument, including
another long-term refinancing operation for banks, to keep
money-market rates from rising.  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as an indicator for future inflation, rose to 2.3 percent in
August from 2.2 percent in July, according to today’s data.
That’s in line with economists forecasts, according to the
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  M3 grew 2.3 percent in past three months from the same
period a year earlier. That’s down from 2.5 percent in the three
months through July. M3 is the broadest gauge of  money supply 
and includes cash in circulation, some forms of savings and
money-market holdings.  “We are still seeing a credit crunch in the euro area,”
said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “Even
though the ECB provides sufficient liquidity to banks, smaller
companies in countries like  Spain  are struggling to receive
funding and I currently don’t see many signs that this is going
to change anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  