-- Election May Nudge ‘Complacent’ Austria to Revamp Social System
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-09-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/election-may-nudge-complacent-austria-to-revamp-social-system.html
Austrians may hand the nation’s
ruling political coalition its narrowest victory since 1945 as
disgruntled voters vent their frustration by backing protest
parties supported by a billionaire and a building mogul.  The Central European nation of 8.4 million holds elections
on Sept. 29. While polls show Chancellor Werner Faymann’s Social
Democrats and People’s Party coalition ally likely to place
first and second respectively, declining support may force them
to seek a third party to clinch another five-year term.  “There will be an expectation for reform to ensure that
 Austria ’s world-class quality of life and competitiveness are
maintained,” Alfred Gusenbauer, Austria’s chancellor from 2007
to 2008, said in an interview. Parties backed by Austrian-Canadian billionaire Frank Stronach and former  Strabag SE (STR)  boss
Hans-Peter Haselsteiner are drawing votes from people frustrated
by the status quo, he said.  Even as Austrians enjoy Europe’s lowest unemployment and
were named among the happiest people in the world by a United
Nations  study , citizens are questioning whether that life-quality is sustainable. This has led to discontent with the
political order which has been a mainstay since World War II.
So-called “grand coalitions” of Austrian socialists and
conservatives have held power following two-thirds of national
votes in the last 68 years.  Behaving German  “Austria isn’t doing badly but it’s not more than that,”
Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London ,
said in a phone interview. “It’s a bit too self-congratulatory
and behaves as if it is  Germany  but the big difference is that
Germany did reforms 10 years ago.”  Like Germany, which handed  Chancellor Angela Merkel  her
third election victory on Sept. 22, Austria’s economy is driven
by manufacturing exports, about a third of which go to its
northern neighbor. Companies like high-quality steelmaker
 Voestalpine AG (VOE)  and hydro-turbine maker  Andritz AG (ANDR)  are global
leaders in their industries, even if not household names.  Unlike Germany, which began deep reforms to its labor and
welfare policies more than decade ago under Social Democratic
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, Austria has lagged behind in
revamping its pension, health-care and school systems.  Austrian pensions consume 12 percent of gross domestic
product, one of the highest levels among developed nations, its
medical system is one of the world’s most expensive while only
producing average outcomes and its schools do little to promote
social mobility, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Aversion to Change  “We’re doing so well that too many have become complacent
and now have an aversion to change,” said Hannes Androsch, a
former finance minister turned industrialist and investor, who
last month published a best-selling book about Austrian politics
titled  The End of Complacency . Austria needs to “start dealing
with our weaknesses right after the election,” he said in an
interview.  Austrian debt costs have fallen to record lows, tracking
those of Germany. The extra interest the country pays investors
to hold Austrian instead of German debt spiked after the current
coalition took office in 2008, briefly exceeding the spread paid
by  Italy , on concern eastern Europe’s economic downturn would
harm Austria. The spread rose in 2011 on bank-bailout
uncertainty before returning to its more normal level of around
40 basis points above German bunds this year.  Stronach Suffers  While Austria’s budget deficit and debt are lower than the
euro-area average, government coffers are being squeezed by the
2008-2012 state bank bailouts for Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank
International AG, KA Finanz AG and  Oesterreichische Volksbanken
AG. (VBPS)   Outstanding capital and liquidity measures extended to the
banks are as much as 17 billion euros ($23 billion), or 6.5
percent, of the economy. Hypo Alpe may need another 8 billion
euros in the next four years, the government has said.  While Austria has one of the highest total tax levels, the
system is inefficient because it taxes labor too much, and land
and wealth too little, Karl Aiginger, the head of the Vienna-based Wifo economic research institute, said in an interview.
The tax code has also been criticized by the OECD, the European
Commission and the International Monetary Fund.  “If you’re on top, the challenges are higher,” Aiginger
said. “There are several factors which are not commensurate
with that top position.”  Austria’s anti-immigrant Freedom Party and the Green Party
will benefit the most from eroding support for the status quo,
according to opinion polls compiled by  Der Standard  newspaper.
The Freedom Party may gain 4 percentage points to reach 21
percent of the vote while the Greens may climb 5 points to win
15 percent. Pre-election polls showed voters would favor a
three-party coalition including the Greens.  Faymann Leads  Faymanns’s Social Democrats are leading polls with 27
percent, followed by the People’s Party at 23 percent. Team
Stronach, which has suffered from low approval of its leader’s
debate performances, may win 7 percent, while Haselsteiner’s
Neos may struggle to capture the 4 percent needed to enter
parliament, according to polls.  “‘The grand coalition isn’t a merger of love, or even of
convenience -- it’s a merger of necessity,” Austrian political
scientist Anton Pelinka of the Central European University in
Budapest, said in an interview. “The opposition parties just
have to wait until the two main parties drown themselves.”  Austria’s polls close at 5 p.m. local time on Sunday with
early election projection results due shortly thereafter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  