-- Emerging Stocks Retreat as OGX Leads Declines in Brazil
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-26T21:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/emerging-etf-snaps-two-day-decline-on-u-s-economic-data.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for
a third day, the longest slide in a month, as  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  led losses in Brazil and  China ’s companies
linked to the  Shanghai  free-trade zone tumbled.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 0.5 percent to
1003. The benchmark measure trimmed its monthly gain to 7.9
percent. OGX, the oil company founded byEike Batista, plunged
16 percent amid report that it missed a local bond payment.
Shanghai International Port Group Co. and Shanghai Material
Trading Co. slumped by the 10 percent daily limit after more
than doubling this quarter.  Poland ’s WIG20 Index jumped as BRE
Bank SA surged to the highest level since 2007.  OGX, this year’s worst-performer on Brazil’s Ibovespa,
missed a coupon payment on a local bond yesterday, signaling it
may miss a payment on dollar notes next week, Sao Paulo-based
Valor Economico reported, without saying how it got the
information. China’s plan to set up a test zone in Shanghai with
reduced state control over policies from  interest rates  to
foreign investment has split analysts over whether it will boost
the economy across the nation.  “There’s certainly some profit taking in China, and that
drags down everything,” Timothy Ghriskey, the chief investment
officer at Solaris Group LLC in New York, which manages over
$1.5 billion, said by phone. OGX’s troubles are “an indication
that the problems that  Brazil  has experienced have gone very
deep into the economy, and certainly is negative headline risk
for the market overall,” he said.  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated
today, led by phone and financial companies. The broad gauge
traded at 10.5 times projected earnings, compared with the
 valuation  of 14 for the MSCI World Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Data  Stocks briefly pared losses after U.S. data showed the
number of Americans filing applications for unemployment
benefits unexpectedly declined last week, while the economy
expanded at faster pace in the second quarter from the previous
three months. The Federal Reserve signaled in May stimulus could
be trimmed if the economy showed sustained improvement.  “The unemployment claims are at a fairly low level, and
that’s certainly something that’s beneficial to the economy,”
Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets
at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama , said by phone.
“To the extent that the Fed is still out there, you do get
responses from economic data points as to how the Fed might
respond.”  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund added 0.4 percent to $41.72. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
declined 0.3 percent to 22.42.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  fell a third day. OGX is scheduled to
make a $44.5 million interest payment on its $1.06 billion of
2022 dollar debt on Oct. 1 and a $109 million payment on its
$2.56 billion of 2018 bonds on Dec. 1. An OGX press official
declined to comment on Valor Economico’s report.  Russia’s Micex Index rose to a one-week high as Uralkali
added 1.1 percent, trimming this year’s plunge to 25 percent.
Uralkali CEO Vladislav Baumgertner was moved to a rented
apartment in Minsk from prison, his lawyer Alexei Basistov said
today. Baumgertner was arrested last month after he pulled out
of the Belaruskali trading venture with Belarus that controlled
40 percent of the global exports of the crop nutrient.  Poland, Turkey  Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  added 1.2 percent, the most among
major developing-nation gauges, as BRE added 4.8 percent. The
Budapest Stock Exchange Index rallied to the highest since Aug.
8, while  Turkey ’s benchmark gauge fell for a fifth day.  China’s stocks fell to the lowest level in almost three
weeks as Shanghai International Port Group Co. and  Shanghai
Material Trading Co. (900927)  slumped by the 10 percent daily limit after
more than doubling this quarter. The nation’s plan to set up a
test zone in Shanghai with reduced state control over policies
from interest rates to foreign investment has split analysts
over whether it will boost the economy.  Eight of 17 respondents to a Bloomberg News survey said the
free trade zone will have no effect or a negligible impact on
growth, while eight said it will boost annual expansion by 0.1
percentage point to 0.5 point over the next five years. One
economist in the survey, conducted from Sept. 18 through
yesterday, said growth would increase by 0.5 point to 0.9 point.  India ’s benchmark stock index rose, led by drugmakers and
consumer-goods companies, amid expiry of monthly derivatives
contracts. Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. increased 2.2
percent, sending a gauge of health-care companies to a record.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 328 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  