-- Merck KGaA Names Garijo to Run Serono Biotechnology Unit
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-09-26T13:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/merck-kgaa-names-garijo-to-run-serono-biotechnology-unit.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  promoted a former Sanofi
executive to run its pharmaceutical business as it seeks to
overcome competition and drug development setbacks that have
dragged down sales.  Belen Garijo, 53, will become president and chief executive
officer of Merck Serono as of Oct. 1, the Darmstadt, Germany-based maker of cancer drug Erbitux said today in a  statement .
She joined Merck Serono as chief operating officer in 2011 from
Sanofi, where she led European operations and oversaw the
integration of the Genzyme acquisition.  The management change comes as competition for Merck’s
best-selling treatments increases and the company faces a dearth
of new drugs. Garijo succeeds Stefan Oschmann, 56, who will
remain head of pharmaceuticals, overseeing Merck Serono and
consumer health as well as biosimilars and Allergopharma, an
allergy therapy company Merck bought fully in December.  “I’m absolutely convinced that with today’s management and
organizational changes we will be able to fully leverage the
growth potential in our pharmaceutical businesses by focusing on
fast-growing areas such as the  emerging markets  and the global
allergy market or the rapidly evolving biosimilars market,”
Oschmann said in the statement.  Annalisa Jenkins, Merck Serono’s head of global development
and medical who joined the company in 2011 from  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) , will become head of global research and development.
Bernhard Kirschbaum, who headed  early-stage development , will
leave the company Oct. 1, a spokesman said.  Thierry Hulot, leader of the biosimilars unit, will also
head up global manufacturing and supply as of Oct. 1. He’ll
serve as interim biosimilars head until a replacement is named.  Merck Serono is the largest division of family-controlled
Merck and had revenue of 6.4 billion euros ($8.6 billion) last
year. Merck also makes lab equipment and filtration systems,
liquid crystals for flat-panel television screens and
ingredients and pigments for cosmetics and food. The company
isn’t related to Merck & Co. of the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  