-- Merkel Party Says Tax Pledge Holds as Coalition Jostling Begins
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-09-26T11:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/merkel-party-says-tax-pledge-holds-as-coalition-jostling-begins.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party
said it’ll uphold her campaign pledge of avoiding a tax increase
in talks with the opposition on forming a coalition, as jostling
began over the shape and direction of  Germany ’s next government.  Taxes are emerging as the first skirmish after Merkel fell
short of an absolute majority while winning the most votes in
Sept. 22 national elections, leaving her to look to the Social
Democrats or Greens as junior partner. Both parties campaigned
to raise the top main income-tax rate to 49 percent from 42
percent.  “Our election platform is unchanged: we rejected tax
increases,” Hermann Groehe, the general secretary of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Our very good election result gives us a strong mandate to
fight for this position.”  Merkel hasn’t spoken in public about her third-term
coalition preference, saying only she wants to form a “stable
government” and won’t change her policy on the euro. That
leaves space for haggling over policies such as the transition
to renewable energy from nuclear power and upgrading Germany’s
infrastructure as well as the distribution of cabinet posts.
Two-hundred leading SPD officials plan to meet in Berlin
tomorrow to discuss whether to open coalition talks with Merkel.  Taxes, a topic of dispute during the campaign, are a
potential area of deal-making in coalition talks. Raising taxes
would put Europe’s biggest economy at risk, Merkel told a CDU
rally in Berlin a day before the election. “That is a path the
Union will not take.”  CDU Denial  Groehe was responding to an article in today’s  Bild
newspaper , Germany’s most-read, that quoted him as telling CDU
officials in private the party was prepared to accept an
increase in the top tax rate to 49 percent. Groehe denied the
report in his statement.  Germany’s tax burden, including income tax and payroll
levies for social programs, is the highest among advanced
economies except for Belgium and  France , according to  2012 data 
by the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble declined to rule out
higher taxes in an interview with the Die Zeit weekly released
yesterday. Norbert Barthle, the CDU’s top budget lawmaker, said
he would back a higher tax rate for incomes of more than 53,000
euros ($71,560) to fund relief for lower earners without
increasing Germans’ total income-tax burden.  When she governed with the Social Democrats between 2005
and 2009, Merkel raised Germany’s value-added tax to 19 percent
from 16 percent and raised the retirement age to 67 from 65.  Merkel has pledged to reach a “structurally balanced”
budget next year as part of her push to reduce debt in Germany
and Europe. Germany’s total tax revenue will grow from an
estimated  615 billion euros  this year to 638.5 billion euros in
2014, reaching 704.5 billion euros in 2017, the government’s tax
panel estimated in May.  Germany cut its debt mountain by 1.6 percent in the first
half of the year to 2.048 trillion euros compared with a year
ago, the federal statistics office said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  