-- Merrill Co-President Swaps Banking for Steak in London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-09-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/merrill-co-president-swaps-banking-for-steak-in-london.html
Ahmass Fakahany ended a 20-year
career at  Merrill Lynch & Co. (BAC)  in 2008 as co-president and chief
operating officer, responsible for 63,000 employees in 40
countries.  How do you top that?  With creamed horseradish, perhaps. Fakahany quit banking
and became a restaurateur, opening establishments across New
York. This month, he added Chop Shop, a casual venue on
Haymarket in London. It’s the latest outpost of the Altamarea
Group, the company he created with chef Michael White.  So what is more difficult: restaurants or banking?  “I have to say restaurants,” Fakahany says in an
interview at Chop Shop. “I never thought I’d think so, but
margins are so tight in this business. You really have to think
through. These are long leases. You have a lot of people issues
and there’s a lot of process. And if you don’t like people or
process and don’t want to take time with it, it’s a recipe for
difficulty.”  Does he miss banking?  “I miss some of the people,” says Fakahany, who is 55.
“There are certain aspects of the complexity or the intricacy
of a deal that you miss a little bit. Merrill Lynch was a
formative part of my life and taught me a lot, frankly, that I’m
using in this new business sector, food and beverage.  Metrics, Results  “This business is very targets-, metrics-, results-oriented. You have to measure yourself the whole time. It is
very client-focused. These are very big similarities in terms of
how you run the business and, frankly, being very disciplined.  “Being efficient, leveraging your scale, having purchasing
power, all of these kinds of things are highly important in
making some savings, so that you can spend on the client. You
have to look at the whole vertical chain.”  Altamarea has quickly established itself in New York, with
popular and respected restaurants such as Marea, Ai Fiori,
Osteria Morini and the new Costata. The group is now expanding
internationally, with a stake in Al Molo, in Hong Kong, and an
establishment opening in Istanbul in coming weeks.  Meatballs  In  London , Fakahany has gone for a New York-style
industrial look, an informal service style, an accessible menu
and affordable prices. The Express Menu is 22 pounds ($32). A la
carte, starters such as meatballs are 9 pounds and mains are 12-15 pounds. A 180-gram fillet steak (35-day aged) costs 26
pounds, plus sauces such as salsa verde and creamed horseradish.  If the formula works in the U.K., it might work elsewhere.
Fakahany says his experience of opening in London, where he
spent a few years as a boy, has been positive and that it’s been
good working with the Crown Estate Ltd., his new landlord.  “As far as the operational side, the setup, I would give
London an A plus,” he says. “I grew up here and I was just
flabbergasted by how responsive and convenient and capable the
people were in opening up in London.  “I’ve never had the Queen of  England  as my landlord
before. New York has more hurdles to jump and a lot more
regulatory processes that I never imagined when I got into this
business.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Farah Nayeri on London arts and
Frederik Balfour on Asian auctions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 