-- Hertz Slides After Lowering Annual Forecast: Mover
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-09-26T20:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/hertz-cuts-full-year-forecast-on-weak-u-s-airport-rentals.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  plunged
the most in more than four years after cutting its forecast for
full-year revenue and profit, citing weaker-than-anticipated car
rentals at U.S. airports.  Hertz slid 16 percent to $21.63 at the close in New York,
the biggest one-day decline since May 20, 2009. The shares have
gained 33 percent this year, compared with a 20 percent rise in
the Russell 1000 Index.  Sales will probably be $10.8 billion to $10.9 billion, down
from a forecast in February of $10.85 billion to $10.95 billion,
the company said today in a statement.  Hertz pared its forecast
for adjusted profit to $780 million to $830 million, from an
earlier prediction of $830 million to $875 million.  Investors “didn’t get any clues” from management the
lower forecast was coming, Fred Lowrance, senior research
analyst with Avondale Partners LLC in Nashville,  Tennessee , said
in an e-mail. “Sometimes you can get a sense for it based on
company commentary or industry indicators.”  Hertz is charging higher prices at U.S. airports, which is
helping make up for the decline in rentals, and the company will
still “generate record earnings for the full year,” Chief
Executive Officer Mark Frissora said in the statement.  “Weaker volume impacts not only revenues, but also
generates related fleet issues, including lower utilization and
the inability of the used car market to absorb our excess
vehicles at current market prices,” Frissora said.  Hertz, based in Park Ridge,  New Jersey ,  bought  Dollar
Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. last year and competes with
closely held Enterprise Holdings Inc. and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)   Hertz said yesterday it’s renting  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) 
electric cars at airports in San Francisco and  Los Angeles .
Rental prices start at about $500 a day, the company said. Hertz
has a combined five Teslas at the two locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  