-- EU’s Rehn Endorses French Budget Plan as ‘Prudent, Responsible’
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-09-26T12:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/eu-s-rehn-endorses-french-budget-plan-as-prudent-responsible-.html
The European Commission gave its
preliminary endorsement to  France ’s 2014 budget, offering
support to President  Francois Hollande  in the face of domestic
concern about  high taxes .  “France has made a huge effort to restore its public
finances and this draft budget law is characterized by
responsibility and prudent policy-making,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in
Brussels today at a press conference with French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici .  The remarks contrasted with Rehn’s initial reaction to
Hollande’s proposals to trim Frence’s pension deficit. Having
discussed pensions on Sept. 13 with Moscovici in Vilnius,
 Lithuania , he mused that with French economic policy “there’s
always the question of whether the glass is half full or half
empty.”  Hollande’s government is planning a budget  deficit  of 4.1
percent of gross domestic product this year and 3.6 percent in
2014. While the 2013 forecast is higher than the target set by
the commission in May, Rehn praised the plan for its
“realistic” assumptions on growth. The budget is based on GDP
rising 0.1 percent this year and 0.9 percent next year.  “The forecasts that are the basis of this draft law are
very likely to materialize,” he said. “I’m very happy to see
that budgetary objectives are in line with the council’s
recommendation.”  Of the planned 18 billion-euro ($24.3 billion) cut in the
deficit for next year, the government expects 15 billion euros
to come from lower spending, while limiting tax increases to 3
billion euros.  Labor Laws  “The commission was very clear: we have to put our house
in order,” Moscovici said. In 2015, the deficit cut will come
“100 percent from spending cuts.”  For Rehn, the priority for Hollande should be boosting
French growth by accelerating a revamp of the social system that
began with a payroll tax cut and a loosening of labor laws over
the past year.  “The ambitious reforms that have been carried out should
be reinforced to preserve the growth and competitive potential
of French firms,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  