-- Europe Tops U.S. as Global Growth Locomotive: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-09-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/europe-tops-u-s-as-global-growth-locomotive-cutting-research.html
While  Europe  struggles to raise its
economic growth rate, when it does it provides a more powerful
boost to the world economy than the U.S., says Barclays Plc in a
challenge to conventional wisdom.  A 1 percent increase in aggregate demand in Europe’s
developed nations gives 33 of 39 international economies a
bigger lift in their gross value added, a proxy for gross
domestic product, than if the higher demand had occurred in the
U.S., Barclays strategists including London-based Jim McCormick
said in a Sept. 25 report.  The impact of the European demand rise on the entire world
is more than 0.25 percent, three times the U.S. effect. The
explanation is that that Europe has a bigger economy with
greater trade links and its banks are more exposed globally,
McCormick, Barclays’ global head of asset allocation research,
told reporters in  London  yesterday.  Europe’s positive spillovers were calculated using
historical relationships between economies. The ripples extend
as far as emerging Asian economies and to some in  Latin America .  “While it is often believed that the U.S. cycle is a
bigger source of  global  growth shocks, statistics suggest
otherwise,” the Barclays report said.  The observation was contained in a study suggesting “the
evolution of the European recovery could well be the most
important factor for financial markets in the months ahead.”  Among other reasons for that analysis: The euro region’s
eight-quarter recession may have hurt asset markets abroad too.
Barclays noted that assets typically linked to growth have
underperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by almost 20
percent since Europe’s slump began in the middle of 2011. Since
the rebound started this year, growth assets have started to
gain against the S&P.  * * *  Central banking may be a laughing matter.  A Federal Reserve policy-setter tends to elicit more
laughter if he or she anticipates faster inflation, according to
a study of transcripts by Kevin W. Capehart, a Ph.D. student at
American University in  Washington .  Laughter, often mentioned in the transcripts of Federal
Open Market Committee meetings, occurred 372 times across the 18
sessions for which economic forecasts are available, Capehart
said in a paper for a forthcoming copy of the publication
“Economic Inquiry.” He found a one percentage point increase
in a member’s inflation projection is linked with a 75 percent
rise in the amount of laughter their humorous observations
attract in meetings at about that time.  “The laughter elicited by FOMC members may therefore
reflect serious concerns about threats to the economy, rather
than any lack of concern or sense of complacency,” said
Capehart.  * * *  The increasing longevity of the world’s population -- in
which we currently gain 5 hours a day of  life expectancy  every
day -- will prove a challenge for money managers.  That’s the warning of Michael Bret, head of thematic
research at AXA Investment Managers. In a Sept. 19  report , he
said while older populations previously created disinflation,
now they will threaten high inflation because of fiscal
unsustainability in the programs that support them and the
economy.  In many countries, Bret says, half the babies born today
could well live to more than 100 with leading economies on track
to reach that mark by 2075. Japanese women, for example, already
have a life expectancy at birth of 86.4 years, compared with
70.1 years in 1960.  As populations age and the ratio of older people to young
climbs, the weight on public finances will rise, creating strong
inflationary pressures. That will offset the normal trend in
which retirees dislike inflation because it eats into their
savings, influencing policy makers to keep control of prices,
said Paris-based Bret.  Now governments will have little option but to respond to
higher health-care spending, helping to undermine the ability of
central banks to control inflation even if they want to, he
said.  “The past trend of an aging population associated with
lower inflation could well be reversed,” he said.  With bond yields now so low, Bret said increasing
investment in equities by pension funds could compensate, as
could private equity investing. In  Japan , pension funds already
look overseas for yield, he said.  “In a world of free moving capital, we should be prepared
to witness a significant impact of aging on global markets,” he
said.  The report was published just days after the  International
Monetary Fund  produced a  paper  in which economist Patrick Imam
said the shift to an older society could blunt the effectiveness
of monetary policy over time.  * * *  When it comes to countries defaulting on their bonds, there
is strength in numbers, according to a  study  released by the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis .  A bankruptcy in one nation should prompt others to follow
because they are often borrowing and renegotiating with the same
investors, be they other countries or in the private sector,
said Cristina Arellano of the regional Fed bank and the
University of Rochester’s Yan Bai.  If one country defaults, the incentive for others to do the
same increases because the original declaration pushes up bond
yields elsewhere, making borrowing more expensive, they said.
Defaulting is also made less costly if countries renegotiate
simultaneously, Arellano and Bai said in their paper, published
this month.  It found about 25 percent of defaults happened only because
another nation was defaulting, adding that almost all Latin
America’s nations defaulted in the 1980s.  The model also can “rationalize” some of the recent
behavior by European governments, five of which accepted
bailouts, beginning with  Greece , Arellano and Bai said. It
showed about half the correlation of bond spreads between Italy
and Greece can be attributed to linkages in their debt markets.  * * *  Central banks can pay a price in the form of higher
unemployment if they undershoot their inflation target,
according to Lars E.O. Svensson, a former deputy governor of
 Sweden ’s Riksbank.  In a  paper  published this week by the National Bureau for
Economic Research, Svensson detailed how unemployment will mount
if investors’ inflation expectations shadow a central bank’s
inflation target yet inflation deviates from it.  In Sweden, for example, he found that from 1997 to 2011
expectations were anchored at the Riksbank’s goal of 2 percent,
but average  inflation  fell 0.6 percentage point below it.
Svensson calculates that means average unemployment has been 0.8
percentage point higher than if the Riksbank had allowed average
inflation to run on target.  Svensson often sought laxer monetary policy in Sweden,
stepping down in May after failing to persuade colleagues to cut
 interest rates  to support the labor market. In March, he derided
as “poor” the bank’s efforts to reach its 2 percent inflation
goal.  “I believe the main policy conclusion to be that if one
wants to avoid the average unemployment cost, it is important to
keep average inflation over a longer period in line with the
target,” Svensson said in the paper. He is now at The Institute
for Financial Research at the Stockholm School of Economics.  * * *  Higher wages may be a curse as well as a blessing for
emerging markets, according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
report. The salaries that boost consumption may also discourage
production.  Average wages in  India  may quadruple over the next two
decades while those in the U.S. and U.K. gain just a third,
reducing the labor cost advantage that has lured business to
 emerging markets , economist John Hawksworth said in a report
released yesterday.  India’s current average monthly wage is now 25 times
smaller than the U.K.’s but could be only 7.5 times smaller by
2030. Wages in  Mexico  and the  Philippines  are also set to rise
faster than those in developed economies, while  China ’s average
monthly wage could rise to around half that of  Spain ’s, PwC
said.  Countries such as  Turkey ,  Poland , China and Mexico will
become more valuable as consumer markets and low-cost production
could shift to relatively lower-cost locations such as the
Philippines, Hawksworth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  