-- Texan Who Fought Perry on Abortion Said in Governor Run
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-27T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/texas-abortion-filibuster-star-davis-said-in-governor-run.html
Texas  state Senator Wendy Davis,
who tried to block Governor  Rick Perry ’s abortion curbs in June,
will lay out her 2014 election plans next week amid expectations
that she’ll run for the office Perry is leaving.  Davis, a Democrat whose half-day filibuster of a bill to
limit abortion in Texas drew national attention, has told donors
she plans to run, according to Politico.com and the  Associated
Press . Both cited sources they didn’t identify.  Her announcement will be made outside of her  Fort Worth 
district, in an arena where she received her high school
diploma, fueling the expectations.  “I don’t think she’s invited millions of her closest
friends to a meeting on Oct. 3 to announce her re-election” to
the state Senate, said State Representative Lon Burnam, a Fort
Worth Democrat.  With no other Democrats in the hunt for the governor’s
office, Davis would likely face Republican Attorney General  Greg Abbott  in next year’s final vote. Abbott announced his candidacy
in July. He has raised more than $20 million for his bid to
succeed Perry, a Republican who isn’t seeking re-election after
14 years in office.  Davis’s interest in the governor’s race has “been called
the worst-kept secret in Texas,” said Heather Busby, executive
director of NARAL Pro-Choice Texas, an abortion-rights group
that helped organize support for the filibuster. “My gut
feeling is she is running.”  Activist Allies  Bill Miller , a lobbyist in Austin with HillCo Partners,
said abortion activists will use lawsuits to keep the issue in
front of voters as the campaign progresses. “It’s all part of a
bigger strategy,” he said.  Hector Nieto, a Davis spokesman, wouldn’t comment on the
reports. Davis, 50, said yesterday in a statement that her
announcement would take place in Haltom City outside Fort Worth.  Texas Democratic Party Chairman Gilberto Hinojosa said
Davis hasn’t told him of her intentions. No other Democrats have
expressed interest in running, he said.  “She will need strong party backing to be successful,” he
said. No Democrat has won a statewide elective office in Texas
for almost 20 years, Hinojosa said.  Perry, 63, ascended from the lieutenant governorship to the
top job in December 2000 when  George W. Bush  resigned the post
after winning the U.S. presidency. Perry won full four-year
terms in 2002, 2006 and 2010.  After failing in his bid for the 2012 Republican
presidential nomination, Perry’s decision not to seek another
governor’s term has fueled speculation he’ll make another White
House bid in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  