-- Exchange-Traded Note Assets Surge on Dividends, Higher Liquidity
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-09-26T17:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/exchange-traded-note-assets-surge-on-dividends-higher-liquidity.html
Holdings of U.S. exchange-traded
notes have climbed by about a third this year while sales of
unlisted structured securities stagnate, as investors prefer
their greater liquidity and access to dividends.  Issuance of structured notes, which are bonds packaged with
derivatives that offer customized bets on markets, fell to $28.5
billion this year through Sept. 20, down less than 1 percent
from the same period of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The market capitalization of ETNS, which are similar
though easier to trade, rose by 34 percent since Dec. 31 to
$21.5 billion.  ETNs are becoming more popular because many pay coupons
based on company dividends, said William Braman, chief
investment officer at Ballentine Partners LLC. A bigger
secondary market also exists because of the exchange listings
and more transparent prices, he said.  “With ETNs, you get the full underlying value of the
index,” he said in a telephone interview from his office in
Waltham,  Massachusetts . For most structured notes, “the
dividend goes into the counterparty’s pocket, along with the
fees.”  Ballentine, which has more than $4 billion in assets under
management, invests almost $15 million in ETNs that track master
limited partnership companies, he said.  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s U.S. ETN assets have grown the fastest of any bank
this year, more than doubling to $3.29 billion from $1.42
billion. The bank offers 30 ETNs that track the prices of assets
from silver to stocks to mortgage real estate investment trusts.  Note Sales  Meanwhile, its U.S. structured note sales fell 43 percent
this year to $1.48 billion, Bloomberg data show. While UBS
issued about 1,500 securities that mature in three months to 10
years, the Swiss bank didn’t have a single offering larger than
$35 million, compared with a $946.2 million deal bought by
Fisher Asset Management LLC in May 2012.  That security was tied to the Russell 1000 Growth Index,
and the week before it matured in May,  shares outstanding  of the
FI Enhanced Big Cap Growth ETN, linked to the same benchmark,
increased 3.5 times, Bloomberg data show. Fisher Asset holds 22
million shares, or 94.8 percent of the ETN’s total, according to
documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  David Eckerly, a spokesman for Fisher Asset, which is owned
by billionaire investment adviser Ken Fisher, declined to
comment on the exchange-traded securities. He said previously
that another ETN that the firm helped structure “efficiently
accommodates inflows and outflows.”  UBS considers structured notes and ETNs to be part of the
same business, Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for the bank, said
in an e-mail. “Our structured products platform offers both
structured notes and ETNs to best suit our clients’ needs.”  Secondary Markets  ETNs, which like structured notes are debt obligations of
the seller, can be more advantageous for investors because
prices can be obtained from multiple sources, Braman said. The
secondary market for unlisted structured notes is limited, and
banks that issue the securities may use their own models rather
than market values for determining prices.  “There is no liquidity in a structured note,” Braman
said.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies, or events such as
changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  