-- Mexico Lack of Relief Funds Is Credit Negative, Moody’s Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-09-26T18:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/mexico-s-lack-of-relief-funds-is-credit-negative-moody-s-says.html
Mexico’s lack of funds to pay for
damages caused by hurricanes that struck both of its coasts this
month is credit negative as states try to rebuild roads, bridges
and houses, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Reconstruction of cities devastated by hurricanes Ingrid
and Manuel would require 16 billion pesos ($1.2 billion) to 48
billion pesos, according to a report e-mailed today by Moody’s.
The federal government has about 13 billion pesos set aside for
 disaster relief , Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said yesterday.  The twin hurricanes left at least 139 dead, shut down the
highway from Mexico City to Acapulco for a week and forced
60,000 people from their homes. Videgaray said he’ll probably
ask lawmakers to change his 2014 budget proposal to increase
recovery aid. The credit negative factor applies to at least 12
states hardest hit by the storms that have ratings ranging from
Veracruz’s Ba3 to Tamaulipas’s Baa3, Moody’s Associate Analyst
Rafael Rodriguez said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The hurricanes “negatively pressure the finances of at
least 12 Mexican states, a credit negative factor,” Moody’s
wrote in its report. “Even if available federal funds are
sufficient in the short term to cover damages, a long and
complex allocation process could force states to cover some part
of the reconstruction costs.”  The peso fell 0.7 percent to 13.0989 at 1:19 p.m. in Mexico
City, weakening after Moody’s report. The yield on peso-denominated  government bonds  due in 2024 rose 7 basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 6.05 percent.  ‘Negative Factor’  “Today we’ve seen a sale in the market because of comments
about Moody’s related to the fact that the storm situation could
be a credit negative factor,” Alejandro Padilla, a strategist
at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The reaction in both the bond and exchange rate are
due to this topic.”  Padilla added the market has also reacted to the
government’s announcement it will sell more debt in the fourth
quarter. The  Finance Ministry  released a statement today
disclosing its bond-selling program for the last three months of
the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  