-- FCC Tells Comcast to Put Bloomberg TV Among News Channels
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-09-26T23:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/fcc-tells-comcast-to-put-bloomberg-tv-among-news-channels.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  must carry Bloomberg
Television, a competitor to the cable company’s CNBC, near other
news channels, the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission  said.  Bloomberg TV must be placed in neighborhoods of news
channels that Philadelphia-based Comcast provides in standard
definition in the 35 largest markets, the FCC said in an order
released by e-mail today. The agency said it was affirming
decisions by its media bureau.  “With this order, we ensure that Comcast treats Bloomberg
Television comparably to its affiliated news channels” CNBC and
MSNBC, Mignon Clyburn, acting FCC chairwoman, said in a
statement. Viewers flipping from channel to channel “are going
to be significantly less likely” to see a news channel not near
others, Clyburn said.  The FCC’s decision promotes “the availability to the
public of diverse sources of news,” Greg Babyak, Bloomberg’s
head of government affairs in Washington, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The FCC acted on a complaint by New York-based Bloomberg
LP, parent of Bloomberg TV and  Bloomberg News .  Requiring placement in news neighborhoods could require
“endless reshuffling” as new channels ask to be inserted into
lineups, causing viewer confusion, Comcast said in a  filing  last
year.  “We are disappointed,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Washington-based spokeswoman for Comcast, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The FCC’s interpretation very likely will lead to significant
and unwarranted burdens on us, our customers, and other
programming networks.”  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, agreed to place
news channels near one another in system lineups as it sought
FCC approval for its purchase of  NBC Universal  in 2011. The
requirement lasts until 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  