-- Fiat Says Chrysler IPO Would Split Auto Alliance in Two
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-26T14:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/fiat-chairman-says-chrysler-ipo-puts-alliance-at-risk.html
  Fiat SpA (F) ’s plans to merge with its
Chrysler Group LLC unit could be jeopardized if a health-care
trust succeeds in selling a minority stake in the U.S. carmaker
in an initial public offering.  “If the IPO will take place, there will be two companies,
and that’s different than having a single one,” John Elkann,
the Turin, Italy-based company’s chairman, said today in Milan
when asked by Bloomberg News if the listing would put the
alliance at risk. “There is no doubt” that a listing would
alter Fiat’s relationship with Chrysler.  Fiat is reconsidering the benefits and costs of further
expanding its relationship with Chrysler in light of plans to
sell shares to the public, the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
company said in a filing for the listing earlier this week.
Sergio Marchionne, who runs both automakers, is looking to the
IPO process to kick-start a merger effort that was stalled by a
dispute over Chrysler’s value.  Marchionne, 61, has spent the past four years working to
combine the companies and create a global player with the scale
to compete with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  Buying the trust’s stake would give Fiat access
to Chrysler’s $12 billion in cash to help fund a turnaround in
Europe, where Fiat is losing money and market share.
Marchionne’s plan is to merge Fiat and Chrysler as early as next
year.  $1 Billion Gap  Fiat shares  fell  as much as 13.5 cents, or 2.2 percent, to
6.05 euros and were down 0.7 percent at 4:08 p.m. in Milan
trading. The stock has risen 62 percent this year, valuing the
automaker at 7.68 billion euros ($10.4 billion).  Calling the future of Fiat-Chrysler relations into question
is a warning to the United Auto Workers retiree trust, which
owns the 41.5 percent of Chrysler not held by Fiat. Marchionne
is offering at least $1 billion less than what the trust wants
for the stake and is banking on investors being hesitant to pay
a premium in an IPO opposed by Fiat.  Buoyed by a recovery in industrywide U.S. car sales to pre-crisis levels, Chrysler is valued at $13.5 billion, which would
make the union trust’s stake worth about $5.6 billion, according
to estimates from UBS. Fiat may end up paying $4.9 billion to
buy the holding and end the dispute with the trust because the
Italian carmaker has an option to purchase part of the stake at
a lower price, according to UBS.  The trust received the holding as part of Chrysler’s
government-backed bankruptcy in 2009. Although Fiat already has
the right to buy the stake for around $6 billion, Marchionne has
said that he’s seeking to pay much less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  