-- London Weekend: Fleetwood Mac, Bond Breakfast, Timberlake
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-09-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/fleetwood-mac-bond-breakfast-timberlake-london-weekend.html
Fleetwood Mac, Tori Amos, a James
Bond breakfast and the brand-new King’s Cross Square are our
choices for  London  this weekend.  STAGE  U.S. singer-songwriter Tori Amos premieres her musical
“The Light Princess” at the  National Theatre . Amos -- who has
indicated in interviews that she believes in fairies -- worked
for five years to produce the show with writer Samuel Adamson.
Directed by Marianne Elliott, it’s a dark fairy tale about a
prince and princess from warring kingdoms who engage in a
forbidden affair:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk ,
 http://www.toriamos.com  or +44-20-7452-3000.  DINING  The Dorchester hosts “Breakfast With Bond” on Saturday to
mark the release of William Boyd’s new James Bond novel, whose
opening pages are set at the hotel. Boyd reads from the book;
guests get a signed copy and the chance to ogle vintage cars on
the forecourt. Tickets are 69 pounds. Or say “Solo” when
booking breakfast at the Grill until the end of November, and
you get a free copy:  http://bit.ly/15pc5iL  or +44-20-7629-8888.  Medlar, on King’s Road, won Best London Restaurant in the
 AA Hospitality Awards  this week. It’s owned by chef Joe Mercer
Nairne (formerly of Chez Bruce) and David O’Connor, formerly
manager at Chez Bruce, the Square and the Ledbury. The food is
modern European, using British ingredients. Information:
 http://www.medlarrestaurant.co.uk/  or +44-20-7349-1900.  VISUAL ARTS  Cuban-American artist Ana Mendieta’s life was bookended by
trauma: She was separated from her parents at age 12 and died at
age 36, mysteriously falling from a  New York  window.  In between, she produced singular art that’s the focus of a
Hayward exhibition. The show would have been impossible without
Mendieta’s records of her ephemeral creations, such as the 1973
performances where she cast herself as a rape victim.  Mendieta’s 1980 return to Cuba inspired some of her best
work: primitive sculptures carved into caves (and photographed),
some of which still exist. Through Dec. 15 at the Hayward
Gallery:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk  or +44-20-7960-4200.  MUSIC  Fleetwood Mac plays the final gig of its three-concert run
at the O2 -- the first U.K. shows since it sold out Wembley in
2009. The veteran band is the same as at its “Rumours” peak --
while Christine McVie is largely absent, she did make a 
surprise brief appearance at one show. Expect plenty of the 
1977 album, re-released this year in a 35th-anniversary 
edition, as well as hits from a new four-track EP. 
Information:  http://www.fleetwoodmac.com .  The iTunes festival is wrapping up at the Roundhouse.
Dizzee Rascal serves up his droll hip-hop on Friday,  John Legend 
adds jazz on Saturday and  Justin Timberlake  offers hit-material
pop on Sunday:  http://www.roundhouse.org.uk/ .  OTHER LONDON OUTINGS  Send your kids up a chimney this weekend at a festival to
inaugurate a vast new London square. King’s Cross Square (in
front of the station) celebrates its Victorian, industrial past
with a carnival at nearby Granary Square, where visitors can
race penny farthings (those old bicycles with huge front wheels)
and kids can shovel coal.  Information:  http://www.networkrail.co.uk/aspx/6288.aspx .  Meanwhile, cheerleaders, drumlines and stars and stripes
are set to take over Regent Street on Saturday.  The London thoroughfare will be traffic-free ahead of
Sunday’s American football game at Wembley Stadium, pitting the
 Minnesota Vikings  against the Pittsburgh Steelers. Some of the
players will be at the block party, too.  Information:  http://www.regentstreetonline.com .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include Frederik Balfour on the Asian art
market and Jeremy Gerard on New York theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 