-- Ford Says U.S. Auto Sales Pace Slowed After Labor Day Holiday
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-09-26T16:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/ford-says-u-s-auto-sales-pace-slowed-after-labor-day-holiday.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, said the pace of industry sales slowed this
month after hitting a six-year high in August.  “The industry has slowed in September after a very, very
strong Labor Day weekend,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of
the Americas, said today in an interview at the Texas State Fair
in  Dallas . “It’s still a healthy industry but it’s taking a
little bit of a breather from the last three months.”  U.S. car and light truck sales sold at a seasonally
adjusted annualized  rate  of 16.1 million in August, the fastest
pace since October 2007, according to researcher Autodata Corp.
Automakers including Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford counted
deliveries through Sept. 3 in their August sales results. Ford
and analysts at LMC Automotive are pointing to anomalies with
the sales reporting calendar for slower demand in September.  LMC predicted the U.S. sales rate will slow to 15.2 million
this month in a Sept. 19 statement. Analysts at Deutsche Bank AG
and CLSA Americas LLC have estimated a 15.3 million pace, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc, RBC Capital Markets LLC and
TrueCar.com are predicting 15.4 million.  “At this stage, we don’t think the SAAR will be as strong
as the last few months,” Hinrichs said. “It’s back-to-school
time and again Labor Day was in August sales, so a little bit
different year-over-year comparisons.”  Trucks and sport-utility vehicles continue to sell well,
Hinrichs said.  Deliveries of new cars and light trucks may rise to 16.1
million next year, the average estimate of 13 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News this month. That’s about 500,000 more
vehicles than automakers are on pace to sell this year, and
while it’s within reach of 2007’s 16.15 million, it’s well short
of the industry’s 17.4 million peak in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in  New York  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  