-- Four Seasons Seen Drawing China’s Richest Man: Real M&A
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-09-27T21:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/four-seasons-seen-drawing-china-s-richest-man-real-m-a.html
In the hunt for luxury hotel
management companies in America, China’s richest man may set his
sights on Four Seasons, or several smaller boutique chains.  Wang Jianlin, owner of commercial land developer Dalian
Wanda Group, said this month he hired two investment banks to
buy hotel management companies, mostly in the U.S., where a
recovery in travel is boosting lodging demand. Closely held Four
Seasons Hotels & Resorts, operator of the namesake properties in
Manhattan and around the world, would give Wang a high-end,
globally recognized brand, said Robert W. Baird & Co.  With few big luxury names officially for sale, he may
settle for a compilation of smaller, lifestyle hoteliers such as
 Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) , which manages Mondrian and Delano
properties,  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  said. While Morgans’s enterprise value is
the most expensive relative to profit among U.S. lodging peers,
Dalian Wanda’s revenue is forecast to exceed $100 billion by
2020 and Wang has a net worth of $12.7 billion. Wang’s ambitions
may also lead him to high-end boutique chains  Viceroy Hotel
Group  in  Los Angeles  and  Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group LLC  of
 San Francisco , SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. said.  “It’s part of a larger trend,”  James Macdonald , Shanghai-based head of China research for Savills Plc, said in a phone
interview. “Chinese companies are starting to look at
diversifying out of China and bringing intelligence and market
experience from operating overseas back to the China market.
It’s also about taking experience of the China market overseas
to try to get the best of both worlds.”  Building Hotels  A Beijing-based representative for closely held Dalian
Wanda declined to comment on potential takeover targets.  Dalian Wanda plans to build five-star hotels at a rate of
15 per year and in as many as 10 major cities around the world,
including projects planned for London and  New York , Wang said in
an interview with  Bloomberg News  at the  World Economic Forum  in
Dalian this month. The 58-year-old billionaire said he has been
in talks with “several” companies in the past year.  Wang is China’s wealthiest person, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  In addition to 40 hotels, Dalian Wanda runs at least 49
commercial properties across China and 40 department stores from
Beijing to Nanjing, according to its  website . The 25-year-old
company is owned by Wang and his son Wang Sicong.  Hotel chains in the U.S. have benefited from demand in the
lodging industry, with shares of  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  and  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  reaching multi-year highs in May. Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc., owned by
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , this month filed to raise $1.25 billion in
an initial public offering.  Industry Growth  Revenue per available room, the industry’s measure of
average daily room rates and occupancies, is still expanding.
After rising 6.8 percent last year and 8.2 percent in 2011, data
provider STR forecasts it will increase 5.7 percent this year
and 6 percent in 2014.  “For any buyer like Wang, it is a very good time to buy
into this sector since we still have several years ahead of
growth in the hospitality industry,” said Nikhil Bhalla, an
industry analyst at FBR in Arlington, Virginia.  Four Seasons, with 91 luxury properties in 38 countries,
would fit Wang’s ambitions, according to  David Loeb , an analyst
at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird. The Toronto-based company
hired Allen Smith, the head of Prudential Real Estate Investors,
as chief executive officer in August to help the hotelier
expand.  Four Seasons  Bill Gates ’s Cascade Investment LLC,  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal ’s Kingdom Holding Co. and founder Isadore Sharp took Four
Seasons private in 2007 for about $3.4 billion.  “The brand that would fit Wang’s ambitions perfectly is
Four Seasons,” Loeb said in a phone interview. “Prince
Alwaleed loves Four Seasons but he’s a practical guy,” he said,
adding that a sale would be possible at the “right price.”  Sorya Gaulin, a spokeswoman for Four Seasons, declined to
comment when asked if the company would be willing to sell.  If Four Seasons isn’t for sale, Wang may have to settle for
a compilation of smaller high-end hoteliers, including New York-based Morgans or Viceroy, Loeb said.  “It’s a slow process,” Wang told Bloomberg in the
interview earlier this month. “Those companies we liked, they
might not be willing to sell. Those willing to be bought, we
might sometimes feel the brand isn’t as good.”  Among boutique hotels that cater to an affluent younger
clientele, Morgans, Kimpton or Viceroy could be likely
candidates for Wang, said  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at
SunTrust in New York.  Ron Burkle  “All of them are high-end with locations in urban
markets,” Scholes said in a phone interview. “This presents
the opportunity to get Chinese travelers into these hotels and
introduce them to these brands that can ultimately then be
brought to or be expanded in Asia.”  Kimpton CEO Michael Depatie and a spokesman for Morgans
declined to comment on whether the companies would be interested
in selling to Dalian Wanda. A representative for Viceroy didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Morgans climbed to an almost two-year high in early June
when it said it would consider a sale after receiving takeover
interest from five potential buyers. Morgans has since had a
tumultuous few months, with the board ousted and CEO  Michael Gross  resigning. Investors including  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos.
and Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC have called for another
new slate of directors to help sell the company.  Infinity Pools  Morgans operates 12 hotels, known for their stylish decor
and amenities such as  infinity rooftop pools . The hotelier’s
Hudson in New York, the Mondrian in Los Angeles and the Delano
in Miami’s South Beach were opened by  Ian Schrager , who has been
credited with the invention of the boutique-hotel concept.  “Morgans has three good brands, brands whose value is
arguably much bigger than their actual footprint because they
are in key cities and well known throughout the U.S. and
abroad,” Chris Agnew, an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based
MKM Partners LLC, said in a phone interview.  He estimates that Morgans should be valued at $9 a  share  as
a standalone and that an acquirer would have to pay 30 percent
to 50 percent more. Such a price tag would top $900 million,
including net debt.  After rising 25 percent  this year , Morgans closed at $6.95
yesterday. With an  enterprise value  34 times its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the last 12
months, Morgans is more expensive than every other U.S. lodging
stock, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today, Morgans rose 4.3 percent, the most in three months,
to $7.25, giving the company a market value of $237 million. It
was the biggest gainer in the Russell 3000 Leisure Index of 103
companies.  Beverly Hills  In addition to Morgans, closely held Viceroy may appeal to
Wang with its 16-property portfolio that includes the  L’Ermitage
Beverly Hills  and the  Yas Viceroy Abu Dhabi , said FBR’s Bhalla.
Kimpton, the operator of 62 U.S. properties, some of which
feature floor-to-ceiling bookcases and lush velvet drapes in
guest suites, may also fit the bill, Bhalla said.  It would be more efficient for Wang to target only bigger,
top hotel operators, the same way he pursued AMC Entertainment
Holdings Inc. last year to create the world’s biggest cinema
owner, said Kenny Wu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at JI Asia. At
the time, the $2.6 billion deal was the largest acquisition of a
U.S. corporation by a Chinese company.  “If you look at Wanda and what it has done, Wang is now a
big movie-theater owner,” said Loeb of  Robert W. Baird . “He
has the money to think big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  