-- Free Beer Tapped as Football’s Jaguars Seek Ticket Boost
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-26T18:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/free-beer-tapped-as-nfl-s-struggling-jaguars-seek-ticket-boost.html
The  Jacksonville Jaguars , third
worst in National Football League attendance this year, offered
two free drinks for every ticket purchased in an attempt to
boost ticket sales for their Sept. 29 game against the
Indianapolis Colts.  The National Football League team said on its website that
the offer, which ran until noon today, included “water, soda
and BEER!” The promotion is sponsored by  Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV (ABI) ’s Bud Light brand.  Dan Edwards, a spokesman for the Jaguars, said the team
doesn’t disclose sales figures related to promotions.  “The response on this was OK,” Edwards said in a
telephone interview. Team officials aren’t concerned that the
promotion could cause an increase in alcohol-related incidents
during the game, Edwards said.  “The servers are properly trained to serve responsibly,”
he said. “People can always buy beer at the game anyways.”  The average price for beer at a Jaguars’ game is $7,
according to a Team Marketing Report  study . Because it was a
local promotion only, the Jaguars aren’t required to receive
league approval, Edwards said.  The Jaguars have lost their first three games this season
by a total score of 92-28, including a Sept. 22 loss to the
Seattle Seahawks 45-17.  Jacksonville ranks 30th out of 32 teams in the NFL in
attendance this season, drawing 59,416 to their season-opening
loss to the Kansas City Chiefs. The meeting with Indianapolis
will be their second home game of the season. Only St. Louis
(55,279) and Oakland (49,400) have drawn fewer fans for their
lone home games this season. The Jaguars’ stadium can hold as
many as 82,000 fans for large events such as the Super Bowl.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  