-- French Consumer Sentiment Gains as Rise in Joblessness Ends
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-09-26T09:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/french-consumer-sentiment-gains-as-rise-in-joblessness-ends.html
French  consumer confidence  climbed
and  jobless claims  dropped for the first time in more than two
years, the latest signs that Europe’s second-largest economy is
recovering after  exiting a recession  in the second quarter.  Consumer confidence  improved for a third month, rising to
85 from 84 in August, national statistics office Insee said
today. The number of people actively looking for work in  France 
fell by 50,000, or 1.5 percent, to 3.24 million in August, the
Labor Ministry said late yesterday.  The decline in jobless claims snaps an uninterrupted 27-month rise, providing a boost to President  Francois Hollande ,
who has repeatedly pledged to halt the rise in unemployment.
While ebbing job concerns helped boost consumer confidence, both
economists and government ministers caution that the figures
don’t yet show a sustained economic turnaround.  “Whats interesting is that the job situation improved
hugely, while consumer confidence did only barely,” said Jean-Christophe Caffet, an economist at Natixis bank in Paris. “That
makes me skeptical of the August jobs report. For the recovery
the clouds may be clearing, but the economy is far from being
repaired.”  The  French economy  expanded 0.5 percent in the second
quarter, ending more than two years in which gross domestic
product stagnated. The advance was led by exports and  consumer
spending , while investment extended its decline.  ‘Job Creation’  Jobless claims remain close to the record 3.29 million set
in July and are up 7.3 percent from a year earlier. The
 unemployment rate  remains at a 14-year high of 10.9 percent.  “Hiring has picked up and there is job creation,” Labor
Minister Michel Sapin said today on France Inter radio. “This
is not yet the sustained reversal in the unemployment curve that
we’re looking for.”  Hollande’s government is also seeking to foster growth by
slowing the pace of  deficit reduction . Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said yesterday that the  budget deficit  will narrow to
4.1 percent of GDP this year from 4.8 percent in 2012.  The European Commission  predicts  a 3.9 percent deficit for
2013. Moscovici presented the government’s economic strategy
today to Olli Rehn, the EU’s commissioner for economic and
monetary affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  