-- Germany, U.K. Reject EU Plan for Non-Euro Bank Aid Fund
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-26T16:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/germany-u-k-reject-eu-plan-for-non-euro-bank-aid-fund.html
Germany  and the U.K. rejected a
European Commission proposal to turn a 50 billion-euro ($68
billion) rescue fund into a bank backstop for member states
outside the single-currency bloc.  The European Union’s  balance-of-payments fund  currently has
about 40 billion euros available, after being used to help
Latvia, Hungary and  Romania . The commission, the EU’s executive
arm, now wants to overhaul the fund and add a tool for bank aid
that could be tapped by non-euro countries whose lenders fail
next year’s continent-wide stress tests.  Both Germany and Britain say the balance-of-payments
mechanism isn’t intended for recapitalizing lenders. Officials
at the finance ministry in Berlin and in the U.K. government,
asking not to be named under their ground rules, also said it
the backstop ease pressure on countries that need to strengthen
their banking industries.  The Brussels-based commission wants a resource that can
operate alongside the euro area’s 500 billion-euro firewall, the
European Stability Mechanism, so that the entire 28-nation EU is
braced for the results of next year’s stress tests. The goal is
to reach a deal by the end of this year so that the tool can be
ready by mid-2014, when the commission also hopes to have
finished negotiations on when the firewall can provide direct
aid to euro-zone banks.  ‘Credible’ Backstop  “The commission has proposed that the balance-of-payments
mechanism include a bank recapitalization instrument for the
same reason that one is available for euro-area countries under
the ESM: to provide a credible public backstop at the European
level capable of reassuring supervisors and market participants
that financial stability will be assured,” Simon O’Connor, a
spokesman for the commission, said yesterday.  “This is particularly important in view of the forthcoming
asset-quality review and stress tests, which need to strengthen
confidence in the solidity of the financial sector in Europe,”
he said.  The European Central Bank will be conducting balance-sheet
reviews of major banks across the euro area as it prepares to
take on new oversight duties in the second half of 2014. In
addition, all EU banks will face a new round of stress tests,
carried out by the ECB, national regulators and the European
Banking Authority.  Bank Reviews  If all the proposed backstops are in place, the EU would
have as much as 400 billion euros available to handle any
banking problems that emerge. That includes 60 billion euros in
possible direct bank aid from the ESM, 280 billion euros in ESM
capacity for bank-assistance programs like the one Spain
received last year and the proposed tool for non-euro member
states, two EU officials said on condition of anonymity.  The German government sees the existing tools as sufficient
to ensure financial stability, the finance ministry official
said. If difficulties in the financial sector prove to be so
serious that balance-of-payments problems arise, the member
state concerned can already seek aid under a macroeconomic
adjustment program, the German official said.  The U.K. official added that balance-of-payments aid is
normally given in conjunction with the International Monetary
Fund, and the IMF doesn’t bail out banks, making the proposal
impracticable.  Supporters including France, Spain and  Italy  say the EU
needs to show investors it’s braced to handle any problems that
emerge after next year’s bank reviews.  ‘Equal Footing’  While the EU can provide loans to member states from this
fund on its own, “in recent practice the assistance has usually
been extended in co-operation with IMF and other international
institutions or countries,” according to the EU’s website.  “It’s crucial to ensure that countries outside the euro
will be able to take part in the enhanced cooperation on banks
on an equal footing with the euro nations,” Danish Economy
Minister Margrethe Vestager said today. “The principle that the
financial sector will pay its own bills, as we know it from
 Denmark  and the directive on resolution, must also apply to the
framework of a common resolution mechanism and resolution
fund.”  Vestager said she was aware of the commision’s proposal to
use the balance-of-payments mechanism. “But there may be other
ways to do this that we’ll have to look into.”  Reform Program  The EU’s proposed bank-aid tool is part of a broader
proposed overhaul to the balance-of-payments fund, which
requires unanimous approval by EU nations. Tapping the fund
requires countries to apply and to accept conditions, just as
euro-area nations must enter a reform program to qualify for ESM
aid.  Lawyers for the Council of the European Union, which
represents member states, have said the bank-aid proposal would
need to be revised to show a direct link to the wellbeing of the
country in question, the officials said. The commission is
working on revisions to accommodate that concern, they said.  “Not much thought has been given yet to an additional
difficult issue: how to treat non-euro-area countries that are
part of the banking union,” Klaus Regling, the ESM’s managing
director, said this week. “I think a solution has to be
found.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  