-- German Inflation Remains Unchanged at Three-Month Low
-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-09-27T13:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/german-inflation-seen-holding-at-lowest-in-three-months.html
German  inflation  was unchanged at
the lowest rate in three months in September, helping bolster
domestic consumption in Europe’s largest economy.  Annual consumer-price growth, calculated using a harmonized
European Union method, was 1.6 percent, the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s in line with the median
estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . It also
matches August’s rate of 1.6 percent, which was the lowest since
May. Prices were unchanged from the previous month.  The Bundesbank said this week that slowing inflation is
helping to support an “extraordinarily good” consumer climate
in  Germany . The European Central Bank forecasts that prices in
the 17-nation euro area, Germany’s biggest trading partner, will
stay contained amid a gradual economic recovery.  “Inflationary pressure in Germany is still hard to find,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Groep NV in
Brussels. “The often-expected catching up of German prices and
wages is still not happening. The ECB can continue with its
highly accommodative monetary policy.”  Germany is benefiting from unemployment near a two-decade
low and the end of the euro area’s longest-ever recession. That
helped Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats take the largest
share of the vote in Sept. 22 elections and set her up for a
third term as chancellor.  Growth Risks  German  consumer confidence  will climb to the highest level
next month since September 2007, according to a survey by
Nuremberg-based GfK AG. Nominal retail sales in July were higher
than a year ago, even as they dropped in the month.  While the economy is continuing to grow, it’s not matching
the 0.7 percent pace of the second quarter, the Bundesbank said
in its monthly bulletin on Sept. 23. The Frankfurt-based central
bank forecasts German gross domestic product will expand 0.3
percent this year and predicts average inflation of 1.6 percent,
dropping to 1.5 percent in 2014.  The euro-area economy expanded 0.3 percent in the three
months through June to snap six quarters of contraction. GDP
will still shrink 0.4 percent this year before expanding 1
percent in 2014, the ECB predicts. Inflation in the region will
average 1.5 percent this year and 1.3 percent next year, it
forecasts. That’s below the central bank’s 2 percent goal for
the measure.  Rate Outlook  The ECB has pledged to keep its official interest rates at
or below the current record lows to support the region’s
recovery. The bank’s benchmark rate is at 0.5 percent.  Economic confidence  in the euro area increased more than
economists forecast in September, a report by the European
Commission in Brussels showed today. An index of executive and
consumer sentiment rose for a fifth month to 96.9 from a revised
95.3 in August. That beat the median estimate of 96 in a
Bloomberg survey of 26 economists.  “This is the beginning of what could be a solid
recovery,” said Robert Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London . “The economy could beat the ECB’s relatively cautious
forecasts, but very low rates of inflation should keep any
premature talk of policy tightening at bay. The ECB will keep
rates low well into next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Gordon in Frankfurt at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  