-- Italian Bonds Decline Before Sales as Berlusconi Allies Mobilize
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-09-26T15:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/german-10-year-bonds-are-little-changed-amid-ecb-stimulus-bets.html
Italy ’s 10-year government bonds
fell for the first time in nine days before the country auctions
as much as 6 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of debt tomorrow.  Ten-year yields jumped by the most in three weeks on
concern the coalition government will collapse after former
Premier Silvio Berlusconi’s allies threatened to step down if he
is expelled from the Senate as a result of his conviction for
tax fraud. German bund yields dropped to a six-week low as
European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said
central bank policy will remain expansive for as long as needed.  “We have supply tomorrow from Italy so there may be some
pressure on Italian bonds,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior
rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The market is
monitoring closely any statements from central bankers about new
stimulus.”  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 4.33 percent at 4:26 p.m. London time, the
biggest increase since Sept. 5. The 4.5 percent bond maturing
May 2023 fell 0.74, or 7.40 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to
101.635. Yields on the nation’s two-year notes jumped seven
basis points to 1.80 percent.  The rate on Spanish 10-year securities increased six basis
points to 4.34 percent.  “There may be the possibility that if Berlusconi is
expelled, we all declare ourselves expelled,” lawmaker Fabrizio
Cicchitto told reporters after discussions yesterday with
colleagues in the People of Liberty Party, or the PDL.  Political Standoff  The standoff threatens to split Prime Minister Enrico
Letta’s ruling coalition, which depends on the former premier’s
lawmakers for support.  The move by Berlusconi’s allies builds on his threat in
August to bring down the government. Letta’s Democratic Party,
the largest group in parliament, has said the expulsion is
required by law.  Italian President Giorgio Napolitano said in an e-mailed
statement today that the threat by the PDL lawmakers was an
unsettling development, adding that he hoped they would express
their solidarity for Berlusconi in another way. The conviction
was “not a coup,” he said.  Italy allotted 8.5 billion euros of six-month bills at an
average yield of 0.781 percent today.  The nation last sold debt maturing in March 2024 on Aug. 29
at 4.46 percent. The Rome-based Treasury plans to auction as
much as three billion euros of the 2024 securities tomorrow, as
well as up to three billion euros of five-year notes.  Auction Concession  “There’s a bit of a concession ahead of tomorrow’s auction
which should help supply be taken down reasonably,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at broker RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “The overarching theme is one where
the market is not sure what the political outlook in Italy is.
The markets are very wary of Italian bonds.”  Benchmark German bunds headed for a second weekly gain
after ECB President Mario Draghi said on Sept. 23 that policy
makers are ready to pump more cash into the banking system to
stop borrowing costs from rising. Asmussen said in Berlin today
that there’s no inflation pressure in the region. The Frankfurt-based central bank next decides on monetary policy on Oct. 2.  Volatility on Italian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Spain and  Finland , according to
measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.83
percent after falling to 1.81 percent, the lowest since Aug. 15.  Italian bonds returned 4.7 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German
bonds lost 1.7 percent, while Spain’s gained 9.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  