-- Google Must Face Most Claims in Gmail Wiretap Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-26T18:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/google-must-face-most-claims-in-gmail-wiretap-lawsuit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  must face most claims
in a lawsuit alleging it illegally reads and mines the content
of private messages sent through its Gmail e-mail service in
violation of federal wiretap laws.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California,
today granted Google’s request to throw out state claims, while
allowing the plaintiffs to refile. She refused to dismiss
federal claims, rejecting the company’s argument that the
plaintiffs agreed to let Google intercept and read their e-mails
by accepting its service terms and privacy policies.  “The court finds that it cannot conclude that any party --
Gmail users or non-Gmail users -- has consented to Google’s
reading of e-mail for the purposes of creating user profiles or
providing targeted advertising,” Koh said in the ruling.  Users of Gmail and other e-mail services from states
including  Texas ,  Pennsylvania ,  Maryland  and  Florida  contend that
Google “does not disclose the extent of its processing,”
according to a May 16 court filing. The case consolidates seven
individual and group lawsuits.  “We’re disappointed in this decision and are considering
our options,” Google said in an e-mailed statement. “Automated
scanning lets us provide Gmail users with security and spam
protection, as well as great features like Priority Inbox.”  ‘Benefit Unrelated’  While explanations of how Google uses the information are
blacked out in the complaint, plaintiffs say the Mountain View,
California-based company exploits the content of messages “for
its own benefit unrelated to the service of e-mail” and for
profit, specifically to create user profiles and for its
targeted advertising.  Google is also facing claims that the way it operated its
Street View feature violated federal wiretap laws. A federal
appeals court in San Francisco this month upheld a judge’s
decision rejecting Google’s claims that the data it collected,
including e-mails, user names, passwords and documents, wasn’t
covered by the privacy protections of the U.S. Wiretap Act.  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine, has
argued that the complaint in San Jose should be thrown out
because the law allows an “electronic communication service”
to do automated scanning in the ordinary course of business to
route and manage e-mail.  “Google can articulate a legitimate business purpose”
that exempts it from liability under the wiretap laws, Whitty
Somvichian, a lawyer for the company, told Koh at a Sept. 5
hearing.  ‘Completely Automated’  The processes at issue “are a standard and fully disclosed
part of the Gmail service” and the scanning of e-mail is
“completely automated and involves no human review,” Google
said in a court filing. E-mail providers such as Google “must
scan the e-mails sent to and from their systems as part of
providing their services,” the company argued.  The case is In re Google Inc. Gmail Litigation, 13-md-02430, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in federal court in San Jose, California, at
   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  