-- Google Updates Web-Search Services to Improve Results
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-26T19:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/google-updates-web-search-services-to-improve-results.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  unveiled updates to its
Internet-search services that will improve query results,
seeking to keep a step ahead of competitors such as  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing.  In the biggest overhaul of its algorithm since 2010,
Google’s website will give better ranked results for longer
queries, Amit Singhal, senior vice president of search, said at
an event today. The update, called Hummingbird, affects about 90
percent of queries and has already been rolled out to users.  “As they have become more comfortable with search, they
have started asking many more complex questions of Google,” he
said. “And our algorithm had to go through some fundamental
rethinking of how we are going to keep our results so relevant,
given these complex questions.”  Google is beefing up its search engine to keep its lead in
the industry, a position that has helped it become the largest
online-advertising company. The  Mountain View , California-based
company will grab 33 percent of worldwide digital-ad revenue in
2013, up from 32 percent in 2012, according to EMarketer Inc.
Facebook Inc. is projected to be No. 2 this year, with 5.4
percent, followed by Yahoo! Inc.’s 3 percent.  Google’s search enhancements were unveiled at a home in
Menlo Park, California, where co-founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  worked in the company’s early days. The house was then
owned by Susan Wojcicki, a senior vice president, who touted the
company’s commitment to cutting-edge technology at the event.  The improvements extend to Knowledge Graph, a tool that
lets users easily find more information on specific topics.
Searchers may get filters to quickly find more data on a given
subject without extra clicks or taps. It will also let users
easily compare items, such as nutritional information on  butter
versus oil .  The company is updating its search application for Apple
Inc.’s iPhone, which will soon let users set up notifications,
as well as enabling reminders across different devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  