-- Grayken to Invest $330 Million in Lone Star Property Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-09-26T16:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/grayken-to-invest-330-million-in-lone-star-property-fund.html
Lone Star Funds founder and
Chairman  John Grayken  is investing $330 million of his own money
in the company’s new $6.6 billion commercial real estate fund, a
bet on strong returns for property.  The capital commitment was disclosed during a meeting
yesterday of the Oregon Investment Council, which voted to
invest $300 million in the new fund. Grayken’s pledge is the
most the billionaire has put into one of his Dallas-based firm’s
funds by both dollar and percentage.  Lone Star’s new fund is the biggest global pool being
raised for real estate private equity, according to Preqin, a
London-based research firm for alternative assets. The target
was increased from the original $6 billion in response to
investor demand. The first capital pledges are scheduled to be
completed on Sept. 27, according to yesterday’s  Oregon  meeting.  About half of the new fund will be invested in Europe, Nick
Beevers, head of investor relations for Lone Star, told the
Oregon pension trustees. About 30 percent to 40 percent will be
in the U.S. and the remainder in Japan, he said.  “We see the investment opportunities being extremely
heavy” in Europe, he said during the meeting in Tigard, Oregon.
“We expect continued substantial investment in the United
States.”  Lone Star expected to close yesterday on the purchase of
265 loans backed by 313 properties, said Andre Collin, head of
North American commercial real estate acquisitions for Lone Star
and a member of the firm’s investment committee. Collin didn’t
say where the assets are located.  Hudson Employees  Grayken’s investment represents 5 percent of the fund,
higher than normal for a general partner. The firm’s partners
will make a 1 percent combined investment in addition to
Grayken’s personal pledge, Beevers said. Employees of Hudson
Advisors, Lone Star’s asset-management arm, are contributing 1.5
percent through a co-investment vehicle, Beevers said.  The commitments by the firm’s executives and employees are
in addition to the $6.6 billion of third-party investor capital,
Beevers said.  “The pipeline that we are looking at right now in  Japan ,
in Europe, especially in Europe, and in America is very, very
strong” for distressed real estate investments over the next
three years, Collin said. “In Europe, the market is way bigger
than America right now in terms of that pipeline.”  ‘Best Year’  Excluding 2011, when Lone Star won the bidding for about
half of Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s $9.65 billion of U.S. real
estate loans, the portion that was mainly subperforming or
nonperforming, “it’s been by far our best year in all the
regions,” Collin said.  In the U.S., Lone Star is focused on distressed debt, with
more than $1 trillion of commercial real estate debt maturing in
the next three to four years -- or more than 30 percent of the
country’s total supply of commercial-property loans, Collin
said. More than half that debt is subperforming or
nonperforming, he said.  In the U.S., “our focus right now is mainly on the
secondary markets,” Collin said. “We’re not the primary market
guys right now because that cycle, that market, has passed for
us,” with more competition and easier financing having driven
up prices, he said. In secondary markets, there are fewer
lenders and “we benefit from very strong relationships with a
lot of these lenders.”  Firm’s Competitors  In Europe, aside from Lone Star deal makers, Hudson
Advisors has about 300 people competing with  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , Apollo Global Management LLC, Cerberus Capital Management
LP,  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and  Kennedy Wilson (KW)  for
workouts of distressed-property investments. U.S. investment
banks, once Lone Star’s biggest rivals, have largely exited the
market, Collin said.  “What our colleagues in Europe are working on is north of
$25 billion of files,” he said. “It’s very significant.”  Blackstone, the world’s biggest manager of alternative
assets such as real estate, has raised $2 billion in the first
phase of fundraising for its fourth European property fund,
targeted to reach 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion), a person with
direct knowledge of the process said yesterday.  In addition to stepping up purchases, Lone Star and other
real estate private-equity managers have been paying out more
proceeds to investors this year as they take advantage of a
strong market to sell assets, said Anthony Breault, Oregon’s
interim senior investment officer for real estate. Lone Star
represents about 8 percent of Oregon’s real estate portfolio.  Grayken’s investment “certainly does show his level of
conviction regarding the market opportunities and his belief in
the fund’s success,” Breault said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  