-- Gundlach Sees No Fed Tapering Until New Chairman Starts
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-09-26T23:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/gundlach-sees-no-fed-tapering-until-new-chairman-starts.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the
top-performing  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , said the U.S.
Federal Reserve won’t reduce its monthly asset purchases, known
as quantitative easing, until a new chairman takes over at the
central bank at the end of January.  The Fed has indicated that a reduction of asset purchases
will depend on economic data, and it’s unlikely that those
numbers will improve sufficiently by next month to warrant a
reduction in the purchases by October, Gundlach said today on a
conference call with investors.  “It’s hard to believe the data will have such a monumental
change in the next couple of weeks,” said Gundlach, chief
executive officer and chief investment officer of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP.  The central bank unexpectedly refrained from tapering its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases at the Sept. 17-18 policy
meeting, saying it needs more evidence of lasting improvement in
the economy. Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen is the leading
candidate to replace Ben S. Bernanke if he steps down in
January, according to a survey by Bloomberg News.  The Fed has regained some control of the bond market by not
reducing its asset purchases this month, while losing some of
its credibility by first suggesting a taper and then not
following through, Gundlach said.  ‘Less Fear’  Ten-year Treasury note yields reached a two-year high of
3.01 percent in trading on Sept. 6 amid speculation that reduced
bond buying would drive up market rates, before falling
yesterday to as low as 2.61 percent, the lowest level since Aug.
12. Gundlach said the  10-year yield  may drop to 2.45 percent in
coming weeks.  “There’s less fear and loathing for fixed income since
they didn’t reduce,” he said.  The odds of a meltdown in bond yields to new lows have
increased somewhat, Gundlach said, though such a scenario
remains relatively unlikely.  Gundlach’s DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund returned 0.3
percent this year through yesterday, putting it ahead of 92
percent of rivals. It gained an annualized 6.9 percent over the
past three years, ahead of 97 percent of peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net  