-- Gusbourne Expands U.K. Sparkling Winemaking After Ashcroft Deal
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-09-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/gusbourne-expands-u-k-sparkling-winemaking-after-ashcroft-deal.html
Gusbourne Estate , a vineyard in
southeast  England  seeking to cash in on growing demand for U.K.
sparkling wine, is planning to triple its area under vine and
build its own winery following a change in ownership.  Shellproof Plc (SHLP) , an investment company controlled by former
Conservative Party Deputy Chairman Michael Ashcroft, acquired
Gusbourne in a 7 million-pound ($11 million) transaction this
month and announced plans to develop the business along with an
existing vineyard holding in West Sussex.  The move comes amid increasing consumer appetite in the
U.K. for locally produced sparkling wine, as higher temperatures
in the past two decades have enabled vineyards to produce riper
grapes and start to challenge French growers on quality. While
vines have been grown in Britain for more than 1,000 years,
recent improvements in winemaking techniques and grape selection
are starting to transform the industry.  “I’m very grateful for some of the pioneers who put
English winemaking on the map,” Shellproof Chief Executive
Officer Ben Walgate said in an interview in London last week.
It’s a “very exciting new form of agriculture for the U.K.”  Gusbourne Estate, on south-facing slopes outside the Kent
village of Appledore, grows Chardonnay, Pinot Noir and Pinot
Meunier, the three varieties used in  France ’s Champagne region.
It makes Brut Reserve and a blended rose sparkling wine from all
three grapes, as well as a Blanc de Blancs Chardonnay and a
still red Pinot Noir.  Kent Farmland  The vineyard was established 10 years ago by Andrew Weeber,
a South African orthopedic surgeon with a practice in the U.K.,
who had decided to experiment with grapes on the site after
buying arable farmland in the area. The winemaking has been
carried out externally since then under contract. Following the
arrival of fermentation tanks, it will be done at the vineyard
from this year’s vintage.  “Realistically it’s an acquisition, but in many ways it’s
a marriage,” Weeber, who will be chairman, said in an
interview. “I’ve got planning permission for a beautiful
winery. This allows us to compress the timescale.”  Gusbourne already has 50 acres (20 hectares) of mature
vineyard spread across three plots on the same site, and plans
to plant a further 100 acres over the next two years, according
to Shellproof’s stock-market filing this month.  “We have much more acreage to go out there in Kent,”
Walgate said. Including Sussex, the enlarged company will have
205 acres of vineyards.  Financing Growth  As part of the transaction, Shellproof announced a stock
placing to raise 2.85 million pounds for funding the expansion,
and is also changing its name to Gusbourne Plc. Its shares are
being re-admitted to  London  Stock Exchange Group Plc’s
Alternative Investment Market.  Gusbourne currently sells its sparkling wines for between
24.99 pounds and 29.99 pounds a bottle on its website. The
expanded company intends to produce more than 500,000 bottles a
year once all its vineyards in Kent and Sussex reach maturity,
according to the offer document.  Full output is not scheduled to be reached for about 11
years, allowing for three years to plant further vines, four
more years to reach peak grape production and another four for
the wines to mature.  Gusbourne joins a list of vineyards across southern England
making sparkling wine as a product for which there is both local
demand and export potential. Wineries include Chapel Down in
neighboring Tenterden, Ridgeview Wine Estate near Brighton,
whose first vintage dates back to 1996, and Nyetimber, which has
375 acres of vineyards planted in West Sussex and Hampshire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in London at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  