-- Michelin Promotes London Restaurants as Blumenthal Gains
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-09-26T10:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/michelin-adds-2-star-restaurants-in-london-as-blumenthal-gains.html
Michelin upgraded two restaurants
to two-star status in the 2014 Britain and Ireland dining guide:
Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal  and the Greenhouse, both in London.  There are 15 new one-star establishments, including Ametsa,
Angler, Bo London, Brasserie Chavot, HKK,  Lima , Outlaw’s at the
Capital, Social Eating House and Story, all in London. L’Atelier
de Joel Robuchon loses its second star.  “London, in particular, has never offered so much
choice,” Rebecca Burr, the guide’s editor, said today in an e-mailed release. “With cuisines and culinary influences from all
parts of the globe, it’s no surprise that the capital is one of
the most exciting cities in the world for food.”  Michelin stars are valued highly by chefs and the likely
awards are discussed in kitchens across the U.K. before
publication. Speculation this year centered on hopes for more
three-star restaurants. There are only four in the U.K.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Other one-star winners include the Samling, Ambleside;
Adam’s, Birmingham; Wilks, Bristol; Ormer by Shaun Rankin, St.
Helier; Campagne, Kilkenny; Lady Helen, Thomastown.  In  London , new winners of a Bib Gourmand for value dining
include A Wong, Del Mercato, Green Man & French Horn, Gail’s
Kitchen, Grain Store, Honey & Co and Polpo Smithfield.  France Leads  The U.K. now has a total of 167 stars. Four restaurants
hold three, 21 hold two and 142 have been awarded one. The
British guide is the first of the current series. Currently, the
totals are: France, 596; Japan 595;  Italy  307,  Germany  255.  Of three-star establishments, there are 28 in Japan, 27 in
France, 10 in the U.S. and Germany, seven in Spain & Portugal
and in Italy, and five in  Hong Kong  and Macau.  Joel Robuchon  is the chef with most stars. He has 21, even
after dropping one today. Fellow Frenchman  Alain Ducasse  is
second, with 18.  Gordon Ramsay  has 10,  Pierre Gagnaire  has eight
and Thomas Keller seven. (Michelin doesn’t credit Gagnaire with
the two held by Sketch, in London, where he devises the menu.)  Michelin & Cie (ML) , Europe’s largest tiremaker, produced its
first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until 1920 and was
intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand, France.  The “Michelin Guide Great Britain & Ireland 2014” will be
available in bookshops from Oct. 4, priced at 15.99 pounds
($25.71). “Michelin Guide London 2014” will be 11.99 pounds.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Scott Reyburn on the art market and
 Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 