-- Militants Attack India Police, Soldiers in Disputed Kashmir
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-09-26T04:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/militants-attack-india-police-soldiers-in-disputed-kashmir.html
Militants dressed in army uniforms
attacked an Indian police station and military base in the
disputed Kashmir region a day after leaders of  India  and
 Pakistan  agreed to meet for the first time in more than a year.  The attack on the  army  base in Samba may still be under
way, while the assault on the police station in nearby Kathua
district is over, Ashok Prasad, director general of police in
Jammu and Kashmir state, said in a telephone interview. Police
are trying to work out whether the attack was carried out by
different groups or the same militants, he said.  “There will be casualties but at this moment it is too
early to say what the death toll will be,” Prasad said. The
militants attacked the police station at about 6:45 a.m. and
then escaped on a truck, he said.  India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said yesterday he
will hold talks with Pakistan counterpart  Nawaz Sharif  when both
leaders attend the  United Nations General Assembly  later this
week. Their meeting comes a month after five Indian soldiers and
three Pakistani troops were killed in fighting in Kashmir.  In the first seven months of this year, the number of
cease-fire violations along the Line of Control that separates
the countries increased 80 percent from the same period last
year to 57, Defense Minister A.K. Antony told parliament last
month.  Control over Kashmir poses one of the biggest hurdles to
improved relations between India and Pakistan. The nuclear-armed
neighbors have fought two of their three wars since 1947 over
the region, which is divided between them and claimed in full by
both.  An anti-India insurgency erupted in 1989, with India
accusing Pakistan of aiding guerrilla groups in their attacks.
Pakistan rejects the claim.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  