-- Lilly Drug Meets Goal in Gastric Cancer, Misses Breast
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-09-26T20:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/lilly-drug-meets-goal-in-gastric-cancer-misses-breast.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s experimental drug
ramucirumab failed to meet its goals for treating breast cancer
in a late-stage trial, sending the shares down.  The therapy didn’t help patients live longer without their
tumor progressing in the study known as Rose, Indianapolis-based
Lilly said in a statement today. The compound did meet its
primary goal in a separate late-stage trial called Rainbow for
the treatment of people with advanced stomach cancer.  Lilly is counting on ramucirumab and experimental drugs for
Alzheimer’s and diabetes to help revive  growth  with revenue set
to fall 20 percent in 2014 because of generic competition to the
antidepressant Cymbalta and Evista for osteoporosis. Analysts
expected about $1 billion in annual sales from ramucirumab by
2020, said  Tim Anderson , a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst. Over
the last two years, Lilly has had research setbacks on drugs for
lymphoma, Alzheimer’s, schizophrenia and rheumatoid arthritis.  “This is yet another high-profile phase-3 failure for  Eli
Lilly  that we believe could trigger investor calls for a shift
in strategy,” said Alex Arfaei an analyst with BMO Capital
Markets in a note to clients. “We remain cautious.”  Lilly fell 3 percent to $51.04 at the close in New York.
The company has gained 3.5 percent this year.  Continues Testing  Lilly is continuing to test the drug in four other types of
malignancies though breast cancer would have been one of the
biggest markets. There are an estimated 10 times as many cases
of  breast cancer  as gastric cancer in the U.S. this year, the
 American Cancer Society  has said.  The drug was a key product obtained by Lilly from its $6.5
billion acquisition of ImClone Systems Inc. in 2008.  Lilly said it didn’t intend to seek regulatory approval for
the compound as an initial breast-cancer treatment based on the
breast cancer study results.  “We are disappointed that this breast cancer trial did not
meet its primary endpoint,” Richard Gaynor, Lilly’s vice
president for oncology product development and medical affairs,
said in the statement. “However, now with two positive gastric
cancer trials, Lilly remains confident in the overall
ramucirumab development program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  