-- IndiGo Sees 1,000 Plane-Fleet as Travel Surges: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-27T11:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/indigo-sees-1-000-plane-fleet-as-travel-surges-corporate-india.html
IndiGo,  India ’s biggest domestic
carrier by market share, plans to more than double its fleet in
a decade as part of a goal to eventually become a 1,000-plane
operator by tapping the nation’s rising travel demand.  IndiGo will have at least 150 planes by 2023, President
Aditya Ghosh said in an interview. The budget airline now has 70
Airbus SAS A320s, he said, without giving a timeframe for
building the fleet to 1,000 aircraft.  The privately held company’s expansion plans mirror that of
Indonesia’s PT Lion Mentari Airlines and Malaysia’s  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) 
as Asia’s economic growth enables more people to fly for the
first time. Demand from India and  China  and global growth of
low-fare carriers will spur a market for $4.4 trillion worth of
commercial planes in the next two decades, according to Airbus.  “The long term potential of the Indian market is pretty
huge,” said  Kapil Kaul , the head of the Indian unit of CAPA
Centre for Aviation, which advises airlines. “I don’t see any
reason why such an ambition is not possible.”  In January 2011, IndiGo ordered 180 planes worth $15
billion from Airbus, the biggest order in commercial aviation
history at that time. Before that, the carrier had ordered 100
aircraft from the same manufacturer. It currently has an order
backlog of 200 planes and some of these will be replacing its
existing aircraft, Ghosh said.  Fuel, Fares  The carrier is owned by InterGlobe Enterprises Ltd. that
has its origins in a travel company founded by Kapil Bhatia in
1964. Rakesh Gangwal, a former US Airways chief executive
officer was a co-founder of IndiGo, which started services in
August 2006.  The budget airline had a profit of 7.87 billion rupees
($127 million) in the year ended March 31, its fifth straight
profitable year, Ghosh said in the Sept. 24 interview. In
comparison,  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  and state-owned Air India
Ltd. have lost money for years as the region’s highest fuel
costs and cut-rate fares eroded gains from carrying more
passengers.  Shares of Jet fell 0.8 percent, snapping two days of gains,
to 349.80 rupees in Mumbai. The stock has dropped 37 percent
this year, while  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , the nation’s only listed budget
carrier, has  lost  54 percent.  India’s domestic airline industry had a combined loss of 98
billion rupees in the 12 months ended March 31, according to
government data. Jet hasn’t made an annual consolidated profit
in six years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Liquor
baron Vijay Mallya’s  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  ended operations
in October after struggling to pay salaries and losses widened.  Leaseback Deals  As much as 89 percent of aircraft in IndiGo’s fleet are
financed through sale and leaseback agreements, Ghosh said.
Under a leaseback agreement, a third party takes ownership of a
plane ordered by an airline and rents it to the carrier under
lease. The deals allow airlines to avoid burdening balance
sheets, eliminate the need to tap commercial bank finance and
protect them from a potential drop in used-plane prices.  Ghosh denied that the sale and leaseback deals helped
IndiGo become profitable.  “If leasing of aircraft was the way to profitability, then
anybody who leases more number of planes should be able to make
more money,” he said. “There’s no relationship between the
planes that are leased and profit.”  Competition is set to intensify for IndiGo as industrywide
losses haven’t deterred more carriers from entering India, the
world’s second-most populous nation.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) 
last week announced a full-service venture with Tata Group.
AirAsia also teamed up with Tata this year for a discount
airline, while Etihad Airways PJSC agreed to buy a stake in Jet.  Weaker Rupee  Indian airlines also have to contend with a weaker rupee
and the lack of adequate infrastructure. Rising competition may
affect the ability of airlines to price fares viably, said Harsh Vardhan, chairman of New Delhi-based Starair Consulting.  “AirAsia with its established credentials may impact
IndiGo,” said Vardhan. IndiGo’s plans to scale up operations
“depend on how they continue to perform. The sector is highly
fragile and today’s performance is no guarantee for tomorrow’s
success.”  IndiGo edged past Jet last year to become the nation’s
biggest by market share. In August, the carrier’s flights were
punctual 91.4 percent of the time, ahead of all other domestic
carriers, data form the nation’s aviation regulator show.  The budget operator will fund its expansion using own
money, Ghosh said. It will also consider options including
leases, export credit facilities and outright purchase.  AirAsia, Lion  AirAsia group, operator of Southeast Asia’s biggest
discount carrier, had a fleet of 130 A320s as of Aug. 21. In
December, the carrier ordered 100  A320s,  in addition to the 200
it had agreed in 2011 to purchase. It plans to take delivery of
351 more planes by 2026 from Airbus.  Indonesia ’s Lion Air agreed to buy 234 Airbus planes in
March, its second commitment in two years to purchase more than
200 planes. As of April, the airline had a total of 700 planes
on order, including turboprop aircraft.  The number of air passengers in India is forecast to triple
to 452 million by 2020, according to a report by CAPA and SITA.
Asia’s third-largest economy currently has 441 commercial
aircraft, according to government data. Air India, the nation’s
oldest, has a fleet of 108 planes. Jet, which started flying in
1993, has 100 aircraft, according to its  website.   “A million more travelers every month will be coming in
for the next 40 months” in India, Ghosh said. “There have to
be airlines and aircraft to manage and carry that traffic.
That’s what we’re totally focused on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  