-- India Solar-Credit Demand Doubles as Enforcement Tightens
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-26T04:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/india-solar-credit-demand-doubles-as-enforcement-tightens.html
Demand for solar energy credits in
 India  more than doubled this month as regulators strengthened
efforts to enforce renewable targets on power distributors.  More than 6,700 solar credits were sold in the September
trading session, up from 2,359 the previous month, according to
data from Indore-based trader REConnect Energy Solutions Pvt.  The government requires power distribution utilities and
large industrial companies including  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  and  Tata
Power Co. (TPWR)  to get as much as 10 percent of their energy from
renewables. Those unable to source enough locally can comply by
purchasing credits from clean-energy plants sold on power
exchanges.  The market, established in 2011, has struggled to take off
with credits languishing at their floor prices amid weak
enforcement. That is starting to change with stringent
regulatory action, REConnect said in a note to clients.  The electricity regulator in northern Uttarakhand in a
 Sept. 11 order  threatened to fine the local state-run power
distributor for failing to meet its targets in the financial
year ended March 31, 2012. Uttarakhand Power Corporation Ltd.
has until March 31 to buy credits to meet those targets
retroactively or face possible penal proceedings, the
Uttarakhand Electricity Regulatory Commission said.  In this month’s session, wind, hydropower and biomass
credits traded at their floor price of 1,500 rupees ($24) for a
13th straight month. Solar credits, which trade separately, also
cleared at their minimum price of 9,300 rupees. Each credit
represents 1 megawatt-hour of electricity fed into the grid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  