-- Indonesian Funds Dump Stocks Tumbling Most Amid Global Rally
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-09-27T04:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/indonesian-funds-dump-stocks-tumbling-most-amid-global-rally.html
Indonesia ’s biggest mutual funds
are liquidating stocks traded in Jakarta as local interest rates
rise and growth slows, sending the nation’s benchmark equity
index to the biggest drop among major markets this quarter.  Equity funds managed by local units of  Schroders Plc (SDR) ,
Manulife Asset Management and PT Bank Mandiri raised their
average cash holdings to 12.8 percent at the end of August from
10.3 percent in June and 6.9 percent in March, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  Jakarta Composite Index’s (JCI)  8 percent drop
this quarter left it valued at 18 times reported earnings, a 56
percent premium over the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Indonesian policy makers raised borrowing  costs  four times
since June, sacrificing economic growth to help stem the fastest
inflation since 2009 and the rupiah’s slide to a four-year low.
While PT Danareksa Sekuritas says higher cash holdings is a
contrarian indicator that  stocks  in  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy will rally, PT Nomura Indonesia says it shows investors
with the most at stake are bracing for more losses.  “Businesses in Indonesia are facing a number of
challenges, from rising costs to  interest rates  and now the
weaker rupiah,”Jeffrosenberg Tan, a  money manager  at PT
Sinarmas Asset Management, which oversees about $600 million,
said by phone from Jakarta. “I’m happy with my cash holdings.”  The Jakarta gauge rose 0.7 percent at 11:30 a.m. local
time, bound for steepest rise since Sept. 19, led by gains in PT
Astra International which rose 1.6 percent and a 5.4 percent
jump in PT Indofood CBP Sukses Makmur.  Biggest Loser  PT Gudang Garam (GGRM) , a Kediri-based tobacco company, and PT
Charoen Pokphand Indonesia, a producer of  animal feed , led the
Jakarta index to the biggest decline among benchmark equity
gauges in the world’s 25 biggest equity markets since June, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark measure for
Indonesia’s $385 billion equity market is heading for its
biggest quarterly drop in two years.  The MSCI All-Country World Index has increased 8.2 percent
since June, while  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 8.9
percent and  Brazil ’s Ibovespa climbed 14 percent. Russia’s Micex
gained 11 percent and  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex added 2.6 percent.  Cash figures at the end of August were compiled from fact
sheets for the largest equity mutual funds at Mandiri, Schroders
and Manulife, which are all based in Jakarta. The 10 funds,
which have total assets of about $2.5 billion, are required to
invest at least 80 percent of their holdings in stocks.  Mandiri, which oversees about $1.7 billion firmwide, will
keep cash holdings at about 10 percent even after the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s surprise decision to maintain monetary
stimulus on Sept. 18 fueled a 4.8 percent gain in the Jakarta
gauge last week, according to Chief Investment Officer Priyo Santoso.  Deficit Concern  While Schroders may trim its cash “a bit,” the firm isn’t
fully invested in stocks, Michael Tjoajadi, the chief executive
officer at PT Schroders Indonesia, which oversees about $4.4
billion, said by phone on Sept. 23. Alvin Pattisahusiwa,
director of investment at PT Manulife Aset Manajemen Indonesia,
which oversees about $3.8 billion, declined to comment.  “There will be an emerging-market rally following the
euphoria through maybe the end of the month, but after that
investors will look at the fundamentals again,” Santoso said by
phone from Jakarta on Sept. 20. “For Indonesia, the issue is
still the current-account deficit.”  The current-account gap in Indonesia swelled to a record
$9.8 billion, or about 4.4 percent of gross domestic product, in
the second quarter, Bank Indonesia data showed on Aug. 16. That
compares with an estimated surplus of about 1 percent of GDP for
 emerging markets  as a group this year, according to the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  Foreign Outflows  The rupiah has depreciated more than 13 percent against the
dollar this quarter, the worst performance among 23 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as  foreign-exchange
reserves  fell to the lowest level in almost three years in July.  International investors sold a net $714 million of
Indonesian shares this quarter, compared with $107 million of
inflows into India and $9.6 billion into  South Korea , according
to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s equity gauge is valued at an 8 percent premium
versus India’s Sensex and is 18 percent more expensive than
South Korea’s Kospi gauge, which trades at 15 times reported
earnings.  Higher cash holdings suggest reduced selling pressure in
the stock market, which is a bullish signal, according to
Chandra Pasaribu, the head of equity research at  Danareksa .  “Now is a good time to be opportunistic and look for
value,” Pasaribu said by phone from Jakarta on Sept. 18.  Fed Rally  Indonesia’s equity index advanced 4.7 percent on Sept. 19
after the Fed said it will maintain $85 billion of monthly debt
purchases. The Jakarta gauge has climbed 11 percent from this
year’s low on Aug. 27 and is up 286 percent since the U.S.
central bank began its first round of bond-buying in 2008.  Fed stimulus isn’t enough to solve Indonesia’s economic
challenges,  Mark Konyn , the Hong Kong-based chief executive
officer of Cathay Conning Asset Management, said in a Sept. 19
interview on Bloomberg Television.  The weaker rupiah and rising fuel prices pushed  inflation 
to 8.79 percent last month, the highest level since January
2009. The central bank has raised its benchmark interest rate by
1.5 percentage points to 7.25 percent since June, even as the
nation’s  economic growth  decelerated for a fourth-straight
quarter to 5.8 percent, the weakest pace in almost three years.  “Cash is your best defense,” said Wilianto Ie, the head
of equity research and strategy at Nomura in Jakarta. “Fund
managers normally do this when they face uncertainties in the
market or they think that a crisis is coming.”  Indonesian markets may become vulnerable when the Fed
begins paring its stimulus, said Schroders’ Tjoajadi. Policy
makers may make a “small” cut to bond purchases in October,
Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in a Sept. 20
interview on Bloomberg Television.  “Tapering will happen, that’s a certainty,” Tjoajadi
said. “There will be consequences to the financial markets. So
now it’s about how can we minimize the impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  