-- Interpol Seek 7/7 Bomber’s Widow After Kenya Mall Attack
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-09-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/interpol-seek-7-7-bomber-s-widow-after-kenya-mall-attack.html
Interpol  asked police forces
worldwide to seek and arrest the widow of a  London  Underground
suicide bomber, after Kenya charged her with possession of
explosives and conspiracy to a felony.  A so-called red notice was issued by the Lyon, France-based
international police organization for Samantha Lewthwaite, a
British citizen nicknamed the “White Widow” by U.K. tabloids.
She had fraudulently obtained a South African passport in the
name of Natalie Webb, according to yesterday’s Interpol
 statement .  Newspapers in Africa and Britain have speculated that
Lewthwaite was involved in this week’s raid on a Kenyan mall in
which at least 67 people and five attackers died. Kenyan Foreign
Minister Amina Mohamed told U.S. broadcaster PBS that a British
woman who has “done this many times before” was involved in
the attack. There’s been no official confirmation on
Lewthwaite’s involvement.  The Somali-based militia al-Shabaab claimed responsibility
for  Kenya ’s deadliest attack in 15 years, which began when
gunmen stormed the upscale Westgate mall in Nairobi on Sept. 21,
lobbing grenades and spraying gunfire. Al-Shabaab leader Ahmed
Godane  warned  of “more bloodshed” unless Kenya withdraws its
forces from  Somalia , where they’re deployed to combat the
Islamist group.  Johannesburg Homes  Lewthwaite, the daughter of a British soldier, was married
to Jamaica-born Germaine Lindsay, who like her was a Muslim
convert. He was one of the four perpetrators of the July 7, 2005
attacks on London’s transport network -- exploding a device on
the Piccadilly Line between King’s Cross and Russell Square,
killing 26 people.  Using Webb’s identity, Lewthwaite traveled in and out of
South Africa between July 2008 and February 2011, when the
passport was canceled, Home Affairs Minister Naledi Pandor told
reporters in  Pretoria  yesterday. Webb’s U.K. family didn’t
immediately respond to telephone messages seeking comment.  Lewthwaite rented a property in the Muslim-dominated area
of Mayfair in Johannesburg, according to publicly available
rental records. She leased another property in Bromhof in
northern Johannesburg. A man who lives near the house identified
her from photographs shown to him by a Bloomberg reporter,
saying he’d frequently seen her though they’d only spoken once
and he didn’t know her by name. He declined to be identified
citing concern about his security.  Forensic Experts  Kenyan authorities yesterday said that they’ve shared a
list of suspects in the mall attack with Interpol, without
identifying them. Forensic investigators at the scene are being
assisted by experts from  Israel , the U.S.,  Germany ,  Canada  and
Britain in a probe that’s expected to last at least a week,
according to Interior Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku.  Interpol said the charges against Lewthwaite in Kenya date
to December 2011. It wasn’t immediately clear why the issuing of
the international warrant was delayed until now.  “Through the Interpol red notice, Kenyan authorities have
ensured that all 190 member countries are aware of the danger
posed by this woman,” Secretary-General Ronald Noble said in
the statement.  Kenya’s relative stability in a troubled region has
attracted companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
to set up bases in the East African nation. The United Nations’
African headquarters are also in Nairobi.  The attack may curb government revenue and is “credit
negative,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a Credit Outlook
report yesterday. The biggest impact will be on the tourism
industry, which accounts for 12.5 percent of gross domestic
product, it said.  Investors have largely discounted such concerns. The
country’s  benchmark stock index  gained 0.6 percent yesterday to
a five-week high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mehul Srivastava in London at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  