-- Lion Air Talks With Bombardier on Order for Larger CSeries Model
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-09-26T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/lion-air-talks-with-bombardier-on-order-for-larger-cseries-model.html
PT Lion Mentari Airlines is
interested in buying  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries aircraft and may
announce an order at next year’s Farnborough Air Show, Chief
Executive Officer Rusdi Kirana said.  Indonesia ’s biggest budget airline is in talks with
Bombardier about being the initial customer for the CS300 model,
Kirana said yesterday at a press conference in Montreal.
Deliveries of the plane, which can seat as many as 160 people,
ideally would begin in 2016, he said.  The CSeries “is a big quantum leap for Bombardier,”
Kirana said. “Usually what they make is quite normal aircraft,
but this one is very special.”  The airline is buying planes as a growing middle class in
Indonesia spurs air travel demand. Adding Lion Air as a customer
would be a boost for Bombardier, which is still 123 firm orders
short of a target of 300 by the time the aircraft enters service
in about a year. The first CSeries test plane successfully
completed its maiden flight 11 days ago -- 8 1/2 months late.  Lion Air already has 700 planes on order and expects to
have ordered 1,000 aircraft within two to three years, Kirana
said in March. The Jakarta-based carrier agreed to buy 230
 Boeing Co. (BA)  737 planes last year.  Marc Duchesne, a Bombardier spokesman, confirmed that the
companies are in discussions over a CSeries order, saying that
Kirana on Sept. 25 toured Bombardier’s production facilities in
Mirabel,  Quebec . The spokesman declined to comment on the timing
of a possible deal, adding that Bombardier doesn’t typically
identify initial customers ahead of time.  Bombardier’s Class B  shares  rose 0.4 percent to C$4.83
yesterday in Toronto. They have gained 28 percent this year.  First Look  Kirana, who is in Montreal for the International Civil
Aviation Organization’s triennial general assembly, said he met
with the head of Bombardier’s commercial aircraft unit, Mike Arcamone, on Sept. 25 and saw the CSeries for the first time.  Bombardier will probably send a sales team to Indonesia to
hold further talks with Lion Air executives next month, Kirana
said. Pricing hasn’t come up in the discussions yet, he said.  “This aircraft is beyond my expectations,” Kirana said.
“I heard that the CSeries was a good aircraft, but when I saw
it last night, it surprised me. I think the aircraft will be one
for the future.”  Bombardier has said the CSeries, which features the new
geared turbofan engine from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt &
Whitney, will cost about 15 percent less to operate, cut fuel
burn by about 20 percent and produce less noise.  ‘Biggest’ Order  While Kirana declined to specify how many CSeries planes
Lion Air is planning to buy, he said that “when I order, we are
going to be the biggest at that time.”  Bombardier’s largest CSeries firm order so far is from
Republic Airways Holdings Inc. of the U.S., which agreed in 2010
to buy 40 jets, with options for another 40.  Should Lion Air go ahead and buy the CSeries, deliveries
would probably be spread out over five years, the CEO said.  Lion Air hasn’t decided which routes it would deploy the
CSeries on, Kirana said. The company also operates a long-haul
carrier called  Batik Air , which began operations this year.  “We are not sure whether we can put this aircraft on full
service or high-density, low-cost” routes, he said.  Traffic at Lion Air will probably climb at least 10 percent
annually in the next few years, Kirana said. About 70 million
people flew in Indonesia last year, a 14-fold increase from
2000, he said.  Lion Air expects to carry 36 million passengers this year
and 40 million in 2014, the CEO said. About 32 million people
flew with the company last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  