-- Iran Breakthrough With Atomic Monitors Seen Unlikely
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-09-27T08:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/iran-breakthrough-with-atomic-monitors-seen-unlikely-at-meeting.html
Iran ’s eagerness to resolve the
stalemate over its disputed nuclear work is unlikely to yield
any immediate outcome in negotiations with atomic monitors
seeking more access to the program, arms-control analysts said.  The Persian Gulf nation is meeting with International
Atomic Energy Agency officials today in Vienna, with both sides
sending new negotiators to the talks. Iran’s envoy, Reza Najafi,
and the IAEA’s new chief inspector, Tero Varjoranta, are
conferring for the first time.  “Nobody should expect that in a one-day meeting we can
solve our problems,” Najafi told reporters before entering
Iran’s embassy in Vienna today. “We expect to review the
existing issues and also exchange views on the way we can
continue our cooperation.”  Iran and the IAEA have been negotiating since January 2012
over an agreement that would allow inspectors access to sites,
including a key army installation alleged to have housed
undeclared atomic work. While the agency routinely verifies that
Iran hasn’t diverted any of its declared nuclear stockpile for
weapons, it published information in November 2011 that Iran may
have worked on an atomic-bomb trigger at its Parchin military
complex 20 kilometers (12 miles) southeast of Tehran.  The U.S. and its allies accuse Iran of seeking nuclear
weapons, a charge repeatedly denied by the Persian Gulf nation,
home to the world’s fourth-biggest proven oil reserves.
President Hassan Rouhani’s election in August lowered crude  oil
prices  on speculation tensions may ease over the nation’s
nuclear program.  Like-Minded Group  The IAEA yesterday published a  letter  received from Iran on
Sept. 12 detailing the grievances that the country has about the
investigation. It criticized the agency’s probe into non-nuclear
related matters like missile technology and reiterated that it
must see the IAEA’s evidence before it can respond.  “It is more likely that a first meeting between two new
representatives will be a getting-to-know-each-other and stock-taking meeting than the occasion for surprise,” said Peter Jenkins, who was the U.K.’s ambassador to the IAEA when Rouhani
was the country’s nuclear negotiator. “A breakthrough is
unlikely.”  Foreign ministers from the U.S. and five other powers met
Iran’s top diplomat, Javad Zarif, yesterday in  New York . While
the talks went well, the test will come when those negotiations
resume in Geneva Oct. 15, the diplomats said.  ‘Like Minded’  “The president, the foreign minister and myself are a
group that is a like-minded group,” said  Ali Akbar Salehi , the
nation’s ex-foreign minister now in charge of Iran’s atomic
work, at a Sept. 16 meeting in Vienna. We “will facilitate the
resolution of this issue if the other side is willing.”  In its last report, the IAEA said Iran needs to stop trying
to hinder its investigation by seeking to impose conditions on
inspectors work. The agency wants to be able to control the
sharing of evidence it has received from other countries as well
as retain the right to prolong some of its inquiries, the Aug.
28  document  said.  “The key is for Iran to drop its earlier effort to place
limitations on the agency’s proposed work plan,” said  Daryl Kimball , executive director of the Washington-based Arms Control
Association, in an e-mail.  Beyond Atmospherics  Iran has in the past accused the IAEA of acting on the
behalf of Western powers and aiding saboteurs who have targeted
its nuclear program. The country has altered the landscape
around some parts of the suspected Parchin site, according to
the IAEA, which based its finding on satellite-imagery analysis.  While Rouhani and President  Barack Obama  indirectly
exchanged words aimed at soothing tensions on Sept. 24 at the
 United Nations  in New York, their statements have yet to be
backed by action.  “Neither Obama nor Rouhani’s speeches at the UN proved to
have much new in them beyond atmospherics,”  Paul Ingram ,
executive director of the London-based British-American Security
Information Council, said in an interview. “While the
atmospherics are welcome, we need to pass through them quickly
to agreements. This window might not stay open forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  