-- Italy Borrowing Costs Drop as Investors Bet on Stimulus
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-09-26T10:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/italy-borrowing-costs-drop-as-investors-bet-on-more-stimulus.html
Italian borrowing costs at an
auction of six-month bills dropped from August amid speculation
European Central Bank officials will signal today they are open
to providing additional stimulus.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 8.5 billion euros ($11.5
billion) of 182-day bills at 0.781 percent, down from 0.886
percent at the previous auction on Aug. 28. Investors bid for
1.45 times the amount offered, compared with 1.47 last month.
Italy will redeem 9.4 billion euros of bills Sept. 30.  “The ECB stance is a strong support factor for the front
end of periphery curves,” UniCredit fixed-income analyst  Chiara
Cremonesi  wrote in a note before the sale.  Central banks have recently signaled monetary policy will
remain loose. The  Federal Reserve  last week maintained its
policy of buying $85 billion of debt a month to put downward
pressure on borrowing costs. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in
testimony to the European Parliament in Brussels Sept. 23 that
he’s ready to deploy another long-term refinancing operation to
maintain short-term money markets at a level warranted by the
central bank’s assessment of inflation.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 8 basis points to 4.3
percent at 11:20 a.m. in Rome, leaving the difference with
comparable German bunds at 250 basis points.  Italy returns to the market tomorrow with the sale of as
much as 6 billion euros of longer-maturing bonds, including a
10-year security.  “The auction is supported by relative value opportunities,
the recovery in the market tone and we expect the domestic bid
to remain firm,” Citigroup Inc. fixed-income strategist Nishay
Patel wrote in e-mailed report today.  Gross debt issuance this year will be around 470 billion
euros, Italy debt agency head Maria Cannata said at a conference
in Milan this week. Next year’s issuance should be in line with
this year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  