-- Italian President Says Threat by Berlusconi Allies ‘Unsettling’
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o ,   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-09-26T12:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/italian-president-says-threat-by-berlusconi-allies-unsettling-.html
Italian President Giorgio
Napolitano said he is worried about a threat by Silvio Berlusconi’s lawmakers to resign en masse if the former
premier’s tax-fraud conviction leads the Senate to expel him.  By stepping down, the lawmakers of People of Liberty Party,
known as PDL, “would hit the Parliament’s functionality at its
roots,” Napolitano said today in an e-mailed statement. “Not
less unsettling would be the intent to act that way in order to
put pressure on the president to dissolve Parliament” and call
early elections, he said.  The announcement yesterday of possible resignations after a
PDL party meeting builds on Berlusconi’s threat in August to
bring down the government of Prime Minister Enrico Letta, who
ends his visit to the U.S. today. Letta’s  Democratic Party , the
largest group in parliament, has said the expulsion is required
under a law passed last year. The standoff on Berlusconi risks
splitting the ruling coalition, which depends on the former
premier’s lawmakers for support.  “There may be the possibility that if Berlusconi is
expelled, we all declare ourselves expelled,” lawmaker Fabrizio Cicchitto told reporters late yesterday. “It’s a serious
possibility we’re taking into consideration.”  Italy’s 10-year government bonds fell for the first time in
nine days amid the risk the coalition government will collapse.
The yield climbed 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
4.32 percent at 1:58 p.m. in  Rome . That was the biggest jump in
three weeks. The country’s benchmark  FTSE MIB (FTSEMIB)  Index fell as much
as 2.2 percent, the most in one month, making it the worst
performer in  Europe .  Vote Risk  “Napolitano will spare no efforts to try to build a new
parliamentary majority to avert the risk of snap polls” if the
PDL withdraws its support to Letta,  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst
with Teneo Intelligence in  London , said today in a note to
investors. “If pushed to the limit, Napolitano could also
threaten parties with his resignation to exercise additional
pressure.”  Napolitano canceled his attendance at an event in Rome,
Italian news agency Ansa reported earlier today, citing a
message sent to participants. In his e-mailed statement the
president also said that Berlusconi’s conviction is “not a
coup” and that verdicts must be carried out. If Berlusconi’s
lawmakers were to quit, those resignations would then need to be
ratified by a majority in a parliamentary vote.  Tax Promises  Berlusconi, who turns 77 this weekend, said on Sept. 19
that a government crisis would be negative for  Italy  now and
that his party will continue to back Letta as long as he keeps
to promises on tax cuts. A motion to halt expulsion proceedings
against Berlusconi was rejected that day in a committee vote at
the Senate, paving the way for a possible showdown.  “The prime minister is in  New York  to represent Italy in
front of the UN and world markets,” Democratic Party Leader
Guglielmo Epifani said in a statement yesterday. He said the
“decisions and incredible noises from the PDL are further proof
of its irresponsibility.”  A public hearing of the Senate panel on Berlusconi’s case
was set for Oct. 4 to allow the media tycoon-turned-politician a
forum to present his defense. After that, the committee will
decide whether to put the matter before the full Senate for a
final vote.  Tensions between Berlusconi’s allies and the government
have grown this month after People of Liberty’s lawmakers said
Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni needs to find a way to
avoid a value-added tax increase planned for Oct. 1. In an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  this week
Letta declined to say whether he will stop the levy’s increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  