-- Lithuania Urged to Probe Alleged Secret CIA Site by Rights Group
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-09-26T16:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/lithuania-urged-to-probe-alleged-secret-cia-site-by-rights-group.html
Lithuania should renew an
investigation into claims it hosted a secret U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency prison, human rights groups said.  The former Soviet republic sheltered the facility where a
Saudi national accused of financing the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist
attacks was held illegally, according to Redress, a London-based
anti-torture advocacy group and Lithuania’s Human Rights
Monitoring Institute, which lodged a complaint with prosecutors,
London-based  Amnesty International   said  in a statement on its
website today. The prosecutor’s office confirmed it received the
complaint and said it’s considering it.  Lithuania, the U.K., Romania and  Poland  are among countries
that haven’t fully investigated allegations they hosted secret
CIA facilities to interrogate suspected terrorists starting in
2002, Redress  said  this month. Mustafa al-Hawsawi, now held at
Guantanamo Bay, probably was detained secretly in Lithuania
sometime between 2004 and 2006, according to Amnesty.  “The Lithuanian government has said time and again that if
fresh information is presented, it will consider re-opening the
previous investigation,” Amnesty representative Julia Hall said
in the statement. “Well, here it is.”  Lithuania’s general prosecutor’s office closed a pretrial
investigation on secret prison operations in the country in
January 2011 citing a lack of evidence. The office is
considering the complaint, which it received on Sept. 13, the
office’s spokeswoman, Elena Martinoniene, said by phone today.
No further comments will be made until prosecutors decide how to
proceed, she said.  Amnesty Evidence  Lithuania  two years ago refused to renew an investigation
of possible illegal CIA work in the country, Amnesty said. It
said human rights groups at the time gave prosecutors evidence
that Abu Zubaydah, a stateless Palestinian al-Qaeda suspect now
held at Guantanamo Bay, was secretly sent to Vilnius in 2005.  Lithuania, which holds the European Union’s rotating
presidency, should lead by example in defense of the rule of law
by finishing its probe of the matter, Amnesty’s Hill said.  “Stalling on accountability for involvement in torture and
disappearance sends a dangerous message,” she said.  A Lithuanian parliamentary commission said in December 2009
it had evidence that security department officials allowed the
CIA to operate a secret prison in the Baltic state between 2002
and 2006 to detain terrorist suspects. The panel said it had no
“firm evidence” that the prison was used for its original
purpose to interrogate terrorist suspects.  Then-U.S. President  George W. Bush  in 2006 confirmed for
the first time the country held some detainees captured abroad
at covert jails run by the CIA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  