-- Lixil, Development Bank of Japan Buy 87.5% in Grohe
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-09-26T18:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/lixil-development-bank-of-japan-buy-87-5-in-grohe.html
Lixil Group Corp. (5938)  and Development
Bank of Japan agreed to buy bathroom-fixtures maker Grohe Group,
valuing the German company at 3.06 billion euros ($4.1 billion).  Lixil Group and Development Bank are purchasing 87.5
percent of the company from TPG Capital and a unit of  Credit
Suisse Group (CSGN)  AG, Grohe said in a statement today. The deal is
the second-biggest by a Japanese company this year.  Japanese companies are expanding overseas as the nation’s
population shrinks. Lixil Group, which also sells construction
materials, bought bathroom-fixture maker American Standard
Brands this year, as the group aims to more than double sales at
its international unit to 1 trillion yen ($10 billion).  “Lixil will gain a brand name with a high-quality image by
buying Grohe,” said  Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst in Tokyo at
Credit Suisse. “It’ll help boost overseas sales when the
domestic outlook is dim, which is in line with their plan to
expand outside Japan. There’ll be an opportunity to cut costs as
well.”  The companies said they expect the deal to be completed in
the first quarter of 2014. Grohe will remain independent within
the Lixil group, and Chief Executive Officer David Haines has
signed a new five-year contract to head the unit.  Investment Profit  TPG, based in Fort Worth, Texas, and Credit Suisse unit DLJ
Merchant Banking Partners LP will garner about a 170 percent
gain on the $600 million to $650 million of equity they invested
in a 2004 leveraged buyout of Grohe, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Owen Blicksilver , a TPG spokesman at Owen Blicksilver
Public Relations, declined to comment on the firm’s profit.
Suzanne Fleming, a Credit Suisse spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail query.  The two bought Grohe for a reported $1.84 billion from BC
Partners Ltd. and helped expand the company’s reach into Asia in
2011 when they acquired control of China’s  Joyou AG. (JY8)  The Chai
family, which owns most of the rest of Joyou, will retain a 12.5
percent stake in Grohe.  TPG, the private-equity firm run by  David Bonderman  and
 James Coulter , and Credit Suisse’s New York-based unit had been
exploring a dual-track sale and listing process since April,
people familiar with the preparations said at the time.  Lixil Group agreed last month to pay $542 million for
American Standard and has also bought Permasteelisa SpA, which
made walls for the Guggenheim Museum and the Sydney Opera House.
Under today’s agreement, Grohe will be controlled by a joint
venture with equal stakes held by Lixil and  Development Bank .  ‘Growth’ Emphasis  “There were other companies interested in us, but Lixil
was the only one to place growth high on the agenda,” Grohe CEO
Haines said in a conference call with journalists. “There will
be more synergies on a sales level than on a cost level, because
we are geographically in completely different regions.”  Today’s deal is the biggest acquisition announced by a
Japanese company this year after  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender, said in July that it plans to buy
Thailand’s  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl (BAY)  for as much as 560 billion yen.  Lixil Group rose 3.9 percent to 2,099 yen in Tokyo trading
today. The company has gained 9.5 percent this year, compared
with a 42 percent gain in  Japan ’s Topix index.  Grohe will give Lixil a “strong” sales channel in Europe,
Lixil CEO Yoshiaki Fujimori told reporters in Tokyo. Lixil will
halt acquisitions of big foreign companies for now to focus on
expanding the businesses it has bought, he said.  Europe’s Largest  Grohe, which is based in Dusseldorf and calls itself
Europe’s largest provider of sanitary fittings, had also drawn
interest from companies including Swiss competitor  Geberit AG (GEBN) ,
the people said.  Lixil Group had  285 billion yen  of long-term borrowings
outstanding at the end of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company is rated a fifth-highest A+ by Japan’s
Rating & Investment Inc. and had  40 billion yen  in bonds
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Grohe, TPG and DLG were advised by Acxit Capital
Management, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Weil LLP
and  Clifford Chance . Lixil was advised by BNP Paribas, Moelis &
Co., SMBC Nikko and Linklaters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in 東京 at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  