-- J.C. Penney Gains After Reiterating Improved Outlook
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-09-26T20:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/j-c-penney-repeats-outlook-for-positive-same-store-sales.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  rose after
reiterating that it expects positive comparable-store sales
trends in the second half of the year after its stock plunged in
the past week over concerns that it’s running out of cash.  The shares advanced 3 percent to $10.42 at the close in New
York. The stock had  dropped  26 percent in the previous six
trading days through yesterday when an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said the chain’s liquidity will be strained this
quarter.  Some key items and sizes are back in stock, helping sales
at stores and online, the Plano, Texas-based company said today
in a statement. Performance in many areas is becoming more
predictable as well, J.C. Penney said. The chain’s suppliers are
being supportive as it continues to pay them on time, Kristin Hays, a spokeswoman for the retailer, said in an e-mail.  “What they are saying today is that they are continuing to
see traction” in winning back their core, older female
customers, Mary Ross Gilbert, an analyst with Imperial Capital
LLC in Los Angeles, said in a phone interview. “They should be
in a good position for fourth quarter.”  Chief Executive Officer Mike Ullman is working to shore up
investors’ confidence and fix a company that hasn’t turned a
quarterly profit since mid-2011 and lost $1.6 billion in the
past year on a 22 percent drop in revenue. Ullman, who took back
the helm this year after his predecessor’s attempt to appeal to
younger and wealthier consumers failed, has revived sales events
and brought back private-label merchandise that appeals to the
chain’s traditional customers.  Sales Improvement  Those actions helped slow the loss of shoppers, with sales
at stores open at least 12 months sliding 12 percent in the
fiscal second quarter ended Aug. 3. Comparable-store sales are
expected to decline 4.3 percent in the current fiscal third
quarter and gain 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Retail Metrics.  Charles Grom , an analyst for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
New York, said in a note yesterday that Ullman told him in a
meeting that sales during the back-to-school shopping period
showed “good progress.”  J.C. Penney, which took out a $2.25 billion loan and drew
$850 million from its revolver this year, is in talks to raise
more cash to fund its turnaround, people with knowledge of the
matter said last week. While the company doesn’t have immediate
 cash  needs, it has faced shareholder pressure to take advantage
of cheap financing, the people said.  Additional Financing  J.C. Penney said on Aug. 20 when it announced its quarterly
results that it expected to end the year with more than $1.5
billion in liquidity and that the forecast doesn’t assume it
would need any additional outside financing.  The company’s shares fell the most in almost seven months
yesterday after Kristen McDuffy, a New York-based analyst for
Goldman Sachs, said the chain is facing “weak fundamentals,
inventory rebuilding, and an underperforming home department.”  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst for Citigroup Inc., followed
with a research note after the market closed yesterday that said
the “turnaround is taking longer than we expected” and that
while the retailer has “ample liquidity” this year, “adequate
cash for 2014 and 2015 is in question.”  The New York-based
analyst, who has a sell rating on J.C. Penney, also cut her
share-price estimate from $11 to $7.  For the year, J.C. Penney’s shares are down 47 percent,
compared with a gain of 19 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  