-- J-Power Plans to Start Japan Coal-Price Index to Cut Fuel Cost
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-09-26T07:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/j-power-plans-to-start-japan-coal-price-index-to-cut-fuel-cost.html
Electric Power Development Co. (9513) ,
 Japan ’s largest thermal coal buyer, wants to start a local coal-price index that includes freight and insurance as it seeks to
reduce fuel costs.  The power wholesaler, known as J-Power, and at least one
counterparty started a system that matches bids and offers to
set a monthly price for Australian coal delivered to Japan,
Atsushi Yoshida, the director of the company’s energy business
department, said in an interview today in Tokyo.  Japan’s power companies are seeking ways to reduce fuel
costs after the Fukushima disaster in March 2011 forced them to
shut reactors for safety checks and rely more heavily on thermal
power generation. The country’s nine regional utilities will
have to pay 3.8 trillion yen ($38.4 billion) more in combined
fuel costs this fiscal year than they did in fiscal 2010 because
of nuclear shutdowns, the government said in April.  “We are asking other Japanese utilities, suppliers and
traders to join the scheme,” Yoshida said. “When we get more
participants, we want to list the index to an exchange or
disclose the price” that can also be used for pricing other
coal contracts, he said.  The index would help participants maintain stable supply in
the event of disruptions and sell excess coal more flexibly,
Yoshida said. Companies would have a greater choice of suppliers
and could buy cheaper coal, Yoshida said.  J-Power imports more than 20 million metric tons a year of
thermal coal, Yoshida said in a presentation at a conference in
 Tokyo  today. It has coal-fired generation capacity of 8.4
gigawatts, or one-fifth of the country’s total, according to the
presentation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  