-- Japan Pension Panel Advises Review of Bonds Held by GPIF
-- B y   R o c k y   S w i f t   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-09-27T07:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/japan-pension-panel-advises-review-of-bonds-held-by-gpif.html
The panel advising  Japan ’s leaders
on how to keep the Government Pension Investment Fund, the
world’s largest manager of retirement savings, from running out
of money said depending on domestic bonds has to stop after
record fixed-income losses and as inflation returns.  The interim report from the panel of economists comes as
market participants say the 121 trillion yen ($1.23 trillion)
GPIF should increase its holdings of risk assets. Some members
of the advisory group recommended adding new assets such as
real-estate trusts, infrastructure and private-equity
investments and commodities, yesterday’s report said.  “If you read between the lines of the report, you can
easily imagine that the review of the portfolio means a decrease
in the allocation ratio of domestic bonds,” Takatoshi Ito, who
chairs the panel, said at a briefing in Tokyo after the group
met. Its final recommendations will be announced in November he
said.  Ito said in an interview earlier this week that there “was
a consensus” to reduce the weighting of domestic bonds, as
potential losses on the securities pose a risk for pension funds
such as GPIF. The fund posted its smallest gain in three
quarters in the period ended in June because of record domestic
bond losses. Investors anticipate the fund will expand its
purchases of foreign equities and bonds to boost profitability.  Overseas Investment  “Allocation to stocks can be raised, and it’s desirable to
limit the home bias and increase overseas investment,”  Masaru Hamasaki , a Tokyo-based senior strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $112
billion, said on Sept. 25.  GPIF announced in June a cut to its target holding for
domestic bonds to 60 percent from 67 percent, while the
proportion of foreign and local shares was changed to 12 percent
each, from 9 percent and 11 percent respectively. Allocations
will remain at the revised levels until at least March 2015,
GPIF President Takahiro Mitani has said.  The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year note declined one
basis point to 0.68 percent in Tokyo today. That’s the lowest
globally and 1 1/2 basis points from the least since May 10.  “Pension funds are among the biggest holders of Japan’s
bonds, so I don’t expect them to sell in a way that triggers a
collapse in the market,” Makoto Yamashita, the chief Japan
rates strategist in  Tokyo  at Deutsche Securities Inc., said
today. “Any decrease in bond allocations would be a reasonable
degree, and if it’s a substantial reduction, it’s natural there
would be a few years of a transition period.”  Portfolio Change  Ito, the dean of Tokyo University’s Graduate School of
Public Policy, was named to the newly formed panel in June to
advise on investments by GPIF and other government-related
funds. The panel is discussing diversification into stocks,
overseas bonds and alternative assets such as real estate funds,
he said earlier this week.  “There will be a recommendation to change the portfolio,”
Ito said on Sept. 24. “There is a consensus that we should
reduce the domestic bonds.”  At yesterday’s briefing, Ito said that the panel didn’t get
into specific portfolio ratios.  Japanese government bonds fell yesterday as domestic shares
rose and the yen weakened on news that the pension reform panel
was meeting.  Three Arrows  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will decide on Oct. 1, after the
release of the Bank of Japan’s  Tankan survey  of business
sentiment, whether the economy is strong enough to go ahead with
planned increases to the sales tax. He has pledged to defeat 15
years of deflation and spur growth in the world’s third-largest
economy using the so-called three arrows of fiscal stimulus,
monetary easing and a package of growth-oriented initiatives
including deregulation.  Government data today showed the nation’s  consumer prices
excluding fresh food  climbed 0.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since November 2008.  “If they’re assuming deflation will continue, they’re fine
to keep allocations unchanged,”  Tsutomu Yamada , a market
analyst at Kabu.Com Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone on
Sept. 25 of pension fund investments. “If, on the other hand,
Japan is expected to achieve 2 percent inflation, 2 percent real
economic growth and 4 percent nominal growth over the next 10 to
20 years, GPIF could probably raise its allocation to domestic
equities by about 10 percentage points.”  Bonds, Stocks  Japan’s Topix index of shares surged 42 percent this year
through yesterday, the most among developed markets. The MSCI
World Index of developed equities climbed 16 percent. Japanese
sovereign bonds handed investors a 1.9 percent return in the
same period, according to an index compiled by Bloomberg.  “Public pension funds without domestic shares won’t do
well with inflation and need to be changed to be in line with
the nation’s strategy to beat deflation,” Kyoya Okazawa, the
head of global equities and commodity derivatives at BNP Paribas
Securities (Japan) Ltd., wrote in an e-mail response to
inquiries on Sept. 25. “The large allocation to government
bonds that rely on tax revenue is inconsistent with the
pessimistic view on local companies that pay corporate tax.”  The BOJ unveiled an unprecedented monetary stimulus program
in April, saying it would double monthly JGB purchases to more
than 7 trillion yen in pursuit of a 2 percent inflation target.
The easing has kept a lid on bond yields as it helped Japan’s
exporters by sending the yen to a 4 1/2-year low of 103.74 per
dollar in May.  Japan’s 10-year bond yield swung from an all-time low of
0.315 percent to as high as 1 percent after the BOJ announced
its easing plan. The five-year average is 1.08 percent.  “It’s natural to reduce the weighting of domestic bonds
considering yields have fallen toward an all-time low, limiting
returns, and given a risk that yields will rebound,” Kazuhiko Ogata, the chief Japan economist in Tokyo at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
said on Sept. 25. “The BOJ will have to keep its foot on the
gas pedal as it struggles to achieve its inflation target. That
bolsters investor confidence and provides support to risk
assets.”  Bloomberg News surveyed investors, analysts and economists
on what the pension panel should advise GPIF to change its
portfolio to in its report expected in November. Figures are in
percent of the total portfolio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  