-- Japan Inflation Accelerates to Fastest Since 2008 on Energy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-09-27T01:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/japan-inflation-accelerates-to-fastest-pace-since-2008-on-energy.html
Japan ’s inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace since 2008 in August on higher energy costs,
underscoring pressure on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to drive wage
increases as he seeks to end 15 years of deflation.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  increased 0.8 percent
from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo.
The median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a gain of 0.7 percent. Stripping out energy and
perishables, prices fell 0.1 percent.  The yen’s 20 percent slide against the dollar in the year
through August pushed up fuel costs. While the data point to
early success for Abe, a sales-tax increase scheduled for April
will add to the burden on households and risk dragging on the
nation’s economic rebound. Abe is set to announce a decision on
the levy on Oct. 1.  “Without pay increases, households’ purchasing power will
weaken gradually,” said Taro Saito, director of economic
research at NLI Research Institute in  Tokyo . “Abe will have to
keep up his campaign on companies for wage growth.”  The Topix index slipped 0.1 percent at 10:08 a.m., while
the yen climbed 0.1 percent to 98.93 per dollar.  Confidence Falls  Gasoline prices rose this month to the highest since 2008,
according to the industry ministry. The nation’s last operating
nuclear reactor was halted for maintenance on Sept. 15, leaving
Japan without atomic power for the first time since July 2012,
and more dependent on imported fuel.  Abe last week began meetings with business and trade union
leaders to press his case for wage increases, key to the success
of his effort to spur growth under his economic policies dubbed
Abenomics.  Salaries in July extended the longest slide since 2010,
with regular wages excluding overtime and bonuses falling 0.4
percent from a year earlier, a 14th straight drop.  Rising prices in the absence of higher incomes have dented
consumer sentiment, which could undermine consumption.  Consumer confidence  fell in August for a third consecutive
month, and  sentiment among merchants  declined for a fifth month.  Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said last week the
economy is moving “smoothly” to reach a 2 percent inflation
target that the central bank aims to achieve within about two
years with its unprecedented monetary easing.  Hamburger Prices  Mos Food Services Inc. (8153) , said this week it would raise the
price of hamburgers at its Mos Burger restaurants for the first
time in five years.  Yakult Honsha Co., a maker of fermented milk products, said
on Sept. 10 it would replace one of its drinks with a new
version that costs 14 percent more, its first price increase in
22 years.  The core CPI could rise 1 percent on year at the end of
2013 as the sales-tax increase encourages consumers to front-load spending, said  Azusa Kato , senior economist at BNP Paribas
SA in Tokyo, before the data were released.  Japan’s finance ministry plans to resume selling inflation-linked bonds next month after a five-year hiatus.  Shuichi Obata, senior economist at Nomura Securities Co.
said he expects a moderate increase in consumer prices, as the
boost from energy costs is expected to fade.  “Inflation alone won’t ever be pleasant for households,”
Obata said. “Abe must be feeling pressure to make companies
raise wages as prices climb, especially when a sales-tax hike is
in sight.”  The sales tax is set to rise to 8 percent from 5 percent
now, pending Abe’s decision next week. The prime minister has
ordered his government to compile a stimulus package to offset
the blow to the economy. After the levy was last increased in
1997, Japan’s economy fell into recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  