-- Japan Bond Insurance Costs Increase, Default Swap Prices Show
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-09-26T01:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/japan-bond-insurance-costs-increase-default-swap-prices-show.html
The cost of insuring corporate
bonds in  Japan  against non-payment rose, according to traders of
credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced 0.5 of a basis point
to 93 basis points as of 9:17 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to
Citigroup Inc. prices. The measure is poised to rise 4 basis
points this week, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 149 basis points
as of 8:09 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. prices show. Series 20 of the index began trading on
Sept. 23 with Export-Import Bank of  India  and Shinhan Bank the
newest members.  Fresh versions of the benchmarks are created every six
months when companies are added or dropped depending on their
ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading. The indexes
typically have a maturity of five years.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was also little changed
at 119 basis points as of 10:55 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. prices. The gauge is set for its lowest
close since Sept. 20, when the new series 20 of the index began
trading, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  