-- Drop in U.S. Jobless Claims Increases Confidence
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-26T20:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/jobless-claims-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fell-to-305-000-last-week.html
Americans unexpectedly filed fewer
claims for  unemployment benefits  last week, highlighting labor-market gains that are shoring up  consumer confidence .  Jobless  claims  dropped by 5,000 to 305,000 in the week
ended Sept. 21, a Labor Department report showed today in
 Washington . The monthly average was the lowest since 2007. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose for the third straight
week, another report showed.  Fewer dismissals show employers are confident sales will
hold up and sustain growth in the world’s largest economy amid
the budget battle in Washington. At the same time, higher
borrowing costs threaten to curb corporate expansion as well as
the household spending that accounts for 70 percent of gross
domestic product.  “We definitely have seen a gentle downtrend in claims over
the course of the year,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist
at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Unfortunately, the problem for the labor market for a long
time has not really been the pace of layoffs, it’s been the slow
pace of hiring.”  Last week’s figure for claims was the lowest since 2007,
excluding the week ending Sept. 6, when a change in computer
systems in California and  Nevada  distorted the figures.  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advancing
0.4 percent to 1,698.67 at the close in  New York . The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.65 percent.  Consumer Confidence  Other data today confirmed the economy accelerated in the
second quarter and showed fewer Americans signed contracts to
buy previously owned homes in August.  GDP rose at a 2.5 percent annualized rate, unrevised from
the previous estimate, after expanding 1.1 percent in the first
quarter, the Commerce Department reported.  The index of  pending home sales  fell 1.6 percent as a
recent rise in  mortgage rates  slows momentum in the housing
market, according to figures from the National Association of
Realtors.  In the U.K. today, a report showed economic growth
accelerated in the second quarter as higher  consumer spending 
helped blunt the impact of a drop in business investment.  Household expenditures rose 0.3 percent and disposable
income increased 1.5 percent, the most in a year, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in  London . Income was boosted by bonus
payments being deferred to take advantage of a  tax cut . GDP
advanced 0.7 percent in the quarter, matching a previous
estimate.  Economists’ Estimates  Economists’ estimates for U.S. jobless claims in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from 310,000 to 370,000 after the prior
week’s previously reported 309,000.  The four-week average dropped to 308,000 from 315,000 in
the prior week, today’s Labor Department report showed.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is among companies hiring after
eliminating positions during the recession. The retailer is
taking on 55,000 seasonal workers and adding another 70,000
part-time and full-time employees as it gears up for the holiday
season and reverses workforce reductions that made it hard to
keep store shelves stocked.  The U.S. workforce at Wal-Mart’s namesake and Sam’s Club
warehouse chains fell by about 120,000 employees in the past
five years, to about 1.3 million, according to regulatory
filings. In that time, the company has added more than 500 U.S.
stores through July 31.  Jobs Report  A Labor Department report next week will probably show that
employers stepped up the pace of hiring. Payrolls increased by
175,000 this month, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, following a gain of 169,000 in August. The
projected gain in employment would be the biggest in four
months. The jobless rate is forecast to hold at 7.3 percent.  Saying they need to see more evidence of improvement in the
economy and the labor market, Federal Reserve policy makers last
week unexpectedly refrained from the reducing the pace of bond
purchases intended to spur growth.  Gains in equities and  home prices  are boosting household
wealth, laying the groundwork for a sustained increase in
 consumer spending .  A report yesterday showed household net worth climbed to
$74.8 trillion in the second quarter, an increase of 1.8 percent
from the previous three months, the Fed said.  The value of financial assets, including stocks and pension
fund holdings, held by American households increased $674
billion in the second quarter. Household real-estate assets grew
by $602.3 billion.  Household Finances  An increase in optimism about household finances helped
spur a third straight gain in sentiment last week, according to
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. The measure rose to minus
28.1, the highest since the period ended Aug. 11, from minus
29.4. The  gauge of finances  climbed to a seven-week high as the
fewest respondents since late April viewed their budgets as
“poor.”  The figures contrast with a report this week from the
Conference Board, which showed its confidence index declined
this month to the weakest level since May. At the same time, a
gauge of present conditions improved.  Consumers are spending more on big-ticket items like cars.
Motor vehicles sold in August at the  fastest  annualized rate
since November 2007, according to data from Ward’s Automotive
Group. The latest results at General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co.,
and Toyota Motor Corp. surpassed analysts’ estimates.  Holiday Shopping  Some Americans are cutting back elsewhere, a sign spending
will be slow to accelerate heading into the  holiday shopping
season  without faster growth in incomes and wages. U.S. chains
are bracing for a tough holiday season, when sales are projected
to rise 2.4 percent, the smallest gain since 2009, according to
Chicago-based ShopperTrak.  “The general sentiment is somewhat more conservative,”
Clay Creasey, chief financial officer at Toys R Us Inc., said on
a Sept. 24 earnings call. “I have seen the numbers or surveys
or whatever that talk about continued slowness in the toy
category.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  