-- JPMorgan at Chrysler Side After Being Burned in Bankruptcy
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-09-26T22:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/jpmorgan-back-at-chrysler-side-after-being-burned-in-bankruptcy.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the lender
that lost almost $2 billion during Chrysler Group LLC’s 2009
bankruptcy, is now its chief adviser as the automaker’s two
owners haggle over its value.  JPMorgan will advise Chrysler in the event of its sale to
majority shareholder,  Fiat SpA , said people with knowledge of
the matter who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The bank was also listed this week as
the lead underwriter of an initial public offering of Chrysler
shares owned by the company’s other shareholder, a United Auto
Workers retiree trust.  The dual role highlights the complicated path Chrysler has
been forced to take to resolve a dispute between its two
backers.  Sergio Marchionne , the chief executive officer of both
Chrysler and Fiat who has spent four years seeking to merge the
companies, is at loggerheads with the UAW’s trust over the value
of its 41.5 percent stake in Chrysler. Letting public investors
put a price on the stake, through the IPO process, is one way to
resolve the matter.  “From a banker’s viewpoint, more transactions are
preferred to less,” said  Jay Ritter , a professor of finance at
the University of  Florida . “In either an IPO or a merger, the
acquisition of the remaining stake offers opportunities to
collect fees.”  Conflicted Interests  The New York-based bank isn’t alone. The UAW’s trust, known
as a VEBA, has picked  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  to represent it on both
the IPO and the potential stake-sale to Fiat, people said.  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman at JPMorgan, declined to
comment, as did Mayura Hooper at Deutsche Bank,  Shawn Morgan  at
Chrysler, and a spokesman at Fiat. The Wall Street Journal
reported Deutsche Bank’s role on the deal earlier.  Marchionne, meanwhile, finds himself in the position of
running the company that’s being listed and also the controlling
shareholder that’s opposed to the IPO. One question advisers to
Chrysler, Fiat and the health-care trust have grappled with is
how Marchionne will square Fiat’s unwillingness to pay a high
valuation for Chrysler, while he pitches the company to public
investors on a road show, said people familiar with the matter.  So far no one has a good answer to that question, said two
of the people. Chrysler acknowledged Marchionne’s awkward role
in the share sale preparation, saying in a filing this week that
he “may have a conflict of interest with respect to matters
involving both companies.”  Chrysler Bankruptcy  Banks pitched for roles in the offering in early March at
Chrysler’s  Auburn Hills , Michigan headquarters, one of the
people said. The meetings included senior executives of the
retiree trust and the two carmakers, including Chrysler Chief
Financial Officer  Richard Palmer , the person said. Also present
was Alain Lebec, a senior managing director at Brock Capital
Group LLC, which is advising the VEBA, two people said.  JPMorgan was chosen by Chrysler even though the bank had a
contentious past with Marchionne. It was the largest lender to
Chrysler before its 2009 government-backed bankruptcy, and
Marchionne and the U.S. Treasury pushed it for concessions --
often butting heads with JPMorgan Vice Chairman Jimmy Lee, said
one of these people. Lee represented all the secured lenders,
including other banks such as Citigroup Inc., in the
negotiations.  The company’s secured lenders, who were owed about $7
billion, received $2 billion in cash from the U.S. government.
JPMorgan held $2.6 billion of the total debt, taking a loss of
almost $2 billion at the time. Since then, the recovery rate has
improved and JPMorgan’s loss is closer to $1.64 billion, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Since then, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon has e-mailed with
Marchionne and spoken with him a few times in  New York , said two
people. Chrysler has held off from hiring other banks besides
JPMorgan, in part because it knows the IPO may never happen, one
of the people said.  IPO Pitch  Chrysler and its advisers will move ahead with the IPO
process, which includes setting an estimated  price range  for the
stock and embarking on an investor road show to gauge demand,
said one of the people. That may eventually culminate in a
private sale of the stock to Fiat at a price based on that
public-market demand, according to the people.  JPMorgan’s pitch to investors will center on Chrysler’s
North American focus, its management team, and the ability to
improve earnings as engineering, research and development, and
marketing costs are reduced, said one of the people. Chrysler
delivered 643,000 vehicles in the second quarter, and only
61,000, or 9.5 percent, of them were outside  North America ,
compared with 51 percent of  Ford’s sales  and 65 percent of GM’s.  The advisers will argue that is a positive because
demographics and new-housing starts show U.S. auto sales,
especially those of trucks, are poised to improve further, the
person said. U.S. auto sales surged 17 percent last month,
pushing the annual rate to a pre-recession level.  Rising Value  Chrysler reported a modified operating profit margin of 4.5
percent in the quarter, compared with Ford’s 6.4 percent
operating margin for its automotive operations and 5.1 percent
at GM, excluding its financing arm, according to Bloomberg
Industries. Advisers will say those margins can improve because
Chrysler has been over-spending the last four years on
engineering, R&D and marketing to make up for a dearth of
spending before and during the bankruptcy.  The advisers will also tout Marchionne’s reputation as a
strong manager who has overseen the integration of two
automakers. This may prove challenging, with Fiat also saying
that the relationship between the two companies may be
threatened by the IPO itself.  Two Companies  “If the IPO will take place, there will be two companies,
and that’s different than having a single one,” John Elkann,
the Turin, Italy-based company’s chairman, said yesterday in
Milan when asked by  Bloomberg News  if the listing would put the
alliance at risk. “There is no doubt” that a listing would
alter Fiat’s relationship with Chrysler..  Chrysler’s value has climbed to $13.5 billion, UBS
estimates, as industrywide U.S. car sales gained in August to
levels last seen in 2007. That would mean the 41.5 percent stake
owned by the VEBA is worth $5.6 billion.  Fiat may end up paying $4.9 billion, $700 million less than
the actual value, to buy the holding and end the dispute with
the trust because the Italian carmaker has an option to purchase
part of the stake at a lower price, according to UBS.  The VEBA, which stands for voluntary employee beneficiary
association, received the holding as part of the 2009
bankruptcy. Although Fiat already has the right to buy the stake
for around $6 billion, Marchionne is seeking to pay much less,
saying this month that the trust “should buy a ticket for the
lottery” if it wants to get at least $5 billion for its
holding.  GM IPO  Fiat has already exercised options to buy 10 percent of
Chrysler from the VEBA and has rights to buy an additional 6.6
percent next year. It has yet to take possession of the holding
as the two sides fight in court over the price.  The VEBA, which has the right to request an IPO for the
remaining 24.9 percent, asked in January to register a 16.6
percent stake. The filing this week didn’t specify how large of
a stake the VEBA plans to sell.  JPMorgan, led by Lee, also represented  General Motors Co. (GM) 
in a 2010 IPO, in which shareholders including the  U.S. Treasury 
Department sold more than $18 billion of stock in the Detroit-based automaker, including an over-allotment option, beginning
its exit from a government bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  