-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for September (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-09-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-september-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity moderated
somewhat in September but remained positive. Producers’
expectations for future activity increased markedly, while
several manufacturers commented on rising labor shortages and
wage pressures. Price indexes decreased slightly or were largely
unchanged.  The month-over-month composite index was 2 in September, down
from 8 in August and 6 in July (Tables 1 & 2, Chart). The
composite index is an average of the production, new orders,
employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory
indexes. The production index decreased at both durable and non-durable goods-producing plants, with the exception of machinery
and computer equipment factories which posted slight gains. Most
other month-over-month indexes also fell. The production index
plunged from 21 to 4, and the shipments, new orders, and order
backlog indexes also decreased. The employment index eased after
rising last month, and the new orders for exports index fell
back into negative territory. The raw materials inventory index
stayed flat at 0, while the finished goods inventory index
decreased modestly.  Year-over-year factory indexes were mixed in September. The
composite year-over-year index inched lower from 11 to 10, and
the new orders, employment, and new orders for exports indexes
also fell somewhat. In contrast, the production index rose from
10 to 15, and the shipments and order backlog indexes increased
slightly. The capital expenditures index edged up from 15 to 16,
matching its highest level in six months. The raw materials
inventory index eased from 9 to 7, while the finished goods
inventory index was unchanged.  Most future factory indexes improved considerably from the
previous month. The future composite index jumped from 9 to 18,
its highest level since March 2012, and the future production,
shipments, and new orders indexes also reached 18-month highs.
The future order backlog index climbed from 6 to 14, and the
future employment index rose for the second straight month. The
future capital expenditures index edged up from 13 to 17, while
the future new orders for exports index eased slightly. The
future raw materials inventory index increased from 0 to 3,
while the future finished goods inventory index remained stable.  Most price indexes moderated slightly or were basically
unchanged. The month-over-month finished goods price index edged
lower from 5 to 4, and the raw materials price index also fell.
The year-over-year raw materials price index decreased to its
lowest level in over 3 years, while the finished goods price
index was generally flat. The future raw materials price index
fell from 45 to 36, and the future finished goods price index
eased after rising the past few months, indicating fewer firms
plan to pass recent cost increases through to customers.  SELECTED COMMENTS  “General labor is very difficult to find in order to fill our
manufacturing positions. Educated workers are even harder to
find.”  “Our starting wage has dropped because we are having to train
people that come to us with no experience or skill.”  “We keep hearing the economy is getting better, but we have not
seen an improvement.”  “Our automotive business has done well this year, however our
other business including aerospace has been flat. We are seeing
some upward price pressure on our raw materials.”  “The biggest issues we are facing are medical insurance, workers
compensation insurance, and increased government regulation.”  “We are closing our facility and moving most of the product to
our Mexico plant.”  “Demand for compressors to transfer natural gas continues to be
strong.”  “Have difficulty in hiring engineers and accountants.”  “Our industry has lost  labor force  to the oil and gas industry,
which is not really paying more hourly but is giving a lot more
overtime.”  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of Kansas City 