-- Kenya Works With Interpol to Track Down Mall Attackers
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-09-26T11:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/kenya-works-with-interpol-to-track-down-mall-attackers.html
Kenyan authorities are sharing a
list of suspects with the international police agency, Interpol,
to help track down those involved in the attack on a Nairobi
shopping mall in which at least 72 people died.  “Details of arrested individuals and any other suspects
linked to the attack are running through Interpol’s database for
potential leads,” the  Kenya  National Disaster Operation Centre
said today on its Twitter account.  Kenyan forensic investigators at the scene of the raid are
being assisted by experts from Israel, the U.S., Germany,  Canada 
and Britain in a probe that’s expected to last at least a week,
according to Interior Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku.  The government has said it doesn’t expect the death toll to
rise significantly. Authorities are sifting through the rubble
after three floors in the Westgate Mall collapsed following
blasts and a fire that broke out during the four-day standoff.
An unknown number of people were held captive or in hiding
during the assault.  The attack was the deadliest since al-Qaeda bombed the U.S.
Embassy in downtown Nairobi in August 1998, killing 213 people.
Al-Shabaab, the Somali-based Islamist militia that claimed
responsibility for the Sept. 21 raid, had threatened to strike
after Kenya deployed troops in Somalia in October 2011 to fight
the militants, blaming them for a series of kidnappings and the
murder of a British tourist in Kenya. The al-Qaeda-affiliated
group denied the accusations. The dead include 61 civilians, six
security officers and five assailants.  More Bloodshed  Al-Shabaab leader Ahmed Godane, in a  message  posted online,
said his fighters carried out the mall attack, and warned of
“more bloodshed” unless Kenya withdraws its forces from
Somalia.  Kenyan security forces used armored vehicles and weapons
including heavy machine guns to end the assault. The Kenya  Red
Cross  said that 71 people were missing as of Sept. 24.  There is “increased public anxiety on account of missing
persons, the disruption caused by the continued crisis and
inadequate information flow,” the Red Cross said today. Ole
Lenku said in an interview today that the government’s estimate
of the death toll “has not changed” since Sept. 24.  Two Kenyan police officers were killed and one was wounded
in an attack today on a county-government office in northeastern
Mandera, near the Somali border, the  Interior Ministry  said on
its Twitter account. In Wajir, also in the northeast, one person
died and four were injured from a grenade blast in a market
yesterday, it said.  Kenyan Stability  Kenya’s relative stability in a troubled region has
attracted companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , International
Business Machines Corp., General Electric Corp. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
to set up bases in the East African nation. The  United Nations ’
African headquarters are also in Nairobi.  The attack may curb government revenue and is “credit
negative,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a Credit Outlook
report today. The biggest impact on the country’s economic
growth will be on its  tourism industry , which accounts for 12.5
percent of gross domestic product, it said.  The  shilling  advanced for a third day, strengthening 0.2
percent to 87 per dollar by 2:27 p.m. and heading for its
strongest close since July 19. The Nairobi Securities Exchange’s
FTSE NSE 25 Index gained 0.8 percent to 166.53.  Lunchtime Attack  The attack began around lunchtime when as many as 15 gunmen
stormed the upscale mall, throwing hand grenades, firing
automatic weapons and forcing panicked patrons to flee the
building or hide inside the more than 80 shops in the complex.
The government said more than 1,000 people were rescued.  Investigators are trying to confirm the nationalities of
the attackers, Ole Lenku said. Kenyan Foreign Secretary Amina Mohamed said on Sept. 23 that two or three Americans and a
female British citizen participated in the attack. A British
national has been arrested in Kenya, according to a statement e-mailed yesterday by the U.K. Foreign Office.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said yesterday that
investigators haven’t confirmed claims that Americans
participated in the attack. “At this point, we don’t have any
verification that any Americans have been involved in the attack
as attackers,” he told reporters in  Washington .  Citizens from the U.K.,  India ,  France , Canada,  South
Africa , China and  Ghana  are among the dead.  Troop Commitment  African leaders remain committed to continue battling al-Shabaab’s forces in Somalia, the  African Union ’s Peace and
 Security Council  said in a statement on its website.  The continental body will “continue its efforts in
Somalia, in order to rid the country and the region of terrorist
and criminal groups, and bring about lasting peace, security and
stability in Somalia,” it said.  Al-Shabaab has been fighting Somalia’s government since at
least 2006. The militant group claimed responsibility in July
2010 for coordinated bomb attacks in neighboring  Uganda  that
killed 76 people watching the soccer  World Cup  final at two
venues. Al-Shabaab said it targeted Uganda because the country
had troops serving in the African Union Mission in Somalia.  The African Union has a more than 17,000-member
peacekeeping force in Somalia that includes the Kenyan troops.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  