-- Kenya Attack ‘Negative’ Ahead of $2 Billion Issue, Moody’s Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-09-26T10:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/kenya-attack-negative-ahead-of-2-billion-issue-moody-s-says.html
A deadly attack on a shopping mall
by Islamist militants in  Kenya  is a “credit negative” event as
the country prepares to issue as much as $2 billion of Eurobonds
by the end of the year, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The four-day assault, in which gunmen killed at least 67
civilians and security personnel, may have an immediate economic
and fiscal impact, mostly through lower tourism earnings as
foreign visitors, especially Europeans, stay away, Edward Al-Hussainy, an analyst with Moody’s, said today in an e-mailed
report.  “We expect a sharp decline in tourism receipts this year,
reducing gross domestic product growth by about 0.5 percentage
points in the 2013-14 winter high season,” he said.  Kenya has begun investigating the attack claimed by al-Qaeda-linked gunmen at the Westgate Mall in the capital,
Nairobi, that began Sept. 21. The assault is Kenya’s deadliest
since al-Qaeda bombed the U.S. embassy in downtown Nairobi 15
years ago, killing more than 200 people.  East Africa ’s largest economy will stick to its plan to
seek about $1.5 billion from its debut Eurobond issue by
December, and the outlook for economic growth remains the same
as before the attack, Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich said on
Sept. 24. Rotich said a week earlier that expansion is forecast
at 5.6 percent in 2013 from 4.6 percent last year.  Tourism accounts for about 12.5 percent of Kenya’s $37
billion economy and represents the country’s largest source of
foreign exchange after tea exports. About 45 percent of Kenya’s
leisure visitors come from  Europe , according to Moody’s.  The attack will probably have no effect on foreign direct
investment or international donor financing for infrastructure
projects, Moody’s said.  Kenya’s long-term, foreign currency debt has been assigned
a B1 rating by Moody’s, four steps below investment grade and on
a par with Zambia and  Cape Verde .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  