-- Kerry Talks with Iran as World Powers Seek Nuclear Deal
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-09-26T22:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/kerry-talks-with-iran-as-world-powers-seek-nuclear-deal.html
Foreign ministers from the U.S. and
five other powers met with Iran’s top diplomat to see whether
the Islamic Republic’s new administration is serious about
resolving disputes over its nuclear program.  The meeting at the  United Nations  today represented the
highest-level formal talks between the U.S. and Iran since
before the 1979  Islamic Revolution . It came after President
Hassan Rouhani, who took office last month, asserted a desire to
resolve tensions over his nation’s nuclear program, which the
U.S. and its European allies say is being used to develop
nuclear weapons capability.  Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif met with U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  and their counterparts from five
other nations, as well as  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s
foreign policy chief. German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle 
and the U.K.’s  William Hague  both said there was an improvement
in atmosphere from previous talks, though Westerwelle said words
aren’t enough and “we are looking for actions.”  In an address to the United Nations this week, Rouhani, 64,
said Iran is ready to enter talks “without delay” to
demonstrate that the nuclear program is solely for peaceful
purposes.  While his remarks were less confrontational than speeches
by his predecessor,  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , the U.S. and other
nations are eager to test whether Iran has shifted on substance
and is ready to take actions to foreclose the weapons option.
More detailed talks are scheduled in Geneva in mid-October.  Sanctions Relief  “Rouhani has a big interest in moving quickly to show that
he can get sanctions relief, but whether he can deliver the
roll-back in their program that we will need for that remains to
be seen,” said  Dennis Ross , President  Barack Obama ’s former
adviser on Iran, and now a counselor at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy.  “What is clear is that the era of small for small is
over,” Ross said in an interview, referring to past proposals
for minor concessions in return for limited sanctions relief.
“Either the deal must be big for big or it won’t happen.”  The early signs raise questions about whether Rouhani has
fueled expectations that are outpacing the reality. The Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency  circulated a document
today in which Iran stuck to its positions, including barring
inspectors from visiting the Parchin military base to
investigate whether tests were conducted there related to
triggering a nuclear device.  No Dramatic Change  Some Western analysts say they’re uncertain what Rouhani
can do, in part because Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
has ultimate authority over the country’s nuclear program.  “I haven’t seen a dramatic change in what they’re willing
to offer, or on the limits to what they’re willing to do” said
Gary Samore, Obama’s top coordinator for  arms control  and
weapons of mass destruction until February.  The U.S. and Israel have threatened military action if
negotiations fail to ensure Iran can’t obtain nuclear weapons.
Israel has said enrichment should be halted and most of Iran’s
enriched uranium -- which could be further processed to make
fuel for a bomb -- should be removed from the country.  Rouhani was elected on a pledge of easing Iran’s
international isolation and repairing an economy crippled by
sanctions. Oil exports have dropped by half, to less than 1
million barrels a day, and inflation almost doubled in two years
to 39 percent last month.  The new president said in a speech in New York today that
 Iran  is “ready to work toward removing any ambiguity and answer
any reasonable question about Iran’s peaceful nuclear program.”
He also said that Iran will never forego its “inherent right”
to nuclear technology, including enrichment, and that sanctions
aimed at changing its behavior will only punish ordinary
citizens and poison the environment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  