-- Kior Surges on Khosla’s $50 Million to Double Capacity
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-09-26T21:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/kior-surges-on-khola-s-50-million-to-double-capacity.html
(Corrects description of fuel in first paragraph, spelling
of name in headline.)  Kior Inc. (KIOR) , operator of the first
U.S. commercial-scale cellulosic biofuel plant, rose the most on
record after receiving a $50 million commitment from investor
 Vinod Khosla  to double production capacity at its Columbus,
Mississippi, plant.  Kior gained 58 percent to $2.89 at the close in  New York ,
the most since the Pasadena, Texas-based company’s June 2011
initial public offering.  The backing from Khosla and his Khosla Ventures LLC company
will support Kior’s planned $225 million Columbus II expansion
project, according to a statement today. Construction will take
about 18 months and will start within 90 days after “raising
sufficient equity and debt capital to commence.”  The company’s Columbus site went into production in October
and can produce as much as 13 million gallons (49 million
liters) of transportation fuel a year from wood waste and non-food crops. The Columbus II project will boost that to 26
million gallons a year, Kate Perez, a Kior spokeswoman, said in
an interview today.  The company has lost 55 percent of its market value this
year as production at Columbus missed targets. Kior said in
August that it shipped about 75,000 gallons in the second
quarter, compared with a May forecast of as much as 500,000
gallons.  Khosla Ventures is Kior’s largest shareholder, with a 26
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The additional support “should be well-received by jittery
investors,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst with Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in Houston, said today in a research note. “By
pledging an additional $50 million –- an anchor as Kior
finalizes its long-term financing package –- Khosla guaranteed
Kior’s financial security for at least six more months.”  Khosla’s commitment may include debt and equity
investments, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  