-- Knicks Name Steve Mills General Manager, Replacing Grunwald
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-09-26T16:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/knicks-name-steve-mills-general-manager-replacing-glen-grunwald.html
Steve Mills , who previously worked
in the front office of the New York Knicks, is returning to the
National Basketball Association franchise as its president and
general manager.  He replaces Glen Grunwald, who will remain with the
organization as an adviser, the team said in a statement.  “It’s an honor and a privilege to work for such a storied
franchise, and I look forward to doing whatever it takes to make
the Knicks a successful franchise and a team that fans can be
proud of,” said Mills, who during his previous stint was
responsible for hiring  Isiah Thomas .  Mills spent 10 years at Madison Square  Garden (MSG)  Co., where
his duties included oversight of the business and basketball
operations for the Knicks. He also oversaw business operations
for the National Hockey League’s Rangers and other sports-related activities at MSG.  A former NBA executive, Mills joined the Knicks in 1999 and
became president of sports teams operations for MSG in 2001. He
left MSG in 2009.  Mills takes over a team led by All-Star Carmelo Anthony,
who can become a free agent after the season. The Knicks won the
Atlantic division last season with a 54-28 record. They were
beaten by the  Indiana Pacers  in the second round of the
playoffs.  When Thomas was Knicks president, he fired coach  Larry
Brown  and took over the team himself. He presided over two
losing seasons and a sex harassment trial before  Donnie Walsh 
replaced him as president and fired him as coach.  Former MSG executive Anucha Browne Sanders was awarded more
than $11 million after suing Thomas and MSG.  Mills played for hall-of-fame coach Pete Carril at
Princeton University, graduating in 1981 with a degree in
sociology.  The Knicks open the regular season Oct. 30 at home against
the Milwaukee Bucks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  