-- Knight Bids $242 Million for USA Truck After Initial Spurn
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-09-26T20:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/knight-offers-242-million-for-usa-truck-as-initial-bid-spurned.html
Knight Transportation Inc. (KNX)  made a
hostile bid to buy  USA Truck Inc. (USAK)  in a $242 million transaction
and said a combination would allay risk in the short-haul
carrier’s turnaround plan and bring value to shareholders.  USA Truck soared 36 percent, its biggest advance since its
initial public offering in 1992. A representative for Van Buren,
Arkansas-based USA Truck declined to comment.  Knight Chief Executive Officer Kevin Knight said he’d be
prepared to “modestly increase” a $9 per share proposed offer
price if additional value is identified in due diligence,
according to an Aug. 28 letter. Knight, which had sought a
response by Sept. 6., said an acquisition would bolster USA
Truck’s turnaround plan and help reverse eight consecutive
quarters of  net losses .  “Our company has a demonstrated history of operational
excellence, and we believe that we can meaningfully increase the
financial performance of USA Truck’s operations,” CEO Knight
said in a statement today.  USA Truck closed at $8.80 in New York, after rising as high
as $9.33 in intraday trading. The shares have more than doubled
this year, compared with a 19 percent rise in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Knight rose 3.8 percent to close at $16.60.  ‘Good Fit’  The bid is 39 percent more than USA Truck’s closing price
yesterday, Phoenix-based Knight said in the statement. The total
deal value includes USA Truck’s $147 million in debt. Knight
also today disclosed an 8 percent stake in USA Truck.  USA Truck would be a “strategically good fit” with
Knight’s operations because the trucking companies have good
overlap with their service networks, said Todd Fowler, an
analyst at Cleveland-based KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.  “Historically, integrating large truckload transactions is
difficult,” Fowler said. “Knight is a very well-run company,
so we have confidence in the management team and we think
they’ve done their homework.”  Fowler recommends buying Knight shares.  USA Truck turned down a proposal for merger talks from
 Celadon Group Inc. (CGI)  in October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  