-- Kocherlakota Says Fed Must Do ‘Whatever It Takes’ for Growth
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-09-26T18:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/kocherlakota-says-fed-must-do-whatever-it-takes-to-spur-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota , a voter on policy next year,
said the Fed must do “whatever it takes” to strengthen a job
market that is healing too slowly.  The Fed should be “willing to use any of its
congressionally authorized tools to achieve the goal of higher
employment, no matter how unconventional those tools might be,”
Kocherlakota said today in a speech in Houghton,  Michigan .  “Doing whatever it takes will mean keeping a historically
unusual amount of monetary stimulus in place -- and possibly
providing more stimulus -- even as” the medium-term inflation
outlook temporarily rises above the Fed’s 2 percent goal and
asset prices reach “unusually high levels,” he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last week unexpectedly
refrained from dialing back its $85 billion in  monthly bond
purchases , saying it was waiting for more signs of sustained
economic improvement. Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg on
Sept. 18-19, after the FOMC meeting, expect the Fed to wait
until a gathering in December to taper bond purchases.  “With low inflation, the FOMC has considerable monetary
policy capacity at its disposal with which to address this
problem” of a “disturbingly weak” labor market, Kocherlakota
said.  “The FOMC’s test today is to figure out how best to deploy
this capacity,” he said.  On Hold  The central bank’s decision to keep policy on hold last
week surprised financial markets, sending stocks to record highs
and triggering the biggest rally in Treasuries since 2011.  Investors have focused on the first tapering as a signal
for the future course of monetary policy, Kocherlakota told
reporters after the speech. The Fed should provide more clarity
about the future path of interest rates, he said.  The benchmark U.S. 10-year yield rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 2.65 percent at 2:30 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,695.55.  Since the FOMC meeting, Fed officials have voiced differing
viewpoints, with  Dallas ’  Richard Fisher  and  Kansas City ’s Esther George saying the FOMC was risking its credibility by not
tapering when it had primed the markets for such a move.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said Sept. 23 the
central bank must “forcefully” push against headwinds in an
economy that “still needs the support of a very accommodative
monetary policy.”  Press On  Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  said today in  Frankfurt  the
central bank should press on with accommodation while linking
the wind-down of its bond purchases to economic data such as the
jobless rate.  “My personal preference would be to make future step-downs
a completely deterministic function of a labor market indicator,
such as the  unemployment rate  or cumulative payroll growth over
some period,” Stein said. “For example, one could cut monthly
purchases by a set amount for each further 10 basis point
decline in the unemployment rate.” Ten basis points equal 0.1
percentage point.  The committee’s own outlook for only a “gradual”
improvement in the job market amid low inflation should
“trigger a decision to provide more monetary stimulus,”
Kocherlakota said today.  Central Tendency  Fed participants expected 1.1 percent to 1.2 percent
inflation for this year, 1.3 percent to 1.8 percent for 2014 and
1.6 percent to 2 percent for 2015, according to central tendency
estimates released last week. Prices as measured by the personal
consumption expenditures index rose 1.4 percent in July from a
year earlier.  The FOMC reiterated last week that it intends to maintain
low  interest rates  as long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent
and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.
Kocherlakota has urged the Fed to change that guidance on
 interest rates , calling for a lower unemployment rate threshold.
He told reporters today he still backs such a change.  “There’s a number of tools still at the Fed’s disposal,”
including lowering the interest on excess reserves, he said. The
symbolism of such a move “could be relatively powerful”
because it would provide evidence of the central bank’s resolve
to support the economy, he said.  The district bank chief has supported both the beginning of
the Fed’s current round of quantitative easing that started in
September 2012 as well as the expansion of the program to
Treasuries in December.  Data released since the Sept. 17-18 FOMC meeting have
underscored a mixed outlook for the  U.S. economy .  Consumer
confidence  slid to its weakest level since May, the Conference
Board said on Sept. 24.  At the same time, a Labor Department report today showed
that the number of Americans filing applications for
 unemployment benefits  unexpectedly declined last week,
highlighting further progress in the labor market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  