-- Czech Koruna Gains Most Since July as Intervention Concern Eases
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-09-26T15:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/koruna-steady-before-czech-central-bank-decides-on-interventions.html
The Czech koruna strengthened the
most in almost three months after the monetary-policy council
rejected central bank Governor Miroslav Singer’s push to sell
the currency for a second meeting amid an economic recovery.  The koruna gained as much as 0.8 percent, the most since
July 9 on an intraday basis, before trading 0.6 percent higher
at 25.699 per euro by 3:41 p.m. in  Prague . It has slid 4.5
percent since Sept. 17, 2012, the day beforeSinger first
signaled the CNB may intervene in the market.  Policy makers kept the main  interest rate  at 0.05 percent
and a vote on koruna sales failed, Singer told reporters in
Prague today. Three of the seven board members, including
Singer, previously advocated intervention as inflation remains
below the bank’s target even as the  economy  emerged from a
recession in the second quarter. All else being equal, a weaker
currency makes imports more expensive and helps exporters.  “Even though we think the CNB had its now-or-never moment
today as far as koruna sales are concerned, this option is
certainly not off the table and will influence the euro-koruna
in the coming weeks,”  Martin Lobotka , an economist at the Erste
Group Bank AG unit in Prague.  Consumer inflation slowed to 1.3 percent year-on-year in
August from 1.4 percent in July, below the CNB’s 2 percent
target, the office said on Sept. 9.  The probability that the CNB will sell koruna in the future
remains high as data shows the economy still needs “slightly
looser” monetary conditions even as “first signs of a recovery
are appearing,” Singer said today.  Czech gross domestic product expanded 0.6 percent in April
to June from the previous three months, the statistics office in
Prague said on Sept. 3.  “With the recovery still fragile, we expect policy makers
to keep the prospect of foreign exchange intervention on the
table,”  William Jackson , an analyst for  emerging markets  at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mail to clients
after the CNB announcement. “For now, barring a relapse in
growth, we suspect that it won’t ultimately be adopted.”  ‘Now-Or-Never’  The inflation slowdown is not enough to justify currency
interventions as the koruna remains at a “weak level” and the
economy is growing, Nicolaie Alexandru-Chidesciuc, a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst in London, wrote in a report yesterday.  Gains beyond 25.70 per euro are unlikely as they would add
to reasons for the central bank to act, according to Erste’s
Lobotka. Further appreciation for the Czech currency would
trigger a “strong verbal intervention at 25.50 and quite likely
an actual one below that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  