-- Kuroda Deflation Attack Hurts RBA on Currency: Australia Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-26T02:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/kuroda-deflation-attack-hurts-rba-on-currency-australia-credit.html
The more than $70  billion  a month
 Japan  is spending to end deflation is feeding demand for the
higher-yielding Aussie, threatening the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia ’s efforts to stimulate its economy.  Japanese investors  bought  91.3 billion yen ($922 million)
more Australian debt than they sold in July, the first overall
additions since October and the largest in a year, official data
show. The Australian dollar is poised for its biggest monthly
surge versus the yen since January, outpacing all but the kiwi
among 10 major developed currencies.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said this month a reduction of
record-low interest  rates  remains possible and that a weaker
currency would help an economy set for its slowest expansion in
four years. Sustained easing by the  Bank of Japan  and the
 Federal Reserve  is fueling a stronger Aussie that may force the
RBA to add to 2.25 percentage points of cuts over two years,
JPMorgan Chase & Co estimates.  “Investors are coming back to Australia,” said Hideo Shimomura, the chief fund investor who helps oversee about $60.3
billion at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co. The huge outflows
as Japanese investors sold Australian bonds from mid-2012 have
“clearly stopped,” he said.  Easing Mode  Shimomura expects bond yields to fall with the RBA in
“easing mode” as it needs a weaker currency to boost the
economy. The benchmark 10-year yield will more than reverse this
year’s 59 basis point advance to 3.86 percent and drop to 3
percent by the end of the year, he said.  Buying by Japanese investors in July followed 1.6 trillion
yen worth of sales between November and June, according to data
from the Ministry of Finance in  Tokyo . They added 71.7 billion
yen of long-term  sovereign debt  in a second month of buying.  Purchases of offshore bonds have continued since July, with
the Asian nation’s fund managers buying a net 1.4 trillion yen
of  foreign debt  from the week to Aug. 2 till Sept. 13, according
to separate data, which isn’t broken down by country.  The Aussie dollar has rebounded more than 5 percent after
tumbling by the most since the 2008 financial crisis to reach a
three-year low of 88.48 U.S. cents on Aug. 5. The world’s fifth-most traded currency bought 93.55 cents at 12:30 p.m. in Sydney,
and is poised for its strongest monthly advance in more than a
year. The Aussie bought 92.25 yen.  Forced Offshore  “The RBA has been pretty honest about saying they want the
currency lower and I don’t really think the Aussie at 94-95
cents is part of that plan,” said  Sally Auld , a interest rate
strategist at JPMorgan in Sydney. “They have to cut rates if
they want the currency lower, because you need to take the carry
away,” she said, referring to the yield premium that Australia
offers.  The central bank will probably cut rates in November,
according to JPMorgan. The Aussie is being supported by
improving Chinese data, Japanese fund flows and the Fed’s
decision to delay tapering its stimulus, Auld said.  In the RBA’s June meeting minutes, the central bank
expressed concern at the prospect Japanese investors would shift
into foreign bonds, even though it said there was no evidence of
such moves at the time.  Japanese Shift  “Nonetheless, if it occurred, such a shift had the
potential to affect Australian foreign exchange and debt
markets,” policy makers said in the  minutes  released June 18.  Japanese fund managers had 18 trillion yen invested in
Australian-dollar debt and equity markets last year, with almost
90 percent of that in fixed income, according to BOJ data.
That’s equal to about 12 percent of Australia’s gross domestic
product. UBS AG estimates their holdings are bigger than the
combined investments of global reserve managers.  The buildup of central bank reserve holdings in the
currency helped the Aussie trade above $1 for a record 10 months
till May, stunting the effect on the exchange rate of the RBA’s
reductions in borrowing costs.  Australia lost 42,400 jobs in manufacturing in the 12
months through August as the sustained strength of the local
dollar reduced the competitiveness of local producers,
government data released last week showed. The  mining industry 
that has powered the economy over the past decade shed 2,800
positions in the period as an investment boom wanes.  Telstra Corp. expects to cut 1,100 jobs at its operations
unit, or about 6 percent of that part of the business’
workforce, by June 2014, Australia’s biggest phone company said
yesterday in a statement.  Rate Bets  The RBA kept benchmark rates unchanged at a record low 2.5
percent on Sept. 3 and reiterated that a lower currency would
help rebalance economic growth.  Board “members agreed the bank should again neither close
off the possibility of reducing rates further nor signal an
imminent intention to reduce them,” the RBA said in minutes of
this month’s meeting.  There’s a 43 percent chance Stevens will reduce borrowing
costs again this year, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Interest from Japanese investors will accelerate once the
RBA is finished with its easing cycle, said Martin Whetton, an
interest-rate strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney.  “There has been a pickup in interest, but it’s not
anywhere near the scale that we’ve seen before,” he said.
Japanese money managers have been “very supportive of the
spread-product deals in recent weeks, and a lot of the issuance
that has come has gone to them.”  Kangaroo Issuance  That demand helped drive more than A$3 billion ($2.8
billion) of Australian-dollar bond offerings this month by
foreign lenders, including sovereign-backed borrowers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Sales have exceeded A$8 billion this
quarter.  The Aussie’s rise above 90 yen may be giving some investors
the confidence to return to the nation’s bonds, said Hideya Kubo, a senior money manager in Tokyo at Diam Co., which
oversees the equivalent of about $120 billion. Kubo expects the
Aussie to trade in a range between 90 and 95 yen in the near
term and said a majority of his clients are retail investors.  “No one wanted to catch a falling knife,” he said. “We
have less outflow recently, so the sentiment seems to be
improving. However, our clients are still cautious and reluctant
to put new money on the Australian dollar market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  