-- Natural Gas Rebounds From Five-Week Low on Futures Expiration
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-09-26T19:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/natural-gas-drops-to-five-week-low-on-above-average-supply-gain.html
Natural gas futures rebounded from
a five-week low in  New York  as traders closed out positions with
today’s expiration of October contracts. Prices dropped earlier
on a larger-than-average U.S. stockpile increase.  Gas rose 0.1 percent before November contracts take over as
the front-month lots tomorrow. Futures had dropped as much as
2.6 percent after the Energy Information Administration said
last week’s  stockpile gain  was the biggest in seven weeks.  “It was mostly due to the expiration of the contract,
people were short and they were getting out,” said Cindy
Wexler, an independent gas trader on the floor of the New York
Mercantile Exchange. “It was a bearish number. However, we had
been down 30 cents in the last week and it was a bit overdone.
The $3.50 level is a technical support area.”  Natural gas for October delivery rose 0.5 cent to settle at
$3.498 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  after sliding to $3.402, the lowest intraday
price since Aug. 21. Trading volume was 68 percent above the
100-day average at 2:39 p.m. Prices have dropped 1.9 percent
this quarter and gained 4.4 percent this year.  The more actively-traded November contract gained 2.1 cents
to $3.567 per million Btu. The discount of October to November
futures widened 1.6 cents to 6.9 cents. October gas traded 35.5
cents  below  the January contract, compared with 32.4 cents
yesterday.  Options Trading  January $3 puts were the most active options in electronic
trading. They slid 0.1 cent to 1.3 cents per million Btu on
volume of 1,135 at 3 p.m. Puts accounted for 54 percent of
trading volume. Implied volatility for November at-the-money
options was 29.33 percent at 3 p.m., compared with 30.07 percent
yesterday.  U.S. inventories rose 87 billion cubic feet to 3.386
trillion in the week ended Sept. 20. The increase was the
largest since Aug. 2. Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
predicted a gain of 79 billion.  “It’s a big number, no doubt,” said Teri Viswanath,
director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York.
“There is not a lot of demand. The current restocking under way
is representative of a well-supplied market.”  The stockpile increase was bigger than the five-year
average gain for the period of 75 billion cubic feet, EIA data
show. A  surplus  to the five-year average widened to 0.9 percent
from 0.5 percent the previous week. Supplies were 5 percent
below year-earlier inventories, compared with 5.3 percent a week
earlier.  Fuel Use  The pace of seasonal gas stockpiling had slowed from mid-August through mid-September as a late burst of summer heat
spurred demand for the power-plant fuel to run air conditioners.  “The weather forecast for the next two weeks is expected
to be just right, above average, that is, in the northern half
of the country,” which means neither heaters or air-conditioners will be called up for duty,  John Kilduff , partner
at Again Capital LLC and editor of the Energy OverView
newsletter in New York, wrote today. “So, the demand picture
remains quite weak.”  Temperatures will be above-normal from the East Coast
through the Midwest and in the Southwest from Oct. 1-5 before
giving way to more seasonal readings the following five days,
said Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  The high in  New York City  on Oct. 1 may be 74 degrees
Fahrenheit (23 Celsius), 5 above normal, then drop to the high
60s the following week, according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania .  Power Generation  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, said the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.
About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating.  U.S. gas production may rise 1.1 percent this year to a
record 69.91 billion cubic feet a day, gaining for the sixth
straight year as new wells come online at shale deposits such as
the Marcellus in the Northeast, the EIA said Sept. 10 in its
 Short-Term Energy Outlook.  The agency increased its forecast
from 69.89 billion last month.  The U.S. met 87 percent of its own energy needs in the
first six months of 2013, on pace to be the highest annual rate
since 1986, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  