-- Negative Rates on Treasury Bills Show Little Debt-Limit Concern
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-26T18:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/negative-rates-on-treasury-bills-show-little-debt-limit-concern.html
A slide below zero in rates on some
Treasury bills that mature beyond October shows investors have
little angst lawmakers may fail to agree on a debt limit.  Treasury bills that mature as soon as November traded below
zero today, with the bill maturing on Nov. 29 having a negative
0.005 percent rate at 2:02 p.m. New York time. The three-month
 bill  rate was negative 0.0051 percent, compared to 0.0152
percent yesterday. Treasury bills that mature on Oct. 24 were at
a rate of 0.038 percent, up from 0.018 percent yesterday.  Treasury Secretary Jack Lew told House Speaker John Boehner
in a letter yesterday that the U.S. will exhaust extraordinary
measures related to debt limit no later than Oct. 17.  “Right out of the gates this morning, there were large
institutional sellers of the Oct. 24 maturity Treasury bills,
given Lew’s comments that Oct. 17 is a drop-dead date for the
debt limit,” said Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-term
rates trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in
New York. “That is really a red zone if a technical default
were to occur. But demand for bills that mature from November
onward remains strong, showing that investors think that
whatever might happen with the debt limit would be temporary and
that the bill-supply situation is still relatively dire.”  Shrinking Auction  Helping push yields lower on three-month bills was an
announcement today by the Treasury that it was cutting the size
of its regular auction of the debt on Sept. 30 to $25 billion
from $30 billion at the previous auction.  With regard to weekly bill auctions sizes, “we are
entering a period of greater uncertainty due to the debt
limit,” wrote  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP
LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey, in a note to clients today.
“The Treasury will pay down bills in order to make room under
the current ceiling for the settlement of the mid-month coupons
on Oct. 15. We expect the Treasury to rely on short-term cash-management bills to bridge the gaps created by the paydowns in
regular bills.”  A falling supply of Treasury bills has been met with
persistent demand for the securities, viewed among the world’s
safest, in part as heightened regulatory requirements increase
banks’ need for the debt.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York is currently holding
tests of an overnight fixed-rate full allotment reverse
repurchase agreement facility that may be used to aid policy
makers when they tighten monetary policy. The actions, which
temporarily  remove cash  from the system and add Treasury debt,
are open to the Fed’s 139 tri-party reverse repo counterparties,
which includes 94 money market mutual funds, six government-sponsored entities, 18 banks and the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.  If concern about the debt limit increases, there will
likely be more participation in the New York Fed’s daily reverse
repo facility operations, said Silliman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  