-- N.J. Affordable Housing Ruling May Block Christie’s Plan
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-09-26T21:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/new-jersey-top-court-says-affordable-housing-limbo-needs-fix.html
A  New Jersey  Supreme Court ruling
on affordable housing for the poor may be the final blow to
Governor  Chris Christie ’s plan to take control of a regulatory
agency and, according to critics, save land for the rich.  “The decision blocks Governor Christie’s efforts to
prevent the construction of affordable homes in the state’s
wealthiest communities,” said Frank Argote-Freyre, president of
the affiliated Latino Action Network. “If you can build
mansions in a community you can find space” for the poor.  The state high court was asked to review an appellate
court’s invalidation of a new set of regulations under the Fair
Housing Act. Justice Jaynee Lavecchia, writing for the court’s
majority today, said the rules “are at odds with the FHA,”
although the 30-year-old act “should not be viewed as a
constitutional straightjacket to legislative innovation.”  The ruling gives the Council on Affordable Housing, created
by the FHA, five months to devise regulations for towns to
follow, said attorney Peter Reinhart, a real estate professor at
 Monmouth University  and a former member of the council.  “Christie was trying to eliminate the council, and
uncertainty was lingering until this decision,” Reinhart said.
Now, possible suggested solutions could include using foreclosed
properties in towns to house the poor, and new construction, he
said in a phone interview.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said the
governor had no comment on the ruling.  “Assumptions used in devising a remedy in 1983 do not
necessarily have the same validity today,” Lavecchia said in
the ruling. “That assessment, however, is best made by the
policy makers of the Legislature.”  Mount Laurel  The justice said the history of the housing litigation
harkens back to a Mount Laurel case in 1975, in which “this
court held that a developing municipality could not utilize its
zoning power to eliminate the realistic possibility of
construction of affordable low- and moderate-income housing
without acting in a manner contrary to the state’s general
welfare.”  “A remedy must be put in place to eliminate the limbo in
which municipalities, New Jersey citizens, developers and
affordable housing interest groups have lived for too long,”
according to the opinion.  The ruling “affirms the  Mount Laurel  doctrine” the  Cherry
Hill , New Jersey-based Fair Share Housing Center, which
advocates for the poor, said in a statement.  Transfer Duties  Christie tried to transfer duties of the council to the
state Department of Community Affairs and was thwarted by state
courts last year. The high court had declined to throw out a
lower-court decision that Christie had no right to eliminate the
council, or COAH.  At the time, the governor’s office said, “It is well known
that there are many on both sides of the aisle in the
Legislature who agree that COAH has been bad for New Jersey with
all its onerous and ineffective demands on municipalities.” He
said the plan was designed to cut costs and reduce complexity.  David Turner , a spokesman for Christie’s Democratic
challenger for governor, Senator Barbara Buono from Metuchen,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
today’s decision.  The ruling was “an explicit rejection of the Christie
administration’s policies on housing,” said  Kevin Walsh , an
attorney who argued before the Supreme Court as associate
director of the  Fair Share Housing Center .  Hurricane Sandy  “It’s going to result in more homes getting built, which
is especially important after  Hurricane Sandy , especially
important for families that are trying to afford our state’s
expensive housing market and for people like veterans returning
from Iraq and  Afghanistan  who need a supportive environment to
live but who are too often excluded from many of the state’s
wealthier communities by their zone,” Walsh said at a news
conference in Trenton.  The case is In the matter of the adoption of NJAC 5:96 and
5:97 by the New Jersey Council on Affordable Housing,
A-90/91/92/93/94 Sept. term 2010, 067126,  Supreme Court  of New
Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  