-- New Mexico Found to Be Slowest State to Complete Fiscal Audit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-26T18:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/new-mexico-found-to-be-slowest-state-to-complete-fiscal-audit.html
New Mexico  needed 426 days to
complete its fiscal 2012 audit, the longest among U.S. states,
while Baltimore was the slowest city, taking 415 days, according
to a report from Merritt Research Services LLC.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has encouraged
municipal issuers to complete and file annual audited financial
statements within 120 days after the close of their fiscal year.
 Utah  and New York met the guideline, filing in 111 days and 114
days, respectively, according to the report released today.
After New Mexico,  South Carolina  took 342 days and Illinois, the
state with the worst  credit rating , needed 335 days.  Borrowers in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have long
faced looser disclosure rules than those faced by corporations
that raise money from investors. Governments aren’t required to
file documents with regulators, as corporations are. The SEC
mandates corporate-bond issuers file audit reports 60 to 90 days
after the end of their fiscal year.  “Municipal-bond audits continue to substantially lag the
completion time for issuers of corporate bonds,” Merritt
President  Richard Ciccarone  said in the report. “The concern is
being echoed in even wider circles due to the increased
attention on local government financial problems and Chapter 9
bankruptcy filings.”  Some of the most-distressed and riskiest bond issuers have
yet to file audits, including Puerto Rico; the Virgin Islands;
Stockton and San Bernardino, California; and Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, according to the report by Hiawatha, Iowa-based
Merritt.  New Mexico’s lagging review time hasn’t resulted in a lower
credit grade. Moody’s Investors Service rates the state Aaa, the
top grade. Baltimore carries an Aa2 rating, third-highest.  The median audit time for states was 174 days, eight days
faster than the previous year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  