-- NY Fed Completes Test of Fixed-Rate Reverse Repo Facility
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-26T16:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/new-york-fed-completes-test-of-fixed-rate-reverse-repo-facility.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York  completed a test of an overnight fixed-rate full allotment
reverse repurchase agreement facility that may be used to aid
policy makers when they tighten monetary policy.  The Fed allotted $9.4 billion in overnight reverse repos
through the facility at a fixed-rate of 0.01 percent. The
operation was open to the Fed’s 139 tri-party reverse repo
counterparties, which includes 94 money market mutual funds, six
government-sponsored entities, 18 banks and the Fed’s 21 primary
dealers. Each eligible counterparty was limited to a maximum bid
amount of $500 million. The collateral for the transactions was
limited to Treasury debt.  “This exercise is not intended to materially affect the
current level of short-term  interest rates ,” the New York Fed
said in a  statement  on Sept. 20. “This work is a matter of
prudent advance planning” and “do not represent a change in
the stance of monetary policy,” the statement said.  The New York Fed said in a separate statement today that it
plans to increase the maximum bid amount to $1 billion from $500
million, beginning with tomorrow’s operation.  Fed policy makers, while still buying  bonds  to support the
economy, have also been developing methods to eventually help
withdraw record monetary accommodation. Along with raising the
overnight bank lending rate, Fed officials have said they may
use tools including reverse repos to withdraw or neutralize cash
in the banking system.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to its counterparties.  To contact the reporters; on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  