-- Tepco Applies for Niigata Restart Amid Fukushima Cleanup
-- B y   I a i n   W i l s o n ,   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-09-27T08:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/niigata-to-allow-tepco-to-apply-for-nuclear-plant-safety-checks.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the
operator of the crisis-ridden Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant,
applied to restart another nuclear facility in western Japan,
even as it works on the cleanup at Fukushima.  Tokyo Electric, also known as Tepco, submitted documents to
Japan’s nuclear regulator today seeking safety checks on two
reactors at its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant, it said in a
statement. The application is a step toward restarting the
station, which was idled for maintenance in March 2012. The
Tokyo-based utility’s  shares  surged as much as 11 percent.  Tepco, which reported a loss of 685.3 billion yen ($6.9
billion) last fiscal year, calls Kashiwazaki-Kariwa key to its
return to profitability. Meanwhile, the utility is in final
talks with a group of banks led by Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.
to approve the extension of 80 billion yen in  loans , according
to a person familiar with the matter.  “We don’t want to raise electricity rates as much as
possible,” President Naomi Hirose told reporters today in
 Tokyo . The application “is one step forward,” he said.  If operations at Kashiwazaki-Kariwa remain suspended, Tepco
would need to increase the rate it charges consumers for
electricity by 8.5 percent to 10 percent as early as January to
achieve a pretax profit for the year to March 2014, a company
document obtained last month by Bloomberg News showed. Tepco
serves 29 million people in the Tokyo metropolitan area, the
world’s largest. It raised household rates by about 8.5 percent
in September 2012.  Conditional Approval  The path toward restarting the reactors became clearer
yesterday after Niigata Governor Hirohiko Izumida, who’s been
critical of Tepco’s handling of Fukushima, said he’d allow the
safety check application, albeit with conditions.  Approval for the reactors located in his prefecture will be
revoked should Tepco fail to control levels of radiation
exposure for residents after installing vents, Izumida said
yesterday in a statement to the utility’s president.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe this month vowed to end the
country’s “ad hoc” response to the Fukushima nuclear disaster
of March 2011. The government plans to spend 47 billion yen to
stop leaks of radioactive water after the utility reported that
300 metric tons had spilled from one of more than 1,000 storage
tanks at the plant.  Hirose Apology  “I’m sorry for adding new concern and inconvenience
because of contaminated water issues,” Hirose told a
parliamentary committee today.  The Niigata plant, the world’s largest nuclear power
station by generating capacity, sits on a site by the Sea of
 Japan  on the opposite coast from Fukushima.　　  Tepco will set up a secondary nuclear venting system at the
No. 6 and No. 7 reactors at Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, Hirose said
Sept. 25, following a meeting with governor Izumida. Under new
safety rules, nuclear plants in Japan must install radiation
filter vents.  Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, 220 kilometers (137 miles) northwest of
Tokyo, consists of seven reactor units ranging in age from 16
years to 28 years, according to the Nuclear Regulation
Authority, Japan’s nuclear regulator.　  The regulator will discuss how safety checks are proceeding
at regular meetings, including the issue of fault lines beneath
the plant, Hideka Morimoto, deputy secretary general at the
agency, said today at a press conference in Tokyo. According to
Tepco, the fault lines under Kashiwazaki-Kariwa have been
inactive for about 200,000 years.  Market Reaction  Tepco’s shares were up 37 yen, or 6.6 percent, to 597 yen
in Tokyo, the  best performer  on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average.
The shares earlier rose to as high as 624 yen.  Aside from the 80 billion yen loans, the company is also
seeking to roll over 200 billion yen in borrowings and get a new
loan worth 300 billion yen in December from 10 lenders, as part
of a 1.07 trillion yen finance plan agreed to in 2012. The
utility has 4.26 trillion yen in bonds outstanding, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There remain too many problems that need to be
resolved,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , the president of Fukoku Capital
Management Inc., which manages 1.8 trillion yen of assets.
“It’s a bit too early to discuss whether this situation is
positive or negative for Tepco.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iain Wilson in Tokyo at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  