-- Nike Profit Tops Estimates as North American Sales Gain
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/nike-profit-tops-estimates-as-north-american-sales-gain.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, posted fiscal first-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates after demand for running and
basketball shoes helped North American sales.  Net income in the quarter ended Aug. 31 rose 38 percent to
$780 million from $567 million a year earlier, the Beaverton,
Oregon-based company said in a statement yesterday. Earnings per
share from continuing operations were 86 cents. The average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 78 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Parker  has been introducing
products, including updates to the Flyknit line of shoes, to
capture a greater share of the market for running gear. Flyknit
shoes, which feature upper portions woven from a single thread,
sell for $150 or more, helping Nike maintain  profitability  in
the face of higher labor costs.  “A number of things are firing on all cylinders,”  Paul Swinand , a  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  analyst in  Chicago , said in an
interview. “Almost everything across the board is strong.”  Nike rose 6.3 percent to $74.80 in extended trading
yesterday after the close in  New York . The  shares  had gained 36
percent this year through the close, compared with a 19 percent
increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sales  rose  7.7 percent to $6.97 billion, topping analysts’
$6.96 billion average estimate. Sales in  North America , Nike’s
largest market, rose 9.4 percent to $3.14 billion.  Orders Surge  Orders for the Nike brand from September to January,
excluding the effects of currency exchange-rate fluctuations,
rose 10 percent. The average estimate of six analysts was a 7.7
percent gain.  Nike’s  gross margin , the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, widened to 44.9 percent from
43.7 percent, on falling prices for raw materials and less
discounting. Analysts estimated 43.8 percent, on average. The
increase was the third straight after nine consecutive declines
caused mostly by rising labor costs.  In China, which had been one of Nike’s fastest-growing
 markets , sales excluding currency fluctuations fell 3 percent to
$574 million for a fourth straight decline. Orders in  China  on
that basis rose 2 percent, compared with analysts projecting a
gain of 0.5 percent.  “I’m not sure if the problems in China are behind them,”
Swinand said. “It’s not getting worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  