-- Nissan Channels Tesla, Offers Free Leaf Charging in Texas
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-09-27T00:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/nissan-channels-tesla-offers-free-leaf-charging-in-texas.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the most prolific
electric-car maker, plans to offer free rapid charges for its
battery-powered Leaf hatchback for new customers in Texas,
experimenting with a strategy pioneered by  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)   Starting Oct. 1, people who buy or lease a new Leaf in
Dallas, Fort Worth and Houston will get unlimited free access
for a year to public chargers operated there by  NRG Energy
Inc. (NRG) ’s  eVgo  unit, the companies said yesterday in a statement.
The companies may expand the service to other markets depending
on customer response, said  Brian Brockman , a Nissan spokesman.  “It’s a pilot program, so we’ll want to see how it goes,”
Brockman said by phone yesterday. “NRG has eVgo networks in
other markets, and we have high hopes for this program.”  Nissan, along with alliance partner  Renault SA (RNO) , has become
the world’s largest seller of autos powered solely by
electricity. A pricing reduction this year and low-cost lease
deals have helped U.S. Leaf sales more than triple through
August to a record 14,123 units.  Tesla, the electric-car maker based in Palo Alto,
California, is expanding its network of supercharger stations to
repower its Model S luxury sedan. Customers who buy 85 kilowatt-hour-battery versions of the car, or an optional upgrade to the
base model, are guaranteed free charges at the stations for
life.  ‘Medium-Sized Enticement’  The offer of free fuel for the Leaf will be an enticement
for some buyers, “but I’d call it a medium-sized enticement,”
said Jack Nerad, industry analyst and executive editor for
Kelley  Blue Book  in  Irvine , California.  “For the right person, near these charge stations, it
could be a good thing and have some appeal,” Nerad said. “But
it’s still striking me that in most instances, an electric car
will mainly be a second or third vehicle for most people,
because of the range limitations and how long it takes to charge
them.”  The 2013 Leaf, built at Nissan’s Smyrna, Tennessee, plant,
averages 75 miles (121 kilometers) per charge. Repowering the
car’s depleted lithium-ion battery pack takes about four hours
from a 240-volt charger. EVgo’s direct-current fast chargers can
repower the battery to 80 percent in 30 minutes, Brockman said.  The North American unit of Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan is
in Franklin, Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  