-- Nokia Said to Mull Alcatel Linkup to Boost Mobile Network
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n
-- 2013-09-26T20:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/nokia-said-to-weigh-linkup-with-alcatel-to-boost-mobile-networks.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , set to become a
manufacturer focusing on wireless networks after the sale of its
handset business, is evaluating a linkup with  France ’s  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Finnish company is considering options including a
combination with Alcatel-Lucent’s mobile-phone networks unit,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the plans are confidential. No talks are under way, said the
people. Alcatel-Lucent  jumped  6.3 percent in Paris.  A tie-up with Alcatel-Lucent would help Nokia challenge
Ericsson AB, the biggest maker of wireless networks, and faster-growing rival Huawei Technologies Co. Alcatel-Lucent, which is
seeking to sell assets and reduce costs, has contracts with
Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc. in the U.S., a market where
Nokia’s network business is trailing competition.  “Wireless tie-up makes industrial sense,” Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analysts led by Didier Scemama said in a note. A
broader linkup between the two companies would result in a
“highly complementary portfolio as well as perhaps the biggest
patent portfolio in the communications equipment history.”  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 16 cents to close at 2.69 euros in
Paris, valuing the company at 6.3 billion euros ($8.5 billion).
Nokia was little changed at 4.90 euros in Helsinki. The company
has a market value of 18.4 billion euros.  ‘Logical Step’  Doug Dawson, a spokesman for Espoo, Finland-based Nokia,
and Simon Poulter, an Alcatel-Lucent spokesman, declined to
comment. Reuters reported yesterday that Nokia was weighing
options including a tie-up with Alcatel-Lucent.  Analysts have speculated about a reshuffle in the network-equipment industry since Nokia this month agreed to sell its
mobile-phone business to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in a 5.44 billion-euro
deal, a transaction the companies expect to complete in the
first quarter. Nokia Solutions and Networks, the $18 billion-a-year networks business Nokia fully took over from Siemens AG
last month, will account for more than 90 percent of sales at
Nokia after the company exits handset making.  “The next logical step for Nokia would be to take over
Alcatel’s Mobile Networks business,” Natixis analyst Eric Beaudet said in a note this month. “Such a move would generate
considerable synergies for Nokia in terms of technology and
geographic positions. This means that Nokia might be prepared to
pay market price.”  Nokia’s Cash  A sale of the wireless business could generate 3.5 billion
euros for Alcatel-Lucent, Beaudet estimates. The company had
wireless-gear sales of 3.4 billion euros  last year , not
including services or software.  Nokia, whose debt is  ranked junk  by all three major rating
companies, had net cash of 4.1 billion euros at the end of June.
The company is set to receive cash from Microsoft of 3.79
billion euros for its phone division and 1.65 billion euros for
patents once the deal is completed.  Nokia’s networks unit has only just returned to profit
after accumulating billions of dollars in operating losses over
six years. Under Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Suri, NSN has
cut more than 20,000 jobs amid declining sales and intensifying
competition with Chinese suppliers Huawei and ZTE Corp.  The cost of insuring Nokia’s debt using five-year credit-default swap contracts rose as much as 17 basis points to 237
basis points today, signaling a deterioration in
creditworthiness. The contracts have fallen by 58 percent since
the sale agreement with Microsoft.  Alcatel Overhaul  Nokia, Ericsson and Alcatel-Lucent are now vying for
contracts from wireless operators as they upgrade networks using
fourth-generation technology to cope with data-hungry tablets
and smartphones to browse the Web.  Alcatel-Lucent, led by CEO Michel Combes, has pledged to
sell assets to raise 1 billion euros and reduce expenses by
another 1 billion euros. The company, which has lost more than
$10 billion since it was created through a 2006 merger, is also
in talks with more potential research partners which could
become Alcatel shareholders. Qualcomm Inc. already agreed to buy
a minority stake.  A sale of its wireless unit would leave Alcatel-Lucent to
focus on generating revenue from its intellectual property
portfolio, made up of more than 30,000 patents, as well as
fixed-line broadband-network equipment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen in Helsinki at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  