-- Nomura Says China May Allow Defaults of Local Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-26T08:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/nomura-says-china-may-allow-local-credit-defaults-as-debt-surges.html
(Corrects name in second paragraph.)  Policy makers in  China  may allow
some local governments’ debt to default next year to improve
market discipline as borrowings surge, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc.  Local government financing vehicles’ debt grew 39 percent
from 2010 to 19 trillion  yuan  ($3.1 trillion) as of the end of
2012, Nomura economists led by Zhang Zhiwei wrote in a report
released today. That’s 37 percent of gross domestic product,
according to the investment bank.  China will complete an audit of the debt this month to
assess risks to its financial system, ahead of a Communist Party
meeting in November to set economic policy. Non-performing
local-government and corporate liabilities will probably have a
“significant impact” on China’s credit and economic growth,
according to half of the economists in a Bloomberg News survey
conducted in July.  “The central government may allow a number of individual
credit defaults to take place to set examples to the rest of the
sector –- and investors,” the report said.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said on Sept. 11 that China is taking
“targeted measures” to address the issue of local-government
debt that “people are all concerned about.” The rising
borrowings underscore the risks President  Xi Jinping ’s
government faces as it tackles the effects to the financial
system of a record credit boom.  Stimulus Effects  Regional governments set up more than 10,000 LGFVs to fund
the construction of roads, sewage plants and subways after they
were barred from directly issuing bonds under a 1994 budget law.
A 4 trillion yuan stimulus plan during the 2008-09 financial
crisis swelled loans to companies, which they have been rolling
over or refinancing with new note sales.  LGFVs may hold more than 20 trillion yuan of debt, former
Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said in April.  The reliance of the financing vehicles on land sales and
rising land prices to repay debt creates “many problems,”
People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in a
commentary published on the central bank’s website Sept. 9.  Zhang, chief China economist at Nomura, said in a media
call today that any defaults are more likely to occur in shadow-banking activities, such as trust businesses, than the  bond
market . That’s because any non-payment in the latter would
affect retail investors and become a high-profile issue, he
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  