-- Norway Oil Fund Chief Warns on Bonds With Returns Close to Zero
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-09-26T11:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/norway-oil-fund-chief-warns-on-bonds-with-returns-close-to-zero.html
The head of  Norway ’s sovereign
wealth fund, the world’s biggest, said the bond market will
offer scant returns as the investor looks to expand into other
asset classes to safeguard the nation’s wealth.  “Returns in the bond markets are low and look to remain so
for a good while ahead,”  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive
officer of the $780 billion Government Pension Fund Global, said
today in a speech in Bergen published on the central bank’s
website. “The safest investment alternative gives today a
return after inflation close to zero.”  Norway, western Europe’s largest oil and gas producer,
generates money for the fund from taxes on oil and gas,
ownership of petroleum fields as well as from its 67 percent
stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s largest energy company. The
fund, which has an average holding of about 1.2 percent of the
world’s listed companies, invests abroad to avoid stoking
domestic inflation.  Europe’s biggest equity investor, which gets its guidelines
from the government, held 63.4 percent in stocks in the second
quarter, up from 62.4 percent in the first quarter.  Its bond holdings slid to 35.7 percent from 36.7 percent of
the fund while real estate comprised 0.9 percent. It’s mandated
to hold 60 percent in stocks, 35 percent in bonds and 5 percent
in real estate. The fund is undergoing a shift in strategy to
capture more global growth. It is moving asset allocation away
from Europe as  emerging markets  in Asia and South America gain a
bigger share of global output.  “Over time it will be natural to be open for investment in
more asset classes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  