-- NYSE Said to Join Nasdaq Weighing Plan to Collaborate on Backups
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   M a t t h e w   P h i l i p s
-- 2013-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/nyse-said-to-join-nasdaq-weighing-plan-to-collaborate-on-backups.html
NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq  OMX Group
Inc., ordered by regulators to make U.S. equity markets more
reliable, are considering improvements that include acting as
each other’s backups on data feeds that disseminate prices,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  Nasdaq’s system for publicly transmitting quotes
malfunctioned on Aug. 22, halting trades for thousands of U.S.
companies for three hours. In the aftermath, Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White told market owners to
collaborate on developing plans to prevent shutdowns.  Options under consideration by NYSE and Nasdaq include
safeguarding each other’s securities information processors, or
SIP, the feeds that both New York-based companies oversee to
distribute trading information to investors, according to the
people, who asked to not be named because the plans are private.
Another possibility is asking Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
to run the backup systems, one of the people said.  “It’s important for both investor and public-company
confidence that the national market system have some sort of
failover, which requires cooperation between the two equity
listing exchanges,” said Tim Quast, president of Denver-based
ModernNetworks IR LLC. “In addition to a need for certainty
that the market can continue to function properly during periods
of intense trading and data volumes, the market-wide system of
volatility pauses depends on the consolidated tape. So this is
clearly good news in the short term, if only as a stop-gap
solution.”  Halting Markets  Because NYSE and Nasdaq run the exchanges where almost all
U.S. companies list their stocks, a SIP shutdown can bring down
the entire market even though transactions are now spread across
more than 50 venues. During a Sept. 12 meeting with White,
bourse operators discussed eliminating single points of failure,
Gary Katz, the chief executive officer of Deutsche Boerse AG’s
 International Securities Exchange , said following the gathering.  Sara Rich, a spokeswoman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , and Nasdaq’s
Rob Madden declined to comment.  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that the
exchange owners were considering the backup plan.  Confidence in U.S. stock markets was shaken by the May 2010
rout known as the flash crash, when a single trade started a
chain of events that erased about $862 billion in minutes from
the value of U.S. stocks.  More Malfunctions  Concern intensified following a series of technical mishaps
including Bats Global Markets Inc. withdrawing its initial
public offering after the exchange operator couldn’t get its own
 stock trading , Nasdaq mishandling Facebook Inc.’s IPO, and NYSE
calling off the closing auction for 216 stocks on Nov. 12
because of a computer outage.  Such breakdowns are putting the credit ratings of exchange
operators around the world at risk for downgrades,  Standard &
Poor’s  said Sept. 19.  The Aug. 22 malfunction at Nasdaq prompted White, the SEC
chairman, to demand that U.S. exchanges develop “concrete
measures designed to address specific areas where the robustness
and resilience of market systems can be improved,” according to
a statement from the regulator.  “Our homework assignments are clear, they require
collaboration and we’ve got 60 days,” NYSE Euronext Chief
Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  told reporters in  Washington 
on Sept. 12 after the industry meeting with White.  Nasdaq’s Decision  The SIP is responsible for distributing stock price data to
brokers, traders and media outlets. When Nasdaq’s system failed
on Aug. 22, officials at the exchange decided to shut down all
trading so investors who had alternative means of getting price
data couldn’t exploit the situation.  In 1975, the SEC forced the exchanges -- the New York Stock
Exchange, the  American Stock Exchange , Nasdaq, and regional
markets -- to combine their trading data and publish the latest
prices at which stocks changed hands on one central data feed
accessible to brokers and investors. The plan was to level the
playing field so all market participants could see the best
prices for every stock, no matter where it was listed.  As trading has become more automated, NYSE and Nasdaq have
 lost share  to new venues including exchanges run by Bats and
Direct Edge Holdings LLC. Even so, NYSE and Nasdaq remains
responsible for disseminating market data to the public. The SEC
lets exchanges charge brokers, money managers and media a fee
for the information. That money is split among all the exchanges
based roughly on their market share of total trading volume.  Proprietary Feeds  NYSE and Nasdaq also sell proprietary data feeds to high-speed traders. These conduits are faster and contain more data
than the SIP, including all prices being offered, not just the
best ones. While the law requires prices to be entered into the
public and propriety feeds at the same time, the proprietary
systems process and transmit the information more quickly.  To Charles Schwab Corp.’s Jeffrey Brown, it appears that
NYSE and Nasdaq have neglected the public feed, making it more
susceptible to breakdowns.  “There is no question they have underinvested” in the
SIP, said Brown, a senior vice president at Schwab. As a
discount brokerage, Schwab can’t afford to buy the proprietary
feeds, which puts it at a disadvantage to sophisticated high-frequency traders, Brown said. The system is “flawed and
degrades the data we can provide to our clients,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Philips in Washington at 
 mphilips3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  