-- Stock Spirits Said to Seek Valuation of as Much as $1.3 Billion
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-09-26T12:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/oaktree-s-stock-spirits-to-sell-shares-to-fund-european-growth.html
Stock Spirits Group, the central
European distiller owned by  Oaktree Capital Management LLC (OAK) , is
seeking a valuation of as much as 800 million pounds ($1.3
billion) in its initial public offering, said people with
knowledge of the sale.  Stock Spirits, the largest vodka maker in Poland and  Italy ,
may be valued at 600 million pounds to 800 million pounds, the
people said, asking not to be named as details aren’t public
yet. Stock Spirits will seek about 52 million pounds through the
sale, the company said today in a statement.  Oaktree, which had attempted to list the distiller in 2011,
comes to the market at a time when the volume of IPOs in  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  has tripled to about $15 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oaktree plans to remain
the largest shareholder after the transaction, though the
company will sell some stock in the IPO.  Stock Spirits said it would use proceeds to repay a portion
of debt, leaving it poised for expansion. “The main reason
we’re IPOing is to get our balance sheet in shape so we can fund
meaningful acquisitions,” Chief Executive Officer Christopher
Heath said in a telephone interview.  The company will seek to expand through brand extensions
and takeovers in countries between Poland and  Russia , including
Hungary, Latvia and  Ukraine , he said. “We’ll acquire businesses
with strong, well-recognized brands,” Heath said today, adding
that there has been little consolidation among smaller companies
in central and eastern Europe.  Improved Market  The IPO market has become less challenging since the last
attempt to sell shares in 2011, Heath said. Stock Spirits said
that year it would continue to be owned by Oaktree after
potential bidders including  Diageo Plc (DGE)  and Bain Capital LLC
balked at an asking price said at the time to be more than 700
million euros ($946 million).  The IPO will leave at least 25 percent of the shares freely
traded and should be completed by the end of October, Heath
said. The IPO could raise 200 million pounds to 250 million
pounds, said one person familiar with the sale.  Stock Spirits, which was bought by Oaktree in 2007,
reported revenue of 292.4 million euros in 2012.  The syndicate for the IPO comprises JPMorgan Chase & Co..
Nomura Holdings Inc., Jefferies Group LLC, and Joh. Berenberg
Gossler & Co. KG, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  