-- Obama Said to Seek Replacement for FERC Nominee Ron Binz
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-26T19:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/obama-said-to-seek-replacement-for-ferc-nominee-ron-binz.html
The nomination of Ron Binz to head
the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is effectively
over and the White House is seeking alternatives, according to a
senator who opposed the pick.  “I think he’s gone,” Senator  Joe Manchin , a Democrat from
West Virginia, told reporters and editors today at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast.  Manchin, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee considering the nomination, said Democrats
were told at a caucus meeting yesterday that the White House is
vetting other candidates for the job.  The move comes as Senator  Tim Scott  said yesterday that he
would vote against Binz, who was nominated by President  Barack Obama . Scott was the last of the 10 Republicans on the 22-member
energy committee to declare their opposition to the nomination.
Manchin had earlier said he would vote against Binz, a former
chairman of the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.  “The committee is aware that other candidates are being
considered to lead FERC,” said Keith Chu, a spokesman for
Democrats on the panel led by Senator  Ron Wyden  of Oregon. The
committee hasn’t scheduled a vote on Binz’s nomination, Chu said
by e-mail.  Binz is “a very qualified candidate,” White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said today. “The Senate ought to act on
his nomination.”  Scott’s Vote  Scott, a South Carolina Republican, “is now a ‘no’ vote on
the nomination,” Greg Blair, the senator’s spokesman, said
yesterday by e-mail.  With half the panel prepared to vote against Binz, he
doesn’t have enough support for the committee to recommend him
for a full Senate vote, effectively killing the nomination.  Republican senators led by  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, the
party’s top committee member, lined up against Binz after his
Sept. 17 confirmation hearing before the panel. Murkowski told
Binz at the hearing she was concerned he wasn’t forthcoming
about the extent of his support from lobbyists and public-relations officials.  Others, including Manchin and Senator  Rob Portman , an  Ohio
Republican , have said Binz displayed a bias toward renewable
fuels at the expense of coal at the Colorado utility commission.  Binz, who has the support of clean-energy groups, said he
has been open with the panel about those who have helped him
prepare for his nomination. He has also denied being anti-coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  