-- Obama’s Health Law Markets Face Delay for Small Business
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-26T17:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/obama-s-health-law-markets-face-delay-for-small-business.html
Small businesses won’t be able to
enroll in new online health insurance marketplaces until Nov. 1
in most U.S. states, the latest delay for the Obama
administration’s signature health-care law.  Small businesses won’t be able to sign up their employees
for coverage until November in 36 states where the federal
government is running insurance exchanges, said Joanne Peters, a
spokeswoman for the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services. Businesses can shop for coverage on the government’s
websites beginning Oct. 1, the original date the marketplaces
were scheduled to open, the agency said in a statement.  Insurance marketplaces for individuals “will still open on
time on Oct. 1 with full online enrollment and plan shopping
options,” Peters said.  The exchanges for small businesses, available for companies
with 50 or fewer full-time workers, were something of an
afterthought when Congress passed the Affordable Care Act in
2010. The administration had already said April 1 that workers
at these companies won’t immediately be able to pick any health
plan they want as the law intended, and instead will have to
sign up for a plan selected by their employers.  The administration said July 2 that companies employing 50
or more workers won’t face fines for not providing health
insurance until 2015, delaying a major provision of the law.  Early Word  Officials at HHS called groups representing small
businesses today to alert them to the one-month delay of the
exchange’s functions.  “As with any major changes, there’s going to be some
hiccups on the way,” said Joshua Welter, a spokesman for the
Main Street Alliance, a group that represents 15,000 small
businesses and has backed the  health law . He said he received a
call from HHS officials about the delay.  Coverage under exchange plans doesn’t begin until Jan. 1,
giving the government time to sort out problems when enrollment
begins next week. Unlike individuals who have an open enrollment
period just once a year, small businesses using the health
exchanges can enroll on a monthly basis throughout the year, the
department said in its statement.  Administration officials have downplayed expectations for
early enrollment under the health law and cautioned that
glitches are expected in the complex system of websites and call
centers.  “This will entail the mother of all growing pains,” Neil Trautwein, a vice president at the  National Retail Federation  in
 Washington , a trade group for retailers, said today in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  