-- Obama Says He Won’t Back Down in Fight Over Health-Care Law
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-09-26T16:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/obama-says-he-won-t-back-down-in-health-care-fight-with-congress.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
won’t back down against Republicans trying to block his health-care law and said threats to tie their effort to raising the
nation’s debt ceiling amount to “blackmail.”  With five days until enrollment begins, Obama said the
Republicans in Congress are becoming increasingly
“irresponsible” in opposing the law.  “The Affordable Care Act is here to stay,” the president
said at Prince George’s Community College in Largo,  Maryland , a
suburb of  Washington . “I will not negotiate on anything when it
comes to the full faith and credit of the  United States .”  It was Obama’s second public appearance this week in a
campaign to get millions of uninsured people to sign up for
coverage through exchanges during a six-month period starting
Oct. 1. At the same time, Republicans are stepping up their
attempts to strip funding for or delay the law’s implementation.  The Republican-controlled House has passed a measure that
would deny funding for the law as part of a bill to pay for
government operations after the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year.
Democratic leaders in the Senate, where they have a majority,
plan to block that move.  As an alternative,  Republican lawmakers in the House today
discussed plans for attaching some proposals to delay or curb
the health law to legislation to raise the debt ceiling.  Republican Options  “We have no interest in seeing the government shut down,”
House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said. “There
will be options available to us, there aren’t going to be
speculations about what we’re going to do, or not do, until the
Senate passes their bill.”  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told lawmakers yesterday
that measures to avoid breaching the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling
will be exhausted on Oct. 17.  No Congress has tried “to threaten an economic shutdown,
to suggest America not pay its bills just to try to blackmail a
president into giving them some concessions on issues that have
nothing to do with the budget,” Obama said.  He told his audience that a guarantee of health care is
crucial to making sure middle-income Americans prosper.  “There are few things more fundamental to the economic
security of the middle class -- and everyone who’s trying to get
into the middle class -- than health care,” the president said.  Insurance Exchanges  Government-run health insurance exchanges, the cornerstone
of the 2010 Affordable Care Act, open their doors for sales of
subsidized bronze, silver, gold or platinum policies, with
correspondingly higher costs, on Oct. 1. Coverage begins in
January and enrollment lasts through March 2014. Policies can be
purchased by phone, on the Internet or through an insurance
broker.  “He and everybody else in the administration have got to
keep the heat on” to explain a complicated program, said
Stephen Hess, a presidential scholar at the  Brookings
Institution , a public policy research center in Washington.
“It’s so incredibility important to him; it’s in effect his
legacy.”  Premium Costs  Premiums nationally will be about 16 percent less than the
Congressional Budget Office projected in 2012, according to a
report released yesterday by the  Department of Health  and Human
Services.  Rates vary widely by state. A family of four earning
$50,000 would be able to buy a silver-level plan for $282 a
month after subsidies, the HHS  data  show. A 27-year-old single
person earning $25,000 would pay an average of $145 a month in a
silver-level program after taking subsidies into account.  In Maryland, where Obama spoke, an average 25-year-old
making $25,000 a year could get coverage for as little as $80 a
month, and a family of four earning $50,000 a year could get
health insurance for as little as $164 a month, the White House
said in a statement.  The government provided only a partial picture of premiums,
and it didn’t describe policy coverage. Other costs, such as co-pay amounts or deductible levels before coverage kicks in,
weren’t disclosed. More details will be available once the
exchanges are in operation.  Public Sentiment  A Bloomberg National Poll showed that 60 percent of those
surveyed thought their overall health-care costs would go up
even with the new law, while 13 percent said costs would drop
and 22 percent said they would be unchanged.  Forty percent said they didn’t know enough about the
program to say.  Half of those surveyed said lawmakers should stop trying to
end funding for the health-care program because it’s the law of
the land, while 43 percent said Congress should stick with it
until funds are eliminated.  The survey of 1,000 adults, conducted Sept. 20-23, has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Of 50 million uninsured, about 7 million people may buy
policies next year, rising to 24 million by 2023, according to
an  estimate  by the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  Obama’s appearance at a community college underscored the
importance of young people to the program.  The sign-up in the exchanges of about 2.7 million healthy
adults between 18 and 34 is needed to offset the cost of
insuring older, sicker people. If younger people don’t enroll,
costs will increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Largo, Maryland at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  