-- Hollande Visits Florange to Repair Rift Over Furnace’s Closing
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-09-26T11:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/hollande-visits-florange-to-repair-rift-over-furnace-s-closing.html
French President  Francois Hollande ,
visiting a steel furnace whose closing caused the greatest rift
in his 16-month-old government, pledged he’d come every year to
ensure that  ArcelorMittal (MT)  lives up to an accord it signed with
the state.  “Steel in Lorraine has a future,”  said Hollande at the
Florange plant in northeast France, also announcing a government
funded research center. Union leaders thanked him for his visit,
while saying they still feel betrayed.  The Indian company’s November 2012 decision to shut
furnaces at Florange challenged the government’s commitment to
prevent factory closings, and exposed divisions within the
Socialist Party. With 600 jobs at stake, Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  first said the Mittal family was no longer
wanted in France and then called for the plant’s
nationalization. He was overruled by Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, who negotiated a plan to mothball the furnaces awaiting
the 2016 start of a European Union-backed plan for low-carbon
steel making.  “It’s a very risky move for Hollande to visit Florange, a
bit like a return to the scene of a crime,” said  Laurent Dubois , a politics professor at the Institute of Political
Studies in Paris. “It’s the scene of broken promises.”  Hollande visited Florange as a candidate in February 2012,
climbing atop a union van to tell a crowd that he’d “defend the
steel industry” and announcing plans for a law that would
oblige any company shuttering a plant to seek a buyer.  Defining Moment  Ayrault and Hollande’s decision not to nationalize the
plant was a defining moment in Hollande’s presidency, Dubois
said. “It sent the message that they were social democrats and
that they accept the market as it is,” he said. “That was when
Hollande made his definite break with the far-left.”  In a meeting today with union leaders at the plant,
Hollande said he’d told them he stood by his decision. He also
announced up to 50 million euros ($67 million) of public money,
with 20 million euros spent next year, to open a research center
in Florange to work on the “steel of the future.”  Edouard Martin, a represantative of the CFDT union, said
he’d reiterated to the President that workers felt betrayed last
November. “I didn’t take back anything we’d said, the history
hasn’t changed, but now we have to look at the future,” Martin
told reporters. “The research center goes in the right
direction. At least the government is putting its hand back
in.”  Ministers’ Arguments  Ayrault and Montebourg said later that they’d had screaming
arguments over the issue, and that Montebourg almost quit.
Montebourg justified nationalization by citing what the U.S. did
with its car industry; Ayrault said state ownership wouldn’t
solve oversupply in the European  steel industry .  A few dozen workers booed Hollande’s motorcade as it
entered the plant. “Hollande made promises and then just let us
drop,” said Pascal Olivarez, a 43-year-old who works in
maintenance at the furnaces as he awaits a new assignment.
“Hollande betrayed us. If you add to that his tax increases,
he’s much worse than Sarkozy,” he said, referring to Hollande’s
predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Alvarez said he believed Montebourg’s pledge to nationalize
the plant “up until the end.”  Parliament next month will vote on a proposed bill --
called the “Florange law” -- to force companies with more than
1,000 employees that plan to shut a site to “actively” seek
buyers for three months, or risk financial penalties  Mittal Plant  India ’s Mittal family bought Arcelor in 2006 for 36 billion
euros. While attention is focused on Florange’s unprofitable
furnaces, the site’s specialty steel operations continue to
employ 2,000 people, with 64 percent of the output exported,
about half of it to the automobile industry. Of the 629 workers
at the furnaces, whom Mittal pledged not to fire as part of its
agreement, all but about 40 have accepted early retirement or
gone to work at other sites, the company says.  Hollande’s visit is aimed at promoting the tax cuts, labor
law loosenings, and investment spending that his government has
undertaken to help French industry.  Later today, he’ll visit
Crown Bevcan,  France ’s largest can maker, which opened in 1984,
and employs 5,000 people making 1.2 billion cans a year.  Montebourg didn’t accompany Hollande on today’s visit.
Instead, Hollande brought his culture minister, Aurelie Filippetti, the daughter of Italian immigrants who worked in the
local coalmines.  France lost 750,000 industrial jobs in the past 10 years,
according to the government, and industry accounts for about 11
percent of the economy. The average in the European Union is
22.5 percent, with  Germany ,  Italy ,  Spain  and the Netherlands all
ahead of France.  Hollande’s Standing  Only 23 percent of the French approve of Hollande’s
performance according to Ifop’s monthly poll for Journal du
Dimanche released over the weekend. That’s the lowest for a
sitting French president since 1991. Ifop sampled 1,901 people.  The number of French job seekers fell 50,000 in August, the
first monthly decline since April 2011. The 3.24 million people
looking for work remains near a record record high.  The  unemployment rate  in Lorraine, the industrial region
around Florange, is 10.9 percent, compared with 10.5 percent
nationwide. That rate is almost double Germany’s and at a 14-year high. Excluding overseas territories, France has 22
regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Florange, France at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  