-- Home Depot’s Redbeacon Expands ‘Do-It-for-Me’ Services
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-09-27T14:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/home-depot-expands-redbeacon-to-boost-do-it-for-me-services.html
Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the world’s
largest home improvement retailer, is accelerating the national
rollout of its online handyman referral service Redbeacon to tap
demand from homeowners who don’t want to do fix-it projects
themselves.  Redbeacon, which connects consumers with painters,
plumbers, carpenters and maids, expanded this week through Home
Depot to  Oregon ,  Washington ,  Idaho ,  Utah ,  Montana  and  Alaska .
That puts the service in 11 states as the service pushes
nationwide over the next two years, Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Rodio said in an interview Wednesday.  Founded by three former  Google Inc. (GOOG)  employees five years
ago, Redbeacon is Home Depot’s third acquisition since 2012
aimed at selling more home-installation projects. While those
services account for only 4 percent of the retailer’s revenue,
it underpins Home Depot CEO Frank Blake’s push to drive more
sales through his roughly 2,000 U.S. stores as rising home
prices spur renovation.  “It’s another way for Home Depot to try to attract repeat
customers to their stores over Lowe’s,” said Walter Todd, who
oversees about $950 million as chief investment officer at
Greenwood Capital Associates. The firm owns 43,500 Home Depot
shares and 92,000 shares of Lowe’s Cos.  Atlanta-based Home Depot bought two other companies in
2012: closely held MeasureComp LLC, a flooring measurement
company, and U.S. Home Systems Inc., which refurbishes kitchens
and bathrooms.  Pruning Shrubs  For years, Home Depot and Lowe’s, the second-largest home
improvement chain, have arranged projects for contractors to
install roofs, build decks and remodel kitchens. Those jobs are
typically more extensive than services offered by Redbeacon,
according to Rodio.  Redbeacon’s jobs range from repairing leaky faucets and
shorted light switches to pruning shrubs and painting houses.
Cleaning a house in the San Francisco Bay area costs on average
$124, according to a price estimator on Redbeacon.com  Foster City, California-based Redbeacon is targeting “do-it-for-me” homeowners, particularly those in their 20s and 30s
who “view rearranging their iTunes or downloading the newest
version of the iPhone operating system as work around their
home,” Rodio, 48, said in a telephone interview from New York.  Home Prices Rise  Consumers are willing to spend more as the value of their
homes increase even as rising mortgage rates weigh on home
sales, Rodio said. Home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose in the 12
months through July by the most in more than seven years.  Competing with Google, Angie’s List and other online
listings of contractors, Redbeacon takes project requests from
consumers and collects bids from professionals it has pre-screened, according to Redbeacon’s  website . It sends several
bids to the consumers and helps schedule the work. Contractors
pay a monthly fee of $29.95 for a spot on Redbeacon’s call list,
Rodio said.  Redbeacon has no physical presence in Home Depot stores
other than signs promoting its service. As customers inquire
about projects, Home Depot employees show them Redbeacon’s
services on computer terminals and encourage them to download
Redbeacon’s mobile app.  Home Depot slipped 0.5 percent to $75.71 at 10:01 a.m. in
New York. Before today, the shares advanced 23 percent this year
through yesterday compared to a gain of 19 percent by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  