-- London Land Beating Luxury Homes Creates Rate Risk: U.K. Credit
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-09-26T07:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/london-land-beating-luxury-homes-creates-rate-risk-u-k-credit.html
The only part of the U.K. real
estate market that’s rising faster than  London ’s luxury homes is
the land underneath them.  Housing plots in the U.K. capital rose  87 percent  through
the first quarter from a trough in 2009, broker  Savills Plc (SVS) 
estimates. That could turn around quickly if interest rates
increase, according to Alexander Michaelides, a finance
professor at London’s Imperial College who studies the
relationship between land and the economy.  Gilt yields have been rising as investors bet the  Bank of
England  will be forced to raise its benchmark interest rate from
a record low earlier than the 2016 horizon bank Governor  Mark Carney  has indicated. Rising rates increase the risk of falling
land values as home-buying becomes more expensive. In cities
like London, where there’s a scarcity of development land,
values are more sensitive to economic changes, Michaelides said.  “Land scarcity makes the response to fundamental shocks a
lot more volatile,” Michaelides said in an interview. “It is a
risk that the Bank of England should be taking into account when
they make their policies.”  Prices for luxury homes have soared in recent years as the
debt crisis in the euro region and uprisings across North Africa
made London property a haven for international investors. Prime
London residences have risen more than 60 percent from their low
in 2009, according to broker Knight Frank LLP.  Political Pledges  With rising prices across the U.K. putting home ownership
beyond the reach of young Britons, political parties are
pledging to ease planning curbs and build more homes. The
opposition  Labour Party  said this week it would allow local
authorities to charge developers that don’t build on land that
has received building approval.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has been
promoting home ownership by assisting buyers and making
mortgages easier to obtain as he seeks to revive the U.K.
economy. Despite those efforts, approvals to build new homes in
London fell about 15 percent in the first half from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by researcher Glenigan for
the Home Builders Federation.  Wider Margins  Homebuilders were the main beneficiaries of the fall in
land prices that followed the financial crisis as they boosted
profit margins by developing plots acquired at a discount.
Development land values for the country overall are 50 percent
below their 2007 peak, Savills said.  In London, land prices now exceed the previous high,
according to the broker. The 87 percent jump since their trough
in 2009 compares with an increase of more than 60 percent for
London luxury homes and a 43 percent gain for all residences in
the city, Knight Frank estimates.  British Land Co. bought a site in London’s Mayfair district
to develop luxury apartments last year, using the proceeds from
a 400 million-pound ($640 million)  bond issue . The convertible
debt, which matures in 2017, has a 1.5 percent coupon.  The Bank of England last expanded its  stimulus program 
known as quantitative easing in July last year and investors are
betting policy makers will raise the 0.5 percent benchmark
interest rates as early as 2015 as the recovery gathers
strength.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will take the first step
to reducing $85 billion in monthly bond purchases in December,
according to 59 percent of 41 economists in a Sept. 18-19 survey
compiled by Bloomberg. The 10-year gilt, which yielded less than
equivalent Treasuries as recently as Sept. 4, now yields  12
basis points  more, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Disorderly Unwinding’  A “disorderly unwinding” of the quantitative-easing
program in the U.S. could result in  home prices  in the best
parts of London falling as much as 20 percent, Fathom Consulting
wrote in a July research report. Central London residential
values “have become somewhat stretched, suggesting that they
are now vulnerable to correction.”  Not everyone agrees. “It’s a residential market that’s
driven by world city dynamics rather than by ordinary domestic”
factors, Simon Rawlinson, head of research at construction
consultant EC Harris LLP, said in an interview. “More and more
developers are entering the market and are able to make the
numbers stack up.”  Developers are building on land at the fastest rate since
2008, Savills said in an August  report . London land values are
forecast to continue to increase as the home market is less
reliant on customers having access to mortgage credit, associate
director Paul Tostevin said in an interview. The broker doesn’t
include the effects of a potential  interest rate  increase in its
forecasts for land prices, he said.  “You get a magic moment in the cycle which you’ve got land
that you’ve purchased relatively cheaply at the bottom of the
cycle, your costs aren’t rising and prices are going up so
that’s where you get the maximum profitability,” Rawlinson
said. “Going forward, in terms of more expensive land,
profitability is more likely to normalize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  