-- London Mayor Slams EU Aid-Cap Threat to New London Airport
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-09-26T15:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/london-mayor-slams-eu-aid-cap-threat-to-new-london-airport-1-.html
London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  said
European Union proposals barring the use of state aid for the
construction of airports serving more than 5 million people a
year would undermine plans to grow the U.K.’s aviation capacity.  Government subsidies for large airport projects, currently
assessed on a case-by-case basis, would be outlawed starting in
early 2014, whether for new infrastructure or upgrades of
existing facilities, according to the draft  EU blueprint .  “There are unintended and potentially catastrophic
consequences,” Johnson said in a Sept. 20 letter to EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia . In “tying the hands”
of member states, the measures would limit London’s ability to
expand vital links to  emerging markets  in  Asia  and South
America, he said in the document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Johnson is at the forefront of a U.K. debate over airport
capacity in southeast  England  that pits the existing Heathrow
hub against his own proposals which include building an entirely
new base far to the east. The EU rules would limit London to
expanding terminal capacity at existing bases with less
ambitious plans that could be more easily financed, he said.  Consultation  Almunia’s spokesman Antoine Colombani said the European
Commission has taken no decision on the matter and that the EU’s
regulatory arm will now start to analyze feedback received
during a consultation period that ended yesterday.  “We will of course carefully assess all the arguments
raised, including in Mr. Johnson’s letter,” he said.  The Commission said on publishing draft guidelines in July
that airports with annual passenger numbers above 5 million are
“usually profitable and are able to cover all of their costs.”  Transport for London, the body that implement’s the mayor’s
transport strategy, said in a submission accompanying his letter
that while incremental investment can usually be privately
financed, the delivery of larger one-off developments in the
order of tens of billions of pounds would still require aid.  Such projects would include the expansion or replacement of
a major international airport, according to the document.  Johnson has said Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest hub, should be
replaced by one of two undeveloped sites in the Thames estuary
or by an expanded Stansted airport, 35 miles north of London.  The proposals, along with those of Heathrow, Gatwick,
Stansted and other airports and stakeholders, were submitted to
the state-appointed Davies Commission on U.K. airport capacity
earlier this year, with a final recommendation due in 2015.  ‘Damage’  “If the changes that the EC are proposing were adopted,
they would seriously damage the ability of the commission to
consider all options on a level playing field,” Johnson said.  TfL said in its submission that a new hub as envisaged by
Johnson requires an estimated 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) of
investment. Heathrow has also described as “challenging” the
likelihood of raising private funds for a more modest proposal
for new runways costing from 14 billion pounds, it added.  A four-runway hub could quadruple the number of cities in
 China  and  South America  served from London and add 50 percent
more in the U.S., while restoring routes to U.K. locations now
served only from Amsterdam Schiphol, Johnson said in July.  A lack of airport infrastructure across Europe could cap
the number of flights to 14 million annually by 2035, 2 million
fewer than demand forecasts suggest will be needed, Tfl said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  