-- Top Coal Miner Averts Strike With Bonus Pledge: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-26T10:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/top-coal-miner-averts-strike-with-bonus-pledge-corporate-india.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s
largest producer of the fuel, averted a strike by its executives
after assuring them of bonus payouts that may cost the  state-owned  company as much as $152 million.  Demands for bonus payments due for the past six years will
be met by Oct. 31, R. Mohan Das, director of personnel at the
Kolkata-based firm, said in an interview. The top managers, who
have threatened to stop work indefinitely and wore black
armbands for a day last month, said they will review their
strategy should the company renege on its promise.  Frequent worker unrests at the nation’s second-biggest
employer with 358,000 people have hampered production at a time
when Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is trying to boost power
generation needed to revive economic growth from the slowest
pace in a decade. A day’s strike may cost about 1.3 million
metric tons in coal output and almost 2 billion rupees ($32
million) in revenue for the company that had cash reserves worth
$10 billion as of March 31.  “I am very hopeful the matter will be resolved soon,” Das
said from his office. “We can’t obviously meet all their
demands, but whatever is reasonable will be done.”  Under Pressure  Coal India, which is 90 percent owned by the state and
fires about half of the nation’s electricity generation
capacity, is under pressure to ensure uninterrupted shipments of
the fuel. Blackouts shave about 1.2 percentage points off the
growth of the $1.8 trillion economy, which is  Asia ’s third-biggest, according to government estimates.  Rising labor costs may hurt the company that is already
struggling amid a drop in demand from customers including
cement, steel and sponge-iron factories after industrial
production rose an average 0.9 percent starting 2012, the least
since 2009.  The company reported its  first annual decline  in profit in
five quarters for the three months ended June 30 after
electronic auction prices dropped 16.4 percent because of lower
demand. Operating margin for the period narrowed to 21.14
percent from 25.93 percent a year earlier.  Government rules prohibit performance-linked bonuses to
employees of a loss-making company. Some of Coal  India ’s
executives, who also work for its unprofitable units, were thus
ineligible to receive the payments. To treat all the officers at
par, the parent company’s board withheld bonuses from all of
them until the issue is resolved.  Worker Reality  “Higher employee payments and material prices are
threatening Coal India’s profitability,” said Giriraj Daga, an
analyst at Mumbai-based Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. “Between
keeping workers happy and maintaining profit margins, the
workers will have their way. That’s a reality the company and
the shareholders will have to live with.”  Daga, who has a  buy rating  on Coal India, said he is
turning negative on the stock and may downgrade it soon.  The  shares  of the company rose 3 percent to 303.85 rupees
at the close in Mumbai, pruning this year’s loss to 14 percent.
The benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index gained 2.4 percent in 2013.  India had a peak electricity deficit of 6.3 percent in the
five months to Aug. 31, according to the  Central Electricity
Authority , a unit of the federal power ministry. Power
generators, including Reliance Power Ltd., NTPC Ltd. and Adani
Power Ltd., have together shelved projects with more than 50,000
megawatts of generation capacity, citing fuel shortages. Trucks
waiting in long queues at mines to carry coal to railway sidings
and a congested rail network exacerbate the shortfall in output.  Diverting Sales  With Singh’s push for electricity generation, Coal India
will be diverting sales to its lowest-paying utility customers
after signing fuel-supply accords with  power plants  with 78,000
megawatts of capacity. As a result, the company may risk losing
its non-utility customers, comprising 10 percent of its output,
who had offered as much as 80 percent premium for the fuel at e-auctions.  “Coal India will have to shift sales from its most
profitable channels to meet its fuel supply obligations with
power plants,” said  Rahul Jain , a Mumbai-based analyst with
CIMB Securities India Pvt., who has an “underperform” rating
on the stock. “A decline in earnings is inevitable.”  The company’s output of 167.32 million tons in the five
months to Aug. 31, a 2.7 percent increase over a year ago, still
fell short of a targeted 173.04 million tons, according to a
stock exchange filing.  High Morale  To meet its production goals, the miner must keep the
employees’ morale high, said P.K. Singh, secretary general at
the Coal Mines Officers’ Association of India. Coal India has
17,600 executives, less than a permitted strength of 19,000.
Many of these executives work in difficult conditions, facing
threats of kidnapping and murder by Maoist rebels in states
where many of the company’s coal mines are located, and deserve
adequate compensation, Singh said.  The company’s non-executive workers won a pay increase for
five years starting July 2011 after threatening to go on a
strike. They stopped work for a day in 2011 to get a higher
festival bonus.  Besides increasing employee expenses, lack of rail
connectivity and erratic availability of railway rakes have also
posed a challenge for the company, said Abhisar Jain, an analyst
at Mumbai-based Centrum Broking Pvt. The company is investing
more than $1 billion in building new lines that could help add
300 million tons in annual output, Chairman S. Narsing Rao said
in February.  “There is no question that Coal India has to keep its
employees motivated to get the best out of them, but it has to
ensure employee costs don’t go out of hand,” Jain said.
“Investments in improving logistics and acquiring better
technology should remain key priorities for increasing output.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  