-- Oracle CFO Says Cloud Computing Will Lift Profit Margins
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/oracle-says-it-will-gain-share-regardless-of-economy.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest
 database-software  maker, will boost operating margins by
shifting to services delivered via the Web from software
installed on computers, Chief Financial Officer Safra Catz said.  Oracle will be more profitable as technology spending is
directed toward cloud-computing tools, Catz, who is also co-president, said at a meeting with analysts in  San Francisco 
yesterday. Analysts  project  on average that Oracle will reach an
operating margin of 48 percent for the fiscal year through May,
compared with 39 percent in the previous year .  After spending more than $50 billion on  acquisitions  in the
past decade, fueling an expansion in sales and  earnings , Oracle
is seeking new sources of growth. The software maker is
grappling with  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,  Workday Inc. (WDAY)  and other
competitors delivering software via the Internet, leading Oracle
to buy and develop its own  cloud-computing  products.  “They’re caught up in this transition between perpetual
licensing and cloud,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG
who has a buy rating on the shares. Oracle’s hybrid approach of
selling software that runs on businesses’ own computers and also
over the Web is necessary for customers in financial services,
telecommunications and government that aren’t ready to move
entirely to the cloud, he said.  Oracle is poised to gain market share amid shifts to mobile
and Web-based services, regardless of the state of the economy,
Catz said.  Comeback Challenge  “Oracle will be left in the dust -- I’ve probably heard it
half a dozen times,” Catz said. “Whatever the economy brings
us, we will ultimately gain share.”  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison , whose Oracle Team
USA won the America’s Cup yacht race Sept. 25 in a comeback
victory over Emirates Team  New Zealand , has charted a course for
Oracle that relies on selling customers complete systems of
computer servers, databases and application-connecting
middleware to reverse slowing growth.  “You put all these pieces together,” Ellison said at the
meeting with analysts. “It’s kind of like configuring the boat
-- it’s not any one thing.”  The company this week introduced a way for customers of its
new database software, called 12c, to run their existing
applications by putting more of the data into computer memory
instead of on disk for faster transaction processing and data
analysis, challenging  SAP AG. (SAP)   Keeping Pace  The  Redwood City , California-based company on Sept. 18 gave
a weaker-than-projected profit forecast for the fiscal second
quarter, which ends in November. Sales are also slowing -- they
were unchanged last year and analysts on average predict 3
percent growth this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue increased by double digits for much of the
past decade.  “On the applications side, they need to demonstrate they
can keep pace with the upstarts,” said Israel Hernandez, an
analyst at MKM Partners LLC who recommends buying Oracle shares.  Oracle’s compensation policies have also come under some
scrutiny. CtW Investment Group, part of the labor group Change
to Win, is urging Oracle to appoint a new director to oversee
compensation practices. The group is also opposing the use of
 stock options  to pay Ellison and other executives, said Michael
Pryce-Jones, a research analyst at CtW, which holds 6 million
Oracle shares.  In a letter sent this week to Bruce Chizen, the chairman of
Oracle’s compensation committee and the former CEO of  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE) , CtW also urged Oracle to adopt industry pay
benchmarks. Oracle plans to hold its annual shareholder  meeting 
on Oct. 31.  Ellison’s pay package declined 18 percent to $78.4 million
for fiscal 2013 after he gave up an annual bonus and the company
missed some of its profit targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  