-- Total Plans Biggest Unsubsidized Solar Farm for Chile Desert
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-09-26T18:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/total-plans-biggest-solar-farm-in-chile-that-won-t-rely-on-aid.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-biggest
energy company, is planning the world’s largest solar farm that
won’t rely on subsidies in Chile’s Atacama desert with
developers  Etrion Corp. (ETX)  and  Solventus Energias Renovables .  The 70-megawatt photovoltaic project will cost $200 million
and initially sell electricity to Chile’s central power grid,
Paris-based Total said today in a  statement .  Solar developers are heading to northern Chile where sunny
weather and high energy prices make bigger projects viable.
Other large solar farms require government support in the form
of higher rates for their output or tax breaks to be profitable,
according to Jenny Chase, head solar analyst with Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “This is the world’s biggest solar project that’s not
receiving subsidies,” Chase said today in a telephone interview
from Zurich.  Construction will begin in the fourth quarter and the plant
is expected to start producing power by the first quarter of
2015.  Etrion, a Geneva-based renewable-energy producer, will own
70 percent of the project, leaving Total with 20 percent and
Solventus Energias Renovables, a Spanish renewable-energy
developer, with 10 percent.  Overseas Private Investment Corp., the U.S. government’s
development finance institution, will provide 70 percent of the
project’s cost with U.S. dollar-denominated debt. The companies
will shoulder the rest of the cost based on their respective
stakes.  Expanding Sales  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the second-biggest U.S. solar manufacturer
that’s majority owned by Total, will build the plant and provide
the panels, according to the statement.  The solar company expects to get as much as 20 percent of
its revenue from Latin America in 2020, up from less than one
percent now,  Tom Werner , chief executive officer of San Jose,
California-based SunPower, said today in a telephone interview.  Solar panels “can produce energy at very, very economic
rates in Chile,” he said. “The math works for that part of the
world to be big in solar.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  are Europe’s biggest
energy producers.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  is the biggest U.S. solar
manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  