-- Paschi Ex-Managers’ Trial Begins as Hidden Losses Become Focus
-- B y   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-09-26T11:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/paschi-ex-managers-trial-begins-as-hidden-losses-become-focus.html
Three former executives of  Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  went on trial for allegedly
obstructing regulators in the first case related to how the
managers may have embellished the bank’s finances.  The trial began in Siena,  Italy  today with a lawyer for the
 Bank of Italy  seeking damages as a civil plaintiff. Giuseppe Mussari, Gianluca Baldassarri and Antonio Vigni face charges
that they colluded to hide a document that showed how the
world’s oldest bank entered into a financing agreement with
Nomura Holdings Inc. in 2009 to conceal losses.  After  Bloomberg News  reported in January how Italy’s third-biggest bank used derivatives to conceal losses on a similar
transaction with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Monte Paschi restated its
accounts, taking a 730 million-euro ($986 million) hit to
assets. The Nomura and Deutsche Bank transactions, which were
bets on Italian  government bonds , have backfired for Monte
Paschi, forcing new management to seek additional state aid. The
lender may be nationalized if it’s unable to meet European
regulator demands that it tap private investors to repay part of
the bailout next year.  Baldassarri, 52, the bank’s former finance head who’s under
house arrest, attended today’s hearing, while Mussari, 51, and
Vigni were represented by their lawyers. The trial was adjourned
until Oct. 3.  Baldassarri isn’t responsible for the alleged wrongdoing,
his lawyer said today. Mussari’s lawyer said his client is
innocent and had no role in obstructing regulators, while
Vigni’s lawyer told reporters he’s innocent.  Project Alexandria  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s largest bank, isn’t accused of any
wrongdoing while  Nomura (8604) , which isn’t involved in this trial, is
being investigated for usury and fraud related to the financing.  As part of the transaction arranged by Nomura and dubbed
Alexandria, Monte Paschi bought Italian government bonds with a
loan from the Tokyo-based bank, swapping the fixed-rate interest
payments on the bonds with a floating rate and guaranteeing the
credit risk on the bonds. The mandate agreement for Nomura to
arrange the financing, dated July 31, 2009, was found Oct. 10
last year, court filings show.  The Siena criminal trial coincides with civil proceedings
in London in which Nomura is seeking confirmation from a judge
that the Monte Paschi contracts are valid, while the Italian
lender contends the case should be heard in Italy. Monte Paschi
filed a separate suit against Nomura, Deutsche Bank and the
former managers in Florence.  Nomura told a  London  court in a Sept. 19 filing that it
doesn’t accept that the mandate agreement was discovered in
October because it was registered with Monte Paschi’s management
office, the document shows.  Judges of an Italian appeals court in July rejected a
request by prosecutors to seize assets from Nomura. The court
said former Paschi management knew of the deal’s objective,
casting doubt on prosecutors’ allegations that Nomura committed
fraud by tricking the executives. Still, Paschi should have
booked a 220 million-euro net loss in 2009 that instead was
hidden, the judges said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sergio Di Pasquale in Milan at 
 sdipasquale1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  