-- PC Games King Seeks to Dethrone Sony, Microsoft Consoles
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-09-26T17:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/pc-games-king-seeks-to-dethrone-sony-microsoft-consoles.html
Valve Corp., operator of the
largest online store for downloading video games to PCs, is
developing consoles that would use its more than 50 million
customers to challenge  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   The closely held company, maker of the “Half-Life”
titles, captures 75 percent of the global market for digital PC
games through its  Steam  store, researcher IHS Screen Digest
estimates. Valve has developed a prototype console and is
working with hardware partners to start selling models in 2014,
according to a statement yesterday on its  website .  “The specific machine we’re testing is designed for users
who want the most control possible over their hardware,” the
company said. “Other boxes will optimize for size, price,
quietness, or other factors.”  Valve is going on the offensive as its own turf is
attacked, banking on a growing base of personal-computer gamers
to carve a chunk of the $15 billion market for home consoles.
Microsoft and Sony, which are introducing new machines for the
holidays, have started their own online portals to duplicate
Steam’s success selling games through the Internet -- as have
Wii U maker Nintendo Co. and publisher  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)   Microsoft rose 1.2 percent, to $32.88 at 1:25 p.m.  New York 
time. Electronic Arts fell 0.5 percent to $26.47, while Sony’s
American depositary receipts added 0.7 percent to $21.26.  Harvard Dropout  While Valve doesn’t disclose sales, digital distribution of
pc games this year will comprise $5.5 billion of the $21.4
billion computer games market, according to researcher DFC
Intelligence. IHS estimates Valve generated $1.1 billion in 2012
from full-game downloads. Steam also offers downloadable game
add-ons and multiplayer titles.  “This substantial user base makes Valve and its community
of PC gamers a potentially significant threat to other
established games platforms,” said Piers Harding-Rolls, an IHS
analyst.  Doug Lombardi, a Valve spokesman, declined to comment.  Valve, based in Bellevue,  Washington , was co-founded by
Gabe Newell, a Harvard dropout who spent 13 years working on the
 Windows operating system  at Microsoft, according to a September
2007 interview with the site  ComputerAndVideoGames.  He rarely
speaks with the press.  The company is a pioneer of downloading games from the
Internet and creating communities of players. It started Steam
“as a little sleeper project” in 2002, according to its
website, to let gamers download updates to its “Counter-Strike” action title.  New Consoles  Steam originally distributed games solely on Windows PCs,
taking a cut of each sale, before expanding to Mac titles and
Linux-based games. The new SteamOS that will power the consoles
will be based on the  Linux operating system  and require
developers to create games using that software.  It allows for media sharing across connected devices, live
streaming, family sharing of content and parental controls,
Valve said.  Like Ouya Inc., another challenger to incumbent console
makers, Valve may struggle to get developers to make games for
its operating system, said  Michael Pachter , a Wedbush Securities
analyst in  Los Angeles .  “They only way they sell it is to give us a reason why we
need it,” Pachter said. “If they make every game work better
with this OS, that’s great, but I don’t see how it becomes a big
threat to the console guys.”  PC Drop  While digital downloads of PC games have more than doubled
since 2007, fewer people are buying personal computers. That’s
forcing Steam to look elsewhere for future growth. PC sales
peaked in 2011, according to research firm IDC, and are expected
to decline 9.7 percent this year as more users migrate to
tablets and other mobile devices.  Steam also faces pressure from Sony’s coming PlayStation 4
and Microsoft’s Xbox One, both reaching U.S. stores in November.
They use a PC-like architecture, making it easier for smaller
developers that now flock to Steam.  Last year, the number of consoles in consumers’ homes,
including the  Xbox 360 , PlayStation 3 and Wii U, stood at 238
million, according to IHS Screen Digest. Spending on console
software was $12.1 billion.  Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai , former head of
the Japanese company’s PlayStation business, said in January any
new competitors will have a tough time against incumbents.  “It’s really difficult to try and build a platform
business,” Hirai said in an interview. “I’ve managed it
personally, so I know it’s a gradual process, not an overnight
thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  