-- Pension Funds Need to Buy Higher-Yield Assets, Allianz Unit Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-09-26T13:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/pension-funds-need-to-buy-higher-yield-assets-allianz-unit-says.html
Pension funds need to boost their
holdings of higher-yielding assets as bond interest rates are
likely to stay low for years to come, according to Allianz
Global Investors.  Investors managing retirement savings should diversify into
assets such as stocks or infrastructure projects as they grapple
with record-low bond yields and the increased longevity of
policy holders, Arun Ratra, head of global solutions, said at a
press briefing in  London . Treasury yields fell from the highest
since July 2011 this month as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
refrained from tapering debt purchases that have capped
borrowing costs and kept its benchmark  interest rate  near zero.  “In an era of financial repression, not taking a risk
could be a risk in itself,” Ratra said. “Notwithstanding
‘taper talk’ in the developed markets, we expect policy rates to
remain at historic lows for some time yet and to rise gradually
when they are increased. Bond yields at these levels are not
providing a safe haven.”  Government bonds  handed investors a loss of 0.3 percent
this year through yesterday, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Sovereign Plus Index. A  gauge
of stocks  around the world returned 16 percent in the same
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A panel advising  Japan ’s government about the world’s
largest pension fund said managers should review holdings of
local bonds that make up the bulk of its assets.  New Investments  The interim report from the panel came as market
participants say the 121 trillion yen ($1.22 trillion)
Government Pension Investment Fund should increase holdings of
higher-yielding assets. Some members recommended adding new
investments such as real-estate trusts, infrastructure and
private-equity investments and commodities, according to the
report released today.  The 10-year Treasury  yield  was at 2.64 percent as of
2:17 p.m. in London after falling from this year’s high of 3.01
percent on Sept. 6.  The yield jumped almost 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage
point, in May after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy
makers could start to reduce bond purchases as the economy
improves. The yield has averaged 3.53 percent in the past
decade.  The U.K.  10-year gilt yield  was at 2.73 percent today,
versus its 10-year average of 3.82 percent.  “This environment poses significant challenges for
investors who want to minimize risk but need real returns,”
Allianz Global’s Ratra said. “We must be asking whether we can
really afford not to take risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  