-- Peru’s Southern Coast Hit by 7-Magnitude Quake That Killed Three
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-09-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/peru-s-southern-coast-hit-by-7-magnitude-quake-that-killed-three.html
A 7-magnitude earthquake struck off
 Peru ’s southern coast yesterday, killing at least three people
when an underground mine collapsed.  The quake struck at a depth of 25 miles, the U.S.
Geological Survey said in a bulletin on its  website  after
initially reporting the magnitude at 6.8. There were no reports
of a tsunami.  Twelve workers were injured at the mine in the Caraveli
province of Arequipa, newspaper El Comercio reported on its
website, citing provincial civil defense chief, Miguel Alayza.  Window panes fell to the ground as homes shook near the
epicenter in the town of Acari, Radio Programas reported. Carlos
Mejia, mayor of Acari, said the quake left cracks in the walls
of buildings and may have destroyed homes made out of adobe mud-bricks in rural areas.  Some roads were blocked and towns lost power in parts of
Arequipa and Ayacucho, according to a statement posted on civil
defense authority Indeci’s website.  Peru is the world’s third-largest copper and zinc producer.  There was “no apparent impact” at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper
& Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Cerro Verde copper mine in Arequipa, spokesman
 Eric Kinneberg  said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  Transportadora de Gas del Peru SA’s Camisea gas pipeline
was operating normally after the quake, according to a company
official who asked not to be named citing company policy.  Rocks and earth fell onto the Pan-American highway in
Arequipa about 600 kilometers (372 miles) south of  Lima , causing
the closure of one lane, the Transport Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  2007 Devastation  People ran outside their homes in the city of Ica, about
270 kilometers south of Lima, Radio Programas reported. In 2007
the area was devastated by Peru’s worst temblor in more than 30
years, killing at least 510 people and leaving another 80,000
homeless.  President Ollanta Humala said he would probably cut short a
visit to New York, where he addressed the United Nations General
Assembly yesterday, his office said in an e-mailed statement.  Humala was scheduled to ring the closing bell at the New
York Stock Exchange at 4 p.m. today.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.764 per dollar at
yesterday’s close. The  Lima General Index (IGBVL)  climbed 0.6 percent to
16,003.32.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  