-- Peugeot Looks to French Allure to Push Upscale in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T08:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/peugeot-looks-to-french-allure-to-push-upscale-in-china.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s dealers in
 China  give away French wine and perfume to prospective
customers, sending the message that a country that produces such
fine luxuries must also make good cars.  Connecting the Paris-based company’s vehicles to the allure
of its homeland has become even more critical for Peugeot in the
world’s largest auto market as it prepares to shift upmarket and
challenge the likes of  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   It’s a bet that needs to pay off for the cash-strapped
manufacturer, which will start production of upscale DS models
at a new factory in Shenzhen tomorrow, part of an 8.4 billion-yuan ($1.37 billion) joint venture. With growth in other
 emerging markets  flagging or non-existent, China is key for
Peugeot, as it seeks to stem losses and reduce its reliance on
Europe’s recession-battered car market. The push faces consumer
apathy toward French autos.  “When I think German cars, I think reliable; when you
mention American brands, it’s muscle cars and design,” said
Herbert Rong, a 34-year-old who lives in Shanghai and owns a
Buick Regal from  General Motors Co. (GM)  “But French cars don’t have
key selling points to me.”  Growth Market  China represents one of Peugeot’s last bastions of growth
outside Europe and critical to the company’s goal of selling a
majority of its vehicles overseas for the first time by 2015.
Peugeot, the second-largest carmaker in Europe, forecasts sales
to decline this year in Russia and  Brazil , while Indian
operations aren’t yet up and running.  With the addition of the factory in Shenzhen, Peugeot will
have capacity to build as many as 950,000 vehicles in China a
year, more than double 2012’s sales of 442,000 autos. Still,
that trails peers.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, sold 2.81 million
vehicles last year in the country. As part of its expansion, the
German carmaker opened a 300,000-car factory in Foshan this week
and plans to double capacity at the site in the coming years.  The introduction of the DS line in China is part of
Peugeot’s goal of raising its share to 5 percent in two years
from about 3.8 percent now.  Sales of the DS5 wagon, the first model that will be
produced in Shenzhen, could also pad profit margins. The car
will start at 235,000- yuan , more than double the price of the
best-selling  Citroen C-Quatre  sedan. The company will flank the
DS5 with a high-end sedan and a sport-utility vehicle next year.  Louvre Museum  To support these models, Peugeot has opened 34 Chinese DS
dealers after introducing the brand in June last year and plans
to increase the number to 100 by the end of 2014. The company
unveiled the world’s first flagship  DS World  store in Shanghai
in March, which is decorated with black-and-white pictures of a
Chinese model posing with cars at Paris’s Louvre art museum.  The stylized DS logo glitters in silver amid a field of
diamond-like squares in the glass-front boutique in Nanjing
Road,  Shanghai ’s equivalent of the Champs-Elysees. Peugeot’s
French heritage, which is also on display in the form of vintage
models, is at the forefront of its efforts to woo Chinese
consumers.  “ France  is a romantic, fashionable place,” said Xue
Zhitao, brand manager of Peugeot imports in Chengdu in southwest
China. “When you mention France, you think of red wine and
perfumes, so we use these at promotional activities,” where
wine is served and given away along with perfume.  Dongfeng Partnership  Peugeot’s business in China needs to rely on local
production, because its vehicles don’t have the cachet to demand
prices to offset import tariffs. The French carmaker will have
four factories in China by the end of the year.  The first three, part of a joint venture with  Dongfeng
Motor Corp. (489) , are in Wuhan, capital of the central province of
Hubei. The most recent plant was inaugurated in July and will
increase the company’s annual production capacity in China by
two-thirds to 750,000 vehicles by the end of 2015.  The Shenzhen plant is part of a new joint venture with
Chang’An Automobile Group. It will have capacity to make as many
as 200,000 vehicles a year. Getting a return on funding the
50/50 venture, which included an initial outlay of 2 billion
yuan for Peugeot, may take years.  “You need at least a decade to establish a new luxury
brand in a market,” said Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC
Securities in Paris, who recommends selling Peugeot shares. “DS
products are alright for Western markets but not adapted to the
Chinese market,” where consumers are looking for sedans rather
than the brand’s slate of hatchbacks.  Early Talks  China could take on an importance for Peugeot above and
beyond sales. The French manufacturer, which is expecting to
burn through about 1.5 billion euros in cash this year, is in
preliminary talks on selling a stake to Dongfeng, three people
familiar with the matter said Sept. 18. The Chinese company is
“far” from reaching a decision on an investment, a Dongfeng
official said today.  Such a move could dilute Peugeot’s French heritage in the
eyes of Chinese consumers and complicate its uphill fight to
challenge entrenched German rivals.  Volkswagen’s Audi entered the market in the 1990s, and BMW
and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz opened their first factories in
the country almost a decade ago. Combined, the three German
luxury brands, buoyed by a global reputation for automotive
engineering, will sell 1.05 million vehicles in China this year,
compared with 10,600 DS cars for Peugeot, market researcher IHS
Automotive forecasts.  Getting a bigger slice of the lucrative luxury-car market
means changing consumer opinion of Peugeot as a supplier of
bread-and-butter transport, which may prove trickier than
opening new factories.  “If I were looking to upgrade my car, I’d rather get a
Jaguar or Audi, not the Peugeot or DS brand,” said Cao Ning, a
29-year-old financial professional from Chengdu. “Peugeot to me
is a mid-tier brand at best, definitely not high-end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  