-- Portugal Holds Local Elections as Deeper Spending Cuts Approach
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-09-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/portugal-holds-local-elections-as-deeper-spending-cuts-approach.html
Portugal holds local elections on
Sunday, two weeks before the government hands in a budget
proposal for 2014 that will include new spending cuts.  The municipal ballot will test public support for Prime
Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  as he seeks to trim spending by
about 3.3 billion euros ($4.5 billion) in 2014 to meet targets
set in Portugal’s 78-billion euro international bailout program.
While the prospect of new measures is unpopular, the electoral
fallout will probably be minimal, said Antonio Costa Pinto,
president of the Portuguese Political Science Association.  “The punishment effect will be small because municipal
elections are very local,” he said. “On the day after the
elections, the government will announce what we already know:
cuts in pensions and continued wage reduction in the public
sector.”  Passos Coelho’s Social Democratic Party is vying for votes
with the main opposition Socialists as Portugal tries to regain
full access to debt markets. Voting in the municipal elections
runs between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Sept. 29, and results will
start to be announced after polls close.  The Socialist lead over the ruling Social Democrats
narrowed in a poll on parliamentary voting intentions published
by weekly newspaper Expresso on Sept. 13. The survey showed 26.5
percent backing for the Social Democrats, up about 2 percentage
points from August, and 38 percent support for the Socialists,
an increase of 0.6 percentage point.  Constitutional Court  While the Socialists are probably set to win, “you won’t
be able to draw big conclusions from that victory,” Costa Pinto
said. Any “instability” in Portugal is related to the
Constitutional Court, with the government’s main challenge being
“to carry out spending cuts that are constitutional,” he said.  The Constitutional Court on Aug. 29 blocked a proposal to
end  labor  contracts of some state workers that was part of a
government plan to “requalify” public sector employees.  Government ministries will have to lower spending on
purchases of goods and services by at least 10 percent next
year, Coelho said on May 3. The prime minister is backed by his
Social Democratic Party and the smaller conservative CDS party,
which together have a majority of seats in parliament.  The government will hand in its 2014  budget  proposal to
parliament on Oct. 15. With the EU considering help next year to
try to wean Portugal from the bailout, officials from the EU and
IMF began a regular review of the aid program on Sept. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  