-- Pound Declines After GDP Report; U.K. Yields Reach 4-Week Low
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-26T15:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/pound-about-0-5-from-eight-month-high-before-u-k-growth-report.html
The pound fell the most in a week
against the dollar after a government report showed annual
economic growth was less than earlier estimated, damping
optimism the U.K. recovery is gathering momentum.  Sterling weakened versus all except one of its 16 major
counterparts after separate data showed Britain’s current-account deficit widened in the first quarter to the most since
at least 1955. The pound has risen versus all its peers in the
past six months amid speculation an improving economy will spur
the  Bank of England  to increase  interest rates  sooner than it
intends. U.K. government bonds were little changed after 10-year
yields fell to the lowest level in four weeks.  “Growth numbers came in a bit softer year-on-year and what
really sticks out is the current-account data,” said  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London . “The market went into these numbers
long and a little bit complacent so we’re seeing reaction in
positioning.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise.  The pound dropped 0.4 percent to $1.6014 at 4:47 p.m.
London time, the biggest decline since Sept. 19. The U.K.
currency fell 0.1 percent to 84.22 pence per euro after
appreciating to 83.53 pence on Sept. 18, the strongest level
since Jan. 17.  Sterling has advanced 6.3 percent in the past six months,
the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 5.4
percent, while the dollar was little changed.  GDP Report  Gross domestic product  increased 1.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared with an initial reading of
1.5 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London.
The current-account deficit shrank to 13 billion pounds in the
second quarter while the figure for the previous three months
was revised up to 21.8 billion pounds from an earlier estimate
of 14.5 billion pounds, the statistics office said.  Business investment dropped 2.7 percent in the second
quarter and declined 8.5 percent from a year earlier, the office
also reported.  The Bank of England led by Governor  Mark Carney  has pledged
to keep interest rates low until the  unemployment rate  falls to
7 percent. It was 7.7 percent in the three months through July.  “The pound fell back from its highs of the day on the back
of the GDP news and the disappointing business investment,”
said Kathleen Brooks, a research director in London at
Forex.com, a unit of online currency-trading company  Gain
Capital Holdings Inc. (GCAP) , wrote in a e-mailed note. “The market
will likely be sensitive to U.K. economic data misses going
forward as they may support the BOE’s dogged support for forward
guidance and promised to keep rates low.”  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was at 2.75 percent after
dropping to 2.72 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 27. The
price of the 2.25 percent bond due in September 2023 was 95.7.  Gilts lost 3.4 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German securities
dropped 1.7 percent and Treasuries fell 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  