-- President Rouhani’s Holocaust
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-26T22:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/president-rouhani-s-holocaust.html
How much importance should the
world attach to Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s
acknowledgment that the Holocaust happened and was
“ reprehensible ”? In two words: a lot. Or four: but not too
much.  When former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad denied
the Holocaust, he was justifiably condemned. That his successor
has resiled from such delusional hostility is noteworthy. At the
same time -- and much as it would be nice if it did -- the
acceptance of a well-settled historical fact doesn’t qualify as
a diplomatic breakthrough.  There are (at least) two contexts in which to view
Rouhani’s statement. The first is in the context of present-day
 Iran , whose leaders have repeatedly called for the destruction
of Israel and are pursuing a nuclear program that could give
them the means to accomplish their goal. When Ahmadinejad
dismissed the murder of 6 million Jews, it indicated a
chillingly casual attitude toward genocide.  Rouhani’s correction is a small but significant step,
though diminished by  the insistence  of the semi-official Iranian
news agency Fars that, in his interview with CNN’s Christiane Amanpour, he never used the words “reprehensible” or
“Holocaust.” Nonetheless, his meaning was clear enough: “As
to the massacre of Jews by Nazis, we condemn it completely,” he
said  just hours earlier  in an interview with reporters from
Bloomberg News and elsewhere.  Left unaddressed is Rouhani’s position on  Israel . Other
Iranian leaders, and not just Ahmadinejad, have been clear. In
recent decades, Iranian political, military and religious
leaders, among them the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei,
have said Israel must be “destroyed,” “annihilated” and
“cut off.” Officials have occasionally clarified that they are
referring to the state of Israel, not its people. This is hardly
comforting.  Which brings us to the other context in which to view
Rouhani’s remark: through the history of anti-Semitism. More
than simply a prejudice, it is a defective world view, one
 particularly ill-suited  to the stresses of openness or the
demands of diplomacy. “The  anti-Semite fails  to grasp how the
world works,” writes Walter Russell Mead, “and that failure
condemns him to endless frustration.”  Frustrating is certainly an apt term for the U.S. and the
world’s negotiations thus far with Iran over its nuclear
program. In that sense, two other aspects of Rouhani’s  CNN 
interview, overlooked amid the controversy over his views on the
Holocaust, were encouraging.  The first is his reiteration that he is  authorized to
negotiate  with the U.S. and its allies over Iran’s nuclear
program. Khamenei may well just be giving Rouhani enough rope to
hang himself, or it could all be a game of shells. But without
such a license, little is possible.  So it was a little surprising to hear Rouhani describe his
mandate in broad democratic terms. In June, he defeated
Khamenei’s favored candidate by pledging to negotiate an end to
sanctions that are crippling Iran’s economy. It is “the will of
the people of Iran,” he told Amanpour, “to create a new era of
relations between the people of Iran and the rest of the
world.”  Rouhani’s nod to the importance of popular legitimacy --
especially if he sees it only as a way to help him fend off
opponents in the Khamenei regime -- doesn’t make him a friend of
the U.S., or of Israel, or even a reformer. Along with his
acknowledgment of the Holocaust, however, it is another hopeful
sign that he is someone with whom the rest of the world can try
to do business.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 