-- Prosafe Climbs as Fondsfinans Expects Share Rebound: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-09-26T10:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/prosafe-climbs-as-fondsfinans-expects-share-rebound-oslo-mover.html
Prosafe SE (PRS) , a supplier of floating
accommodation units for the offshore oil and gas industry, rose
the most on the Oslo stock exchange’s  OBX index  as Fondsfinans
ASA advised investors to buy the stock before a recovery.  The Larnaca, Cyprus-based company rose by as much as 2.4
percent, and traded 2.1 percent higher at 49.58 kroner by 11:50
a.m. in the Norwegian capital. About 295,000 shares were traded
today, 28 percent more than the three-month daily average.  “We expect a rebound in Prosafe shares following the near
20 percent slump since last month’s high,” Fondsfinans analyst
Petter Narvestad said today by e-mail. The Relative Strength
Index, a technical measure of market momentum, is at 27, the
 13th day  below the 30 level that suggests to some analysts that
a security has been oversold and is poised to increase.  Fondsfinans raised its rating to buy from neutral and cut
its price estimate to 57 kroner from 60. The stock is  rated a
buy  by five of 16 analysts that share ratings with Bloomberg.  “We expect newsflow to turn positive, with three Mexico
rigs due for renewals/extensions in the fourth quarter and
additional work likely to be booked,” Narvestad said.  Prosafe, owner of 11 semi-submersible accommodation rigs
and with two on order, is betting on demand for the  floating
hotels  it operates as energy companies expand exploration for
hydrocarbons offshore. The company has lost about a fifth of its
value since its stock price climbed to 61.70 kroner on Aug. 8,
the highest intraday level in more than five years.  “The drop was triggered by competitors ordering additional
capacity and concerns the Mexico-position may be eroded by new
market players,” Narvestad wrote. While Fondsfinans shares
these concerns, the broker sees the magnitude of the decline
“as a clear overreaction,” the analyst wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  