-- Treasury Demand Rises From Lowest in 4 Years on Fed Bets, Budget
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-09-26T23:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/treasury-demand-rises-from-lowest-in-4-years-on-fed-bets-budget.html
Demand at the Treasury’s five- and
seven-year note sales this week bounced back from the lowest
levels in four years as investors bet the  Federal Reserve  will
keep buying bonds and a deadlock in  Washington  risked a
government shutdown.  The bid-to-cover  ratio  at yesterday’s seven-year sale,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
debt offered, was 2.46, after dropping last month to 2.43, the
weakest since May 2009. The ratio at the  five-year  note sale on
Sept. 25 was 2.67, the most in four months, after falling to
2.38 in August, the least since July 2009.  “The Washington story gaining traction and the lack of
taper have given the market strength,” said Carlos Pro, an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
one of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers, which are obligated to bid
at U.S. debt sales. “The uncertainty that has been introduced
as far as the outlook for monetary and fiscal policy has been a
big driver in the return of demand for Treasuries, and that
combo should keep us lower in yield.”  Treasuries are poised for a third weekly gain amid a
confrontation between President  Barack Obama  and  House
Republicans  over the  federal budget . If Congress can’t agree on
a stopgap spending bill, the federal government faces a shutdown
of non-essential services on Oct. 1, the start of the fiscal
year. Separately, Congress must vote to raise the nation’s
borrowing limit.  Benchmark U.S.  10-year note  yields have slid eight basis
points this week, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.65 percent.
Seven-year yields have dropped eight basis points to 2.03
percent, and  five-year  yields have declined four basis points to
1.44 percent.  Yields Dropped  Seven- and five-year note yields have fallen from more than
two-year highs of 2.46 percent and 1.85 percent they closed at
on Sept. 5, a day before the government reported slower-than-forecast jobs growth in August. The Fed unexpectedly decided
Sept. 18 to refrain from reducing the monthly debt purchases it
uses to damp borrowing costs and boost growth.  The Sept. 24 auction of $32 billion of  two-year  notes, the
shortest-maturity U.S. coupon debt, drew a yield of 0.348
percent, below a forecast of 0.354 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven primary dealers.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers would await
more evidence of sustained growth before tapering debt
purchases. Treasuries fell earlier after Fed policy makers
signaled they’re comfortable with reducing monetary stimulus if
the economy continues to expand.  ‘Stretched Out’  “The path of any potential taper has been stretched out
into the future,” said Gabriel Mann, a U.S. government bond
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group AG’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , a primary dealer. “The repricing
of Fed expectations and the trouble in Washington have given
Treasuries, across the curve, value.”  The auctions this week, along with last week’s sale of $13
billion in 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, will
raise $47.7 billion of new cash, as maturing securities held by
the public total $62.3 billion, according to the Treasury.  Yesterday’s seven-year note auction drew a  yield  of 2.058
percent, compared with a forecast of 2.059 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 10 primary dealers.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 42 percent of the notes, compared with
an average of 40.2 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 17.8 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 19.53 percent for the
past 10 auctions.  Coupon Match  The sale of five-year notes on Sept. 25 turned into
additional issuance of seven-year notes sold in 2011, the second
straight so-called unscheduled reopening of the security.  With the five-year yielding 1.436 percent, the notes
matched the 1.375 percent coupon interest payout on the seven-year security issued in September 2011, with the same 2018
maturity date.  Investors bid $2.87 for each dollar of the $1.618 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  