-- Remains of Bodies Found on Costa Concordia Shipwreck in Italy
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-26T13:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/remains-of-bodies-found-on-costa-concordia-shipwreck-in-italy.html
The remains of two bodies were
found on board the wrecked Costa Concordia nine days after the
cruise ship was successfully righted in an unprecedented 19-hour
operation off the Italian island of Giglio.  “The location of the remains and the first findings lead
us to believe that they might be the ones of the two people we
were looking for,”  Italy ’s civil protection agency chief Franco Gabrielli told reporters in Giglio in comments broadcast by
SkyTG24. “The DNA test will confirm whether this is actually
the case.”  The Concordia, with 4,200 passengers and crew, rammed into
rocks and partially sank off the Tuscan coast on Jan. 13, 2012.
A team led by Florida-based Titan Salvage and Italy’s Micoperi
on Sept. 14 successfully righted the cruise liner that had been
lying on its side since it capsized 20 months ago, killing 32
passengers. The righting revealed submerged parts of the ship
that were never exposed and allowed rescue divers to reach new
areas, providing clues on the location of the two remaining
bodies that had never been found.  The Costa Concordia’s Captain Francesco Schettino is the
only defendant in a criminal trial after being indicted earlier
this year on charges including manslaughter and abandoning the
ship while many passengers were still on board. Schettino, who
has always denied any wrongdoing, saying his actions saved
lives, faces as many as 20 years in jail if convicted, according
to prosecutor Francesco Verusio.  The rotation of the 952-foot (290-meter) ship cost about
600 million euros ($810 million), according to  Carnival Corp (CCL) ’s
Costa Crociere SpA Italian unit, which owns the ship. The
114,500-ton ship will rest on underwater platforms for months
before being towed to a port to be broken up.  The Concordia’s final destination still has to be decided
after a number of Italian ports expressed interest in scrapping
the wrecked ship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  