-- Renewable-Fuel Mandate Freeze to Be Discussed in Congress
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-09-27T05:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/renewable-fuel-mandate-freeze-to-be-discussed-in-congress.html
Makers of renewable fuels are set
to meet with congressional negotiators today, as lawmakers try
to pull together compromise legislation that would freeze the
U.S. mandate for corn-based ethanol.  Representative  Fred Upton , chairman of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, and Representative  Henry Waxman , the panel’s
top Democrat, are negotiating changes to the Renewable Fuels
Standard that would keep the ethanol requirement at this year’s
level for the next two years and add incentives to boost low-carbon biofuels, according to people familiar with the moves who
asked not to be identified discussing sensitive talks.  Corn producers and ethanol makers have resisted legislative
changes to the current requirements, which escalate each year
through 2022. Officials from their Washington-based trade groups
are set to meet with Upton’s staff members today to discuss a
possible freeze in the share of ethanol required, two of the
people said.  “This is a process of negotiation to see where the sides
are,” said Michael Frohlich, a spokesman for Growth Energy,
which represents ethanol makers and will be at the meeting. “We
don’t think there are changes that need to be made.”  Frohlich said he was unaware of the lawmakers’ plans or
agenda.  Charlotte  Baker, a spokeswoman for Upton’s committee,
confirmed that the meeting was scheduled.  Under the Renewable Fuel Standard, refiners such as  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  must use a certain amount of those fuels each year,
with their target determined by their share of the fuel market.
The Environmental Protection Agency and renewable-fuel makers
argue it spurs production of domestic fuels and cuts greenhouse-gas emissions by reducing use of gasoline or diesel.  2007 Law  The 2007 law mandates the use of 13.8 billion gallons of
ethanol this year and 14.4 billion gallons in 2014 and 15
billion in 2015. Lobbyists for refiners such as  Valero Corp. (VLO)  say
that requirement is too high, and have pressed Congress to scrap
the program.  The additive is typically sold at filling stations, mixed
in a formula of 10 percent ethanol to 90 percent gasoline. Oil
industry proponents have said that the escalating requirements
of ethanol to be added would force them to sell blends exceeding
10 percent, a phenomenon known as “hitting the  blend wall .”  If the lawmakers agree to cap the ethanol mandate as a
percentage of gasoline use, which is what Waxman and Upton are
discussing, refiners wouldn’t face that blend wall constraint.
The lawmakers also want a study of renewable fuels by the
 National Academy of Sciences , the people said.  EPA Pledge  The EPA has already pledged to lower the quota next year
based on the estimated 13.2 billion gallons of ethanol that
could fit within the 10 percent so-called blend wall, plus
additional biodiesel or cellulosic fuels that would qualify.
That proposal is now under review by the White House, and is set
to be issued soon.  If refiners don’t make or buy enough renewable fuel, they
can buy credits for it, known as Renewable Identification
Numbers, on a market. Those RINs had  surged  this year, as
refiners worried there wouldn’t be adequate gasoline demand to
mix in ethanol this year or next.  The RIN price was $1.43 on July 17 before Congress started
hearings on revising the program, up from 7 cents at the
beginning of the year. It traded at 52 cents yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  