-- Rio 2016 Olympic Spending Shortfall Raises Delay Concerns
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-27T00:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/rio-2016-olympic-spending-shortfall-raises-concern-over-delays.html
Organizers of the Rio de Janeiro
Olympics have spent only a fraction of the 1.67 billion reais
($746 million) that was budgeted for 2010-12, raising concern
over delays, Brazil’s national auditor said.  The organizers have spent only 92 million reais, or 5.5
percent, in the three years through 2012, the  Federal Court of
Accounts , or TCU, said. The findings come a month after an
inspection team from the International Olympic Committee said it
was concerned about delays in getting Rio ready to become the
first South American host of the biggest multisport event.  “Although it’s not possible to state that the actions tied
to organization of the games are practically paralyzed, it is
reasonable to infer that the current flow of budgetary resources
represents a potential risk of delays in the progress of those
actions,” the auditor said in an e-mailed report.  The ministry of sport declined to comment, saying in an e-mail that it’s awaiting official correspondence from the TCU.
Rio 2016 organizers said they will release their budget after
negotiations about the roles of municipal, state and federal
governments are completed.  “The Rio 2016 organizing committee is working towards
staging the games under the constant scrutiny of the
International Olympic Committee, our partners in the three
levels of government (municipal, state and federal) and public
opinion,” the organizing committee said in an e-mailed reaction
to the TCU report.  2009 Estimates  The estimates the TCU used were from Rio’s 2009 bid plan.
The games have come under scrutiny following delays in
publishing an up-to-date operational budget for the actual
amount of money needed to host the event.  Leo Gryner, chief operating officer of the organizing
committee, told reporters Aug. 2 that $700 million from a
government contingency fund will be required to cover likely
overruns. In its bid, Rio said organizing the Olympics would
cost $2.8 billion. A separate $11.6 billion is going toward work
on infrastructure such as bus and subway networks.  The TCU also raised concern about the start of construction
work, legacy use of several of the venues being created for the
2 1/2-week event and pollution in the Guanabara Bay, the iconic
location where the sailing competition will be held. The
situation may lead to significant budget overruns like those
 Brazil  encountered when it hosted the 2007 Pan American Games,
the report said.  ‘Viable Legacy’  “The mission of leaving a tangible, economically viable
and socially relevant legacy guides our work every day,” the
organizing committee said. “We are under obligation to organize
sustainable games and this is something we are completely
committed to.”  The report added that the majority of demand for materials
and labor for the construction of sports facilities will be
between 2014 and 2015, yet there currently isn’t an estimate for
demand.  “Such lack of planning makes it difficult for potential
national suppliers to prepare for the increase in demand, which
opens the possibility of delays, international contracting,
emergency contracting, etc.,” the report said.  The TCU, like the IOC inspection team, said there are
question marks about the future use of the canoe-slalom venue in
Deodoro, one of Rio’s poorest districts. Organizers may scrap
construction there in favor of using an existing venue outside
Rio.  IOC  inspectors said delays with the project were worrying
canoe federation officials.  Olympic Authority  Another area where spending is below forecast is at the
Olympic Public Authority, or APO, an organization created by
President Dilma Rousseff to coordinate work between national and
local governments.  It’s spent about a quarter of the 455 million reais it was
estimated to between 2010 and 2013, according to the report. The
national auditor described the work of the APO, whose president
Marcio Fortes quit in August, as being inadequate.  The APO has been sidelined by the 2016 organizing committee,
which has dealt directly with federal bodies, the report said.
Rio Mayor Eduardo Paes has said the games could be coordinated
without the APO, an organization requested by the IOC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  