-- Rising Rates Seen Squeezing Swaps Income at Biggest Banks
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-26T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/rising-rates-seen-squeezing-swaps-income-at-biggest-banks.html
The revenue engine that generated 
$42 billion for three of the biggest U.S. banks in less than 
five years is beginning to sputter as some borrowing costs rise.  The revenue comes from  derivatives  used by  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. to protect
against interest-rate swings. Most of the contracts are swaps
that exchange payments tied to a floating rate for ones that are
fixed. Banks that benefited from swaps guaranteeing a flat rate
could see profit drop as the spread between the higher fixed and
lower variable rates narrows or reverses.  The swaps “created some earnings at a time when they
needed them,” said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC in  New York . “The impact will start to recede.”  When the Federal Reserve begins reducing its  $85 billion  of
monthly bond purchases, driving up long-term rates, lenders may
struggle to replace income, Peabody wrote in a June 21 report
warning about the possibility at Bank of America. Even talk of
tapering by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in May led to a rise in
rates and a 33 percent second-quarter decline in the value of
swaps positions in which Bank of America received a fixed rate.  At JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, interest-rate
derivatives boosted income by $19.9 billion from the beginning
of 2009 through June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from company filings. No. 2 Bank of America, which has said
interest-rate swings are its most significant market risk, added
$7.3 billion in the same period. Wells Fargo, the fourth-biggest
lender, reported $15.3 billion in income from the contracts.  ‘Black Box’  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was the only one of the four biggest U.S.
banks to post a loss from interest-rate hedging, according to
filings. The amount was $5.4 billion over the four and a half
years. Mark Costiglio, a spokesman by the New York-based
company, declined to comment on why the lender showed a loss
while others reported a gain.  The banks don’t disclose the full impact of interest-rate
derivatives on earnings or capital in their filings.  “The amount of interest-rate risk banks have remains
locked inside a black box,” said  Frank Partnoy , a professor of
law and finance at the University of  San Diego  who structured
derivatives at Morgan Stanley. “Even a sophisticated investor
who reads all the footnotes to bank financial statements cannot
determine how much money they are making on interest-rate bets
or how much exposure they have.”  Receive Fixed  Rising rates threaten  interest-rate swaps  known as receive
fixed, those in which a bank or another party agrees to receive
a payment based on a fixed rate and pay an amount linked to one
that fluctuates. The positions profit when the fixed rate, tied
to a longer maturity, is above the floating rate in what’s known
as an upward-sloping  yield curve .  Banks also take the other side with contracts known as pay
fixed, agreeing to make payments based on a constant rate and
receive an amount tied to a floating rate. In addition to swaps,
which are essentially bets that rates will rise or fall, lenders
use options,  futures  and forwards to manage interest-rate risks.  As rates move higher, banks with large net holdings of
receive-fixed swaps can get hit in two ways, Peabody said. An
increase in long-term rates reduces the value of their
positions, while a rise in short-term rates erodes the income
they produce as the spread between what’s received and what’s
paid shrinks. The position loses money if the floating rate
rises above the fixed one.  Eroding Equity  Banks holding a receive-fixed swap “lose money on a mark-to-market basis when rates rise,” Siddhartha Jha, author of
“Interest Rate Markets: A Practical Approach to  Fixed Income ,”
said in an interview. “You are receiving a lower rate than what
the market is offering.”  Losses on swaps caused by higher long-term rates can either
directly hit a bank’s income statement or erode its equity
before crimping future earnings, depending on how the contracts
are characterized under accounting rules.  Because the contracts are used to hedge other positions,
the income shouldn’t be viewed in isolation, according to people
with knowledge of the banks’ strategies. Much as the derivatives
helped some banks offset loan and bond income depressed by lower
returns, rising rates will make those assets more profitable,
said the people who asked not to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak about the matter.  “Our goal is to manage interest-rate sensitivity and
volatility so that movements in  interest rates  do not
significantly adversely affect earnings or capital,”  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. The bank uses many different instruments to manage
that risk, he said.  Replacing Revenue  Higher long-term rates already have boosted the value of
some assets. Mortgage-servicing rights, contracts assigning the
right to collect mortgage payments, gained in the second quarter
to offset declines in derivatives used to hedge them,  Standard &
Poor’s  analysts wrote in a Sept. 23 report.  Bank of America, led by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, had receive-fixed swaps with a notional value of
$98.7 billion at the end of June compared with $19.4 billion of
pay-fixed swaps. That means most of the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender’s interest-rate swaps are vulnerable to
rising rates.  To avoid an impact to earnings, Bank of America will need
to find ways to maintain or replace an average of $408 million
in quarterly net interest income it gets from interest-rate
derivatives, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan
will have to find $1.1 billion of income and San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo $848 million. The calculations assume lenders don’t
enter into offsetting trades or exit positions.  The derivatives income represents about 3.3 percent of the
$1.29 trillion in net revenue the three lenders took in from
2009 through the end of June.  Lending Rates  The Fed cut the  overnight lending rate  to close to zero in
December 2008, increasing the difference between the yield on
the three-month Treasury bill and the 10-year Treasury note to
more than 3.8 percentage points. That made the receive-fixed
trade a profitable one for banks.  Banks that locked in a fixed rate for five years on an
interest-rate swap trading at 3.52 percent on June 8, 2009, have
fared well as floating rates have fallen. The three-month London
interbank offered rate dropped to 0.25 percent yesterday, a 27-month low. The average estimated duration of Bank of America’s
receive-fixed swaps was about 5 years at the end of June.  ‘Losing Bets’  In the past four months, swaps users started bracing for
higher rates. Bernanke’s May 22 comments that the Fed may slow
its bond purchases used to keep long-term rates low drove the
yield on the 10-year Treasury note as high as 3.005 percent on
Sept. 6 from 1.61 percent on May 1.  “When, not if, interest rates rise, the banks will lose a
major source of income from the carry trade they have been
enjoying and the Fed has been subsidizing,” said the University
of San Diego’s Partnoy. “Also the interest-rate bets that are
hidden within the banks will suddenly become losing bets.”  A change in the long-term trend for interest rates, in this
case heading higher after a  30-year period  of declining
borrowing costs, can catch lenders off guard.  In 1993, Columbus, Ohio-based Banc One Corp. said it used
derivatives to boost annual net interest income by $446 million.
By 1994, Banc One, then the nation’s eighth-largest lender,
suffered losses tied to rising interest rates that ended a
quarter-century run of annual earnings increases. The Fed
increased the overnight lending rate seven times, taking the
rate from a then record-low 3 percent in February 1994 to 6
percent a year later. The company was sold to JPMorgan in 2004.  ‘Worry Now’  Bankers have warned of parallels to 1994. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein said May 2 at a conference in
 Washington  that investors at that time were used to low interest
rates and shocked by losses when borrowing costs rose.  “I worry now -- I look out of the corner of my eye to the
’94 period,” Blankfein said.  Bank of America had $2.7 billion of unrealized losses on
interest-rate cash-flow hedges at the end of June, according to
its second-quarter filing. It said about $936 million of that
amount, pretax, will hit income in the four quarters through
June 2014. New York-based Citigroup may record $1 billion of
losses over the same period, according to filing.  So far, short-term rates haven’t risen, and Fed officials
are taking a measured approach, unexpectedly refraining from
reducing bond buying after the central bank’s Sept. 18 meeting.
Traders don’t expect the Fed to raise the overnight borrowing
rate until July 2015, according to Fed funds futures.  ‘Good Gamble’  “You can do a relatively low-risk carry trade as long as
you are confident the  Federal Reserve , other central banks and
market participants will continue to keep short-term rates
low,” Stephen Ryan, a professor of accounting at the Stern
School of Business at  New York University  and author of
“Financial Instruments & Institutions,” said in an interview.
“Banks may view this as a good gamble.”  Banks say they’re poised to benefit from rising rates as
profit margins climb on loans such as mortgages. Bank of America
would get $1.03 billion more net interest income if the “long
rate” rose by 1 percentage point without the short end moving
at all, according to its second-quarter filing. JPMorgan would
bring in $900 million in the same scenario, according to a
company presentation, and Citigroup $88 million.  Even such disclosures don’t provide the full picture. Bank
of America said its measure of sensitivity to interest rates
doesn’t include ineffective hedges.  Accounting Rules  U.S. accounting rules, known as Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles, allow banks to match the financial-statement reporting of derivatives and the underlying hedged
items in certain cases. In others, swaps income appears in a
disclosure that doesn’t always show the impact of offsetting.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. mortgage lender and servicer,
said $7.2 billion of the income gathered over the past four and
a half years from interest-rate derivatives isn’t reported under
rules that account for hedges. The revenue is used to hedge
businesses including the lender’s residential-mortgage pipeline
and the value of rights to service home loans.  JPMorgan, led by CEO  Jamie Dimon , 57, cited similar uses
for $16 billion in income from interest-rate contracts.  “Although the extent of these economic hedges directly
affects recorded earnings, gauging their full impact is
difficult because of disclosure limitations,” S&P analysts
wrote in their Sept. 23 report.  New York-based JPMorgan also said other derivatives were
intended to protect it against corporate defaults before a
wrong-way bet led to more than $6 billion of losses.  Severe Shock  For banks, which count interest-rate swaps and other
instruments as their biggest derivatives holdings, the shock
could be severe, according to Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA Ltd.
in New York.  The notional amount of interest-rate contracts held by U.S.
banks climbed to $179 trillion at the end of 2012 from $11
trillion in 1995, according to the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency. They comprised 80 percent of all derivatives held
by lenders last year, the report shows. Worldwide, about $490
trillion of over-the-counter interest-rate derivatives were
outstanding at the end of 2012, data from the Bank for
International Settlements show.  “We’ve had a 100-year flood in credit risk,” Mayo said,
referring to the 2008 financial crisis when banks lost billions
of dollars on bad mortgage debt. “We haven’t had a 100-year
flood in interest-rate risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  