-- Rockwood Seen as Deal Target After Asset Sales: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-09-26T21:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/rockwood-seen-as-deal-target-after-asset-sales-real-m-a.html
Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) , the world’s
largest producer of lithium products, may become a takeover
target after agreeing to sell almost $4 billion of businesses
this year.  Rockwood’s deal last week to sell its volatile titanium-dioxide assets to Huntsman Corp. may spur takeover interest for
the rest of the $5 billion company, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said. With Rockwood narrowing its focus to its two fastest-growing units -- lithium for rechargeable batteries and surface
treatments applied to cars and airplanes -- chemical makers such
as BASF SE and  DuPont Co. (DD)  would be among the most logical
suitors, according to First Analysis Securities Corp.  “Rockwood’s days as an independent company are probably
numbered,”  Michael Harrison , a Chicago-based analyst at First
Analysis, said in a phone interview. Now that Rockwood is down
to just two businesses, “it seems to me that it’s a more
attractive takeout candidate. The lithium business is something
that I think a lot of chemical and energy companies would be
interested in.”  By slimming down, Princeton, New Jersey-based Rockwood is
removing businesses that were hampering its valuation. The stock
reached an eight-year  high  last week and is up 35 percent this
year through yesterday. Now the company’s $7.1 billion
 enterprise value  is almost 12 times analysts’ average estimate
for next year’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, topping the median multiple of 9.2 for its
specialty-chemical peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Selling Businesses  Nahla Azmy, a spokeswoman for Rockwood, didn’t respond to a
phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Seifi Ghasemi has been
moving Rockwood away from the production of commodity chemicals
to help boost its valuation. On Sept. 4, the company completed
the sale of its ceramics business CeramTec to buyout firm Cinven
Ltd. for 1.49 billion euros ($2 billion).  It’s also selling the unit that makes clay-based additives
-- used in products such as laundry detergent, carpet freshener
and industrial coatings -- for $635 million to  Germany ’s Altana
AG. Altana had been looking at acquiring parts of Rockwood after
abandoning a bid for the entire company in 2008.  This month, Rockwood agreed to sell its titanium-dioxide
assets to Huntsman for $1.1 billion, plus the assumption of
about $225 million in unfunded  pension liabilities . Salt Lake
City-based Huntsman is creating the world’s second-largest
producer of titanium dioxide, also known by its chemical formula
TiO2 and used as a whitener in paint and toothpaste.  M&A Interest  “While the volatile TiO2 business might otherwise be seen
as a negative for a chemical company interested in acquiring its
valuable specialty portfolio, we believe Rockwood’s proposed
exit could potentially boost M&A interest for the remaining
units,”  Robert Koort , a Houston-based analyst at Goldman Sachs,
wrote in a report dated Sept. 19.  The divestitures will leave Rockwood with a unit that sells
 lithium , a metal used to make long-lasting batteries for
laptops, mobile phones and electric vehicles, and another
business that makes  surface treatments  to protect metals from
corrosion. The lithium side had about $182 million in adjusted
Ebitda in 2012, while surface treatments earned $155 million,
according to a regulatory filing.  Ghasemi, Rockwood’s CEO, said at an analyst conference this
month that lithium demand may double over the next few years as
more people buy electric cars. Excluding automotive
applications, he said Rockwood’s lithium business will continue
to grow 7 percent to 10 percent a year.  Stock Gains  After the announcement of the deal with Huntsman, shares of
Rockwood closed on Sept. 18 at $68.69, the highest since its
2005 initial public offering. The stock is the fifth-best
performer in the Bloomberg Industries Global Specialty Chemicals
Index this year,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. Rockwood ended
yesterday at $66.88.  Today, Rockwood rose 2 percent to $68.23, the fourth-biggest gain in the Bloomberg Industries index.  Analysts see the stock climbing to about $75 in the next 12
months, according to the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. In April, activist hedge fund Jana Partners LLC said
Rockwood could attract bids after selling units and may be
valued at $80 a share in a takeover.  A Rockwood “made up of lithium and surface treatments
could make a very attractive takeover candidate for large
multinational chemical names” such as  BASF (BAS) ,  Albemarle Corp. (ALB)  and
 Soc. Quimica y Minera de Chile SA , known as SQM, Jana said in a
letter to investors at the time.  Activist Jana  Jana, which had a 3.5 percent stake at the end of last
year, trimmed its position after the stock gained on the
announcement of Rockwood’s intention to exit certain businesses,
the letter said. The firm no longer owns  shares , data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Diversified chemical companies with numerous business
lines, such as BASF, the world’s biggest chemical maker, and
DuPont, the biggest in the U.S. by market value, are among those
that could look at buying Rockwood after it completes the
divestitures, Harrison of First Analysis said. Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based BASF had a market capitalization of 66 billion
euros ($90 billion) yesterday, while DuPont’s was $55 billion.  Similar to Rockwood, DuPont is shifting away from
traditional commodity chemical products toward higher- margin 
businesses. Founded in 1802 to make gunpowder, the Wilmington,
Delaware-based company sells products ranging from pesticides
and genetically modified corn seeds to Corian countertops and
Kevlar anti-ballistic fiber.  Private Equity  Representatives for BASF, DuPont, Albemarle and SQM
declined to comment on potential takeover interest in Rockwood.  While BASF had 2.25 billion euros ($2.92 billion) in  cash 
and equivalents as of June, CEO Kurt Bock has shown a penchant
for smaller technology-driven deals over riskier big-ticket
purchases. His biggest acquisition since taking the helm in 2011
was Becker Underwood Inc., a maker of biological seed
treatments, for $1.02 billion.  Private-equity  suitors shouldn’t be ruled out given
Rockwood’s history with buyout firms, yet they may not be
willing to offer a high enough takeout price, Harrison said. New
York-based  KKR & Co. (KKR)  formed Rockwood more than a decade ago
through the merger of Dynamit Nobel and businesses it acquired
from Laporte Plc, then took the company public in 2005.  “Not everyone could do a deal of this size, so it’d
probably have to be one of the larger chemical companies,”
 Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness, Crespi, Hardt &
Co., said in a phone interview. “But it’s definitely more
attractive” for buyers after the divestitures, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  