-- Ruble Weakens Third Day Versus Basket as Debt Payments Loom
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-09-26T14:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/ruble-weakens-third-day-versus-basket-as-debt-payments-loom.html
The ruble weakened for a third day
on speculation the central bank may pare its defense of the
Russian currency and as companies bought dollars and euros
before foreign debt payments next month.  The ruble declined 0.2 percent to 37.2683 against the
central bank’s target dollar-euro basket by 6 p.m. in Moscow,
when the central bank stops its market operations. The currency
weakened 0.2 percent against the euro to 43.4695 and slid 0.3
percent to 32.1925 against the dollar.  Russian companies must repay about $5.5 billion of bonds
and syndicated loans in October, creating additional demand for
foreign currency, according to Anton Zakharov, a money manager
at OAO Promsvyazbank. A move now by the central bank to widen
the ruble band within which it intervenes to smooth volatility
would accelerate the currency’s drop, VTB Capital analysts Maxim Korovin and Anton Nikitin said in an e-mailed note.  “Many market participants are worried about the central
bank’s ability to widen the basket band around the current ruble
levels,” they said.  Bank Rossii has let the ruble trade in a seven ruble-wide
corridor against the basket since July 2012 and intervenes when
the currency approaches its weaker or stronger ends. The central
bank moves the band as interventions accumulate. The corridor is
currently at 32.25 to 39.25 rubles.  The ruble is trading around the level at which the central
bank increases its daily interventions to $200 million from $70
million, Korovin and Nikitin said.  Greater ruble volatility as the central bank moves toward
an inflation-targeting regime brings more advantages than
disadvantages, Bank Rossii governor  Elvira Nabiullina  told the
Itar-Tass news service Sept. 4.  The yield on  Russia ’s 10-year ruble bonds was unchanged at
7.25 percent. Companies conclude the regular tax period on Sept.
30 with corporate income tax payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  