-- Rupee Advances a Second Day on RBI Steps to Boost Dollar Supply
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-09-26T05:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/rupee-advances-a-second-day-on-rbi-steps-to-boost-dollar-supply.html
India ’s rupee rose for a second day
on optimism the central bank will succeed in its efforts to
boost the local supply of dollars.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which earlier this month allowed
commercial lenders to double their overseas borrowings to 100
percent of core capital, yesterday cut the minimum maturity for
such loans to one year from three years, according to a
 statement  on its website after the market shut. The banks can
then swap this money with the RBI at concessional rates until
Nov. 30, a step Governor  Raghuram Rajan  announced Sept. 4.  The rupee gained 0.3 percent to 62.28 per dollar as of
10:12 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The exchange rate has rebounded 5.5
percent this month, the best performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies, paring its loss this year to 12 percent.  “The strength in the rupee is more due to the promises and
assurances of the RBI,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of currency and
money markets at FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai. “There is confidence
now that the central bank is building up its reserves and that
the authority will be there for investors in the case of any
undesired speculation.”  Rajan raised the overseas borrowing limit and announced the
swap facility in his first speech as governor on Sept. 4, vowing
to sustain confidence in the value of the rupee. He then
unexpectedly boosted the central bank’s benchmark repurchase
rate to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent at a review on Sept. 20.  Stock Inflows  Global funds bought a net $2 billion of Indian stocks this
month, exchange data show, partly spurred by the  Federal
Reserve ’s decision on Sept. 18 to maintain its pace of bond
purchases. The RBI’s foreign-exchange reserves rose by $545
million to $275.4 billion in the week through Sept. 13, the
latest official data show, snapping three weeks of declines.  The rupee will trade between 59 and 60 per dollar in the
medium term, according to ICICI Bank Ltd. Policy uncertainty
before elections due by May and possible Fed tapering will
determine the currency’s trajectory, Samir Tripathi, a Mumbai-based analyst, wrote in a research report yesterday.  “There are suggestions that foreign institutional
investors love Rajan,” said FirstRand’s Nayar. “Maybe that’s
true.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 13 basis points,
or 0.13 percentage point, to 16.39 percent.  One-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.4 percent to 62.77
per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts gained 0.3 percent to 62.93. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  