-- Scene Last Night: Paulson, Parr, Buckfire, Tudor, May
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-09-26T15:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/scene-last-night-paulson-parr-buckfire-tudor-may.html
Stephen Schwarzman , co-founder of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , sold stationery as a Yale undergraduate,
making enough money to buy a stereo, on which he played the Four
Tops and the Beatles, he recalled the other night at a reception
for the Oxford-Pershing Square Graduate Scholarships.  Remembering the anecdote, and aghast at the cost of tuition
these days, I headed to the New York Philharmonic’s season-opening gala to ask what others did to make a dime in school.  “I was the Beta Sandwich Man,” said real-estate developer
Richard LeFrak. He sold grinders, milk and brownies in the
freshmen dorms at Amherst.  His wife, Karen LeFrak, recalled babysitting a professor’s
children. On this night, she had grander babysitting duties, as
chairman of the Philharmonic’s special-events committee,
overseeing the comfort of 850 guests at a gala that raised $2.9
million.  Bobby Tudor, chairman and chief executive officer of Tudor,
Pickering, Holt & Co., and one of the gala’s co-chairmen, worked
for the Ivory Coast Embassy in Washington one summer. The stint
in diplomacy came in handy after college when he played
professional basketball in Austria for two years.  Antonio Quintella, a managing director at Credit Suisse AG,
a major sponsor of the Philharmonic, said he was a show jumper.  Daria Foster, managing partner at Lord, Abbett & Co., was a
head resident in an all-girls dorm. “It defrayed college
expenses and it taught me that I could manage people,” Foster
said.  Producing Ella  Kenneth Buckfire, CEO of Miller Buckfire & Co., said he
produced jazz concerts at the  University of Michigan . “We had
 Ella Fitzgerald , which made enough money that we could pay for
less-known acts -- we had the Talking Heads in 1978.”  Wilbur Ross , founder of WL Ross & Co. and another Yale man,
parked cars at the Monmouth Park Jockey Club in Oceanport, New
Jersey.  “My parents contributed $500 to $600 a year, the rest was
scholarship and what I earned,” said  Bruce Kovner , chairman of
Caxton Alternative Management LP, as he walked down the aisle
to his seat in Avery Fisher Hall, where fellow Harvard alumnus
Yo-Yo Ma was set to play.  “By the end I was working for the president of the
university with an office in Harvard Yard,” Kovner said.  Bert Wells, a partner at Covington & Burling LLP, taught
freshman calculus at the California Institute of Technology.
“It paid my tuition,” Wells said.  Fun Money  “I slung hamburgers once in a while,” said Peter May,
president and founding partner of Trian Fund Management LP. It
was fun money he used to go on dates.  Arriving at the post-concert dinner in a tent at Damrosch
Park decorated with giant vases of orange orchids, Adrienne Arsht, chairman emeritus of TotalBank, said she had an
internship at a florist, during which she learned how to dye
chrysanthemums green.  In walked  John Paulson , president of Paulson & Co. and
Oscar Schafer, chairman of Rivulet Capital LLC, talking about
the concert.  “It was the best “Bolero” I’ve ever heard,” Paulson
said of the Ravel finale.  That number followed Osvaldo Golijov’s “Azul” for cello
and orchestra, featuring Ma rocking out with a hyper-accordion
player and a percussionist whose instruments included a bright-yellow sound hose that he twirled rapidly.  Schafer said he worked as a classical-music DJ at Harvard.  Paulson’s Needlework  Paulson said he took time off from  New York University  to
manufacture children’s clothing.  “I made samples, and I sold them to Bloomingdale’s, and
they sold six dozen and ordered more,” Paulson said.  He called his company John John Importers. For boys he made
shirts and pants, for girls, jumpers and dresses.  Gary Parr , deputy chairman of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and the chairman
of the New York Philharmonic, said he worked in a factory in
Charlotte,  North Carolina , making crackers. The experience
helped him pay tuition at the University of North Carolina at
 Chapel Hill  and taught him that “I wanted to continue to get an
education,” he said.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 