-- Schmolz Shareholders Approve Capital Increase, Vekselberg Board
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-09-26T14:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/schmolz-shareholders-approve-capital-increase-vekselberg-board.html
Schmolz & Bickenbach AG (STLN) 
shareholders approved a capital increase and voted in delegates
of Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  to give his Renova
Group control of the Swiss steelmaker’s board.  The 438 million-franc ($481 million) capital increase,
which was approved at an extraordinary general meeting in
Emmenbruecke, will be used to stabilize the company’s finances
and pay back debts. Schmolz said last month that it’s entire
board was resigning to make way for Renova.  “The capital increase means more financial stability and
the net debt situation is improved,”  Martin Schreiber , an
analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank said by phone, adding that the
new board members add both risk and opportunity for
shareholders. “It’s unclear how the new board will work with
the existing management team and support the current
restructuring approach.”  Europe ’s debt crisis has led to slumping demand for steel
among carmakers and other customers which stretched Schmolz’s
finances. Vekselberg’s control of the company marks the end of a
period of uncertainty over the steelmaker’s ownership.
Vekselberg is also, through Renova, the largest shareholder in
Swiss pumpmaker  Sulzer AG (SUN)  and  OC Oerlikon Corp. (OERL) , a maker of
textile machinery and physical vapor deposition coatings.  Shareholders approved the election to the board of former
Oerlikon chairman Vladimir Kuznetsov, along with Marco Musetti,
Hans Ziegler and Heinz Schumacher, independent board members
Michael Buechter and Edwin Eichler, and Oliver Thum, the head of
the founding family’s holding company.  Mandatory Offer  Renova said in June that it had become the largest
shareholder in Schmolz and had formed an alliance with Schmolz +
Bickenbach KG, which represents the founding family, to hold
40.5 percent of the company.  That triggered a mandatory takeover offer of the steelmaker
which has outstanding bonds and loans worth  1.1 billion euros.  Schmolz’s formers board, headed by Chairman Hans Peter Zehnder, initially rejected Renova’s advances before announcing
an  agreement  last month with Renova and the family founders to
pass over control to avoid potentially damaging uncertainty
among banks, suppliers and business partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  