-- SEC to Shift Enforcement Focus to Individuals, White Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-09-26T15:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/sec-to-shift-enforcement-focus-to-individuals-white-says-1-.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White said her agency will shift its
focus to bring more cases against individuals who violate
securities laws rather than the companies where they work.  “I want to be sure we are looking first at the individual
conduct and working out to the entity, rather than starting with
the entity as a whole and working in,” White, 65, said today in
a speech in  Chicago . “It is a subtle shift, but one that could
bring more individuals into enforcement cases.”  The SEC has faced criticism from lawmakers, judges and
investors that many of its cases related to the 2008 credit
crisis failed to punish high-ranking executives and allowed
companies to resolve probes without admitting guilt. White, a
former federal prosecutor and defense lawyer who became SEC
chairman in April, has already begun seeking admissions of
wrongdoing in cases against hedge-fund billionaire  Philip Falcone  and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Redress for wrongdoing must never be seen as a cost of
doing business made good by cutting a corporate check,” White
said in remarks prepared for a Council of Institutional
Investors conference.  SEC investigators will also seek more mandatory compliance
measures in settlements to prevent future misconduct and not
just punish past wrongdoing, she said.  White also faces questions from lawmakers and investors
about whether the SEC has a grasp on fragmented equity markets
that are dominated by high-speed electronic trading and have
experienced multiple technical failures in recent years.  The agency needs to be seen bringing cases that cover the
“whole market,” White said. Investigators are planning cases
in the coming year related to sophisticated trading strategies,
dark pools and other trading platforms, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  