-- SecondMarket Starts First U.S. Trust for Bitcoin Virtual Money
-- B y   L e n a   L e e
-- 2013-09-26T05:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/secondmarket-starts-first-u-s-trust-for-bitcoin-virtual-money.html
SecondMarket Inc. , where stock of
private companies such as Facebook Inc. traded before they went
public, started the first U.S. fund investing solely in the
Bitcoin virtual currency.  Shares of  Bitcoin Investment Trust  are being offered
exclusively through SecondMarket, which also provided a $2
million investment, the New York-based trading platform said in
a statement today.  The trust will allow “sophisticated investors” to buy
shares at a set price without having to transact Bitcoin in a
fragmented and highly illiquid market with unregulated entities,
and safely store the virtual money, according to the trust’s
 website . Since its creation in 2009, Bitcoin’s market value has
risen to $1.5 billion, 24 million transactions have been
conducted, and more than 10,000 vendors now accept the virtual
money, according to the statement.  “We incubated the BIT to alleviate the problems of direct
bitcoin ownership, including having to wire money to newly-established and potentially unregulated entities around the
world,” SecondMarket Chief Executive Officer  Barry Silbert  said
in the statement.  The trust requires a minimum investment sum of $25,000, the
website showed. Investors who buy shares in the trust can gain
liquidity through auctions on SecondMarket starting in 2014,
according to the statement. The net asset value of the trust
will be calculated daily and made publicly available, it said.  Bitcoin was created by a person or group known as Satoshi
Nakamoto and can be used to buy and sell a variety of items
ranging from cupcakes to electronics to illegal narcotics.  The currency is derived through a system called mining, in
which connected computers process Bitcoin transactions and earn
their owners Bitcoin as a reward. The potential difficulty in
tracking illegal transactions has drawn regulatory attention.  The trust will be audited by Ernst & Young LLP, according
to the statement.  SecondMarket is backed by investors including FirstMark
Capital, Social+Capital Partnership,  Li Ka-shing  Foundation and
Temasek Holdings Pte, the statement showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lena Lee in Singapore at 
 llee42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  