-- Serbia Should Swap Austerity for Transparency: Minister
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-09-26T13:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/serbia-should-swap-austerity-for-transparency-minister.html
Serbia  was wrong to push through
fiscal consolidation measures last year and should now focus
instead on forcing the shadow economy to register its activities
for more economic growth, the economy minister said.  Prime Minister Ivica Dacic’s revamped cabinet is drafting
measures to kindle recovery -- it sees growth at 2 percent this
year after a 1.7 percent contraction in 2012 -- and wants to
lower labor costs for employers to encourage companies to
legalize payrolls, Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic said today.  “We should not repeat last year’s mistake when we
implemented fiscal consolidation and lifted some taxes, which
led to contracting activity and a decline in retail trade,”
Radulovic, an independent handpicked by Deputy Prime Minister
Aleksandar Vucic for the post, told a business forum in
Belgrade.  Serbia wants to cut the unemployment rate, now at more than
24 percent, and plans to introduce progressive taxes on wages to
offset lost budget revenue from the lower burden on employers,
Radulovic said.  Legalizing the shadow economy, which Radulovic said made up
“around 30 percent of GDP,” is “the biggest chance to jump
start the Serbian economy,” he said. “If we legalize just part
of that activity, Serbian GDP will formally expand by 1 or 2
percent within two years on top of planned growth.”  That would also change ratios for public debt, currently at
60 percent of GDP, Radulovic said.  IMF Visit  Hampered by political turmoil, high borrowing costs and
weak domestic demand, the biggest former Yugoslav republic has
suffered two recessions in three years. Serbia needs to narrow
its fiscal gap from 7.2 percent in 2012 to win backing for a
potential new aid program from the International Monetary Fund.
It is also trying to convince bond investors of its commitment
to keeping public finances on track.  The IMF will send a mission to inspect Serbia’s economy and
public finances on Oct. 1. The Washington-based lender stopped
short of negotiating a loan in May on evidence the deficit would
top 8 percent in 2013. Serbia sees the gap at 6.5 percent of
GDP, above the 4.7 percent target in a revised budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  