-- Serena Williams Proves as Big for Black Athletes as Being No. 1
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-26T23:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/serena-williams-proves-as-big-for-black-athletes-as-being-no-1.html
Sachia Vickery was 5 1/2 when she
declared she would be the next  Serena Williams . Now 18, she
credits the 17-time Grand Slam singles champion with much more
than just tennis inspiration.  Vickery is part of an unprecedented group of young black
American women rising in the professional tennis ranks and
credits the off-court efforts by Williams, 31, and her older
sister Venus. Sociologists and marketing analysts say the
sisters’ biggest effect financially has been filling the pockets
of all female players rather than their own endorsement profile
while helping their sport to grow in minority communities.  The first black American to win a major title since Althea Gibson and  Arthur Ashe , Serena Williams’s record approaches the
sport’s all-time greats, ranking sixth on the career list of
Grand Slam singles champions with $50 million in prize winnings,
a record for a female athlete. Her legacy may loom even larger.  “Everyone has similar stories about her impact,” Vickery
said in a telephone interview. “She definitely changed
everything completely. All the adversity that she and Venus had
to go through really made it easier for us now.”  A muscular woman who wears her passion and aggression on
the sleeves of her tennis outfits, Williams has also battled to
overcome prevailing standards of beauty and femininity. Harry
Edwards, author of “The Revolt of the Black Athlete,”
considers her one of the three most transcendent athletes of his
lifetime, alongside 11-time National Basketball Association
champion  Bill Russell  and football Hall of Fame running back  Jim Brown .  Pride Stands  “Serena had to deal with that issue because she does not
fit the standard image of what advertisers and marketers like to
see and promote,” Edwards, 70, said in a telephone interview.
“She has not faltered in her pride in herself, her sense of
self, and that means so much to young minority girls and women
all over.”  Williams’s fifth  U.S. Open  title in New York this month was
her 17th Grand Slam singles win, fourth most in the Open era of
professional tennis that began in 1968. The top-ranked player on
the WTA tour, she’s 67-4 this year with nine tournament titles.
She also has four Olympic gold medals and 13 Grand Slam doubles
titles playing with her sister.  “I never really want to focus on the numbers,” Williams
said at the U.S. Open earlier this month. “I started playing
tennis not to be the greatest but just because I had a racket
and a dream.”  Dollar Store  Williams’s dream has transferred to many who grew up
watching her. This year’s U.S. Open main draw featured four
black American women under 21 years old -- No. 13-ranked Sloane Stephens, No. 43 Madison Keys, No. 182 Vickery and No. 188
Victoria Duval. The U.S. Tennis Association said it believed
that was unmatched, though it doesn’t keep exact figures on
racial breakdown of fields. The list could soon include 15-year-old Tornado Alicia Black, runner-up in the Junior girls draw.  Paula Liverpool, Vickery’s mother, bought a paddle racket
from a local dollar store shortly after her daughter’s bold
declaration 13 years ago. Two days later, the future national
junior champion broke her grandmother’s bedroom window while
trying to recreate Williams’s powerful strokes.  Liverpool said her daughter has always been muscular in the
Williams mold and that she was comfortable with the choice of a
role model because of Williams’s physical prowess and on-court
tenacity. She said the growth of the game in black communities
is “99 percent” a result of the Williams sisters.  “When you can relate to someone that you can see as
yourself physically, it puts you in a position where you feel
like you are capable of accomplishing exactly what she’s
accomplished,” Liverpool said in a telephone interview.  Endorsement Rank  Williams made $12 million in endorsements from June 2012 to
June 2013, according to Forbes Magazine’s annual rankings. Among
female athletes worldwide, she trails only  Maria Sharapova  of
Russia ($23 million) and  Li Na  of China ($15 million).
Williams’s total is just $1 million more than Denmark’s  Caroline Wozniacki , who has never won a Grand Slam title and hasn’t
reached a major semifinal in more than two years.  Williams was unavailable to comment for this story, Jill Smoller, her agent, said in an e-mail.  Jim Andrews , senior vice president for content strategy at
the sponsorship consultant IEG, said Williams’s appearance has
probably played a part in limiting some corporate links.
Williams endorses  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP) ’s Gatorade brand and  OPI  Products Inc. She also has equity
deals with  HSN Inc. (HSNI) , Sleep Sheets, Mission Athletecare and
football’s Miami Dolphins, according to Forbes.  “Corporate sponsors have traditionally looked for female
athletes who fit that traditional standard of beauty, which
oftentimes is white, blonde women,” Andrews said in a telephone
interview.  Public Knows  Serena Williams is recognized by 91 percent of U.S.
consumers, more than Venus (89 percent) and the most
recognizable active men’s player,  Roger Federer  (61 percent),
according to the Marketing Arm, which measures celebrity
endorsement potential. Scott Becher, managing director of Z
Sports & Entertainment, a division of Florida-based Zimmerman
Advertising, said the Williams sisters and Federer, also a 17-time Grand Slam singles champion, were the only active tennis
players to transcend the sport’s limited popularity in the U.S.
market.  “The Williams sisters’ legacy may be more for growing the
game than their performance when playing,” Becher said in a
telephone interview. “They made tennis accessible, not to
mention their interests in design and fashion. They have been
influencers and their reach is much broader than sport.”  Equal Pay  Serena Williams won her first Grand Slam at the U.S. Open
in 1999, joining Gibson and Ashe as the only black Americans to
win one of the sport’s major tournaments.  Venus Williams , who is
15 months older than her sister, became the fourth at Wimbledon
the following year.  Gibson won the French Open in 1956, followed by consecutive
Wimbledon and U.S. Open titles in 1957 and 1958. Ashe won the
U.S. Open in 1968, the Australian Open in 1970 and Wimbledon in
1975. They were involved in the civil rights’ struggles in the
1950s and 1960s, and Ashe helped form the professional men’s ATP
Tour in 1972. Gibson died in 2003, and Ashe in 1993.  Both Williams sisters lobbied early in their careers for
gender-equal pay at the Grand Slams, picking up a fight launched
in the ’60s by Billie  Jean King , who helped found both the WTA
tour and the Women’s Sports Foundation.  Equal Pay  The French Open in 2006 became the third Grand Slam to
offer equal pay, and after extensive lobbying by Venus Williams,
Wimbledon followed in 2007. Pay for the women’s champion at the
grass court major has increased 229 percent to $2.57 million
since Serena Williams won her first Wimbledon title in 2002.
This year the 10 highest-paid tennis players in the world were
evenly split between men and women, according to Forbes.  “The fact that it’s really the only sport where women have
parity in terms of income is a result of people like Serena
standing up vocally and being willing to take action,” Richard Lapchick, founder and director of the Institute for Diversity
and Ethics in Sports at the University of Central Florida, said
in a telephone interview. “Serena is a lot like  Billie Jean
King . She was not only a great tennis player and changed the way
people view tennis, but she was an outstanding leader in terms
of women’s issues.”  The sisters also have taken money out of their own pockets
as a matter of racial principle. They have refused to play the
high-tier tournament at Indian Wells, California, since 2001,
when Venus and their father,  Richard Williams , said they were
the target of racial taunts from members of the crowd.  ‘Fine Me’  “It’s become a mandatory tournament on the tour, meaning
that the WTA can fine a player if she doesn’t attend,” Serena
wrote in her 2009 autobiography, “On the Line.” But I don’t
care if they fine me a million dollars, I will not play there
again.”  Serena Williams isn’t without critics. In the 2009 U.S.
Open semifinals, she launched an expletive-laced tirade while
threatening to harm a line judge after a foot-fault call. The
outburst cost her the match against eventual champion  Kim Clijsters  and she was fined $175,000 and placed on two years’
probation. Two years later, after she was docked a point for
yelling in mid-rally, Williams called another U.S. Open official
“out of control” and “unattractive inside.”  Edwards helped organize the Olympic Project for Human
Rights, which led to the Black Power salute by American
sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the 1968 Games in
Mexico City. He said that through Williams’s occasional on-court
outbursts, he never worried that she’d lost her way.  ‘Extraordinary Challenges’  “Given the extraordinary challenges in the areas of race,
gender and style that she has had to confront, the wonder for me
is not that she goes off from time to time, it’s that she
doesn’t go off more often,” Edwards said.  The Williams sisters started playing tennis in Compton, a
city in Southern California with a median household income of
$43,311, 30 percent less than the state’s average, according to
the  Census Bureau . Compton’s violence is often glorified in rap
music, and Serena’s half-sister Yetunde Price was killed in a
gang shooting in 2003.  Aja Brown, at 31 the youngest mayor in Compton’s history,
said she drew inspiration from the Williams’s early stardom.
Brown said she intends to contact the sisters to see if they
would be willing to help with the city’s new health- and
exercise-based initiatives.  “Serena Williams is definitely a mark of accomplishment
for the city and role model for young women in the community,”
Brown said in a telephone interview. “It really shows how much
hard work and determination can change your circumstances.”  Tiger Woods  Lapchick said Williams’s success in inspiring a new
generation of young black professional tennis players is a
contrast to golf’s  Tiger Woods , another minority-group member
who rose to No. 1 in a predominantly white sport. There are no
other black players competing full time on the PGA Tour, the
world’s richest golf circuit.  Woods, who identifies himself as “Cablinasian,” a mix of
his white, black, American Indian and Asian heritage, said last
week that golf is growing within minority communities through
foundations and youth programs such as  The First Tee . He also
said the use of motorized golf carts limited caddy programs,
which traditionally brings minorities to the sport.  “What Serena and Venus have done in their sport has been
second to none, the way they’ve grown their sport,” Woods, 37,
said prior to the PGA Tour Championship in Atlanta. “And not
only shown the way they can play, but just the pure athleticism
in which you can play and the power you can play at.”  Vickery Debut  In July, Vickery made her World Team Tennis debut in
Washington. With Serena Williams sitting courtside, she double
faulted five times and won just three points in a 5-0 loss to
former Grand Slam champion  Martina Hingis .  Liverpool said it was the first time she saw her daughter
succumb to stage fright. Another surprise followed.  “Serena came up to her and hugged her and Sachia burst
into tears, which is a rare occurrence in her life,” Liverpool
said. “I was so humbled and grateful for the mentorship Serena
showed at that particular event in my daughter’s life. The
humility Serena has within her makes her unique from a lot of
big players who get ahead of themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  