-- Shanghai Free-Trade Zone Splits Analysts on Benefits to Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-26T01:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/shanghai-free-trade-zone-splits-analysts-on-benefits-to-economy.html
China ’s plan to set up a test zone
in  Shanghai  with reduced state control over policies from
 interest rates  to foreign investment has split analysts over
whether it will boost the economy across the nation.  Eight of 17 respondents to a Bloomberg News survey said the
so-called free trade zone will have no effect or a negligible
impact on growth, while eight said it will boost annual
 expansion  by 0.1 percentage point to 0.5 point over the next
five years. One economist in the survey, conducted from Sept. 18
through yesterday, said growth would increase by 0.5 point to
0.9 point.  Any boost from the zone, set to officially open next week,
would help Premier Li Keqiang sustain 7 percent annual expansion
this decade and add to potential engines of growth including
urbanization. Economists surveyed over the past week also
indicated they expect gross domestic product gains to moderate
next year after bouncing back this quarter.  “The Shanghai free trade zone is going to be a hotbed of
liberalization and will have a huge economic impact in that
area,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong. “But in our understanding it
will be, especially in the first years, quite shielded off from
China’s wider economy. So the impact on the macro economy isn’t
going to be large.”  Cabinet Approval  The State Council, or cabinet, approved the Shanghai zone
in July, billed as the nation’s first free-trade area, on 29
square kilometers (11 square miles) of land in China’s biggest
commercial center. While a draft plan seen by Bloomberg News
shows the zone may liberalize 19 industries from banking to
shipping and allow freer convertibility of the yuan, the
government hasn’t published details.  Miao Hui, chief China economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in
Hong Kong, said the Shanghai zone will help the broader economy
in part because it will generate 200 billion  yuan  ($32.7 billion)
to 300 billion yuan in investment, which is “very significant”
at 0.6 percent of GDP.  “Most of the investment is definitely in that area but of
course there will be spillover,” Miao said. “If you build a
modern office tower you need to buy steel, cement, all these
things from the rest of China.”  Li said in March, after taking office, that “reforms
unleash huge dividends.”  City’s Potential  “It’s time for the country to choose a new trial for
opening,” Li told an economic work meeting in March. “Shanghai
is qualified and has the foundation to have the trial.”  The Bloomberg survey found a median estimate of 7.7 percent
from 31 analysts for third-quarter growth, up from August’s
projection of 7.5 percent and a 7.5 percent reported pace in the
second quarter. The fourth-quarter estimate rose to 7.6 percent
from 7.3 percent, and the median forecast for the full year
increased by 0.1 percentage point to 7.6 percent.  At the same time, the median projection for 2014 expansion
declined to 7.4 percent from August’s 7.5 percent, with
forecasts ranging from 6.7 percent to 8.6 percent.  Economic data, led by  manufacturing , have shown
acceleration so far this quarter, and the government’s broadest
measure of credit rose more than forecast in August.  --Kevin Hamlin, Cynthia Li, with assistance from Penny Peng in
Beijing and Gregory Turk in Shanghai. Editors: Scott Lanman,
Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Li in Hong Kong at 
 cli205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Robinson at   jrobinson37@bloomberg.net  