-- South Africa Raises Corn-Production Forecast by 1.8% for Season
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-09-26T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/south-africa-raises-corn-production-forecast-by-1-8-for-season.html
South Africa , the continent’s
largest corn producer, raised its forecast for output of the
grain this season by 1.8 percent, according to the government’s
Crop Estimates Committee.  Growers probably reaped 11.7 million metric tons of the
grain, Marda Scheepers, a spokeswoman for the Pretoria-based
committee, said by phone today. This is more than the group’s
prediction of 11.5 million tons last month and is bigger than
the 11.5 million-ton median estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The forecast for yellow corn was raised 3.5 percent
to 6.14 million tons while that for the white variety was
unchanged.  “Yellow-corn yields were better than expected, and South
African Grain Information Service data on deliveries show a
better crop,” Scheepers said of the committee’s last estimate
before final figures for the season are released on Nov. 28.  South Africa, the continent’s largest producer of corn, may
produce more of the yellow than the white variety for the first
time in 19 years this season, according to the committee’s data.
Meal made from white corn is one of the country’s staple foods
while yellow is mainly used as  animal feed .  White corn for delivery in December, the most active
contact, rose 1.4 percent, the most since Aug. 26, to 2,344 rand
a ton by the close on the South African Futures Exchange today.
The yellow variety for delivery in the same month gained 0.8
percent to 2,156 rand a ton.  Summer Grains  Estimates for output of sunflower seed, soy, groundnuts and
dry beans were unchanged from last month’s predictions, while
the forecast for farmers’ sorghum crop was cut 2.2 percent to
151,064 tons.  Farmers may produce 1.76 million tons of wheat this season,
the committee said. This is less than the 1.78 million-ton
forecast it made last month and compares to the 1.79 million-ton
median estimate of four traders surveyed by Bloomberg. The
nation produced 1.87 million tons last year.  South  Africa , a net importer of wheat, is sub-Saharan
Africa’s largest producer of the grain after  Ethiopia  and the
region’s biggest importer after Nigeria and  Sudan , according to
U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  Wheat for delivery in December gained 0.9 percent, the most
since Sept. 3, to 3,397 rand a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  