-- South Africa Producer-Price Inflation Accelerates in Aug.
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-09-26T11:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/south-africa-producer-price-inflation-accelerates-in-aug-.html
The cost of goods leaving South
African factories rose at a faster pace in August than the
previous month, adding to pressure on consumer prices.  Producer-price  inflation  for final manufactured goods
quickened to 6.7 percent from 6.6 percent in July, Pretoria-based Statistics  South Africa  said on its website today. The
median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of seven economists was
6.5 percent. Prices rose 0.8 percent in the month.  The weakness of the rand remains one of the largest “risks
to the domestic inflation outlook,” Jeffrey Schultz, an
economist at BNP Paribas Cadiz Securities in Johannesburg, said
in an e-mailed note to clients. “Underlying price pressures are
starting to build in the economy.”  The  Reserve Bank  last week held its benchmark repurchase
rate at 5 percent for the seventh consecutive meeting, saying it
faces conflicting policy choices with slowing economic growth
and consumer-price inflation that’s set to remain
“uncomfortably close” to the 6 percent upper end of the bank’s
target range.  Consumer  inflation  accelerated to 6.4 percent in August,
exceeding the target for a second month. While the central bank
said the rate will drop into the target by the end of the year,
it raised price forecasts for 2014 and 2015.  Risks to inflation from a weaker rand remain high,
according to Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus . While the
currency has rebounded from a four-year low against the dollar
reached on Aug. 28, it’s lost 15 percent this year, making it
the worst performer among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The rand weakened 0.2 percent to 10.0072 per dollar
at 12:55 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The economy is forecast to expand 2 percent this year,
according to the Reserve Bank, which will be the slowest pace
since a 2009 recession, as strikes in mining and manufacturing
and sluggish global demand strain exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  