-- Park’s Budget Scales Back Pledged Aid to South Korean Aged
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m ,   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-26T09:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/south-korea-budget-rolls-back-park-pledges-as-revenue-declines.html
South Korea President Park Geun Hye
was forced to scale back aid she pledged to pensioners in her
2014 budget and delayed plans to eliminate the deficit as the
government forecast the first drop in revenue in four years.  In her first budget draft since taking office in February,
Park boosted welfare spending to a record while scaling back a
plan to expand pension benefits as dwindling revenue restricts
her ability to increase support for an aging population. The
deficit is forecast to remain at 1.8 percent of gross domestic
product, a seventh straight year of shortfalls in  Asia ’s fourth
biggest economy, the finance ministry said in its proposal.  “I feel sorry not all senior citizens will be paid,” Park
said today, according to a statement released by the
presidential house. “I will do my best to implement within my
term my promises and things that I couldn’t implement as
scheduled due to the currently difficult fiscal conditions.”  Park faces public pressure to fulfill election pledges to
spend 135 trillion won ($126 billion) over five years to bolster
social safety nets and defense as slower growth and steps to
revive an anemic housing market sap revenue. While Standard &
Poor’s this week cited South Korea’s “sound” fiscal position
for affirming its long-term ratings at A+, the government won’t
balance its books by 2017 as planned, according to the  finance
ministry .  Balancing Target  Park aims to stoke a rebound after the economy  grew  1.1
percent in the second quarter from the first quarter, the
fastest in more than two years. The finance ministry forecast
growth will accelerate to 3.9 percent in 2014 from 2.7 percent
this year.  “While it would be correct to reduce spending for fiscal
soundness as we’re experiencing difficulty raising taxes, it’s
necessary to maintain fiscal spending at an appropriate level to
cement a recovery,” Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in a
briefing in Sejong.  The Kospi index was roughly unchanged as of 11:28 a.m.,
while the won increased 0.2 percent to 1075.60 per dollar.  The government projects the fiscal deficit will narrow to
0.4 percent of GDP by 2017, dropping a goal from May to balance
the books “by the end of the current administration,” finance
ministry statements show. The president’s five-year term ends in
February 2018.  “Betrayal” Act  “Park won’t be able to make all her promises come true and
the revenue situation will show that in the next couple of
years,” Kim Hyeon Wook, a Seoul-based economist at SK Research
Institute and a former Bank of Korea economist, said before the
release. “Her predecessors prioritized fiscal soundness more
than Park, which is a concern as welfare demand will only
grow.”  The government will exclude the wealthiest 30 percent of
South Koreans over the age of 65 from a monthly cash allowance
of up to 200,000 won promised to the whole age group by Park,
saving about 200 billion won, according to the draft budget.  Park won the December vote on a platform of expanded social
spending, including the allowance for the elderly, as well as
offering free treatment for four major diseases including cancer
and cardiac disorders.  Scaling back the pension pledge would be an “act of
betrayal,” opposition leader Kim Han Gil said at a meeting with
elderly people yesterday.  Crisis Impact  Park’s approval rate slid to 60.9 percent in a poll on
Sept. 20 after she failed to convince the main opposition party
to end its boycott of the current parliamentary session. Her
approval rating had reached a high of 69.5 percent on Sept. 10,
according to a survey by Seoul-based pollster Realmeter.  Expenditure will increase 4.6 percent to 357.7 trillion won
while revenue, including income from a state-run pension fund
and proceeds from the sale of government assets, will fall 0.5
percent to 370.7 trillion won. Excluding those other income
sources, the budget will be in deficit.  South Korea  has posted fiscal shortfalls since the budget
swung into the red in 2008 during the global financial crisis.
An original aim to balance books by 2014 was moved back to 2017
in May after the government introduced a 17.3 trillion won extra
budget to boost growth, pushing the deficit to a record 46.2
trillion won in the first half of the year, according to the
finance ministry.  Welfare spending will increase 8.7 percent to record 105.9
trillion won next year, accounting for 29.6 percent of
expenditure. Infrastructure spending will fall 4.3 percent to
23.3 trillion won and is projected to shrink by an annualized
rate of 5.7 percent until 2017.  The government aims to raise 26.7 trillion won next year by
selling stakes in banks and through other means, according to
the statement. A total of 97.9 trillion won in treasury bonds
will be issued in 2014, an increase from 88.4 trillion won this
year, finance ministry director Kim Jin Myung said by phone
today, confirming an earlier Yonhap News report.  Government debt will rise to 515.2 trillion won next year,
or 36.5 percent of GDP -- below an average of 108.8 percent for
members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development at the end of 2012.  The finance ministry will present the budget draft to
lawmakers by Oct. 2 for parliament’s approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  