-- Southeastern Grocers Files to Raise $500 Million in U.S. IPO
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   M i n s i   C h u n g
-- 2013-09-26T18:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/southeastern-grocers-files-to-raise-500-million-in-u-s-ipo.html
Southeastern Grocers Inc., the
food-store chain controlled by Lone Star Funds, filed to raise
as much as $500 million in a U.S. initial public offering after
shares of other chains that went public this year surged.  Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Deutsche Bank AG
are leading the sale, according to a regulatory filing today.
The $500 million is a placeholder used to calculate fees and may
change.  Southeastern joins grocers including Sprouts Farmers Market
Inc. and  Fairway Group Holdings Corp. (FWM)  in raising funds this
year. When Sprouts went public in July, it became the fourth
food retailer to rise 20 percent or more in its initial weeks of
trading, according to Bloomberg Industries. Food retail IPOs
have outperformed other major industries in the past year as
demand for specialty, organic and natural products rises.  “As long as there is a growth element to the story, then
investors are attracted to the company,” Joe Feldman, a New
York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said in a telephone
interview. “There is also an interest in natural products, and
that is driving the market.”  Feldman said grocers tend to generate good cash flow and
reward their investors.  Sales at U.S. supermarkets and grocery stores are projected
to increase 0.8 percent a year for the next five years and reach
about $538.3 billion in 2018, according to an April report from
researcher IBISWorld Inc. in Santa Monica,  California .  Southeastern Sales  Southeastern generated $8.6 billion in sales last year from
stores in states such as Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana and
 Mississippi . The company has 685 locations under banners
including Winn-Dixie and Bi-Lo.  Lone Star, founded by Chairman  John Grayken , owns 100
percent of the Jacksonville, Florida-based company’s stock, the
filing shows. The company didn’t say whether Lone Star plans to
offer shares in the sale or how many.  Sprouts, the Phoenix-based organic grocery chain backed by
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , raised $383 million in its initial
public offering, including an overallotment. Fairway raised $204
million in its April IPO with the overallotment. Sprouts has
more than doubled since its trading debut, and Fairway gained 92
percent through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Minsi Chung in  New York  at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  