-- South Africa’s Zuma Signs E-Toll Bill as Unions Protest
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-09-26T11:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/south-africa-s-zuma-signs-e-toll-bill-as-unions-protest.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
signed a law that may trigger the start of a much-delayed
electronic road toll project in Gauteng province that’s faced
opposition from trade unions and motorist groups.  “The Act will facilitate the upgrading and development of
the transport infrastructure and public transport” in South
Africa, the president said in a statement on his office’s
website today.  The project’s biggest opponent is the Congress of South
African Trade Unions, which is in a political alliance with
Zuma’s ruling  African National Congress . Delays to the e-toll
system partly caused by resistance to the project have cost the
South African National Roads Agency SOC Ltd., also known as
Sanral, about 200 million rand ($20 million) per month, the
agency said in July.  Gauteng is  South Africa ’s most populous province and
commercial hub. The e-toll project will run on freeways around
Johannesburg and  Pretoria , the capital, and has been opposed
because of the extra cost on road users.  “We will be organizing more mass actions” against  e-tolls, Cosatu spokesman Patrick Craven said in a mobile-phone
interview from Johannesburg. “Our opposition to e-tolling has
always been of political principle as people are asked to pay
twice,” he said, referring to the toll and taxes.  Financial Viability  Trading in Sanral’s bonds has been paralyzed amid investor
concerns about the company’s financial viability. The agency has
1.5 billion rand of five-year notes reaching maturity on Oct. 31
and total debt of 32 billion rand, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt will be financed through short-term bank
loans, Vusi Mona, Sanral’s general manager of communications
said in July.  The start of the e-toll will reassure investors that the
roads agency is able to meet its financial obligations, Sanral
Chief Executive Officer Nazir Alli said in an e-mailed
statement. “The delay in the announcement of the toll
commencement date had put our toll portfolio under pressure,”
he said.  Shares in  Austria ’s  Kapsch TrafficCom AG (KTCG) , which would
operate the e-toll system, rose as much as 7.4 percent, the
biggest gain in more than two years. Almost 68,000 shares
traded, 4.5 times the three-month daily average. The stock was
6.4 percent higher at 36.50 euros as of 1:13 p.m. in Vienna.  “This surely is good news for the project,” Marcus Handl,
a spokesman for Kapsch, said in a telephone interview. “The law
is only a prerequisite. To us, it is decisive what Sanral does
and this is what we’re waiting for.”  Two Weeks  While Sanral hasn’t announced the e-toll’s start date, the
 Opposition to Urban Tolling Alliance  group said the system could
come into operation next month.  “With Sanral’s current dire financial situation and their
claim of readiness, one must assume that Sanral will start to
toll within two weeks,” OUTA said in an e-mailed statement.
“They would be wise to await the outcome of the  Supreme Court ’s
ruling on OUTA’s appeal in the next few weeks.”  South Africa’s biggest opposition party, the  Democratic
Alliance , said yesterday the signing of the bill was “premature
and disrespectful of the judicial process,” the South African
Press Association reported, citing Ian Ollis, the party’s
transport spokesman.  Kapsch posted three quarterly losses in the fiscal year
ended March 31 partly because of delays to the start date. The
company will get an annual revenue boost of more than 50 million
euros from the project, board member Andre Laux said in June, a
figure that has infuriated opposition groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  