-- Split Weakens U.S.-Backed Syrian Rebels as Islamists Gain
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-09-26T17:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/split-weakens-u-s-backed-syrian-rebels-as-islamists-grow.html
U.S. and Russian efforts to set the
stage for Syrian peace talks suffered a blow as the Western-backed Syrian National Coalition was repudiated by more than a
dozen rebel factions.  The break by the rebel groups shows the growing power of
militant Islamic fighters and hampers the U.S. effort to
position moderate Syrian opposition leaders to lead a transition
from the regime of President Bashar al-Assad. It also muddies
the effort to arm and train moderate rebel groups while keeping
advanced weapons out of the hands of extremists.  It’s now uncertain what role the opposition coalition will
be able to play in peace talks that U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  seek to convene
in Geneva as early next month.  The militants’ rejection of the main U.S.-backed opposition
coalition “weakens it significantly,” Daniel Serwer, a
professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International
Studies in  Washington , said yesterday.  As many as 13 rebel groups issued a statement saying the
Turkey-based Syrian National Coalition “does not represent us”
and that they plan to unite under Islam’s sharia law, according
to a video on Google Inc.’s  YouTube  showing a leader of one
brigade, Abdulaziz Salameh, reading the document aloud.  Arms Impact  U.S.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican
who has been an advocate for U.S. military aid to moderate
factions, said the shift by rebel factions that had been aligned
with the Western-backed Free Syrian Army, the military arm of
the opposition coalition, forecloses providing them with U.S.
weapons.  “How can I send arms now that they’ve aligned themselves
with al-Qaeda?” he said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” that airs this
weekend.  The U.S.,  France , the U.K.,  Turkey ,  Saudi Arabia , Qatar and
other nations have struggled to unify and strengthen  Syria ’s
moderate opposition, encountering setbacks involving leadership,
ethnic representation and the role of expatriate Syrians. The
prospects for a peace process rest in part on the existence of
an opposition that’s representative of Syria’s diverse
population and capable of negotiating, which now is in doubt.  ‘Big Deal’  “It is a very big deal,” Aron Lund, a Swedish journalist
and author who focuses on the Syrian opposition, wrote on the
blog Syria Comment. He said the action diminishes the Free
Syrian Army, or FSA, the group organizing rebel fighters backed
by the U.S., France, the U.K. and some Persian Gulf nations.  The groups that broke away constitute a major part of the
northern rebel force, with some of the largest armed groups in
the country in total control of “at least a few tens of
thousands fighters,” Lund said.  The breakaway alliance “represents the rebellion of a
large part of the ‘mainstream FSA’ against its purported
political leadership, and openly aligns these factions with more
hard-line Islamist forces,” Lund wrote on the blog, which is
maintained by  Joshua Landis , director of the Center for Middle
East Studies at the University of  Oklahoma .  Bad Timing  There are about 1,200 opposition factions in Syria, which
highlights the challenge of sorting secular moderates from
radical Islamists to provide support to the anti-Assad effort,
said David Shedd, deputy head of the U.S. Defense Intelligence
Agency, in July. Kerry told Congress this month that extremist
factions, such as those affiliated with al-Qaeda, account for
less than a quarter of rebel forces.  The announcement of the new militant alliance comes at a
particularly bad moment for U.S. goals, as fighting is flaring
among rebel groups in territory under opposition control.
Moderate fighters are enmeshed in some of the hardest fighting
yet against extremist groups, such as the Islamic State of  Iraq 
and the Levant, according to a State Department official who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  The battles, which extend along the border between Turkey
and Syria, from the southern point near the Iraq border to
Aleppo in the north, mean the moderate rebels are fighting on
two fronts, against the extremists as well as Assad’s forces.
The official said the extremists are doing the government’s work
now, a point that opposition members made in a Sept. 24 meeting
with Kerry on the sidelines of the  United Nations General
Assembly  in  New York .  ‘Important Brigades’  The new opposition entity, which lacks an official name and
has been dubbed the “Islamic Coalition,” includes the al-Qaeda-linked al-Nusra Front and three less militant brigades
that seceded from the Turkey-based Syrian National Coalition and
its military wing, led by Supreme Military Commander General
Salim Idriss, who defected from the Syrian Army.  “These are important brigades,” said Khalid Saleh, an
opposition coalition spokesman.  “We believe there’s a lot of frustration among these
brigades,” Saleh said in a telephone interview. “They believe
the international community has let them down, that they’re on
their own fighting this war.”  Idriss cut short a trip to France, where he was trying to
get more support for the coalition’s Supreme Military Council,
said Saleh.  The State Department official said Idriss needs more help
to undermine recruiting by the extremists and that the President
 Barack Obama  administration is looking at what more that the
U.S. can do. He didn’t offer details.  Bullet Shortage  Saleh painted a grim picture of the conditions Free Syrian
Army fighters face, “sometimes losing men on the field because
they run out of bullets.”  The U.S. is aware of the breakaway groups’ announcement and
is discussing its impact, said a second State Department
official, who asked to not be named, citing administration
policy.  The opposition coalition’s links to the outside world are
part of its problem inside Syria, said the first State
Department official. The group is located in Istanbul and
Gaziantep, Turkey, not inside Syria.  Kerry discussed the need for the group’s leadership to
build credibility inside Syria during talks in New York with
opposition coalition leader Ahmad al-Jarba, the official said.  Kerry and Jarba discussed the potential for peace talks
with Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN special representative on Syria.
Today, the opposition coalition plans to draw attention to its
cause by holding an event hosted by France for leaders attending
the UN General Assembly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in United Nations at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  