-- Starbucks Plans Spur SodaStream Slump: Israel Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-09-27T11:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/starbucks-plans-spur-sodastream-slump-israel-overnight.html
SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the
Israeli maker of home soda machines, posted the longest stretch
of declines in a year on concern  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  will sell a
product that will compete with its carbonated drink maker.  The shares fell for a sixth day, declining 1.6 percent to a
two week-low of $63.90 in  New York . The Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli companies in New York
rose to the highest level since July 2011.  EZchip Semiconductor
Ltd. (EZCH) ,  Israel ’s second-biggest chipmaker, widened its premium to
the Tel Aviv-listed stock to 12 percent. The Israeli stock
market was closed over the past two days for a holiday.  Starbucks filed on Sept. 18 an application to register the
term Fizzio for a machine that makes beverages, including soft
drinks, data from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office show.
SodaStream, which has reported a 42 percent increase in U.S.
sales in the second quarter as stores from Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
and Staples Inc. retail its products, has slumped  12 percent 
this quarter, set for its worst three-month decline since 2011.  “Starbucks looks to be targeting the at-home market with
the Fizzio,” Nick Setyan, an analyst at Wedbush Securities
Inc., said by phone yesterday from  Los Angeles . “There should
be room for at least one competitor in the SodaStream market.”  The company debuted its products on the QVC home-shopping
television network in the second quarter and began selling at
400  Kroger Co. (KR)  supermarkets, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Birnbaum, said in a conference call July 31.  $1 Billion  SodaStream’s new soda maker models, dishwasher safe
bottles, and new beverage mixes in a line that include Kraft
Foods Inc.’s Crystal Light and Country Time lemonades, are
performing well, Birnbaum said on the call. The company is
“confident” in the 2016 target of $1 billion in annual
revenue, he said. SodaStream’s sales will rise 30 percent to
 $566.8 million  in 2013, according to the mean of nine analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , the maker of the
Keurig single-cup coffee brewer, on July 3 filed an application
for a machine that would make still, carbonated, and sparkling
beverages, as well as soda.  “Home soda making is still a new category in the U.S. with
over 98 percent of homes as potential customers,” Yonah Lloyd,
SodaStream’s chief corporate development and communications
officer, wrote in an e-mailed message yesterday. “Any
legitimate company that enters will help raise awareness, and
this is good for SodaStream and all competitors.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity gauge added 0.2 percent to
98.88, extending this month’s advance to 4 percent.  EZchip, the Yokneam, Israel-based maker of network
processors, gained 2.3 percent to $25.17, increasing a four-day
advance to 13 percent.  Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TARO)  surged 5.8 percent to a
record $73.80. The Israeli medical treatment company that hit a
decade high this month will continue to rise on prospects
revenue growth will beat estimates, Credit Suisse Group AG said
in a note to clients this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  