-- Statoil’s Third Oil Find Off Canada May Exceed Estimate
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-26T17:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/statoil-s-third-oil-find-off-canada-may-hold-600-million-barrels.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  said its third find off
eastern  Canada , containing enough oil to make the trio of
discoveries commercially viable, may hold more resources than
estimated because the area includes further prospects.  “There are other parts of the structure which are regarded
as prospective and not included in the volumes we quoted,” Head
of Exploration Tim Dodson said today by phone from Stavanger,
 Norway , where Statoil is based. “And there are other prospects
over and beyond that in the license.”  The company said earlier today that its Bay du Nord
discovery in Canada’s Flemish Pass Basin holds 300 million to
600 million barrels of recoverable oil. A sidetrack well this
week confirmed that the find, about 500 kilometers (310 miles)
off Newfoundland and Labrador, is “high-impact,” Statoil said.  Statoil, 67 percent-owned by the Norwegian government, is
the operator of Bay du Nord, Mizzen and Harpoon with a 65
percent stake, while  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  has 35 percent.  Husky, based in Calgary,  gained  4.2 percent to C$30.30 at
12:52 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier rising the most intraday
since April 24. Statoil  rose  0.5 percent to 137.50 kroner at the
close of trading in Oslo.  The discovery, first announced in August, adds volumes to
the nearby Mizzen and Harpoon fields. While output won’t start
before 2020, the Bay du Nord well “brings us one step closer to
becoming a producing operator in the area,” Dodson said.  Most Successful  Statoil, which also has reported discoveries off Tanzania
in the past year, is expanding abroad to compensate for falling
crude production from aging North Sea fields. With more than 850
million barrels of oil equivalent found in 2013, the company is
the most successful explorer for conventional resources, ahead
of  Eni SpA (ENI)  with 600 million barrels, according to Statoil.  There’s a “distinct possibility” that the three Flemish
Pass discoveries will be developed together because Harpoon and
Mizzen are located within 20 kilometers of Bay du Nord, Dodson
said. With the oil lying under 1,100 meters of water, subsea
extraction will require “some kind of floating installation,”
he said, declining to estimate the necessary investment.  While Statoil has yet to provide resource estimates for
Harpoon, found in June, it’s more similar in size to Mizzen,
which holds 100 million to 200 million barrels, than to Bay du
Nord. Harpoon’s oil is the same light kind as at Bay du Nord and
is “obviously sourced from the same basin,” Dodson said.  The progress of further drilling by Statoil, which plans
more seismic studies and exploration in the Flemish Pass Basin
in the next few years, is dependent on the acquisition of rigs.
Bay du Nord will probably require a further two wells, according
to Dodson.  “Rig availability is an issue, this is not a particularly
active area,” he said. “We need to have the right kind of rigs
to drill in this kind of environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  