-- Stein Says Fed Should Tie QE Taper to Labor Market Gauge
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-09-26T16:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/stein-says-fed-should-tie-qe-tapering-to-a-labor-market-measure.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein , who has backed record stimulus, said the Fed should more
closely link the winding down of its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases to economic data such as the jobless rate.  “My personal preference would be to make future step-downs
a completely deterministic function of a labor market indicator,
such as the unemployment rate or cumulative payroll growth over
some period,” Stein said today in a speech in Frankfurt. “For
example, one could cut monthly purchases by a set amount for
each further 10 basis point decline in the unemployment rate.”
Ten basis points equal 0.1 percentage point.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  refrained from reducing
the pace of bond purchases at its Sept. 17-18 policy meeting,
choosing to “await more evidence that progress will be
sustained.” The  unemployment rate  has fallen to 7.3 percent in
August from 8.1 percent when the Fed began buying mortgage bonds
a year ago.  A Bloomberg survey of economists before the meeting showed
that economists expected a small reduction in the pace of
purchases in September, according to the median estimate. Stein
said his colleagues on the FOMC didn’t intend to catch markets
off guard by maintaining the program at the same buying pace.  “Nobody was doing something to intentionally surprise the
market,” Stein said in response to an audience question,
although “there may be disagreement about the right policy.”  No ‘Surprise’  “Nobody, I can assure you, was thinking, ‘Let’s do this
because it doesn’t communicate well,’” he said. “The most
important thing is to get the policy right and, as a second
order thing, let’s try not to surprise.”  U.S. stocks rose today following an unexpected drop in
jobless claims that overshadowed growing concern that a budget
impasse could hurt the recovery. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.2 percent to 1,696.84 at 11:59 a.m. in  New York .  The Fed has said it will maintain asset purchases until the
labor market has “improved substantially,” without defining
that phrase.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the unemployment rate can
be a flawed metric of labor market health because it doesn’t
measure unemployed workers who are so discouraged they’ve
dropped out of the labor market. Bernanke said Sept. 18 that the
measure “is not by itself a fully representative indicator.”  Tying QE to improvement in unemployment would reduce
confusion in financial markets, Stein said.  Less ‘Uncertainty’  “This approach would help to reduce uncertainty about our
reaction function and the attendant market volatility,” Stein
said. “Moreover, we would still retain the flexibility to
respond to other contingencies -- such as declines in labor
force participation -- via our other more conventional policy
tool,” he said, referring to the Fed’s  target interest rate .  While Stein has never dissented from a decision of the FOMC
to press on with stimulus, he has said the Fed risks generating
asset bubbles, and that central bankers should sometimes
consider raising  interest rates  to combat financial instability
if regulation proves inadequate for the task.  “I would have been comfortable with the FOMC’s beginning
to taper its asset purchases at the September meeting,” Stein
said. “But whether we start in September or a bit later is not
in itself the key issue -- the difference in the overall amount
of securities we buy will be modest.”  More Important  “What is much more important is doing everything we can to
ensure that this difficult transition is implemented in as
transparent and predictable a manner as possible,” he said.
“On this front, I think it is safe to say that there may be
room for improvement.”  Fed communications about its plan to reduce bond purchases
has prompted to an increase in bond yields. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has risen as high as 3.01 percent earlier
this month from 1.63 percent in early May. The national average
30-year mortgage has risen to 4.5 percent from 3.35 percent in
May.  “The adjustment has been a healthy one,” Stein said.  “We are currently in a pretty good place with respect to
the pricing of interest rate risk,” he said.  Yields have moved “closer into line with historical
norms,” he said, adding there’s less “risk of a more damaging
upward spike at some future date.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  