-- Stem Cell-Enriched Fat May Improve Plastic Surgery: Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-09-26T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/stem-cell-enriched-fat-may-improve-plastic-surgery-study.html
Injections of fat enriched with
 stem cells  led to significantly higher retention of volume
compared with standard procedures, according to a Danish study
that may revolutionize the field of reconstructive surgery.  Fat grafts containing patients’ own stem cells retained 81
percent of their initial volume after 121 days, compared with 16
percent for a control group that didn’t use the cells, according
to a study of 10 participants conducted by researchers at
Copenhagen University Hospital in Denmark. The  study  was
published today in the Lancet medical journal.  While fat grafting, which involves harvesting a patient’s
own fat to increase the volume in another area of the body, is a
common technique for reconstructive surgery, earlier studies
have found that as much as 80 percent of the transferred fat
 doesn’t survive .  “These therapies could revolutionize breast reconstruction
after cancer and reconstruction of deformities after trauma,”
J. Peter Rubin and Kacey G. Marra, professors of  plastic surgery 
at the  University of Pittsburgh , said in a comment accompanying
the published paper.  The researchers collected fat tissue from volunteers’
abdomens through liposuction, enriched the fat with their own
stem cells, and injected the grafts in the upper arms.  Rates of necrosis, or death of body tissue, was also much
lower at 4.6 percent in the stem cell group, compared with 16
percent in the control group, and newly formed connective tissue
was also significantly greater in the enriched grafts.  Cancer Question  While no serious side effects were reported from the study
nor from other clinical trials where patients received stem
cells, long-term follow-up is needed, the study’s authors said.  It’s also unclear whether high concentrations of stem cells
can stimulate growth of residual breast cancer cells, Rubin and
Marra said. An earlier  study  found that fat-derived stem cells
enhanced the growth of active, not resting, tumor cells in mice,
suggesting that the fat grafting procedure should be postponed
until there is no evidence of active disease.  The study was funded by the Danish Cancer Society, the
Centre of Head and Orthopaedics Rigshospitalet in  Denmark  and
Moalem Weitemeyer Bendtsen Law Firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  