-- Feinstein Bill to Preserve NSA Phone Records Spying
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-09-26T20:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/strange-bedfellows-may-mire-nsa-spy-limits-in-politics.html
The Senate intelligence committee’s
top Democrat and Republican are writing legislation that would
leave U.S. spy programs intact, letting collection of bulk phone
records on millions of Americans continue.  The bill would tweak the National Security Agency’s
practices, codifying current requirements that analysts have a
“reasonable, articulable suspicion” in order to search the
phone records and barring surveillance of call content, Senator
 Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and chairman of the
intelligence panel, said during a hearing today in Washington.  The measure -- one of a flurry of legislation proposed
recently by lawmakers to rein in the spy programs -- would
require the NSA to publicly report statistics about its
activities, as well as requiring the head of the NSA to be
confirmed by the Senate, Feinstein said.  “It’s clear to me that the public has a misperception and
that must be changed,” Feinstein said.  During the hearing, lawmakers were asked by Director of
National Intelligence James Clapper and NSA Director and Army
General Keith Alexander not to damage the surveillance programs
with overly-restrictive legislation, while they conceded that
tweaks could be made.  Legislation is needed to address the “distrust” of the
spy programs that Americans have developed since being exposed
in June by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, Feinstein said.
Other lawmakers on the panel have proposed legislation that
would bar NSA from intercepting communications from citizens not
suspected of wrongdoing.  ‘Government’s Dragnet’  Yesterday, Republican Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky , a
favorite of Tea Party activists, stood with Democrats  Ron Wyden 
of  Oregon , Mark Udall of  Colorado  and  Richard Blumenthal  of
 Connecticut  to introduce a bill to prevent the NSA from
collecting bulk phone records.  It would also close a loophole that lets the government
search Americans’ electronic communications without warrants,
and create an independent advocate to argue before the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court that oversees the programs.  The bill would permit  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and other Internet companies to disclose information about
government requests they receive for customer data, including
the number and whether the companies complied.  “We need to significantly reform the NSA’s domestic
surveillance programs and the court that oversees them,” Udall
said in a statement. He said he also wants to “end the
government’s dragnet collection of millions of innocent
Americans’ phone records.”  Paul said yesterday that Clapper should resign for giving
an untruthful answer during testimony in March. Clapper gave
what he later said was an “untruthful” answer when Wyden asked
if the government collects data on millions of Americans.
“No,” he said. “Not wittingly.”  Feinstein, Chambliss  Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia, the top Republican on
the panel, said NSA surveillance programs aren’t “broken” and
are “working exactly as Congress understood.” Chambliss is
writing the bill with Feinstein.  While Feinstein said in an interview her bill is “making
some substantive changes,” she added that “they may not be
enough for some people and I understand that.”  Other lawmakers such as Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma
Republican, said NSA powers shouldn’t be curbed.  “I’m an absolute defender of the bulk data collection,”
he said in an interview. “It’s saved hundreds and hundreds of
people’s lives, not only in this country but in other
countries.”  Thwarting Terrorists  “Wrong decisions” by Congress could damage NSA programs
that have thwarted terrorist attacks, Alexander said at a
Washington conference Sept. 25.  Collection of the phone records is essential to preventing
terrorist attacks, Alexander, the NSA director, said yesterday.  Bulk phone records were used to determine if there was a
threat to  New York  City after the April 15 bombing at the Boston
Marathon, and to determine if there were terrorist plots against
U.S. embassies abroad several months ago, Alexander said in an
interview after his speech.  Alexander and Clapper also are scheduled to testify before
the Senate Judiciary Committee on Oct. 2.  Phone, E-mail  Snowden, who faces U.S. espionage charges and has been
granted temporary asylum in Russia, exposed a secret court order
compelling  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to give the NSA phone
records, such as numbers and call durations, on millions of
Americans. President  Barack Obama ’s administration has said the
metadata collection involves more phone carriers, without naming
them.  The NSA collects the phone records under authority in the
USA Patriot Act. Another program exposed by Snowden, known as
Prism, monitors e-mail and Internet communications under the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.  The NSA is required to obtain a warrant if the target of
surveillance is an American. It illegally intercepted as many as
56,000 electronic communications a year of Americans who weren’t
suspected of having terrorist ties before the secret FISA court
found the operation unconstitutional in 2011, according to
documents declassified Aug. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  