-- Swedish Residential Real Estate Overvalued 25%, S&P Says
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-09-26T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/swedish-residential-real-estate-overvalued-25-s-p-says.html
Swedish housing is overvalued by as
much as 25 percent after prices accelerated at a faster pace
than disposable income,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The divergence, which resembles an imbalance before a
property slump 20 years ago, may either require prices to
decline or salaries to rise at a faster pace, S&P analysts Sean
Cotten and Alexander Ekbom said in an interview in Stockholm two
days ago.  “Looking at the crisis in the early 1990s, prices rose
much faster than incomes before there was a correction,” Ekbom
said. “Looking at the situation now, prices have gained more
than the increase in disposable income, even though real income
has had a good development.”  Sweden has taken a raft of measures to stem growth in
mortgage lending and  house prices  amid concerns a bubble is
developing. The steps include limiting mortgages to 85 percent
of property values and tripling risk-weighting, or the cash
banks must set aside to protect against mortgage defaults. While
the steps have helped slow loan growth, house prices are still
surging and consumer debt has risen to a record high of more
than 170 percent of disposable income, according to central bank
data.  Risk Weighting  The country’s financial regulator said this month that it
may start forcing households to pay down their mortgage debt
should credit growth continue accelerating. Central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves and Finance Minister  Anders Borg  have
called for risk weighting on mortgages to be increased further
after the regulator tripled the ratio to 15 percent this year.  Ekbom said a risk weighting of 24 percent to 30 percent
would be a more suitable level, taking into account the
performance of the economy and housing market developments.  A real estate crash in the early 1990s led to surging loan
losses for banks.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , now the Nordic region’s
largest lender, was created as the government nationalized
Nordbanken and Gota Bank after credit losses wiped out their
equity. In neighboring Denmark, banks have needed emergency
support after a slide in house prices in 2008 wiped out 62
community lenders in the following five years.  Sweden  is different than Denmark because new building
projects in cities such as Stockholm aren’t as numerous as
those that were seen in Copenhagen, Ekbom said.  Price Surge  Apartment prices, which more than doubled since 2000,
increased 14 percent in the 12 months through August, according
to  data  from Svensk Maeklarstatistik, which publishes monthly
data on Swedish real estate. The price of single-family houses
advanced 4 percent since August last year, it said.  The central bank estimates private debt will grow to 177
percent of disposable income in 2015.  While credit growth slowed to 4.5 percent last year from a
pace of more than 10 percent from 2004 to 2008, borrowing is
accelerating. Lending grew 4.8 percent on an annual basis in
July and August versus 4.7 percent in May and June, according to
data from  Statistics Sweden , the nation’s statistics office. The
expansion was 4.5 percent at the start of the year.  Higher  household debt  means S&P may lower Sweden to “3”
in its banking industry country risk assessment from “2”,
Ekbom said. A rating of “1” denotes lowest risk and “10” the
highest.  Consumption Decline  Smaller businesses, rather than the nation’s banks, will
probably be hurt the most by any correction in the housing
market, Ekbom said.  “Household sector losses wouldn’t explode if there isn’t a
very extreme shock, but consumption is likely to decline and
that would hit small and medium-sized companies that don’t have
that much of an endurance capability,” he said. “If you look
at  Denmark , that is exactly what happened. Household mortgage
losses were very small but SMEs were very badly hurt.”  Last month, Danish companies with sales of 15 million
kroner ($2.7 million) or less constituted 94 percent of declared
bankruptcies, according to the Danish statistics agency.  Data from  SEB AB (SEBA) , Sweden’s fourth-biggest bank by market
value, shows its residential mortgage lending jumping to 373
billion kronor at the end of June from 273 billion kronor in
late 2010. Still, stress tests of its mortgage book showed that
losses, even in an extreme environment,  “would be manageable,” 
according to a presentation published on its website this week.  With high levels of indebtedness, Sweden is “in
unchartered waters,” S&P’s Cotten said.  “Debt levels were nowhere near 175 percent during the
crisis in the early 1990s, and the social welfare system was
more generous then than it is now,” Cotten said. “However, it
is important to point out that  interest rates  were much higher
in the 1990s, which contributed meaningfully to the sharp
correction then.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  