-- U.A.E. Ministry of Finance Said to Consider Remittance Tax
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-26T14:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/u-a-e-ministry-of-finance-said-to-consider-remittance-tax-1-.html
The  United Arab Emirates , the
second-biggest Arab economy, is considering a tax on
remittances, according to three bankers with knowledge of the
plan.  The federal Ministry of Finance has sent a circular to
banks proposing the tax and invited suggestions from them on the
levy, the bankers said, asking not to be identified because the
information is private. The ministry plans to hold talks with
financial institutions about the tax rate, two bankers said. The
ministry didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  This “looks like a preliminary discussion that I would not
expect to lead to policy action,”  Simon Williams , the chief
Middle East economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Dubai, said in an
e-mail today. “Implementation would be extraordinarily
difficult, and would likely offer only very limited returns.”  About 80 percent of the 8.3 million people who live in the
U.A.E. are foreigners, including workers from the Indian sub-continent, the Philippines and Europe. Remittances from the Gulf
country, which holds about 6 percent of the world’s proven oil
reserves, rose 9.5 percent to 45.1 billion dirhams ($12.3
billion) last year, according to data on the central bank
website. U.A.E. residents pay no income tax.  Economic growth in the U.A.E. is catching up with regional
peers, powered by an expansion in non-oil industries. The
nation’s gross domestic product is forecast to grow 3.9 percent
in 2013, according to the median estimate of 18 economists in
the Bloomberg  Middle East  Economic Survey earlier this week.  Growth Rebounding  The U.A.E. economy has lagged behind Saudi Arabia and Qatar
since Dubai, its commercial, banking and tourism hub, teetered
on the brink of default in 2009. The country’s non-oil economy
is forecast to expand 4.5 percent this year, the fastest pace
since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
estimates from the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  The U.A.E. has the biggest banking market in the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council, which also includes Saudi Arabia and
Qatar. Fifty-one banks operate in the country, including units
of HSBC,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Global remittance flows to developing countries is
estimated to have reached $406 billion in 2012, a 6.5 percent
increase over the previous year, according to data from the
 World Bank  in November. Growth in remittances to  developing
countries  is projected to accelerate over the next three years,
with an increase of 10.7 percent to $534 billion in 2015, it
said.  India with $70 billion and China with $66 billion were the
two biggest recipients of officially recorded remittances,
according to the  World Bank , followed by the Philippines and
Mexico with $24 billion and Nigeria with $21 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  