-- U.K. Seeks to Block EU Data-Protection Plans That ‘Burden’ Firms
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/u-k-seeks-to-block-eu-data-protection-plans-that-burden-firms.html
Britain will encourage other
European Union nations to block plans to tighten data-protection
rules, arguing the proposals risk burdening business and
destroying jobs, said Justice Secretary Chris Grayling.  “This is a debate to my mind about how much and how far
can  Europe  continue to impose costs on business,” Grayling said
in an interview at his London office late yesterday. “The EU is
unrealistic if it believes that imposing extra costs on business
is not going to drive companies and jobs out of the EU in a
world that is extraordinarily competitive.”  EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  presented plans in
January 2012 to overhaul data-protection rules. The move would
give  Internet users  more control over their personal data and
allow for the first time all EU data-protection watchdogs to
fine companies as much as 2 percent of annual global sales for
“intentionally or negligently” violating the rules. The plans
will be debated again in Luxembourg on Oct. 7.  Grayling spoke as the Conservatives prepare to gather in
Manchester, northern  England , for their annual conference on
Sept. 29. The party is seeking to demonstrate its euroskeptic
credentials on new fronts after losing support to the U.K.
Independence Party, which campaigns for withdrawal from the 28-nation bloc.  Describing the European Commission plans as
“unrealistically complicated,” Grayling called for a delay to
consider the risks. He also said his party wants to curtail the
role of European human rights legislation in favor of a law
better suited to the U.K.  Facebook, Google  Reding says the rules would also apply to U.S. companies
such as Facebook Inc. and Google Inc. The new protections would
“refresh” an existing EU data-protection law that dates back
to 1995, she has argued.  Also proposed is a harmonized approach by the separate
watchdogs in the EU to avoid lengthy proceedings at the end of
which companies are faced with varying decisions from
regulators.  Grayling said the data plans should be an EU directive
rather than a regulation to allow flexibility for member states.
The current proposals are “not nearly carefully enough
drafted” he said. They should not be “rushed through” before
European elections next year.  “My fear about data protection is the commission is trying
to shape legislation about its perception about what needs to
happen to a small group of multinational information firms and
forgetting that the impact of this will be profound for small
and medium-sized European businesses,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  