-- U.K. Growth Quickens as Consumers Blunt Investment Drop: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-09-26T10:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/u-k-economic-growth-accelerates-as-consumer-spending-rises-1-.html
U.K. economic growth  accelerated in
the second quarter as higher  consumer spending  helped to blunt
the impact of a drop in business investment.  Household expenditure rose 0.3 percent and disposable
income increased 1.5 percent, the most in a year, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . Income was boosted by
bonus payments being deferred to take advantage of a  tax cut .
Gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent in the quarter,
matching a previous estimate.  Britain’s economy has shown further signs of strengthening
this quarter after a recession that’s left GDP 3.3 percent below
its previous peak. While the recovery is gathering momentum,
 Bank of England  policy makers speaking this week emphasized
their commitment to keeping the  key interest rate  at a record
low at least until unemployment drops to 7 percent.  “There are a few disappointments beneath the headlines,”
said  David Tinsley , chief U.K. economist at BNP Paribas in
London. “I don’t think it has a huge bearing on the short-term
outlook, but it probably raises some more questions about the
sustainability going forward.”  Consumer-spending growth in the quarter was revised lower
from 0.4 percent in the previous GDP estimate. It still added
0.2 percentage point to GDP, the ONS data showed. Compensation
of workers surged 3.4 percent, the most since the data series
began in 1987. The deferral of some bonuses coincided with
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s reduction in the
top rate of income tax to 45 percent from 50 percent.  Business investment  dropped 2.7 percent from the first
quarter and was down 8.5 percent from a year earlier. The ONS
had estimated that investment rose 0.9 percent in the previous
GDP report.  Current Account  The pound fell against the dollar after the data were
published and traded at $1.6053 as of 11:22 a.m. London time,
down 0.2 percent from yesterday.  Separate data showed the  current account deficit  narrowed
to 13 billion pounds in the second quarter from a revised 21.8
billion pounds in the previous three months. The first-quarter
figure was a record, based on records going back to 1955.  Government spending  rose 0.5 percent in the second quarter
after a 0.2 percent drop in the first three months of the year.
Exports were up 3 percent and imports increased 2.9 percent. Net
trade made a zero contribution to GDP in the quarter. That’s
down from a previous estimate that net trade added 0.3
percentage point to GDP.  Better Prospects  In the quarter, construction growth was revised up 0.5
percentage point to 1.9 percent, while manufacturing was revised
0.2 percentage point higher to 0.9 percent, putting total
production growth at 0.8 percent. All three grew the fastest in
three years. Services, which comprise about three-quarters of
the economy, were unchanged.  “The prospects for the remainder of this year look better
than we’ve seen for a number of years,” said  Lee Hopley , chief
economist at manufacturing trade group EEF. “Less positive,
however, was the downgrade to business investment. This again
highlights the rebalancing challenge for the U.K.”  In the U.S., GDP probably rose at a 2.6 percent annualized
rate in the second quarter, according to the median of 79
economists in a Bloomberg survey, up from the previous estimate
of 2.5 percent. The Commerce Department will release the figures
at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Competitive Market  The U.K. savings ratio in the three months through June
rose to 5.9 percent from 4.4 percent.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  Chief
Executive Officer Michael Sharp said this month that the retail
market remains “competitive” and “consumers’ disposable
income remains under pressure.”  Britain is in the midst of its political party conference
season less than two years before the next general election,
with the opposition  Labour Party  concluding its meeting in
Brighton,  England  yesterday. Party leader  Ed Miliband  accepted a
recovery was under way while criticizing its speed, saying it
was the slowest for 100 years.  Labour’s lead over Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
 Conservative Party  has narrowed to single digits over the past
year, with the government benefiting in part from the stronger
economy. Today’s data shows GDP is 2.2 percent higher than it
was when Cameron’s coalition came to power in 2010.  The Tories will meet in Manchester next week. Their junior
partners, the Liberal Democrats, concluded their conference in
Glasgow last week with leader  Nick Clegg  saying his party has
ensured the recovery is stable.  In today’s ONS report, economic growth in the first quarter
of 2013 was revised to 0.4 percent from 0.3 percent. GDP data
for third quarter of 2012 was revised to 0.6 percent growth from
0.7 percent. The fourth quarter was revised to a drop of 0.3
percent from a decline of 0.2 percent. For all of 2012, growth
was revised to 0.1 percent from 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  