-- U.K. Pilots Asleep on Duty Show EU Plans Pose Risk, Union Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-26T14:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/u-k-pilots-asleep-on-duty-show-eu-plans-pose-risk-union-says.html
Most U.K. pilots have fallen asleep
in the cockpit, according to a survey for the British Airline
Pilots’ Association, which is pressing the European Parliament
to reject revisions to existing crew limits.  Fifty-six percent of the 500 pilots surveyed said they had
fallen asleep on the flight deck and 29 percent of those said
they awoke to find the other pilot sleeping, the union said in a
statement today. About half of those surveyed rated pilot
fatigue the biggest threat to flight safety.  The European Parliament is set to consider proposals from
the European Aviation Safety Agency to amend rules on flight-time limitations as it seeks to end years of wrangling between
airlines and the flight crew over the terms. Carriers have been
seeking greater flexibility in their use of crew, with pilots
saying a relaxation would jeopardize safety.  “Tiredness is already a major challenge for pilots who are
deeply concerned that unscientific new EU rules will cut U.K.
standards and lead to increased levels of tiredness, which has
been shown to be a major contributory factor in air accidents,”
Balpa General Secretary Jim McAuslan said in the statement.
“Making every flight a safe flight is the number one priority
for British pilots.”  The European Parliament’s Transport and Tourism Select
Committee is due to vote on the proposals on Sept. 30.  McAuslan, who previously said pilots may lose the political
fight, said the union may urge members to strike to block
carriers from exploiting the new rules.  The proposed regulations “would ensure that  Europe  will
continue to have one of the strictest rules in the world, even
stricter than today,” Athar Husain Khan, acting secretary
general of the Association of European Airlines representing 31
carriers said in a statement today, calling the proposal
“balanced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  