-- U.K. GfK Consumer Confidence Rises to Highest in Six Years
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-09-26T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/u-k-gfk-consumer-confidence-rises-to-highest-in-six-years.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  rose to
the highest in almost six years in September as signs of a
sustainable economic recovery spurred consumers to spend.  A  consumer sentiment index  by GfK NOP Ltd. rose 3 points
from August to minus 10, the highest since November 2007, the
London-based group said in a report published today. Its gauge
based on whether consumers think now is the right time to make
major purchases climbed to the highest since 2010.  Economic growth  accelerated in second quarter as higher
 consumer spending  offset a decline in business investment, data
yesterday showed. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has pointed to
the recent pickup in activity as a sign the government’s
policies are working, while the  Bank of England  is trying to
encourage the recovery by saying it won’t raise  interest rates 
too quickly.  “Whether the current economic recovery is real or will
prove to be a credit-fueled bubble, this continuing steady
growth in confidence looks like good news for the government,”
said Nick Moon, Managing Director of Social Research at GfK.  GfK’s index of households’ outlook for the economy jumped 4
points to 3, the highest since February 2010. The measure of
people’s assessment of their financial situation over the next
year rose to 1 from zero. The gauge for major purchases rose 2
points to minus 14 and is 17 points higher than a year earlier.  While recent  economic indicators  have signalled a further
strengthening this quarter, BOE officials have said it’s not yet
time to tighten policy. The central bank has pledged to keep its
key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent at least until unemployment
falls below 7 percent.  “It would be spectacularly misguided to think that some
signs of more normal growth mean that the economy is back to
normal,” BOE policy maker  David Miles  said this week. “It
would be equally misguided to think that if growth were to be
near trend, monetary policy should be quickly returned to a more
normal setting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  