-- U.S. Second Quarter Third GDP Technical Note (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-09-26T12:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/u-s-second-quarter-third-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the technical note
from the Gross Domestic Product report from the Commerce
Department.  Technical Note  Gross Domestic Product  Second Quarter of 2013 (Third Estimate)  September 26, 2013  This technical note provides background information about the
source data and estimating methods used to produce the estimates
presented in the GDP news release. The complete set of estimates
for the second quarter is available on BEA’s Web site at
 http://www.bea.gov/ ; a brief summary of “highlights” is also
posted on the Web site. In a few weeks, the estimates will be
published in BEA’s monthly journal, the Survey of Current
Business, along with a more detailed analysis of the estimates
(“GDP and the Economy”).  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 2.5 percent (annual rate) in the second
quarter, the same increase as last month’s estimate, primarily
reflecting downward revisions to inventory investment and to
exports that were offset by an upward revision to state and
local government spending:  *    The downward revision to inventory investment primarily
reflected downward revisions to retail trade industries and to
“other” industries. The revision to retail trade industries
reflected the incorporation of revised prices, and the revision
to “other” industries was based on revised second-quarter
quarterly financial report data from the Census Bureau for
information industries.
*    The downward revision to exports reflected downward
revisions to goods and to services and was primarily based on
revised data from the international transactions accounts.
*    The upward revision to state and local government spending
primarily reflected an upward revision to investment in
structures and was based on revised Census construction spending
data for May and June.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases--the prices paid by
U.S. residents for goods and services wherever produced-increased 0.2 percent in the second quarter, a downward revision
of 0.1 percentage point. The revision was mostly accounted for
by a downward revision to PCE prices for financial services and
reflected the incorporation of newly available commercial bank
Call Report data.  Gross Domestic Income and Corporate Profits  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output of
the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in the
production of GDP, increased 2.6 percent in the second quarter,
an upward revision of 0.1 percentage point. For a given quarter,
the estimates of GDP and GDI may differ for a variety of reasons,
including the incorporation of largely independent source data.
However, over longer time spans, the estimates of GDP and GDI
tend to follow similar patterns of change.  Profits from current production increased $66.8 billion, or 3.3
percent (quarterly rate), in the second quarter. Domestic
profits of financial corporations increased $24.5 billion,
domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations increased $37.8
billion, and rest-of-the-world profits increased $4.6 billion.  Dividends paid by corporations increased $273.5 billion in the
second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $103.8 billion in
the first. The large second-quarter increase primarily reflected
dividends paid by  Fannie Mae  to the federal government.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  