-- U.S. Second Quarter Third Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-09-26T12:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/u-s-second-quarter-third-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product report from the Commerce Department.  GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:  SECOND QUARTER 2013 (THIRD ESTIMATE)  CORPORATE PROFITS:  SECOND QUARTER 2013 (REVISED ESTIMATE)  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 2.5 percent in the
second quarter of 2013 (that is, from the first quarter to the
second quarter), according to the “third” estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the first quarter, real GDP
increased 1.1 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the “second” estimate issued
last month.  In the second estimate, the increase in real GDP
was also 2.5 percent.  With the third estimate for the second
quarter, the general picture of economic growth remains largely
the same.  The increase in real GDP in the second quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), exports, nonresidential fixed investment,
private inventory investment, and residential fixed investment
that were partly offset by a negative contribution from federal
 government spending .  Imports, which are a subtraction in the
calculation of GDP, increased.  The acceleration in real GDP in the second quarter
primarily reflected upturns in exports and in nonresidential
fixed investment, a smaller decrease in federal government
spending, and an upturn in state and local government spending
that were partly offset by an acceleration in imports and
decelerations in private inventory investment and in PCE.  The price index for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 0.2 percent in
the second quarter, 0.1 percentage point less than the second
estimate; this index increased 1.2 percent in the first quarter.
Excluding food and energy prices, the  price index  for gross
domestic purchases increased 0.8 percent in the second quarter,
compared with an increase of 1.4 percent in the first.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.8
percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 2.3
percent in the first.  Durable goods increased 6.2 percent,
compared with an increase of 5.8 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 1.6 percent, compared with an increase of 2.7 percent.
Services increased 1.2 percent, compared with an increase of 1.5
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 4.7 percent
in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 4.6 percent
in the first.  Nonresidential structures increased 17.6 percent,
in contrast to a decrease of 25.7 percent.  Equipment increased
3.3 percent, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent.
Intellectual property products decreased 1.5 percent, in
contrast to an increase of 3.7 percent.  Real residential fixed
investment increased 14.2 percent, compared with an increase of
12.5 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 8.0 percent
in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 1.3 percent
in the first.  Real imports of goods and services increased 6.9
percent, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 1.6 percent in the second quarter, compared
with a decrease of 8.4 percent in the first.  National defense
decreased 0.6 percent, compared with a decrease of 11.2 percent.
Nondefense decreased 3.1 percent, compared with a decrease of
3.6 percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment increased 0.4 percent, in
contrast to a decrease of 1.3 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.41
percentage point to the second-quarter change in real GDP, after
adding 0.93 percentage point to the first-quarter change.
Private businesses increased inventories $56.6 billion in the
second quarter, following increases of $42.2 billion in the
first quarter and $7.3 billion in the fourth.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 2.1 percent in the second
quarter, compared with an increase of 0.2 percent in the first.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
2.5 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of
1.4 percent in the first.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 2.7 percent in the second quarter, compared with an
increase of 0.6 percent in the first.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which increased $7.7 billion in the second quarter after
decreasing $17.5 billion in the first; in the second quarter,
receipts increased $2.7 billion, and payments decreased $5.0
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 3.1 percent, or $125.7
billion, in the second quarter to a level of $16,661.0 billion.
In the first quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 2.8 percent,
or $115.0 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the
output of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes
earned in the production of GDP, increased 2.6 percent in the
second quarter, compared with an increase of 2.4 percent in the
first.  For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may
differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of
largely independent source data. However, over longer time spans,
the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of
change.  Revisions  The “third” estimate of the second-quarter percent change
in real GDP is the same as in the “second” estimate issued last
month, primarily reflecting downward revisions to private
inventory investment and to exports that were offset by an
upward revision to state and local government spending.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation adjustment (IVA) and capital consumption
adjustment (CCAdj)) increased $66.8 billion in the second
quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $26.6 billion in the first.
Taxes on corporate income increased $10.0 billion, in contrast
to a decrease of $25.0 billion.  Profits after tax with IVA and
CCAdj increased $56.9 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $1.7
billion.  Dividends increased $273.5 billion in the second quarter,
in contrast to a decrease of $103.8 billion in the first.  The
large second-quarter increase primarily reflected dividends paid
by  Fannie Mae  to the federal government.  Undistributed profits
decreased $216.6 billion, in contrast to an increase of $102.1
billion.  Net  cash flow  with IVA -- the internal funds available
to corporations for investment --decreased $205.3 billion, in
contrast to an increase of $140.7 billion.  Profits from current production reflect the depreciation of
fixed assets valued at current cost using consistent
depreciation profiles.  These profiles are based on used-asset
prices and do not depend on the depreciation-accounting
practices used for federal income tax returns.  The IVA and
CCAdj are adjustments that convert inventory withdrawals and
depreciation of fixed assets reported on a tax-return,
historical-cost basis to the current-cost economic measures used
in the national income and product accounts.  Corporate profits by industry  Domestic profits of financial corporations increased $24.5
billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $4.1
billion in the first.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations increased $37.8 billion, in contrast to a decrease
of $3.1 billion. The increase in profits of financial
corporations reflected increases in both Federal Reserve banks
and in “other” financial industries.   The increase in
nonfinancial corporations primarily reflected increases in
retail trade, in utilities, and in information that were partly
offset by a decrease in manufacturing.  Within manufacturing,
the largest decrease was in petroleum and coal products.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased $4.6
billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of
$19.6 billion in the first.  This measure is calculated as the
difference between receipts from rest of the world and payments
to rest of the world.  Gross value added of nonfinancial domestic corporate business  In the second quarter, real gross value added of
nonfinancial corporations increased, and profits per unit of
real value added increased.  The increase in unit profits
reflected a decrease in unit nonlabor costs incurred by
corporations that was partly offset by a decrease in unit
prices; unit labor costs were unchanged.  *          *          *  Next release ・October 30, 2013, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:
  Gross Domestic Product:  Third Quarter 2013 (Advance Estimate)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  