-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Slide With 30-Year at Two-Month Low of 4.32%
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-26T14:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/u-s-mortgage-rates-slide-with-30-year-at-two-month-low-of-4-32-.html
Mortgage rates for 30-year U.S.
loans tumbled to a two-month low after the  Federal Reserve  said
it wouldn’t reduce its pace of monthly bond buying.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.32 percent from 4.5 percent, Freddie Mac said in a statement
today. The average 15-year rate decreased to 3.37 percent from
3.54 percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based company.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who is nearing the end of his
second term, said last week that more evidence is needed before
the central bank begins to taper its stimulus program aimed at
lowering borrowing costs. The move is giving homebuyers a
limited reprieve from a surge in mortgage rates that had started
to cool housing demand.  “This is kind of a temporary pause,” said Ellen Haberle,
an economist at Redfin Corp., an online real estate search
service and brokerage based in Seattle. “With all of the
uncertainties as to when the Fed will taper and who the next Fed
chairman will be, mortgage rates will show some volatility the
next few months.”  Borrowers may be rushing to take advantage of the decline.
Mortgage applications for home  purchases  jumped the most in six
months in the week ended Sept. 20, the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said yesterday.  The average rate for a 30-year loan surged to a two-year
high of 4.58 percent last month from a near-record low of 3.35
percent in early May. Homebuilders  KB Home (KBH)  and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) 
reported a slowdown in orders this week as buyers held off on
deals. Douglas Yearley, chief executive officer of  Toll Brothers
Inc. (TOL) , said at a Bloomberg conference two days ago that contracts
in the first seven months of the quarter are flat.  Buyer Surprise  Higher rates have “caught some buyers by surprise and a
few backed out of their purchases,”  Jeffrey Mezger , chief
executive officer of Los Angeles-based KB Home, said on an
earnings conference call. “We are also seeing some potential
buyers who are taking a little longer to make the homebuying
decision, as they digest the combination of increased mortgage
rates and higher prices in any given market.”  Purchases of  new U.S. homes  rose 7.9 percent in August
following a plunge in July, capping the weakest two months this
year, data from the Commerce Department showed yesterday.
Pending home sales, based on contract signings of existing
homes, slipped 1.6 percent last month, the National Association
of Realtors said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  