-- UBS Cuts U.S. Dollar Recommendation to Neutral on Fed Decision
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-09-26T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/ubs-cuts-u-s-dollar-recommendation-to-neutral-on-fed-decision.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the world’s biggest wealth
manager, is reducing its recommendation on the U.S. dollar
versus the euro to neutral after the Federal Reserve opted to
maintain its bond-buying program.  “The U.S. dollar was the most favored currency among
speculative investors, no doubt partially due to widely-held
expectations of a Fed ‘taper,’” Chief Investment Officer
Alexander Friedman wrote in his monthly letter to client
advisers yesterday. “As these expectations are revised in the
coming weeks, we believe it prudent to close our long position
in the currency relative to the euro.”  The Federal Open Market Committee unexpectedly refrained
from reducing economic stimulus at its Sept. 17-18 policy
meeting, choosing to “await more evidence that progress will be
sustained.” Fiscal uncertainty regarding the debt ceiling is
part of the reason why UBS forecast the Fed to only start
tapering in December, Friedman said.  UBS continues to favor U.S. equities and U.S. high-yield
bonds, as it sees private-sector deleveraging as “close to
over,” according to the letter. In Europe, signs of economic
improvement over the past month “reflect not the end of
deleveraging but a slowdown of it,” Friedman said, keeping a
neutral recommendation on European stocks.  Emerging Markets  Quantitative models suggest that U.S. and euro-area
equities are almost equally attractive, the letter said. Still,
UBS said it continues to favor U.S. equities over European
stocks as “the U.S. economic recovery is better supported by
responsive monetary policy.”  Zurich-based UBS is keeping its neutral recommendation on
 emerging markets  and an underweight position on Australian
equities and the Australian dollar.  “The deleveraging process in the developed world somewhat
ironically led to increasing leverage in the emerging world,”
Friedman wrote. “As the pace of deleveraging in the developed
world slows and this dynamic begins to reverse, we remain
cautious on  Australia , which houses the most overvalued emerging
market-linked assets, namely Australian financials equities, and
the Australian dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  