-- Ukraine GDP Growth Forecast Cut in Half in Poll of Economists
-- B y   J o s h u a   R o b i n s o n   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-09-26T07:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/ukraine-gdp-growth-forecast-cut-in-half-in-poll-of-economists.html
Ukraine’s economy will expand at
less than half the pace initially projected for 2013, economists
said as they slashed their forecasts for third-quarter growth.  Gross domestic product will rise 0.6 percent from a year
earlier between July and September, 0.3 percent this year and
2.1 percent in 2014, according to the median estimate of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey carried out Sept. 20-25. The
previous poll, conducted June 21-26, had showed third-quarter
growth of 2.5 percent and 0.7 percent and 3 percent expansion in
2013 and next year.  Ukraine is struggling with an  economic contraction , a
widening current-account gap, shrinking foreign reserves and
trade restrictions from  Russia , its biggest export market.
Moody’s Investors Service cut Ukraine’s debt rating on Sept. 20
by one level to Caa1, seven steps below investment grade, citing
growing political and economic risks and a lack of progress on
an international bailout.  “The combination of large external vulnerabilities, the
poor business environment and the fragile banking sector is
likely to ensure Ukraine remains among the worst performers in
emerging  Europe ,” Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-markets economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said yesterday by e-mail,
“We don’t think the recovery in the Ukrainian economy will be
particularly impressive.”  The cost to insure Ukrainian government debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps surged to a
three-year high after Moody’s downgraded the country’s rating
deeper into junk last week, citing “very high  default risk .”
The swaps cost 1,037 basis points yesterday, the fourth-highest
in the world, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ukraine’s state statistics committee will report third-quarter GDP on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Robinson in London at 
 jrobinson37@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  