-- UN Security Council Nears Vote on Syria Chemical Measure
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-27T17:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/un-security-council-to-meet-tonight-on-syria-chemical-resolution.html
After weeks of negotiations between
the U.S. and  Russia , the United Nations  Security Council  set a
vote tonight on a resolution requiring Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to surrender all his chemical weapons.  An agreement yesterday on terms for the resolution unites
international pressure against Assad, said a U.S. State
Department official who described the accord as historic and
unprecedented. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity
to discuss diplomatic talks.  The Security Council has scheduled a meeting on the
agreement today at 8 p.m. New York time.  The resolution leaves unanswered questions about how, when
or to whom the Syrian leader must deliver an estimated 1,000
tons of nerve gas and other chemical weapons and their
precursors. It also doesn’t specify how the UN and its
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons could
determine whether Assad has complied or how the Security Council
might compel Syria to honor the agreement.  “There are legitimate concerns as to how, technically,
we’re going to be getting those chemical weapons out while
there’s still fighting going on,” U.S. President  Barack Obama 
told reporters today at the White House. “Nevertheless, this
represents potentially a significant step forward.”  Russian UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin told reporters in New
York last night that the U.S. and Russia had submitted a draft
plan to disarm Syria of chemical weapons to the executive
council of the chemical weapons body in the Netherlands. That
group, based in  The Hague , is expected to vote today on a
detailed road map to locate, secure, remove and eventually
destroy Syria’s toxic arsenal.  Punitive Measures  Agreement on the UN’s Syria resolution had been complicated
by disagreements between the U.S. and Russia over a number of
issues, including the threat of military force or other punitive
measures against Assad’s government if it fails to give up its
chemical weapons.  While the document authorizes the Security Council to
implement punitive measures, it doesn’t threaten the automatic
use of force against Assad’s regime, as the U.S. and its
European allies had wanted. Instead, it calls for the UN “to
impose measures under Chapter VII of the  United Nations 
Charter.”  Russia, an Assad ally, has used its veto to block previous
Security Council attempts to censure the Syrian regime for
actions during a 2 1/2-year civil war that has killed more than
100,000 people and displaced millions more, according to UN
estimates.  Rebel Groups  The Russians, who with Assad have argued that rebel groups
also have used chemical weapons, balked at language the U.S.,
 France  and the U.K. wanted holding Assad’s regime responsible
for the gas attacks. Instead, the UN resolution calls for
punitive action “for any use of chemical weapons by anyone in
the Syrian Arab Republic.”  The resolution also doesn’t specify what timetable Assad
must meet to free Syria of its chemical arms by the middle of
next year, a deadline set in a framework agreement reached this
month in Geneva between Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
and U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry .  Assad’s regime has portrayed the Geneva accord as a victory
in a battle to foil U.S. plans for the future of Syria.
Analysts, including James Fallon at Control Risks in Dubai, have
said that implementing the agreement could take years, allowing
Assad to stay in power unless rebel forces topple him.  Practical Hurdles  Even if the deal born in Geneva succeeds in eliminating
Assad’s entire stockpile of chemical weapons on the stated
timetable, which is unlikely given the practical hurdles, that
wouldn’t tip the balance of power against the Syrian leader,
said a U.S. official who follows the Syrian conflict closely.  The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to
discuss intelligence reports, said yesterday that Assad’s
arsenal of conventional weapons, especially artillery and air
power, has accounted for more than 98 percent of the casualties
the regime has inflicted in the war.  Syria ’s military has been resupplied by  Iran  and remains
strong and united enough to overcome the divided and scattered
rebel groups and maintain the regime’s hold on the capital, the
Alawite heartland on Syria’s Mediterranean coast and a corridor
between the two, the U.S. official added.  The official said that even if the chemical weapons
agreement holds, Assad may have gotten a good deal by agreeing
to give up his nerve gas and other chemical weapons and thus
avoid a U.S. military strike that could have damaged his
conventional arsenal and scattered and demoralized his troops.  Militant Rebels  In addition, the official said, internecine fighting among
militant Islamic rebel groups, some with close ties to the Iraqi
offshoot of al-Qaeda, and more moderate fighters has
strengthened Assad’s hand and created new doubts about U.S. and
European efforts to arm and train rebel groups.  In particular, the official said, two or three of the 13
rebel groups that defected to the extremists on Sept. 25 had
been under consideration for receiving Western aid.  The Hague-based chemical weapons body is expected to adopt
the U.S.-Russia plan by about 4 p.m.  New York  time, clearing the
way for a Security Council vote, according to the U.K.’s UN
ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  