-- Venezuela’s Maduro Cancels New York Trip on Alleged Threats
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-09-26T21:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/venezuela-s-maduro-cancels-un-speech-over-new-york-threats.html
Venezuela  President Nicolas Maduro
canceled a trip to speak at the United Nations General
Assembly’s annual gathering in New York because of what he
called threats to his safety.  One of the alleged plots could have caused violence in New
York and the other could have affected his physical safety,
Maduro said in a national address carried on television and
radio yesterday.  “The clan, the mafia of Otto Reich and Roger Noriega once
again had planned a crazy, terrible provocation that can’t be
described in any other way,” Maduro said, referring to two
former U.S. officials he frequently accuses of plots against
Venezuela.  Maduro, who returned to Venezuela yesterday from a state
visit to China, said he learned of the plots from “various
sources” during a stopover in  Vancouver  and decided to return
to Caracas. The self-professed socialist accused of the U.S. of
inventing “thousands of excuses” for declining to authorize
his transit through U.S. airspace over Puerto Rico last week.  U.S. Response  “I had to fulfill my maximum objective, to preserve my
physical integrity, my life, and Venezuelan honor,” Maduro
said, alleging that the U.S. had information about the plots.  The U.S. rejects allegations of involvement in any plots to
harm Venezuelan officials or to destabilize the Venezuelan
government, a U.S. State Department spokesperson, who asked to
not be identified citing policy, said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. The Venezuelan government has made public
allegations against the U.S. repeatedly and should pass along
any evidence to authorities to be investigated, the spokesperson
said.  The State Department said Sept. 20 that it granted Maduro’s
request to pass through U.S. airspace en route to  China  from
Venezuela after an “extraordinary effort” and that Venezuelan
authorities had given one-day notice to use U.S. air space
instead of the required three days.  Cuban Airplane  Maduro said yesterday that he traveled in a Cuban airplane
because his presidential jet, manufactured by Airbus SAS, had
problems after undergoing five months of maintenance in  France .
Venezuela is considering legal action against the European
aviation company, Maduro said.  The State Department in March said claims by Venezuelan
officials of U.S.-based plots to destabilize the South American
country were “unsubstantiated and outlandish.”  Maduro, who won election in April after former President
Hugo Chavez died in March, said in January that authorities
uncovered a plot by opposition factions to assassinate him and
National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  