-- Visa, Starbucks, SeaWorld, Largan: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-26T11:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/visa-starbucks-seaworld-largan-intellectual-property.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  won a
tentative court ruling they don’t infringe a patent owned by
SmartMetric Inc., a technology development company that seeks
$13.4 billion in damages.  U.S. District Judge Michael W. Fitzgerald issued his
tentative ruling yesterday at a hearing in  Los Angeles .  “I don’t see there’s anything to determine here for a
jury,” the judge said at the hearing.  SmartMetric sued Visa and MasterCard two years ago,
claiming they infringed its patent for a system for automatic
connection to a network. The company claimed it was entitled to
a royalty of 25 percent of the anticipated savings Visa and
MasterCard would receive from a drop in credit and debit-card
fraud by the introduction of so-called EMV cards in the U.S.  The EMV cards, which are already used in  Europe , include a
microchip instead of a magnetic strip to access a payment
system. The SmartMetric patent pertains to the process by which
the payment system selects a network for a card transaction,
Patrick Bright, the company’s lawyer, said at yesterday’s
hearing.  Bright said he should be allowed to take his evidence
before a jury.  “You substituted the court as the trier of fact,” Bright
told the judge. “That is reversible error.”  Joseph Melnik, a lawyer for Visa, said at the hearing that
the Visa and MasterCard systems do fundamentally different
things than what’s claimed by the patent. An earlier lawsuit
brought by SmartMetric against the two companies resulted in a
court ruling that there was no infringement, according to a Visa
court filing.  Fitzgerald didn’t issue a final ruling at the hearing and
took the motion under submission.  In dispute is patent 6,792,464, which was issued in
September 2004. The patent suit was filed in August 2011.  The
case is  SmartMetric Inc. (SMME)  v. MasterCard International Inc., 11-cv-07126, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Starbucks’ Trademark Quest Points to Soda-Producing Machines  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the Seattle-based coffee chain, filed an
application to register a trademark that could be used for a
home soda machine like those made by Israel’s  SodaStream
International Ltd. (SODA)   The coffee company filed an application Sept. 18 to
register the term “Fizzio,” according to the database of the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  The application is for the term’s use with a wide range of
food and beverages, one of which is “machines for the
production of beverages.”  The application also lists “flavored and unflavored water;
 mineral water ; sparkling water; soft drinks; fruit drinks; fruit
juices; sparkling fruit and juice based beverages; soda
beverages; frozen fruit beverages; frozen fruit-based
beverages.”  In July  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ’s Keurig unit
filed an application to register a mark it said would be used
with “machines for the production of cold water, soda, still,
carbonated and sparkling beverages.”  The term Green Mountain is seeking to register is
“Karbon.” At that same time, Waterbury, Vermont-based Green
Mountain filed a second application to register “Bolt” for use
with carafes.  One of the selling points for SodaStream’s product is that
it cuts down on waste because customers will be using a
refillable container to make sparking beverages, instead of
buying soda in plastic bottles that need to be recycled.  SeaWorld Seeks Trademark on Name of Japanese Island, Horse Breed  SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. (SEAS) , the subject of a critical
documentary over the use of killer whales in its theme parks,
may be going in a new direction in efforts to combat an
attendance slump.  The  Orlando , Florida-based company filed an application
Sept. 19 to register the term “Yonaguni” as a trademark,
according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office database.  The term is to be used for the “entertainment services in
the nature of an animated television series for children,” the
company said in its application.  The application also covers the use of the term for the
production of live-action and animated entertainment shows and
interactive programs for distribution via audio and visual
media, and electronic means, and for live performances by
costumed characters.  Yonaguni is the name both of a  breed of horse  found on
Japan’s western islands, and the westernmost inhabited island in
that chain. There is also a  stone formation  beneath the sea near
that island that is known as the Yonaguni Monument, and is
believed by some to be a sunken  man-made structure .  SeaWorld received negative publicity from “Blackfish,”
 released  in U.S. theaters on July 19, which began attracting
attention after its premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in
January.  “Blackfish” argues that killer whales shouldn’t be held
in captivity, and that the company ignored warning signs of the
danger to handlers. SeaWorld has countered with a detailed
critique of the film, calling it “a dishonest movie” in a
statement distributed to critics and refuting many of its
conclusions.  “There is no higher priority for SeaWorld than the safety
of guests and staff and the welfare of our animals,” the
company said in a statement following the release of the film.  Pho Holdings Backs Down in Trademark Claim Against Mo Pho  A Vietnamese restaurant in South London received a cease-and-desist letter from a restaurant chain accusing it of
infringing a “pho” trademark, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
 reported .  Pho is Vietnam’s national dish and a staple at Vietnamese
restaurants, according to the Guardian.  Pho Holdings Ltd., which sent the notice to the Mo Pho
restaurant, said it had registered the mark six years earlier
and no one else was entitled to use the word in a restaurant
name, the newspaper reported.  The company has since changed course, saying it had made a
mistake, wouldn’t file a trademark infringement suit and hadn’t
meant to suggest that the trademark conveyed ownership of pho,
according to the Guardian.  Diamond Resorts Claims Diamond Resort Marketing Infringes Marks  Diamond Resorts International Inc., the Las Vegas-based
time-share vacation-property operator, sued a  Virginia  company
that offers time-share marking services for trademark
infringement.  Diamond Resort Marketing Services Inc. of Alexandria,
Virginia, is accused of confusing the public by using marks that
are similar to those belonging to the Las Vegas company.  According to the complaint filed Sept. 24 in federal court
in Newark,  New Jersey , Diamond Resort Marketing also used an
Internet domain name -- www.diamondresortms.com -- that is also
causes the public to assume falsely that the two entities are
affiliated.  Diamond Resort Marketing allegedly uses similar names to
trade on the goodwill established by the Las Vegas company,
according to the complaint.  Diamond Resorts International asked the court for an order
barring further use of the confusingly similar names, and asked
that it be transferred the objectionable domain name.  Additionally, the company seeks money damages of at least
$2 million per infringed trademark, and asked that they be
tripled to punish the Virginia company for its actions, and for
awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  The suit also names Diamond Resort Marketing’s Web-hosting
service and a privacy protection service that replaces visible
contact information for a domain name with alternative
information, concealing the identity of the true owner of the
domain.  Diamond Resort Marketing didn’t respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Diamond Resorts Holdings LLC v. Host Department
LLC, 2:13-cv-05689-SDW-MCA, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Bollywood-Style Weddings Need Copyright Protection, Planners Say  India’s wedding industry, which is growing 25 percent a
year, is in need of copyright protection, according to a meeting
of wedding planners, Asian Age  reported .  At the “Copyright of Wedding” conference, held in
Guragon, India, wedding planners said the growing demand for
“Bollywood-style” wedding film videos means months of costly
preparation, and many planners say their ideas have been ripped
off and credited to others often within less than a week,
according to Asian Age.  Michael Menezes of the Showtime Group wedding organizers
told the conference that protecting his work is difficult
because  intellectual property  rights presently don’t exist in
the field, the newspaper reported.  At the conference attorney Umesh Sharma said when someone
is accused of infringement in this category, offenders often
manage to walk out of court with no more than a warning,
according to Asian Age.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Largan Seeks Seizure of Ability’s Assets in Trade Secret Fight  Largan Precision Co. (3008) , a Taiwanese maker of lenses for
handset cameras, has asked a court in  Taiwan  to seize a
competitor’s working capital, liquid assets and production
equipment under claims the competitor stole its  trade secrets ,
the China Post  reported .  Ability Opto-Electronics Technology Co. (3362)  is accused of
applying for two patents based on technology brought to the
company by four defecting Largan engineers without
authorization, according to the newspaper.  Tauchung Hsien, Taiwan-based Ability has denied all
allegations and said it will file a countersuit, China Post
reported.  Largan and Ability are already engaged in a patent-infringement case that began in June, according to China Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  