-- Vodacom Said to Enter Exclusive Talks to Buy Tata Neotel
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-27T14:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/vodacom-said-to-enter-exclusive-discussions-to-buy-tata-s-neotel.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) ,  South Africa ’s
largest wireless operator, is set to enter exclusive
negotiations to acquire Internet provider Neotel Pty Ltd.,
according to a person familiar with the discussions.  The Johannesburg-based carrier is in talks to buy  Tata
Communications Ltd. (TCOM) ’s closely held South African unit for more
than 5 billion rand ($502 million), the person said, asking not
to be named because the negotiations are private.  Vodacom, which is 65 percent owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,
is increasingly focused on small- to medium-sized business
customers and expanding data services to offset declining
revenue from its domestic voice division. Neotel said in May
that its corporate customer base rose 29 percent for the full
year, driven by growth in managed and network services.  Mobile operators are turning increasingly to fixed-line
assets that allow them to sell a wider range of services and
carry data traffic more efficiently. This year Vodacom’s parent,
Newbury, England-based Vodafone, bid 7.7 billion euros ($10.4
billion) for  Kabel Deutschland , a German fixed-line telephony,
cable TV and Internet-access service provider.  Telkom SA SOC Ltd. (TKG) ,  Africa ’s largest fixed-line operator,
sees a trend of greater interest in fixed-line assets even
though it hasn’t received an approach itself, Chief Executive
Officer Sipho Maseko said today.  Data Growth  “To be in fixed is fantastic because data is not finite,”
Maseko said at a media briefing in Johannesburg. “We’re about
to enter a new era of telecoms, which is going to be around data
growth, content and services. Sooner, rather than later, it’ll
be good to be in fixed.”  Neotel spokeswoman Chuma Siswana declined to comment.
Vodacom didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.
Tata Communications spokeswoman Divya Andand didn’t respond to
calls and an e-mail seeking comment on the matter.  Tata bought an additional 2.5 percent in Neotel, based in
Johannesburg, for 922.4 million rupees ($14.9 million) in the
previous year, according to its 2012-2013 annual  report . That
would value the company at $596 million.  Vodacom  shares  advanced as much as 2 percent, before
falling 0.8 percent to 124.99 rand as of 4:30 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  First Positive  Tata’s consolidated  net loss  from its stake -- 67.32
percent as of March 31 -- in Neotel was $45.29 million,
according to the document. Neotel’s full-year earnings before
interest and taxes were positive for the first time.  Bloomberg News  reported in May that Vodacom was interested
in buying Neotel for its spectrum access.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,
Africa’s largest wireless operator, had also participated in
discussions before dropping out of the process, MTN Chief
Executive Officer Sifiso Dabengwa said last month.  Rand Merchant Bank is advising Neotel shareholders and
Rothschild is advising Vodacom, according to two people familiar
with the talks. A spokesman for Rothschild declined to comment,
while a spokeswoman for Rand Merchant Bank didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail and text message seeking comment.  Neotel was founded in 2006 after winning a license to
compete with former fixed-line monopoly Telkom, building a
second phone network and offering voice and Internet services.
Tata bought a majority stake in Neotel in 2008, according to a
 statement  at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  