-- We’re Not Prepared to Police Chemical Weapons
-- B y   D a n   K a s z e t a
-- 2013-09-26T19:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/we-re-not-prepared-to-police-chemical-weapons.html
We may never get to the bottom of
what happened Aug. 21 in Ghouta, on the outskirts of Damascus.
The  report  by  United Nations  inspectors concluded that rockets
containing the nerve agent sarin were used against civilians,
including children, as well as combatants on a relatively large
scale. Circumstantial evidence suggests Syrian government troops
fired them, but the lack of proof has given the regime, and its
backers in  Russia , room to blame rebel forces.  For those of us who have long grappled with chemical
weapons, the uncertainties present a familiar frustration. To
this day, the world doesn’t know the full story of what happened
in  Halabja ,  Iraq , where the Saddam Hussein regime in 1988 killed
uncounted thousands of Iraqi Kurds using unknown chemical
weapons, or in Srebrenica, where  allegations  arose in 1995 that
Bosniak survivors fleeing the city came under a chemical attack
by Bosnian Serb forces.  There are lessons to learn from these ambiguities, ways
civilized countries can make the use of chemical weapons more
transparent so as to better deter would-be transgressors and
hold guilty parties accountable.  First, we need to develop the capacity for “standoff”
detection of chemical weapons. The world today has no tools to
accurately recognize the dispersal of chemical warfare agents
from a distance. The most useful detectors have to be present at
the site of the attack, rather than on a drone or a satellite.  The intelligence agencies of the major powers need to be
able to look at vapor clouds from a distance, perhaps shine a
laser on them and be able to tell if sarin or VX, for example,
had been used. Some great ideas and even a few embryonic
technologies are out there; They need to be pushed from concept
to laboratory to product.  Video Limitations  Second, we need to do a better job of video analytics. In
the immediate aftermath of the Ghouta attack, the world was
reduced to examining amateur video recordings to determine what
did or did not happen. There are many limitations to this
evidence, but even intelligence agencies, it seems, were relying
on YouTube clips. Intelligence officials and other arbiters of
truth, such as journalists, need to figure out better ways of
gleaning time, place and medical details from video footage.  Third, we need to improve sample collection. In any
conflict that affects as many interests as  Syria ’s civil war,
there are multitudes of spies. Agents working for Western
parties should be trained, in the event of a chemical attack, to
quickly collect solid, liquid, gas and blood samples that can be
usefully analyzed.  Equipped with a sterile glass jar, an air-sampling bag and
a thermal desorption tube -- standard gear for hazmat
technicians and environmental crimes detectives -- spies could
provide material more useful than 100 YouTube clips. Just one
sample of the actual substance used on Aug. 21, collected at the
time, would have saved weeks of speculation and mystery. Plus,
there’s no guarantee that next time UN inspectors will gain
access to a suspected chemical-attack site, especially given the
consequences for Syria of the Ghouta massacre.  Better forensic evidence, produced more quickly, might have
made a more powerful case that troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad were responsible for the attack. Although prosecution
for  war crimes  is unimaginable with Russia protecting the
regime, definitive proof might have humbled Assad, thereby
discouraging Syria from violating a U.S.-Russian  timeline  for
the destruction of its chemical-weapons program.  Destruction Capabilities  Even if the regime eagerly cooperates, it will be difficult
to complete the plan by its deadline, the middle of next year.
Syria is  thought to possess  more than 1,000 metric tons of
chemical warfare agents and precursor chemicals. These materials
can be safely destroyed only in specially constructed
facilities, which don’t exist in Syria. Transporting weapons for
destruction poses the risk of horrific chemical accidents and
diversion by terrorists.  In this respect, Syria’s example offers another lesson: We
need to investigate the value of building a large, mobile
chemical-weapons demilitarization plant. Small mobile systems
exist, but none that could rapidly destroy Syria’s arsenal.  The plant could be ship-based, like the two emergency
hospitals the U.S. Navy dispatches to disaster zones around the
world. Better yet would be a system that could go anywhere,
including land-locked areas. Its components could be flown in
40-foot cargo containers to where it is needed and assembled on
the spot, just like field hospitals and forensic laboratories.  It would be naive to think that once Syria’s chemical arms
are cleaned up, there will be no need for such a facility. In
the event of civil war or regime collapse in  North Korea , we may
face an urgent situation there; the U.S. thinks the country has
significant chemical-weapons stores. Sometimes stockpiles turn
up with no warning. Albania unveiled in 2005 that it had
discovered 16 tons of sulfur mustard hidden away by its Marxist
dictatorship in the 1970s.  The world will almost certainly be shocked by chemical
weapons again. The least we can do is a better job preparing for
it.  (Dan Kaszeta is a former officer in the U.S. Army Chemical
Corps and former member of the U.S. Secret Service now working
as an independent consultant. He has 22 years experience in the
field of chemical defense.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Dan Kaszeta at  info@strongpointsecurity.co.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Lisa Beyer  at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 