-- Winery Fights Airlines Over New Airport to Ease Sydney Traffic
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-26T14:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/winery-fights-airlines-over-new-airport-to-ease-sydney-traffic.html
Chris Niccol grows about 18
hectares of red wine grapes at his farm in Badgerys Creek, about
30 miles (48 kilometers) west of Sydney. The vineyard may
disappear under tarmac if plans to build an airport at the site
go ahead.  “This is a peaceful, rural area,” said Niccol, whose
Vicary’s Winery says it’s the region’s  oldest continuously
operating winery . A new airport “will increase the problems of
traffic and pollution.”  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  wants a new Sydney airport at the site
to ease congestion at the existing Kingsford Smith facility,
where carriers are contending with flight restrictions and a
noise curfew. Australia’s government, which  started buying land 
for an airfield in the region in 1986, hasn’t yet decided on the
project amid opposition from voters like Niccol in one of the
country’s most politically volatile regions.  The Kingsford Smith Airport will run out of peak-hour slots
in seven years and cost the economy A$60 billion ($56 billion)
in lost spending by 2060, according to a government report.  The shortage of air gates at the facility, the  busiest
airport in the southern hemisphere  after Jakarta, is worse than
at London Heathrow, New York or Los Angeles, according to Nathan
Safe, president of Qantas’s long-haul pilots union. To cut
disturbance from aircraft noise to residents in the area, the
airport allows only 80 landings per hour and has banned most
flying between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m.  Political Future  “No one wants a new airport to be built but everyone wants
to use one,” Neil Hansford, chairman of consultants Strategic
Aviation Solutions, said. “Any political party who supports a
second airport will jeopardize their local political future.”  Badgerys Creek is a prime contender for the second airport,
the Sydney Morning Herald reported citing Warren Truss, the
country’s new deputy prime minister, in a  Sept. 9 interview .
That doesn’t mean an airport at the site is “a done deal,”
Brett Heffernan, a spokesman for Truss, said by e-mail.  Politicians are reluctant to commit to plans because the
working-class, outer suburban and rural area around Badgerys
Creek is more politically sensitive than the Labor-supporting
inner city boroughs affected by Kingsford Smith’s noise, said
David Burchell, a lecturer in politics at the University of
Western Sydney.  ‘Toxic Issue’  Addressing Sydney’s aviation needs has been a “toxic
issue” since Paul Keating’s Labor government was thrown out of
office in 1996 after  opening  a third runway at Kingsford Smith,
he said. “Western Sydney residents are opposed to an airport
for the same reason that eastern Sydney residents are: it’ll
make noise and drive down property values.”  About 270,000 people now experience at least 10 aircraft
movements from Kingsford Smith  louder than 70 decibels  each day,
loud enough to drown out conversation, according to the
government’s Department of Infrastructure.  Restrictions at the facility mean planes often wait on the
runway “burning a ton of fuel an hour” for access to terminal
gates, said Safe, president of the Australian and International
Pilots Association, which represents Qantas’s long-haul crew.  “I’ve been on the tarmac ready to take off in beautiful
weather at 9 o’clock on a weekday morning, and have them say
‘You can’t take off because of the movement cap’,” he said.
“That’s pretty unique and it’s quite restrictive in terms of
world airports.”  Sydney Airport, operator of Kingsford Smith, says there’s
no pressing need for a second site. The existing airport,
 established in 1920  on a cow pasture close to Botany Bay leased
for 300 pounds a year, can double passenger numbers to 74
million by 2033 without changing existing rules,  according to a
draft  of its master plan to be delivered later this year.  Quieter Aircraft  There’s “ample capacity” at Kingsford Smith, especially
if movement caps are altered to take account of quieter modern
aircraft designs, Laura Stevens, a spokeswoman for the company,
said by e-mail. Sydney has the eighth-best performance among
major international airports with 84 percent of flights
departing on time in August,  according to FlightStats Inc.   Airlines say more is needed. Sydney will require a new
airport within 15 or 20 years, Emma King, a spokeswoman for the
country’s second-largest carrier  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) ,
said. International passenger traffic through Sydney is forecast
to  more than double by 2031 , according to government.  Kingsford Smith’s  slot allocations  for the 7 a.m. peak hour
are already full on Thursdays and Fridays, according to a
 government report  last year, and airlines will be unable to
schedule new services at the times they want as demand grows.  Chardonnay, Verdelho  Niccol, 58, who produces about 120,000 bottles a year from
his own chambourcin grape harvest alongside chardonnay and
verdelho varieties bought from local growers, doesn’t want the
new airport.  “There seems to be no consultation of the community’s
feelings on the matter,” he said. “It may create some jobs but
the population will increase as well.”  Other sources of opposition to the second airport may be
moderating. A  poll of 3,800 voters  in the region for the Daily
Telegraph newspaper found 65 percent support a new airport.
Badgerys Creek would stimulate western Sydney’s economy and
generate 28,000 jobs in the region, David Borger, the regional
director of the Sydney Business Chamber, said  Aug. 13 .  Australia  should learn from  China ’s rapid infrastructure
development, Alan Joyce, Qantas chief executive, said last
month. The city of Kunming last year opened a new airport, after
three years of construction work, that will be bigger than
Kingsford Smith within a decade, he said.  “Any time I go to China, I’m blown away by what happens up
there.” he said. “It’s been 20, 30, 40 years that we have been
discussing this. Now it’s time to take action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  