-- WTI Gains for First Time in Six Days
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-26T19:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/wti-gains-for-first-time-in-six-days.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
advanced for the first time in six days after claims for U.S.
unemployment benefits unexpectedly dropped while the economy
expanded at a faster pace last quarter.  Futures rose 0.4 percent following a Labor Department
report that jobless  claims  fell by 5,000 to 305,000 last week.
Gross domestic product grew at a 2.5 percent annualized rate, up
from 1.1 percent in the first quarter. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s trip to the United Nations in New York raised hope for
better relations with the U.S. Rouhani reiterated Iran’s right
to nuclear research and spurned a U.S. initiative to arrange a
handshake with President  Barack Obama .  “The economic data today is positive and should improve
perceptions for energy demand,” said Bob Yawger, director of
the futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York.
“The Iranian president’s visit to the UN hasn’t panned out as
well as anticipated or hoped.”  WTI crude for November delivery climbed 37 cents to settle
at $103.03 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The
volume of all futures traded was 39 percent below the 100-day
average at 3:39 p.m. Prices are up 6.7 percent this quarter and
12 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement rose 89 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $109.21 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 26 percent lower
than the 100-day average. The European benchmark traded at a
$6.18 premium to WTI at today’s close, the most since Sept. 5.  Price Rebound  “We’ve been down very sharply for five days so a rebound
shouldn’t be a surprise,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We’ve erased much of the third-quarter gains.”  U.S. jobless claims were projected to increase to 325,000
last week, according to the  median  forecast of 49 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Estimates for the Commerce Department
report on GDP, the value of all goods and services produced,
ranged from gains of 1.8 percent to 3.1 percent, based on
forecasts from 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Equities also gained on the economic data, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rebounding following its longest
losing streak of the year. The S&P 500 and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average each gained 0.1 percent at 2:50 p.m.  Fed Policy  Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein said in remarks
prepared for a speech in  Frankfurt  that the Fed should more
closely link the winding down of its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases to economic data such as the jobless rate. The Federal
Open Market Committee refrained from reducing the pace of bond
buying at its Sept. 17-18 policy meeting, choosing to “await
more evidence that progress will be sustained.”  “The better-than-expected economic data cuts both ways
though, because it opens the door for an announcement of
tapering in October,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.  Rouhani condemned the killing of Jews in the Holocaust, a
break with his predecessors. Elected on a pledge to ease  Iran ’s
global isolation, he took over last month from Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who repeatedly denied the reality of the World War
II killings. The new leader has used this week’s trip to the UN
to emphasize how he’s different and prepare the ground for
renewed talks on the nation’s nuclear program.  Rouhani’s Address  The Iranian president said in his address Sept. 24 to the
General Assembly that his country is ready to engage in
“result-oriented” talks on the nuclear program while offering
no concessions. He called Iran’s goals peaceful and said nuclear
weapons have no place in his country’s doctrine.  Iran’s diplomatic efforts to end international sanctions
may have only a limited impact on oil prices, Bank of America
said. Even with diplomatic progress, a return of Iranian oil is
only a “moderate” risk to the oil market, BofA Merrill Lynch
said in an e-mailed report dated yesterday.  Rouhani’s “diplomatic push to end the embargo, if and when
that happens, may end up having less than a $10-a-barrel impact
on oil prices,”  Francisco Blanch , BofA’s head of global
commodity research in New York, said in the report.  WTI rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault against Syria would lead to a disruption of
Middle East oil exports. The region accounted for 35 percent of
global oil output in the first quarter of this year, according
to the International Energy Agency.  Syria Framework  The U.S. and  Russia  reached a framework deal on Sept. 14
that averted a military strike to punish Syria for what the U.S.
says was an Aug. 21 chemical attack by government forces. The UN
Security Council’s five permanent members have agreed on the
most important elements of a draft resolution requiring  Syria  to
surrender chemical arms, according to a UN diplomat, who asked
not to be identified because the negotiations are confidential.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 20.3 percent, down from 21.1 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 340,168
contracts as of 3:39 p.m. It totaled 511,019 contracts
yesterday, 18 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.88 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  