-- WTI Heads for Third Weekly Loss Amid Syria Negotiations
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-27T11:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/wti-heads-for-third-weekly-loss-as-un-said-to-reach-syria-deal.html
WTI headed for a third weekly loss
as the five permanent members of the UN Security Council
prepared to vote on a resolution to eliminate Syria’s chemical
weapons, easing the risk of wider conflict in the Middle East.  Futures fell as much as 0.7 percent, and have lost 2
percent this week in the longest run of weekly losses in four
months. The  United Nations Security Council  will vote tonight on
a resolution requiring President Bashar al-Assad’s government to
surrender its chemical weapons. Prices rose yesterday as U.S.
jobless claims unexpectedly dropped, while growth in the world’s
largest oil consumer accelerated in the last quarter.  “International dialogue over the situation in Syria has
been weighing on  oil prices  this week,” said  Robert Montefusco ,
a senior broker at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London.  WTI for November delivery fell as much as 67 cents to
$102.36 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $102.60 as of 12:42 p.m. London
time. Prices have lost 4.7 percent in September, capping third
quarter gains at 6.2 percent and 12 percent for the year.  Brent for November settlement fell 41 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $108.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark was at a premium of
$6.20 to WTI, up from $6.18 yesterday.  UN Vote  Security Council members reached basic agreement on the
Syria measure, said  Sergei Lavrov ,  Russia ’s foreign minister. A
U.S. State Department official, who asked not to be identified,
said Russia agreed to a binding and enforceable resolution,
marking the first time the council will have declared the use of
chemical arms as a threat to peace and security.  “We’re looking at a calmer outlook in the Middle East, and
that’s a key driver at the moment,” said  Michael McCarthy  a
chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney. The Security
Council resolution “is not only good for this instance, but
suggests there is a mechanism that works to calm tensions in
that important supply area.”  WTI rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault against Syria would lead to a disruption of
 Middle East  oil exports. The region accounted for 35 percent of
global oil output in the first quarter of this year, according
to the  International Energy Agency .  Iran Talks  The U.S. and Russia reached a framework deal on Sept. 14
that averted a military strike to punish Syria for what the U.S.
says was chemical weapons attack on Aug. 21 by government forces
that killed more than 1,400 people.  Also at the UN, foreign ministers from the U.S. and five
other powers met with  Iran ’s top diplomat. The meeting yesterday
represented the highest-level formal talks between the U.S. and
Iran since before the 1979  Islamic Revolution .  Iran wants to reach a deal on its nuclear program within a
year, according to a U.S. State Department official speaking on
the condition of anonymity. U.S. and European sanctions aimed at
curbing the country’s uranium enrichment plans have curtailed
the country’s crude exports since July 2012.  U.S. jobless claims dropped by 5,000 to 305,000 in the week
ended Sept. 21, a Labor Department report showed yesterday in
 Washington . The monthly average was the lowest since 2007. They
were projected to increase to 325,000 last week, according to
the median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annualized
rate, unrevised from the previous estimate, after expanding 1.1
percent in the first quarter, Commerce Department data show.  WTI may fall next week on concern that U.S. supplies will
accumulate with a seasonal slowdown in demand, a Bloomberg
survey showed. Fourteen of 29 analysts, or 48 percent, forecast
crude will drop through Oct. 4. Seven respondents, or 24
percent, predicted a gain. Eight projected no change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  