-- Yellen Probably Will Be Fed Chair, Senate Democrat Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-09-26T21:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/yellen-probably-will-be-fed-chair-senate-democrat-says.html
President Barack Obama will choose
 Janet Yellen  as head of the Federal Reserve, the Senate’s
second-ranking Democrat predicted.  “I would bet a few bucks that that would happen if I were
a betting man,” Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois told Peter
Cook in a Bloomberg Television interview for “Capital Gains”
airing this weekend.  Durbin, who has a close relationship with Obama, is one of
about 20 Senate Democrats who signed a July 26 letter urging
Obama to pick Yellen, 67, the central bank’s current vice
chairman.  “That’s hard to say,” Durbin said when asked whether
Yellen would have a smooth confirmation in the Senate. “The
confirmation process is long. It’s very tough. And a lot of
questions and investigation go into it, but she’s sure done a
great job with the Federal Reserve. And I think she’s in a
position where she could lead it effectively.”  The Senate’s No. 3 Democrat,  Charles Schumer  of New York,
on Sept. 18 called Yellen  an “excellent choice” to succeed
Ben S. Bernanke when his term expires on Jan. 31.  The endorsement from Schumer, a senior member of the Senate
Banking Committee, came days after former Treasury Secretary
Larry Summers withdrew his name from consideration.  At least five Democrats on the banking panel -- Sherrod Brown of Ohio,  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon,  Elizabeth Warren  of
Massachusetts, Jon Tester of Montana and Heidi Heitkamp of North
Dakota - said they wouldn’t support Summers.  Obama’s aides in recent weeks have made calls to U.S.
Senate offices to discuss the process of selecting the next
central bank chief, mentioning Yellen by name, according to
three Senate Democratic staff members.  On Sept. 20, the  Economic Club of New York  announced that
Yellen was postponing a scheduled Oct. 1 speech to the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  