-- Zaha Hadid Parties With Kanye, Ponders Return to Baghdad
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-09-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-26/zaha-hadid-ponders-returning-london-s-serpentine-iraq.html
Zaha Hadid posed for an army of
photographers huddled outside a former gunpowder depot in
 London ’s Hyde Park.  The Iraqi-born architect was showing the media her latest
creation: the  Serpentine Sackler Gallery  (an extension of
London’s nearby Serpentine Gallery), which cost 14.5 million
pounds ($23 million) to complete.  Hadid has turned the rectangular brick depot (built in
1805) into a contemporary art space and put up a rippling white
tent-like edifice next door that will be an all-day restaurant
named the Magazine.  The architect joined me for a filmed conversation inside
the Magazine, whose tilted columns resemble stiletto heels. I
asked why she had twinned a listed 19th-century building with
something so futuristic.  “I don’t think the existing building should be duplicated
in a building like it, next to it,” said Hadid, who was dressed
in leggings and a royal-blue tulle tunic.  The aim, with new architecture, is “to celebrate the
moment it’s built,” she explained.  This is only Hadid’s third building in London, though she
has lived here for more than 40 years, designed the  London 2012
Olympics Aquatics Centre , and is a Dame of the British Empire.  Iraqi Bank  There are countless projects elsewhere. Her work on a new
Central Bank of  Iraq  headquarters -- which she was asked to
build after a 2010 suicide attack on the existing bank -- is
progressing, she said. Will she return to Iraq for the first
time since 1980?  “I would like to go,” she said. “It’s very difficult
emotionally for me, because I have no family there anymore. The
last time I was there, my parents were alive; they were there.”  “Also, I cannot go for just three days,” she explained.
“The few people left I might know, I would like to see -- my
aunt and uncles are in the north.”  Baku Building  November sees the opening of the swooping  Heydar Aliyev
Center  in Baku, Azerbaijan, which houses a museum and a 1,000-seat auditorium and is named after the late president.  “It’s very important to contribute to public buildings,
irrespective of where they are,” said Hadid, countering charges
that she worked for a regime ranked among the world’s most
repressive by Washington-based Freedom House. “You can’t
criticize something and then deprive the population of another
thing.”  As Hadid’s fame has grown, so has her circle of friends.
The latest addition is rapper Kanye West, who recently said he
wished to create architecture himself.  West rang the other day suggesting they do something
together -- Hadid said she wasn’t sure what.  Rapper Pharrell Williams is also a fan of her trade, she
said. “Architecture is very topical,” noted Hadid. “Everybody
wants to be involved with architecture, which is good.”  Pritzker Prize  Hadid in 2004 became the first woman to win the  Pritzker
Architecture Prize . Sneers still come her way. A Guardian
journalist noted this week that she was both single and
childless, and that her flat was said to be impersonal.  “Before, I wasn’t successful, so they just made fun of my
clothes, my this, my that,” she said. “Now, especially in the
U.K., you are hated if you are supposedly successful or well
known, because they assume you are corrupt, decadent.”  Hadid said she couldn’t tell how much of that was misogyny.
In general, though, “people just assume that because you’re a
woman, you’re a second-class citizen,” she said. “And that’s
not going to fly with me.”  Although Hadid has a third building in the U.K. capital --a
secondary school in Brixton, for which she won her second  RIBA
Stirling Prize  in 2011 -- she’s keen for more.  “I would like to do something in London, because it’s
where I live,” she said. “I have so much expertise on London.
It would be good for it to manifest itself somewhere.”  The Serpentine Sackler Gallery is named after the Dr.
Mortimer and Theresa Sackler Foundation, a major donor. The
gallery and its opening exhibition were sponsored by Bloomberg.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on restaurants and
Frederik Balfour on the Asian art market.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 