-- 
‘Low-Rate Structure’ Hurting Dollar, Westpac’s Franulovich Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-21T17:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/-low-rate-structure-hurting-dollar-westpac-s-franulovich-says-tom-keene.html
The dollar’s weakness against major
currencies is based on “good reasons,” said Richard Franulovich,
a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.  “The dollar is paralyzed, absolutely paralyzed by the low-
rate structure here while the rest of the world is hiking
rates,” Franulovich said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The news from
 Standard & Poor’s  on the credit downgrade warning for the U.S.
hasn’t really hurt bonds that much nor equities, but globally
the dollar has been punished.”  The dollar may fall to $1.50 against the euro, 80 versus
the yen and the low-90s against the Canadian dollar, according
to New York-based Franulovich.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six
major U.S. trading partners, slumped as much as 0.9 percent to
73.735, the weakest since August 2008. The dollar fell to record
lows against the Australian dollar and multiyear lows against at
least five currencies today.  “Yes, the dollar is looking a bit extended and oversold,
but there’s a good reason for that,” Franulovich said.  The  Federal Reserve  has kept  interest rates  at a record low
of zero to 0.25 percent, while other central banks such as the
 European Central Bank  and the Bank of Canada have began to raise
borrowing costs. The ECB boosted its main refinancing rate to
1.25 percent on April 7.  S&P put the U.S. government on notice on April 18 that it
risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy makers agree on
a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and national debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  