-- 
‘Misleading’ Claims Harm Honduras Emissions-Project Owner, Executive Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-04-21T11:44:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/-misleading-claims-harm-honduras-emissions-project-owner-executive-says.html
Grupo Dinant, owner of an
emissions-cutting project in  Honduras , said “misleading”
claims linking it to human-rights abuses may force the company
to close.  Should the accusations prevent Dinant from getting finance,
“that could cause the company to close,” Roger Pineda,
corporate treasurer at the Tegucigalpa, Honduras-based company,
said April 19 by telephone.  A German development bank yesterday said it hasn’t paid out
on a loan to Dinant.  CDM Watch , the Bonn-based environmental
lobby group, said in February that Dinant may not hold legal
claims to its land and may be linked to killings of members of
the Unified Peasant Movement and the Peasant Movement of the
Lower Aguan Valley.  Dinant’s viability was “at risk due to the fact of the
misleading statements,” Pineda said. “Eight thousand people
could lose their jobs.”  DEG Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH
hasn’t paid out on a loan to Dinant and has halted its
relationship, Cordula Rinsche, a spokeswoman for the  development
bank , said yesterday. She didn’t say why the loan wasn’t paid.  Twenty-three peasants were killed in the Bajo Aguan region
from January last year to February 2011, CDM Watch said April
18, citing a report by international human rights groups led by
FIAN, the  FoodFirst Information and Action Network , a
Heidelberg, Germany-based group that identifies abuse.  Not Approached  FIAN didn’t approach Grupo Dinant before making its report,
Pineda said. A security company hired by Dinant killed five
people in November last year because its guards were under
attack, he said. There has been no legal action stemming from
the killings, he said.  In March,  FIAN requested DEG review its contract  with
Dinant. The human-rights group was under no obligation to
consult with Dinant about what happened on Nov. 15, said Martin
Wolpold-Bosien, FIAN’s co-ordinator for central America. FIAN
was acting to encourage Honduras to better protect human rights,
Wolpold-Bosien said yesterday by phone. “The state has not done
enough to investigate.”  Dinant is investigating killings of 10 security guards and
a 13-year-old boy in relation to “trespassing” on its site,
Pineda said. Land-ownership rights and related deaths are
currently being documented, he said.  The company produces food 
as well as biofuel.  The human rights organizations “don’t seem to care about
the people who get killed by the peasants,” Pineda said.  Cheaper Compliance  Last week, Dinant’s Aguan biogas Clean Development
Mechanism project in Central America said it was evaluating
Electricite de France SA’s termination of a contract to buy
carbon credits. EDF terminated its involvement after the CDM
Watch allegations. The so-called CDM allows rich-nation emitters
to buy credits from poor nations in a bid to spread more widely
greenhouse-gas cutting technology.  The credits can be used as a cheaper form of compliance for
about 11,000 factories and power stations in the European Union
carbon market, the world’s biggest. CDM credits for December
closed yesterday at 13.15 euros ($19.23) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London . They’ve gained 15 percent
this year. EU allowances for December closed at 16.98 euros a
ton yesterday.  Buyers of credits and financiers need to investigate
carefully before deciding to participate in these projects, said
Mark Meyrick, head of the Rotterdam-based carbon desk at Eneco
Holding NV, the Dutch utility. The greenhouse-gas cut often
takes place in remote areas of developing nations.  ‘Proper Due Diligence’  “This is a question of proper due diligence,” Meyrick
said April 19 by e-mail. Projects must consult their so-called
stakeholders as part of the process seeking United Nations-
overseen approval for tradable credits, Meyrick said. “In too
many CDM projects, only lip service is paid to the stakeholder
consultation, and the CER buyers and finance providers don’t
check that properly,” he said.  Michele Reid, an EDF Trading spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the consultation of stakeholders. DEG’s Rinsche
didn’t immediately respond to messages and an e-mail seeking
further comment.  The CDM Executive Board in Bonn, which regulates the
program, may consider registering the Dinant carbon-reduction
project at a meeting ending June 3, or the one following, David
Abbass, a CDM spokesman, said April 18.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  