-- 
Boxing Goddess Westbroek Takes on 45-Ton Met Monster: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/after-anna-nicole-boxing-diva-takes-on-45-ton-met-monster-interview.html
Wearing jeans and a hoodie, blond
hair tightly tied back,  Eva-Maria Westbroek  met me backstage at
the  Metropolitan Opera , where she’d just gotten post-rehearsal
notes from conductor  James Levine .  “He loves passion, straightforwardness and beauty of
tone,” she said. “And I love him.”  Tomorrow night, the Dutch soprano makes her Met debut as
sad Sieglinde, who happily runs off with her twin brother in
“ Die Walkure ,” part two of Richard Wagner’s “Ring” cycle.  During rehearsals, Westbroek is learning to maneuver around
the moveable 45-ton set that dominates the new production of the
cycle by Robert Lepage. The size of the thing didn’t leave much
room for action when first seen in “Das Rheingold.”  We spoke in the Met’s press room.  Lundborg: How are you doing on the Machine?  Westbroek: It’s a very big thing and it takes a lot of
people and a lot of thinking, but when it works, it’s magical.  Lundborg: Is there a tree and a sword?  Westbroek: The machine looks like a tree.  Lundborg: And the sword comes out of the hole in the
machine?  Westbroek: Yes. They’re trying to really be close to the
story.  Lundborg: How do the Valkyries fly around?  Westbroek: They have a great entrance. They don’t have real
horses, but they look like horses.  Identical Wigs  Lundborg: What are your wig and costume like?  Westbroek: I wear a nice dress but I don’t look modern, and
my hair is identical to my brother’s.  Lundborg: Does singing the role with Jonas Kaufmann make it
easier?  Westbroek: It’s great to stand next to him and hear this
gorgeous voice. This is his first Siegmund, and he’s a real
romantic, so it all fits.  Lundborg: Your husband doesn’t get jealous?  Westbroek: He’s also a tenor, so he understands. I just did
“Die Walkure” with him, which was wonderful.  Lundborg: You were Anna Nicole Smith in the new opera by
Mark-Anthony Turnage. How did you prep for that?  Westbroek: Reality shows and YouTube for months before we
started.  There’s something about Anna Nicole that makes people wild.
It wasn’t just her looks, but also who she was and what she
radiated.  Sex Goddess  Lundborg: Made up, you looked uncannily like her. Did you
feel like a sex goddess?  Westbroek: Oh yes, it helps completely. I’m a lot shyer and
then you put that blond wig on and it’s like “Woohoo! Bring out
the party!”  Especially those tremendous boobs -- I’ve never had more
friends in my life!  Lundborg: What does it take to grab an audience?  Westbroek: I think that’s a matter of pure concentration on
what you’re doing, not on “Oh, there’s a pin sticking in my
head.”  You wear these big costumes, and there are lights, stage
people, there are things happening all around you, so you can be
easily distracted. But when you have good focus, you can pull
people in.  Lundborg: What’s the weirdest production you’ve been in?  Westbroek: God, I’ve been in lots of strange productions. I
did Carlotta in “Die Gezeichneten,” which is a very perverse
opera.  I ended up in a pool of blood being raped. I had to wear
neoprene because I was lying there for so long I would get ill
otherwise.  After the Show  Lundborg: What happens after a performance?  Westbroek: This time, I have some people to hang out with.  It’s depressing after you’ve had a big adrenaline rush and
a big night to go home alone and stare at the wall.  Lundborg: What do you do in your off hours?  Westbroek: I do a lot of sports, especially boxing. My
trainer in  London  asked if I wanted to try it, and I said, “Why
not?”  I can recommend boxing to anyone, especially if you have a
stressful job. It gets all your energy out and all your
aggressions.  The cardio aspect of it is also amazing since a minute can
become very long when you’re hitting a dummy.  Lundborg: What’s on your iPod?  Westbroek: Jamiroquai and lots of Tebaldi.  Lundborg: When asked what it took to sing Isolde, Birgit Nilsson famously said, “Comfortable shoes.” What does it take
for you to sing Wagner -- or anything else?  Westbroek: I need joy. And comfortable shoes are not bad.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 