-- 
Akamai Loss to Limelight to Be Reheard by U.S. Appeals Court

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-04-21T20:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/akamai-loss-to-limelight-to-be-reheard-by-u-s-appeals-court-1-.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  persuaded
a U.S. appeals court to reconsider whether Limelight Networks
Inc. infringed a patent over software that speeds delivery of
Web videos.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit said in December Limelight didn’t infringe the
patent. In an  order  posted on the court’s website today, the
Federal Circuit said the dispute will be considered by all of
the court’s active judges.  Akamai’s lawsuit in 2006 accused Tempe, Arizona-based
Limelight of building its business on technology developed by
Akamai’s founders at the  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology
in Cambridge.  The case was filed as Akamai, also based in Cambridge,
faces increased competition from Limelight,  Level 3
Communications Inc. (LVLT)  and Cotendo Inc. over CDNs, which distribute
movies, music and software to computers on behalf of services
such as Hulu LLC and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   The Federal Circuit in  Washington , which specializes in
U.S. patent law, will consider whether a company should be found
liable for infringing a patent if separate entities perform
different steps in an invention.  A federal jury in  Boston  in 2008 sided with Akamai before
the judge reversed the $45.5 million verdict. The judge ruled
that Limelight’s actions alone didn’t use the Akamai technology,
meaning it couldn’t be held liable. Three judges of the Federal
Circuit  affirmed  that decision in December.  Submit New Arguments  The appeals court today vacated the panel’s decision and
ordered lawyers in the case to submit new written legal
arguments. It gave no date for when the case would be heard.
Limelight said today it didn’t infringe the Akamai patent.  “Limelight believes the decision of the panel was correct
and should be affirmed,” the company said in a statement.
“This was not an issue of first impression for the panel -- its
ruling affirmed the court’s precedent from earlier decisions.
Limelight Networks welcomes the opportunity to assist the Court
in addressing this area of the law.”  Limelight fell 4 cents to $6.94 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Akamai rose 4 cents to $39.98.  The case is Akamai Technologies v. Limelight Networks,
2009-1372, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Akamai Technologies v.
 Limelight Networks Inc. (LLNW) , 06cv11109, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  