-- 
Akzo Profit Rises as Sales Gain Offsets Raw-Material Costs

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-04-21T11:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/akzo-first-quarter-profit-climbs-as-higher-sales-offset-raw-material-costs.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s biggest
paintmaker, reported first-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ expectations as price increases and higher volume
offset rising spending on raw materials.  Akzo rose the most in 2 1/2 months in Amsterdam trading
after saying net income jumped 58 percent from a year earlier to
128 million euros ($186 million). Analysts had predicted profit
of 104.7 million euros, according to the average of 12 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil prices  have advanced 23 percent in  New York  this year,
and titanium oxide, a paint ingredient, is up 7.7 percent,
according to Bloomberg data. Amsterdam-based Akzo has been
reorganizing to bolster its specialty-chemicals unit as the
paints business struggles against a construction-industry
slowdown. It outlined a growth strategy in September based on
expanding in emerging markets such as  India  and China.  “We have pricing power and we are managing our margins and
controlling our costs,” Chief Financial Officer Keith Nichols
said today on a conference call, adding that he expects “no
quick relief” from inflationary pressures.  Reiterating Forecast  The Dutch company reiterated today that it’s aiming for
more than 5 percent growth in revenue and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2011. Sales in
the quarter rose 16 percent to 3.76 billion euros. Ebitda
increased 10 percent to 437 million euros, and the respective
margin fell 0.7 percentage points to 11.6 percent.  “Consensus estimates were very low since Akzo Nobel warned
earlier that feedstock price inflation cannot be passed on” to
some customers in the first half of this year, Peter Spengler,
an analyst at  DZ Bank  in Frankfurt, said in a note. Spengler
said he may raise his estimates after the “positive surprise”
of the earnings report. He recommends clients “buy” the shares
and estimates the stock price will reach 60 euros.  Akzo rose as much as 2.53 euros, or 5 percent, to 52.98
euros, the biggest jump since Feb. 10, and was up 4.3 percent as
of 1:19 p.m. The stock has gained 13 percent this year, valuing
the maker of Dulux and Glidden paints at 12.3 billion euros.
U.S. rival  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  has risen 12 percent, while
shares of  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW)  have increased 2.4 percent.  The Dutch manufacturer sold its National Starch unit to
 Corn Products International Inc. (CPO)  in October for $1.3 billion
after buying  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s powder-coatings operations in
June. Targets set in September, when the company set a full-year
sales goal of 20 billion euros in five years, include doubling
revenue in China and quadrupling it in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 