-- 
Allies Drawn Deeper Into Libya Conflict as European Advisers Assist Rebels

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-21T00:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/allies-send-military-advisers-equipment-to-strengthen-libyan-rebel-forces.html
The U.S. and its allies, a month
into their air campaign in Libya, are being drawn more deeply
into a conflict they expected would quickly topple leader
 Muammar Qaddafi .  Italy , France and the U.K. said they are sending military
advisers and trainers to help Libya’s disorganized and poorly
equipped rebels, as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called for
intensifying airstrikes. The U.S. announced yesterday that it
would provide $25 million in non-lethal aid from Pentagon
stockpiles, including radios, body armor, boots, medicine, and
prepared halal meals. Qatar, which has helped the rebels sell
oil valued at more than $100 million, is supplying light
weapons, Suleiman Fortia, a member of the opposition group, said
April 19 in Benghazi.  The uprising, which began Feb. 17, has settled into a
military stalemate near the central oil-port city of Brega.
Residents in the rebels’ western outpost of Misrata, besieged
for more than six weeks, suffer daily shelling by Qaddafi’s
forces that a United Nations official said yesterday may
constitute war crimes.  Photographers Killed  Two Western photographers covering the fighting in Misrata
-- Tim Hetherington, an Oscar-nominated film director and war
photographer who produced the film “Restrepo,” and  Chris
Hondros , a New York-based photographer for  Getty Images  -- were
killed yesterday, the  Associated Press  reported. Two other
photographers nearby were wounded.  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington, says Western leaders
underestimated Qaddafi’s staying power as the Libyan uprising
seemed to have the momentum for a quick outcome.  “It has become all too clear that gambling on Qaddafi
caving in has created a far more serious humanitarian crisis for
the Libyan people than would ever have occurred if the coalition
had acted decisively from the start and had directly attacked
Qaddafi, his centers of power, and the military forces loyal to
him,” he  wrote  yesterday on the CSIS website.  The U.S. and its allies should have started out directly
targeting the regime leadership, including Qaddafi, rather than
narrowly trying to protect civilian population centers, he
wrote.  “The humanitarian cost of humanitarian restraint is all
too clear: Hundreds of Libyan and foreign workers have been
killed, thousands injured, thousands more arrested and sometimes
tortured, and hundreds of thousands lack jobs, security, and
safe conditions of life,” Cordesman wrote.  Oil Fields  Damaged  Forces loyal to Qaddafi have shelled and caused damage to
three oil fields since the fighting started in mid-February,
rebel spokesman Abdul Hafiz Ghoga said yesterday at a press
briefing. Crude oil for June delivery climbed $3.30, or 3.05
percent, to settle at $111.45 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Oil exports from Libya, which has Africa’s
biggest oil reserves, dropped by about 1.3 million barrels a day
to a “trickle,” the Paris-based  International Energy Agency 
said last month.  The shelling caused damage to the Messla field, operated by
Arabian Gulf Oil Co., oil well 59 in the Waha field operated by
Waha Oil Co., and field 103 A/D operated by Zueitina Oil Co,
Ghoga said.  Elsewhere in the Region  In other developments in the region, the Syrian cabinet’s
backing for a draft decree ending a 48-year-old state of
emergency failed to persuade anti-government protesters to end
their challenge to President Bashar al-Assad’s rule.  In Yemen, clashes between pro-government forces and
protesters calling for an end to the rule of President Ali Abdullah Saleh have left at least five people dead since April
19. Saleh, who has refused to yield to demands that he quit,
said a  power transfer  must occur through elections, the state
news agency reported.  The ruler of Bahrain, King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa, wrote
in the  Washington  Times newspaper that Bahrainis’ “legitimate”
grievances about civil and political rights had been “hijacked
by extremist elements with ties to foreign governments,”
threatening the country’s security and “economic viability.”  Libyan opposition forces have failed to take and hold
territory along the Mediterranean coast, or to capitalize on air
strikes that the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  says have
destroyed more than 30 percent of Qaddafi’s military. Rebels
were pushed back this month from Brega under a barrage of
artillery fire east to Ajdabiya, about 160 kilometers (100
miles) south of the rebel stronghold of Benghazi. Al Arabiya
television reported yesterday that rebels re-entered Brega.  European Advisers  The European advisers, likely to total fewer than 50, will
be the first Western military boots on the ground in an outside
intervention that has been limited to airpower and sea power to
police a no-fly zone, to protect civilians and to enforce an
arms embargo on the Qaddafi regime. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
has ruled out sending U.S. ground forces to  Libya .  The rebels are open to having additional foreign
intervention -- namely UN-designated ground troops -- help
protect aid deliveries, Ghoga, spokesman for the  Interim
National Transitional Council , told reporters in Benghazi.  The UN hopes to get humanitarian aid into Misrata by road,
under an agreement earlier this week with the Libyan government,
without the need to consider European or NATO military help, UN
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs Valerie Amos
said at a briefing in  New York .  Airstrikes’ Limits  The attacks in Misrata, Libya’s third-largest city, and the
rebels’ failure to advance from their eastern positions have
forced NATO officials to concede the limits to what airpower
alone can accomplish. The UN Security Council’s resolution
authorizing “all necessary measures” to protect civilians bars
“a foreign occupation force of any kind.”  NATO warplanes flew 62 strike missions April 19, up from 53
the day before, the alliance said in an e-mailed  statement . Jets
hit three tanks and three rocket-launcher vehicles near Misrata,
two ammunition depots near Tripoli and a surface-to-surface
missile site near Sirte, the statement said.  Sarkozy, who met yesterday with Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the
head of the Interim Transitional National Council, said  France 
will “intensify the strikes,” the Associated Press reported,
citing a presidential aide.  Additionally, France will send a “very small group” of
officers to Libya, government spokesman  Francois Baroin  said
yesterday. Italy plans to send 10 military instructors, Defense
Minister Ignazio La Russa said. About 20 British army members
who served in Iraq and  Afghanistan  are being deployed to advise
rebels, a U.K. Ministry of Defense official said on condition of
anonymity.  Obama and Cameron  Obama and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  discussed
increasing diplomatic and economic pressure’’ on Qaddafi’s
government in a telephone conversation yesterday, according to a
statement issued by the White House.  The U.S. is working with a number of opposition groups, not
just the Interim Transitional National Council, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said. The U.S. has “some confidence” that
the rebels “can work cohesively as a group,” he said. Toner
said the aid that the U.S. is providing rebels is “not a blank
check; this is goods and services that would be drawn down from
U.S. stocks.”  The rebels do need training, Toner acknowledged. “We’re
all well aware they’ve had trouble with some of the equipment,”
he said. “These are doctors, lawyers, people from civil society
who’ve taken up arms to protect their homes.”  ‘Step Backwards’  Libyan Foreign Minister Abdul-Ati al-Obeidi said the
military presence by foreign powers in Libya would be a “step
backwards.” In a BBC interview, he called for a cease-fire
along the lines of an African Union plan and a period to
establish a dialogue on revamping the Libyan political system.  The rebels will not accept a political deal to remove
Qaddafi that would enable him to safely go into exile, Ghoga
said. Libyans want him judged for his “crimes,” he said.  UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said the
government’s use of cluster bombs and heavy weaponry, reported
by the New York Times and  Human Rights Watch , could amount to
war crimes because of the substantial toll on civilians.  “Reportedly, one cluster bomb exploded just a few hundred
meters from Misrata hospital, and other reports suggest at least
two medical clinics have been hit by mortars or sniper fire,”
Pillay said in a  statement  on the UN group’s website.  ‘Substantial’ Numbers  “Since the city is largely cut off,” she said, “it is
not known precisely how many civilians have died or been injured
during two months of fighting there, but it is clear that the
numbers are now substantial, and that the dead include women and
children.”  She said that the “pro-government forces besieging the
city, including their commanders and all other personnel, should
be aware that -- with the  International Criminal Court 
investigating possible crimes -- their orders and actions will
be subject to intense scrutiny. Under international law, the
deliberate targeting of medical facilities is a war crime, and
the deliberate targeting or reckless endangerment of civilians
may also amount to serious violations of international human
rights law or international humanitarian law.”  A vessel carrying 500 tons of food, medical supplies and
other equipment was bound for Misrata yesterday and plans to
rescue some of the estimated 5,000 migrants from the besieged
city, the  International Organization for Migration  said on its
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  