-- 
Allies Drawn In to Libya Conflict as Rebels Fail to Capitalize on NATO Aid

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-21T14:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/allies-drawn-in-to-libya-conflict-as-rebels-fail-to-capitalize-on-nato-aid.html
NATO and its allies are being drawn
more deeply into an intervention they had expected would quickly
topple  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi, as the deaths of two reporters
and fighting in the west underscored the conflict’s violence.  The U.S. announced yesterday it will provide $25 million in
aid to Libya’s disorganized and poorly equipped rebels, while
 Italy ,  France  and the U.K. dispatched military advisers. The
rebels, who have also received light weapons from Qatar, have
failed to capitalize on an alliance-led air campaign that French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  pledged yesterday to intensify.  “We need to step up the pressure on every front,” U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  told BBC radio today.  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization -led forces yesterday hit two heavy
equipment transporters, three armored vehicles and an ammunition
storage site near Tripoli, two tanks, a communication tower and
a radar station near Misrata and a tank and two rocket launchers
near Zintan, the alliance said in an e-mailed statement.  The uprising aimed at ending Qaddafi’s 42-year rule, which
began in mid-February, has ground to a military stalemate near
the central oil-port city of Brega. Residents of the rebel-held
western city of Misrata, besieged for more than six weeks,
suffer daily shelling by Qaddafi’s forces that a United Nations
official said yesterday may constitute  war crimes .  Western Libyan Fighting  Violence continued elsewhere as Libyan rebels took control
of a checkpoint on the Tunisian border “after violent
fighting,” the state-run  Agence Tunis Afrique Presse  news
agency said, citing an eyewitness. Thirteen Libyan officers
including a major colonel fled over the border, the agency said.  More than 10,000 people, fleeing fighting in Libya’s
Western Mountains region, have crossed the border into  Tunisia 
in the past 10 days, the Office of the United Nations  High
Commissioner for Refugees  said. Al Jazeera television said
Qaddafi’s forces killed nine oil workers near Tobruk in the
rebel-held east.  Two photojournalists covering the Misrata violence -- Tim Hetherington, an Oscar-nominated film director who produced the
movie “Restrepo,” and  Chris Hondros , a New York-based
photographer for  Getty Images  -- were killed yesterday by an
explosion, the  Committee to Protect Journalists  said.  Hetherington, 40, and Hondros, 41, had accompanied rebels
to a position on Misrata’s central Tripoli Street when they were
caught in a mortar attack from Qaddafi’s forces trying to retake
the area, the  Washington Post  reported. Their bodies were being
taken to the rebel-stronghold of Benghazi by ship, it said.  Boots on the Ground  The European military advisers, who will total fewer than
50, will be the first official Western military boots on the
ground in an outside intervention that has been limited to air
and sea power. The NATO-led,  UN-sanctioned  mission is to police
a no-fly zone, protect civilians and enforce an arms embargo on
the Qaddafi regime. President  Barack Obama  has ruled out sending
U.S. ground forces to Libya.  The rebels are open to having additional foreign forces,
namely UN-designated ground troops, help protect aid deliveries,
Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, a spokesman for the  Interim National
Transitional Council , told reporters in Benghazi. Rebels were
pushed back this month from Brega under a barrage of artillery
fire east to Ajdabiya, about 160 kilometers (100 miles) south of
Benghazi.  The U.S. non-lethal aid package includes radios, body
armor, boots, medicine, and prepared halal meals.  Oil Fields  Damaged  Forces loyal to Qaddafi have shelled and caused damage to
three oil fields since the fighting started, Ghoga said. The
attacks damaged the Messla field, operated by Arabian Gulf Oil
Co., oil well 59 in the Waha field operated by Waha Oil Co., and
field 103 A/D operated by Zueitina Oil Co., he said.  Crude oil for June delivery fell 23 cents to $111.22 a
barrel at 9:58 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
ranged from $111.05 to $112.48, the highest intraday-price since
April 11. Prices are up 33 percent the past year. Oil exports
from Libya, which has Africa’s biggest oil reserves, dropped by
about 1.3 million barrels a day to a “trickle,” the
 International Energy Agency  has said.  The UN hopes to get humanitarian aid into Misrata by road,
under an agreement with the Libyan government, without the need
to consider European or NATO military help, UN Under-Secretary-
General for Humanitarian Affairs Valerie Amos said at a briefing
in New York.  War Crimes  UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said the
Qaddafi regime’s use of cluster bombs and heavy weaponry,
reported by the  New York  Times and  Human Rights Watch , may
amount to war crimes.  “Reportedly, one cluster bomb exploded just a few hundred
meters from Misrata hospital, and other reports suggest at least
two medical clinics have been hit by mortars or sniper fire,”
Pillay said in a  statement  on her office’s website.  It isn’t known how many civilians have died or been injured
during two months of fighting, “but it is clear that the
numbers are now substantial, and that the dead include women and
children,” she said.  A Libyan rebel official said April 8 that fighting has left
at least 10,000 people dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi, Libya, at
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 