-- 
Amazon Web Services Disruption Knocks Customer Sites Offline

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-04-22T00:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/amazon-com-says-some-web-services-for-businesses-not-available.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Internet-based
computing services, used by thousands of business customers to
run their Web pages and store data, crashed this morning and
knocked sites across the U.S. offline.  Amazon Web Services  servers in northern Virginia suffered
outages beginning at about 5 a.m. local time, affecting a
portion of U.S. customers, the Seattle-based company said.
Twelve hours later, Amazon said all but one zone in the U.S. had
been restored.  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, has billed its
cloud-computing services as a cheap and safe way for businesses
to outsource their data centers. The outage is evidence that
companies can’t wholly rely on cloud services to handle
important functions, said Vanessa Alvarez, an  analyst  at
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc.  “Customers need to start asking tough questions and not
assume everything will be taken care of in the cloud, because it
will not,” Alvarez said. “They shouldn’t be counting on a
cloud service provider like Amazon to provide disaster
recovery.”  Location-based mobile service Foursquare, question-and-
answer site Formspring.me, and Reddit.com, a news aggregator
owned by Conde Nast Publications Ltd., all blamed the outage for
taking down their sites. Amazon’s cloud customers also include
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and Internet-gaming company Zynga
Inc. The service accounts for about 2 percent of its revenue,
according to Barclays Capital.  Heroku Outage  The outage also crashed sites of companies that help other
businesses build tools to run in Amazon’s cloud.  Salesforce.com
Inc. (CRM) ’s Heroku unit has been down for more than eight hours.
Heroku helps companies such as Best Buy Co. and Comcast Corp.
build mobile and social-networking applications that are powered
by Amazon’s services.  Companies use Amazon Web Services to host their sites and
rely on it when they expect bursts of visitors, such as
nighttime movie watching on Netflix. Rivals to Amazon’s service
include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX)   Amazon rose $2.02 to $185.89 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 3.3 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 