-- 
AMD Profit Exceeds Analysts’ Estimates, Lifted by New Chips

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c m i l l a n
-- 
2011-04-22T00:34:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/amd-s-first-quarter-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates-on-demand-for-chips.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers,
reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ predictions,
citing demand for its new chips.  Excluding some costs, profit was 8 cents a share in the
period, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts had projected 6 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.5 percent to $1.61 billion,
in line with estimates.  While AMD’s outlook for this quarter wasn’t as rosy as that
of its larger rival  Intel Corp. (INTC) , it benefited from demand for
the first version of its Fusion chips, which add graphics
capabilities that competing products lack. Margins held up as
the company kept costs in check, said Srini Pajjuri, an analyst
at Credit Agricole Securities in  San Francisco .  "What matters is the revenues and gross margins and the
guidance," Pajjuri said. "All three of those items are pretty
much in line."  AMD expects revenue to be unchanged to about 5 percent
lower in the current period, interim Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Seifert said on a conference call. Intel, which reported
first-quarter results on April 19, issued a sales forecast for
the current quarter that surpassed analysts’ predictions.  “There was some hope that AMD may be able to follow in
Intel’s footsteps,” said  Cody Acree , an analyst at Williams
Financial Group in  Dallas . He recommends buying the shares,
which he doesn’t own. “It’s a disappointment only in the fact
that Intel heightened expectations.”  Sales Forecast  AMD’s revenue forecast indicates sales of $1.53 billion to
$1.61 billion, compared with the average analyst estimate of
$1.59 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  Shares were little changed in late trading. They had risen
8 cents to $8.71 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. AMD has climbed 6.5 percent this year.  AMD’s first-quarter profit was boosted by a one-time gain
related to its holdings in chip manufacturer Globalfoundries
Inc. Net income was $510 million, or 68 cents a share, almost
double the $257 million, or 35 cents, reported a year earlier.  Gross margin, or the percentage of revenue remaining after
deducting the costs of production, was 43 percent in the first
quarter. That’s down from 47 percent a year earlier.  Excluding certain costs, gross margin was 45 percent, AMD
said. On that basis, the company expects gross margin to widen
by about one percentage point this quarter, Seifert said.  CEO Search  “We have climbed to a high level on the market share
side,” Seifert said on a call with analysts. “The focus is now
to make sure that profitability moves in the right corner,
too.”  Seifert is running AMD while the company looks for a
permanent replacement for Dirk Meyer, who resigned in January
after a dispute with the board over strategy. Seifert, the
company’s chief financial officer, said he doesn’t want the top
position permanently.  AMD’s board is currently interviewing candidates for the
position and hasn’t set a time frame for naming a new CEO,
Seifert said on the call.  PC sales declined 3.2 percent last quarter, defying
projections that the market would grow, according to research
firm IDC. While shipments of PC components were lower than
expected in the first two months of the year, they rebounded in
March, according to Krishna Shankar, an analyst for ThinkEquity
LLC in San Francisco.  “March was very strong compared to February,” said
Shankar, who recommends buying AMD shares and Intel shares. He
doesn’t own either stock.  In recent years, AMD has converted itself into a chip-
design company, rather than a manufacturer. It sold its
factories to the government of  Abu Dhabi , which used then to
create Globalfoundries, a company that now makes AMD’s chips.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 