-- 
Amgen to Start Paying First Dividend, CEO Sharer Says

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-04-21T14:51:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/amgen-to-start-paying-first-dividend-ceo-sharer-says-2-.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, will pay its first dividend next quarter
even as research spending continues to absorb as much as 20
percent of revenue, Chief Executive Officer Kevin Sharer said.  Amgen will declare the quarterly payment with its second-
quarter earnings release, Sharer said today at an investors’
meeting in  New York . Amgen is planning an annual payout ratio of
20 percent of adjusted net income, which, if applied to the
current quarter, would amount to 27 cents a share, said Chief
Financial Officer Jonathan Peacock.  Amgen shares have fallen 31 percent since the beginning of
2006, even as its cash hoard grew to $17.4 billion. Some
investors have sought a dividend since reports surfaced in
November that the company may buy Swiss drugmaker Actelion Ltd.
for $9.8 billion. Amgen has more cash and short-term investments
on hand than any U.S. drugmaker except for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
Johnson & Johnson.  “Using capital wisely means returning meaningful cash to
shareholders,” Sharer said at the meeting.  Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks,  California , dropped 3
percent, or $1.67, to $54.51 at 10:26 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares had fallen 4.3
percent in the 12 months before today.  Lowered Dose  The stock is declining on concern that the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  will require Amgen to update the label for
its Epogen anemia drug, which would have the effect of lowering
the dosage for dialysis patients,  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst
with ISI Group in New York, said today in an e-mail. On a
conference call late yesterday, Amgen officials said the FDA
wants to “get away” from hemoglobin targets in dialysis
treatment, Schoenebaum said.  “Removal of the target altogether could reduce average
doses per dialysis patient and force the street to lower Epogen
estimates to some degree,” Schoenebaum said.  The board also approved a $5 billion stock repurchase, in
addition to the $2.2 billion buyback remaining in its current
program. The company said it intends to return an average of 60
percent of adjusted net income to investors in the form of
dividends and stock repurchases.  Amgen pioneered biological therapies 30 years ago for
cancer and kidney-disease patients. Revenue tripled to $12.4
billion over the five years ended in 2005, after the company
introduced Aranesp for anemia. Over the next five years, annual
sales growth slowed to 1.4 percent as the drug was linked to
strokes and heart attacks.  Over the past five years, Amgen has announced seven
acquisitions worth a combined $1.6 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. The largest was its $425 million purchase of
BioVex Group Inc. in January.  Pfizer, based in New York, pays a 20-cent quarterly
dividend and  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J pays 54 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 