-- 
AMP Buys Fear, Sells Greed, as U.S. Economic Recovery Progresses

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-04-21T02:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/amp-buys-fear-sells-greed-as-u-s-economic-recovery-progresses.html
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., a unit
of  Australia ’s biggest asset manager, is buying global stocks on
market declines with a view to selling them after U.S. interest
rates climb above about 3 percent.  Equities may begin a 40 percent slide after the U.S.
Federal Reserve raises its target rate for overnight loans
between banks to tackle inflation, said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-
based strategist for AMP Capital, which has almost $100 billion
under management. The firm plans to unload shares after the Fed
decides growth is strong enough to reduce attempts to stimulate
the economy, which could be within a year, he said.  “When the data starts showing the recovery is fully
entrenched and most people start thinking it’s time to get into
equities, we’ll be looking at going fully defensive,” said
Naeimi, who said on April 14, 2009, that the equity bear market
had ended. “The market will continue to climb until that
confirmation happens, so we’ll be buying into any corrections.
We’re buying fear and selling greed.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will finish 2011 at 1,400,
a 5.2 percent advance from the close on April 20, according to
the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has climbed 24 percent since Aug. 27, the day
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank would buy
assets to spur economic growth in the U.S. The Fed’s plan to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries will end in June.  ‘Buying Fear’  The Fed left its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent on March 15, where it’s been since December 2008,
and retained a pledge in place since March 2009 to keep it
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” Rates have
been falling since September 2007, when the Fed cut 0.5
percentage point from a six-year peak of 5.25 percent to combat
the housing market slump that presaged the global financial
crisis.  The  U.S. economy  added a greater-than-forecast 216,000 jobs
in March, and the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest level in
more than two years. A Labor Department report April 13 showed
job openings increased in February by the most since December
2004, a sign companies are turning more optimistic about hiring.  “We’re probably at least a year away from fully entrenched
growth in the U.S.,” said Naeimi. “The market will trend
upwards, but any downturns between now and then will be seen as
buying opportunities.”  Market Plunge?  AMP Capital will downgrade its holdings of global equities
to “underweight” from the current “overweight” after rates
start to exceed about 3 percent. Global markets could plunge
between 20 percent and 40 percent over the following 18 months
as liquidity is squeezed by higher rates amid lower  government
spending  and rising taxes to pay off U.S. public debt, Naeimi
said.  The economy will expand 2.9 percent this year, according to
the median of 75 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg,
which range from 2.2 percent to 4 percent. Economists see real
gross domestic product growth of 3.1 percent in 2012, according
to the survey’s average.  President  Barack Obama  in a speech on April 13 proposed
reducing the  U.S. budget deficit  by $4 trillion over 12 years by
cutting government spending and increasing taxes.  A return to growth means commodity prices will likely rise,
further increasing the pace of inflation, said Naeimi.  “The combination of inflationary pressures from commodity
prices and tighter liquidity conditions will be limiting from a
growth point of view,” he said.  Commodity Prices  The Fed has already noted rising energy and material costs
as violence rages in Libya and  China  struggles to restrain its
economy, which overtook  Japan  as the world’s No. 2 last year. In
its March 15 statement, the  Federal Reserve , part of whose
mandate is to ensure  price stability , said commodity prices had
risen significantly in recent weeks.  “Nonetheless, longer-term inflation expectations have
remained stable, and measures of underlying inflation have been
subdued,” the statement said.  AMP Capital’s strategy is a departure from its traditional
buy-and-hold approach. The firm is introducing active funds that
have no minimum equity-holding requirement, allowing it freedom
to play market fluctuations and even to pull completely out of
equities if required.  “You can’t any longer just buy up a bunch of assets and
hope they’ll go up as a whole,” said Naeimi. “Equity markets
over the next few years will be very choppy, and our funds need
to be flexible enough to raise our allocation to equities or go
purely defensive at short notice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 