-- 
Hamptons Home Sales Fall Most Since 2009 as Snow Impedes Manhattan Buyers

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-04-21T15:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/hamptons-home-sales-fall-most-since-2009-as-snow-impedes-buyers.html
Home sales in the Hamptons, Wall
Street’s summer retreat, fell 22 percent in the first quarter
after snowfalls hampered buyer interest and sellers made deals
late last year in anticipation of higher  capital gains  taxes.  Transactions in the  Long Island , New York, beachside towns
plunged to 309 from 396 a year earlier, New York-based appraiser
 Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker  Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate  said in a report today. The 22 percent year-over-year
drop was the largest since the second quarter of 2009,  Jonathan Miller , president of Miller Samuel, said in an interview.  The slump probably had more to do with poor weather keeping
 Manhattan  buyers away from the market than a plunge in demand,
said Miller and Gregory Heym of brokerage Brown Harris Stevens.
Between December and March 31, 61.9 inches (157 centimeters) of
snow fell in Central Park, making for the third-snowiest season
on record, according to the  National Weather Service . In Islip,
New York, about 60 miles (97 kilometers) west of  East Hampton ,
the snow total was 55.3 inches.  “With so many buyers coming from Manhattan it would have
been difficult to get out there to close transactions,” said
Heym, chief economist at  Brown Harris , which also released a
report on the Hamptons today. “How do you get from Manhattan to
East Hampton when you have a foot of snow?”  Drop in Prices  The median price of homes that sold in the quarter fell 23
percent to $699,000, as fewer properties changed hands in every
geographic area on the South Fork of Long Island, according to
Miller Samuel and Prudential. In the North Fork, an area of
vineyards and beaches across the Peconic Bay, prices fell 16
percent to $432,500 as sales declined 22 percent.  “To me that suggests some sort of consistent external
phenomenon and that phenomenon might be the weather,” Miller
said. “This is a one-quarter anomaly and the spring market will
see a continuation of where we left off” last quarter, he said.  There were 403 purchases in the final three months of 2010,
 Miller Samuel  and Prudential data show. Year-end closings may
have robbed transactions from the first quarter as sellers
rushed to complete deals on concern that capital gains taxes for
top earners would rise on Jan. 1, according to Heym.  “It pushed up a lot of high-end buying,” he said.  In the first quarter, 38 percent of all Hamptons home sales
were for $1 million or more, according to the Brown Harris
Stevens report. A year earlier, 50 percent of sales were for
properties above that price.  $17.5 Million Sale  The most expensive home to sell in the first quarter was a
$17.5 million, eight-bedroom, eight-bath property on Ocean Road
in Bridgehampton, Heym said. It was the only sale of more than
$8 million, compared with 12 sales higher than that price range
in the fourth quarter, he said.  President  Barack Obama  agreed in December to extend Bush
administration tax cuts for two years, keeping the capital gains
rate the same.  Roland Chemtob put his four-bedroom East Hampton home up
 for sale  in December for $2.99 million, betting on a surging
spring market after he declined to sell last May for $2.35
million.  Snowy weather did damp customer traffic through the four-
bedroom home on Horse Meadow Lane, with an art gallery and
private nightclub in the basement, he said.  “Things were not as frenetic as they were supposed to
be,” Chemtob said in an interview.  Missing the Mark  Chemtob, a part-time developer and start-up investor of
companies including recordmycalls.com, got three offers for his
home. They were close to what he was asking, ’’but they didn’t
hit the mark,’’ he said.  By February, Chemtob rented out the property for the
summer. He hopes to be able to sell it for his price later this
year, as some seasonal renters might seek to become owners in
the Hamptons, he said.  “I’m being a bit stickier to my number,” he said. “I
think June, July, August, September are going to be very
interesting, strong sales months.”  Four reports issued this week showed declines in sales
activity and closing prices in the Hamptons.  Town & Country Real
Estate  said sales fell 26 percent, with 215 properties changing
hands. It reported a 30 percent decline in the median price.  The  Corcoran Group  said sales dropped 23 percent to 360
deals across the 10 hamlets and towns that make up the Hamptons.
The median price of those deals fell 9 percent to $868,000.  Less-Expensive Homes  Buyers “seemed to go for less-expensive homes,” said Judi Desiderio, president of Town & Country, a Hamptons brokerage.
“Maybe they would have been looking for a $5 million house and
they’re buying a $2 million to $3 million house.”  The number of homes listed for sale in the Hamptons climbed
3 percent in the first quarter to 1,689, according to Miller
Samuel and Prudential. The listing discount, or the amount
subtracted from the asking price to strike a deal, fell to 11
percent from 12 percent a year earlier.  At the current pace of sales, it would take more than a
year to sell all of the properties on the market.  Of the 12 towns and villages tracked by Town & Country,
three had increases in sales from a year earlier. Sag Harbor saw
sales jump 56 percent to 14 deals, with the median price of
those transactions more than doubling to $1.59 million. Montauk
had one more sale this quarter than a year ago, with a total of
15 properties changing hands. The median sale price in Montauk
slipped 10 percent to $700,000, according to Town & Country.  In  East Hampton Village , sales fell 65 percent to six
homes. Bridgehampton transactions decreased 46 percent, with 19
properties trading hands in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  