-- 
Manchester United, David Beckham Head Up Forbes Magazine Soccer Rich Lists

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-21T13:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/manchester-united-david-beckham-head-up-forbes-magazine-soccer-rich-list.html
Manchester United  tops Forbes
magazine’s list of the world’s most valuable soccer clubs with
an estimated market value of $1.86 billion, while  David Beckham 
is the world’s richest player.  United, owned by the Florida-based Glazer family, is
followed by record nine-time European Cup winner Real  Madrid ,
which is valued at $1.45 billion,  Forbes  said on its website.
London-based Arsenal, which American Stan Kroenke took control
of last week, is third at $1.19 billion.  Forbes determined the value using previous sales, broadcast
agreements and debt. Real Madrid was ranked as soccer’s richest
club by sales in a review published by accountant Deloitte LLP
in February, with United third behind Barcelona.  The average value of the 20 clubs on the list increased by
1.3 percent over past year to $640 million, while operating
income rose 25 percent to $40 million, Forbes said.  United, which is closing in on a record 19th English
championship, led last year’s list on a value of $1.84 billion.
The club’s global appeal has attracted 333 million supporters
worldwide and its commercial revenue of $122 million grew at a
more than 10 percent rate, Forbes said.  Bayern Munich , at $1.05 billion, was the only other club to
top a billion in value, with Barcelona fifth at $975 million.  Defending Premier League champion Chelsea ranked seventh at
$658 million and Liverpool, bought by American John W. Henry in
October, is ninth at $552 million.  Former England captain Beckham, now playing with Major
League Soccer’s Los Angeles Galaxy, heads the player earnings
list with $40 million from salary, bonuses and endorsements,
Forbes said.  Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo is second at $38 million,
followed by Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi , the reigning FIFA World
Player of the Year ($32 million), Real Madrid’s Kaka ($25
million) and Ronaldinho ($24 million) of Brazilian club
Flamengo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 