-- 
Anglo’s Bid to Increase Copper, Iron Ore Output Hit by Rain

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-21T16:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/anglo-s-first-quarter-refined-platinum-output-jumps-19-copper-slides-14-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the world’s
biggest platinum producer, posted declines in output of copper,
coal and  iron-ore  in the first quarter as heavy rain in the
Southern Hemisphere hindered expansion plans.  Iron-ore output fell 19 percent to 9.9 million metric tons
mainly due to “wet pit conditions, resulting from excessive
rainfall” at the mines of  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , in which Anglo
owns a 65 percent stake, the company said in a statement today.
Copper production fell 14 percent to 138,800 tons, while coking
coal output was 37 percent lower at 2.1 million tons.  Anglo, based in  London , digs iron ore in South Africa, coal
in Australia and copper in  South America , where mines were
flooded. BHP Billiton Ltd., the largest mining company, reported
a 14 percent drop in coking coal output as the worst floods in
Queensland since 1974 and cyclones in Western  Australia 
disrupted operations in the quarter. Rio Tinto Group, the second
largest, posted a 16 percent decline in iron ore output.  A La Nina weather pattern, which brought heavy showers to
parts of the southern hemisphere, may weaken further in the
coming months, with a return to neutral conditions likely by
winter, Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said last week.  “It’s a disappointing quarter which should be followed by
a strong recovery” in the second quarter, RBC Capital Markets
analyst Des Kilalea said in a note today. Output should increase
as weather conditions improve, he wrote.  $70 Billion Expansion  Anglo’s copper production this year will probably be
“marginally higher” than 2010 as production from the Los
Bronces expansion begins in the fourth quarter, Anglo said.
Kumba’s output is expected to be unchanged, it said.  Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  is preparing for a
$70 billion expansion to double output over 10 years, betting on
increased Asian demand for the metals the company produces.  In  Brazil , Anglo produced first metal from its new Barro
Alto mine last month and expects to ship its first iron ore from
the Minas Rio project in the second half of 2013 after starting
civil works at a processing plant last quarter.  Anglo Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , of which Anglo American owns about 79
percent, boosted refined output of the metal 19 percent to
532,900 ounces, it said. The company, based in Johannesburg, cut
net debt “slightly” more than expected to 5 billion rand ($745
million) from 8.8 billion a year earlier. Anglo American’s
nickel output jumped 27 percent to 6,100 tons.  A voluntary four-week shutdown of the Wessels and Mamatwan
mines in  South Africa  after a fatal accident in February cut
manganese ore output by 21 percent, Anglo said.  Anglo American dropped 0.4 percent to 3,162 pence by the
4:30 p.m. close of trading in London, giving the company a
market value of 41.8 billion pounds ($69 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  