-- 
Angolan Eurobond Yield May Be Near Nigeria’s on Oil Boost, Standard Says

-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 
2011-04-21T12:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/angolan-eurobond-yield-may-be-near-nigeria-s-on-oil-boost-standard-says.html
Angola ’s planned $500 million sale
of Eurobonds may carry a yield similar to Nigeria’s dollar debt
as  oil prices  boost revenue for Africa’s second-biggest
producer, according to Standard Bank Group Ltd.  The southern African nation intends to sell its debut
dollar bond in September, Finance Minister Carlos Alberto Lopes
said yesterday in Luanda. Angola is rated B1 at Moody’s
Investors Service and B+ at both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, the fourth-highest junk rating at all three companies.  The debt’s price may be similar to that of Nigeria’s $500
million dollar bond, its first international notes, when issued
Jan. 21 at a yield of 7 percent,  Samir Gadio , a London-based
emerging-market strategist at  Standard Bank , wrote in reply to
e-mailed questions.  “The lack of transparency and institutional bottlenecks in
Angola versus Nigeria could weigh negatively on the yield
metrics, but this should be offset by fiscal consolidation,”
higher oil prices and rebound in foreign reserves, he wrote.  Angola’s foreign reserves climbed to $18.2 billion at the
end of March compared with $17.7 billion in December, according
to government data, boosted by an increase in the price of oil,
which is trading within $1 of the highest level since September
2008. The country derives 80 percent of income from oil exports.  Oil Boost  The yield on the 6.75 percent notes of Nigeria, the
continent’s biggest producer of crude, was 6.27 percent at 10:22
a.m. in Lagos. Africa’s most populous country has the same
rating as Angola at S&P and is one step higher at BB- at Fitch.  Angola had planned to sell as much as $4 billion of
international bonds to help pay for government expenditure after
the decline in the oil price from its July 2008 record crimped
state revenue. In May, it said it would instead sell as much as
$2 billion of  government bonds  locally.  The nation, which is rebuilding infrastructure ravaged by a
27-year civil war that ended in 2002, paid $2.2 billion of its
domestic debt as of January, mainly to Portuguese and Brazilian
building companies, Lopes said yesterday. Another $2.5 billion
is outstanding, he said. The government has been in arrears on
payments for work executed by  Brazil ’s Odebrecht SA and
 Portugal ’s Grupo Soares da Costa SGPS SA.  Transparency  “Investors will be discriminating as Angola, even without
challenges like Nigeria’s, still has fiscal issues that are
cause for concern,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic
research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said by phone
today. “There is insufficient transparency in Angola even as
the  Finance Ministry  is trying to improve disclosure. All of
that would have a bearing on the rating.”  Nigeria ’s foreign-exchange reserves plunged by almost $10
billion to $33.1 billion in the year through Nov. 29 as the
central bank propped up the currency and the government withdrew
oil savings from its excess crude account, a windfall saved when
the price of crude goes above the benchmark used for the
country’s budget, before elections being held this month.
Reserves increased to $33.7 billion by April 19, according to
the  Central Bank of Nigeria’s website .  Angola ranks 168th on Transparency International’s
Corruption Perceptions Index for 2010, the 10th-lowest out of
178 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  