-- 
Hanjin Container Ship Attacked by Pirates Near Gulf of Aden; Fate Unknown

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-21T06:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/hanjin-container-ship-attacked-by-pirates-near-gulf-of-aden-1-.html
Hanjin Shipping Co.,  South Korea ’s
largest shipping company, said one of its container vessels was
attacked by pirates near the  Gulf of Aden , prompting the Asian
country’s military to send a warship to the area.  The Hanjin Tianjin, which can carry 6,500 20-foot
containers, was attacked 250 miles (402 kilometers) east of the
Yemeni island of Socotra around 5:15 a.m. today Korea time, the
Seoul-based company said in an e-mailed statement. There are 20
crewmembers on board the ship, it said.  “We suspect the vessel may have been hijacked,” South
Korea’s foreign ministry spokesman Cho Byung Jae told reporters
today in  Seoul . The Choi Young destroyer has been dispatched, he
said, without elaboration.  Hanjin Shipping is still working to determine the fate of
the vessel, which was heading to Singapore from  Europe , it said.  The company fell 1.6 percent to close at 30,050 won in
Seoul trading after dropping as much as 4.8 percent. The
benchmark Kospi index rose 1.3 percent.  An increase in pirate attacks, spurred by a 36-fold jump in
ransoms in five years, has threatened vessels carrying 20
percent of world trade and raised expenses for shippers. Costs
linked to piracy may reach $13 billion to $15 billion by 2015 as
global trade rebounds and pirates operate over wider areas,
according to consultants  Geopolicity Inc.   The Choi Young destroyer rescued a South Korean chemical
ship in January after the vessel, which had 21 crewmembers on
board, was hijacked by Somali pirates. Five pirates captured in
the mission are awaiting trial in South Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  