-- 
IPhone, IPad Tracking Is Probably a ‘Mistake,’ Researchers Say

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-04-21T21:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/apple-iphone-tracking-is-probably-engineering-mistake-researchers-say.html
The iPhone and iPad’s ability to
logs users’ whereabouts is probably a mistake that  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
will eliminate, said the researchers who discovered the feature.  "If this was a conspiracy, this file would have been hidden
better and we wouldn’t have found it,’’ said Alasdair Allan, one
of the computer programmers who discovered the tracking feature.
“Our best guess is this was an engineering mistake.”  Allan and former Apple software engineer Pete Warden said
they stumbled upon the file where all the location data was
being stored by accident while toying with the iPhone to see
what other data could be pulled from the device. They were
surprised to find a file with about 29,000 logs of their
whereabouts -- about a year’s worth.  They determined that Apple’s iOS 4 operating system for the
iPhone and iPad 3G is logging latitude-longitude coordinates
along with the time stamp of when a spot was visited. The data
is transferred to the hard drive of a computer when the 3G
iPhone or iPad is synched.  "As data geeks, my first reaction was, ‘this is really
cool; I love seeing this story of my life play out on a map,’"
said Allan. "My second reaction was, ‘I don’t want anybody else
to see.’"  If the feature isn’t eliminated by Apple, customers at
least need to be able to opt out of having their movements
logged, said Warden, who used to work on Mac software at Apple.  "The key difference is permission and control," he said.
"With this file you have no control over that. The user can’t
give informed consent."  ‘Serious’ Concerns  The discovery has led to criticism of Apple from privacy
groups, regulators in France and  Germany , as well as U.S.
lawmakers. Allan and Warden said they reached out to Apple about
the tracking before publishing their results yesterday and
didn’t hear back.  "The existence of this information -- stored in an
unencrypted format -- raises serious privacy concerns," U.S.
Senator Al Franken, a Democrat from  Minnesota , said in a letter
to Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  seeking answers to
questions about how the tracking data is being used.  Apple didn’t respond to multiple requests for comment. The
company has previously told lawmakers that it collects location
information about users of its smartphones, the Wall Street
Journal reported today.  Allan and Warden said they hope publicizing the issue will
ensure that Apple addresses the tracking feature. They also
suggest users choose to encrypt data that’s being transferred
from their iPad or iPhone.  “What we’ve been telling everyone is don’t panic,” said
Warden. At the same time, "we need to make sure this is fixed."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 