-- 
Largest U.S. Nuclear Plant Wins 20-Year License Extension

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x   a n d   P e t e r   J .   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-21T22:02:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/largest-u-s-nuclear-plant-wins-20-year-license-extension-1-.html
U.S. regulators granted a 20-year
license extension to the Palo Verde nuclear station in  Arizona ,
the nation’s largest atomic power plant.  The three-reactor plant, owned by  Pinnacle West Capital
Corp. (PNW) , is about 50 miles (80 kilometers) west of Phoenix. A
careful review found “no safety concerns” to prevent the plant
from operating until 2047, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission said today in a statement.  Without the extension, the licenses for the three reactors
would have expired from 2025 to 2027. Palo Verde is the nation’s
largest nuclear power plant by capacity,  according to  the U.S.
Energy Information Administration. The reactors have a combined
capacity of 4,005 megawatts, according to NRC data.  Palo Verde’s license renewals were granted as the NRC
conducts a 90-day reactor-safety review after a March 11
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  caused a partial meltdown at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  The Fukushima plant’s cooling systems were knocked out,
which allowed fuel rods to overheat. The explosions, fires and
radiation leaks that followed have triggered the worst nuclear
crisis since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  The Tokyo-based utility said April 17 that it may take
three to six months to put the reactors into a cold shutdown,
where core reactor temperatures fall below 100 degrees Celsius
(212 degrees Fahrenheit).  The NRC, which has said U.S. plants are built to withstand
natural disasters, will provide an update on the safety review
May 12, the agency’s chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
Peter J. Brennan in  Los Angeles  at 
 pbrennan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  