-- 
Harper Quoting Hamlet Puts Politics Before Economic Policy in Canada Vote

-- B y   T h e o   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-04-21T14:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/harper-quoting-hamlet-puts-politics-before-economic-policy-in-canada-vote.html
At about the two-thirds mark of
Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s stump speeches -- after he
lambastes rivals for forcing unnecessary elections and rolls out
a list of initiatives that have been put at risk by the
opposition --  Canada ’s Conservative leader breaks into poetry.  “A sea of troubles is lapping at our shores,” Harper
tells his audiences, borrowing a phrase from Hamlet’s famous
soliloquy to warn Canadians of the sufferings they may face
should his party lose power in the May 2 vote. “Disaster in the
Pacific, chaos in the Middle East, debt problems in  Europe , and,
of course, some very serious challenges just south of our
border. Canada is the closest thing the world has to an island
of security and stability.”  Though that last bit’s not Shakespeare, it works for
Harper, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 25 issue.
The 51-year-old is seeking reelection by running on the
country’s stellar economic record: the fastest recovery with the
lowest budget deficits among the Group of Seven nations, and the
first to recoup all jobs lost in the recession. Polls show the
Conservatives are favorites.  So why are some economists so unimpressed? “We were
extremely lucky,” said Stephen Gordon, a professor at
Université Laval in  Quebec City . “We were lucky that our
banking system just happened to be indestructible.” Canada’s
banks were never enmeshed in the subprime crisis because the
country’s banking rules limited their ability to invest in risky
assets. Other economists say Harper’s political objectives often
get in the way of good economics. According to Christopher Ragan, an economics professor at  McGill University  in Montreal
and former adviser to the central bank and Finance Department:
“They are not always guided by the desire to make good
policy.”  Economists’ Complaints  The list of economists’ complaints is long. Harper doles
out too many tiny credits and deductions that complicate the  tax
code  -- some 20 such measures since taking power in 2006, double
the number of the previous five years, according to the Finance
Department’s tax expenditure  reports . Early in his
administration Harper reduced sales taxes, missing an
opportunity to lower costly personal income taxes that
discourage savings and investment.  The Conservative leader has often used government money to
pick winners. His 2009  stimulus package  included the creation of
a new development agency to provide grants to businesses in
Ontario. One of his key campaign pledges is for a C$4.2 billion
($4.3 billion) loan guarantee for an electricity venture in
Atlantic Canada that Hydro-Québec says will distort the market.
Not only has Harper done little to lift barriers to foreign
direct investment, among the most restrictive in the
industrialized world, he is the first Canadian Prime Minister to
reject a foreign corporate takeover in more than two decades.
“They are pretty interventionist,” says McGill’s Ragan. Since
taking power Harper has increased program expenditures by
40 percent, to C$245 billion.  Giving Kudos  Economists, including Ragan, do give Harper kudos for some
decisions. In 2006 he eliminated tax breaks for companies that
used special investment vehicles, and in 2007 he cut corporate
income taxes aggressively. His 2009 stimulus plan was among the
largest in the G-20. Ragan, co-author of the most widely used
economics textbook in Canada, grades Harper an 8 out of 10 for
short-term management and 5 out of 10 for “long-term economic
thinking.” Canada’s potential economic growth won’t be much
greater than 2 percent a year beyond 2011 because of low
increases in productivity and an aging workforce, Bank of Canada
Governor Mark J. Carney said last year. “We can choose to be
the proverbial frog in the pot of heating water, but that story
does not end well,” says Ragan.  No Majority  A major concern for Harper that economists don’t share, of
course, is political survival. He’s never held a  majority of
seats  in Canada’s House of Commons, and has had to line up
opposition backing for every piece of legislation.  In the course of navigating the politics, Harper has
developed a brand of conservatism that Queen’s University
economist Thomas J. Courchene calls “small government, and lots
of it.” A favorite tool is tax measures aimed at specific
groups such as families and small business owners. His last
 budget , which wasn’t passed, included C$35 million in tax
credits for volunteer firefighters over three years. The
conservatives have also chosen environmental regulation instead
of a carbon tax that would fuel government revenue, which would
encourage more spending. Harper prefers consumer protection
rules to opening the banks and phone companies to foreign
ownership and competition, which would galvanize critics. While
avoiding wholesale changes to federal programs, Harper has
refrained from introducing new ones. His tax cuts have reduced
the federal take to its lowest as a share of gross domestic
product since at least 1961, even as he piles on the tax
legislation.  ‘Water in Our Wine’  Harper’s backers say they are just being pragmatic. “We
can be suicidal about this and lose the next election and we’ll
have no influence at all,” says Goldy Hyder, a Conservative
strategist and general manager at Hill & Knowlton Canada in
Ottawa. “Or we need to put a certain amount of water in our
wine.” As Harper explained to Bloomberg in a September 2008
interview, “I know that we often live in what we call the world
of second best.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  