-- 
AS Luterma, Lehman Europe Paintings, Kabul Bank: Bankruptcy

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-04-21T14:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/as-luterma-lehman-europe-paintings-kabul-bank-bankruptcy.html
AS Luterma, an Estonian food and
property company formerly named AS Kalev, was declared bankrupt
by a court at the request of a unit of  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and a local
water utility.  The Harju County Court ruled on April 19 that the company
was bankrupt due to lack of assets and asked that bankruptcy
proceedings be started, Kristina Ots, the court spokeswoman,
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Luterma sold its Kalev Chocolate Factory, Estonia’s biggest
candy maker, to  Norway ’s  Orkla ASA (ORK)  last May. The shares of its
Tere AS dairy subsidiary were moved to a representative account
of the local unit of Nordea AB at the beginning of the year as
loan collateral,  Aeripaeev  newspaper reported cited Oliver Kruuda, the main owner of Luterma. Kruuda is considering
appealing the decision, the newspaper said.  Luterma, which delisted from the Tallinn stock exchange in
2009, has 53.5 million euros ($78 million) in assets on its
balance sheet, of which about 40 million euros is a claim on
bankrupt AS Alta Foods, Luterma’s bankruptcy trustee Veli Kraavi
said in a phone interview. Liabilities amount to 37.5 million
euros, he said.  Swedbank’s main claim against Luterma is for 4.6 million
euros plus interest on arrears, Laura Kaesel, a spokeswoman at
the bank, said in an e-mailed response to questions. AS Tartu
Veevaerk, a utility in Tartu,  Estonia , claims 400,000 euros.  Lehman Brothers Sells 22 Paintings From Europe Office at Auction  Edinburgh auction house  Lyon & Turnbull  offered 22
contemporary pieces from the  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
European offices at auction, with a total estimate of as much as
47,000 pounds ($78,000) at hammer prices. The sale raised 45,425
pounds with fees. Six of the lots failed to sell.  Many of the works on offer were large scale, Nick Curnow,
Lyon & Turnbull’s managing director, said. Estimates ranged from
300 pounds to 8,000 pounds.  The top lot was the 2006 photographic piece, “Picture Made
by Hand With the Assistance of Light,” by the U.K.-born artist
 Walead Beshty , who now lives in  Los Angeles . This sold for
18,750 pounds, beating a high estimate of 8,000 pounds. The
work, which is 6 feet (1.8 meters) high, was made by bending
photographic paper into a sculpture and then exposing it to
light.  A 2001 watercolor of a landscape seen through prison bars
by the German painter Guenther Foerg sold for 1,875 pounds,
below an estimate of 3,000 pounds.  Once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank,  New York- 
based Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history on
Sept. 15, 2008, with assets of $639 billion. More than $830
billion in claims have been filed against Lehman, which has said
many are duplicates.  Sales at  Freeman’s Auctioneers  in Philadelphia,  Sotheby’s (BID) 
in  New York  and Christie’s International in  London  raised $1.35
million, $12.3 million and 1.6 million pounds, respectively, for
creditors in 2009 and 2010.  Ireland to Revise Bankruptcy Laws in Early 2012, Kenny Says  Ireland’s government will publish revised bankruptcy laws
in the first quarter of 2012, Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
told the Dublin parliament on April 19.  Kenny’s coalition government promised when it was formed in
March to fast-track changes in laws requiring bankrupted
individuals to wait 12 years before their debts are discharged.  Afghan Investors Stall Law to Ban Loans That Ruined Kabul Bank  Seven months after  Afghanistan ’s biggest bank collapsed
from losses on loans to its shareholders, a draft law to cut
insider lending and bank owners’ powers has stalled under
President  Hamid Karzai , government officials say.  The government took over Kabul Bank in September as
thousands of depositors rushed to withdraw their money after
learning the bank’s owners had lost hundreds of millions of
dollars they had lent to themselves. Some loans paid for luxury
homes in Dubai for shareholders, including Mahmoud Karzai, the
president’s brother, the Washington Post cited him as saying.  A stricter law to prevent further  bank failures  “is still
being studied” for reconsideration by a panel named by the
cabinet, central bank spokesman Aimal Hashoor said in a phone
interview April 18. Karzai legal adviser Nasratullah Stanekzai,
who attended a January cabinet meeting that rejected the bill,
said a panel hasn’t been named and Karzai’s office isn’t pushing
to get the law rewritten.  “We are still waiting for a new proposal from  Da
Afghanistan Bank ,” the central bank, Stanekzai said by phone in
Kabul. “We don’t know if they are working on the law and we are
not going to intrude on their process.”  The government may be unwilling to slash the powers of bank
owners who have helped Karzai and other officials with election
campaign money,  Kabul University  economist Saifuddin Saihoon
said in a phone interview. Kabul Bank’s former chairman Sherkhan
Farnood organized Dubai fund-raising events for Karzai’s 2009
reelection campaign, the Washington Post reported.  Zhejiang Glass Denies Bankruptcy Report, Plans Restructuring  Zhejiang Glass Co., which has been suspended from trading
in  Hong Kong  for almost a year, denied a report by news website
Hexun.com that it may declare bankruptcy.  Bankruptcy is “impossible,” Tao Haipin, a Zhejiang Glass
investor relations official, said by telephone on April 19. “We
are looking for partners for restructuring.” The company’s
stock was suspended May 2010 pending the release of its 2009
earnings.  Hexun reported on April 18 that Zhejiang Glass may declare
bankruptcy or be acquired by a state-owned company, citing banks
and the local government of the region where the company is
based. The glassmaker owes banks 7 billion yuan ($1.1 billion),
Hexun reported, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
company’s accounts.  “Basically, the company is now under the control of the
local government and the future is all based on the government’s
decision,” Zhejiang Glass’s Tao said by telephone on April 19.  Zhejiang Glass was the first company from  China  founded by
private individuals to list shares in Hong Kong, Hexun reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 