-- 
Asian Currencies Gain on Interest-Rate Outlook, Rally in Regional Stocks

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-21T08:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/asian-currencies-gain-on-interest-rate-outlook-rally-in-regional-stocks.html
Asian currencies climbed, led by
 Singapore ’s dollar, on speculation regional central banks will
tolerate faster appreciation and raise borrowing costs to tame
inflation.  The Bank of Thailand raised interest rates yesterday, for
the sixth time in less than a year, and signaled more increases
are likely. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and People’s Bank of
China Deputy Governor Hu Xiaolian have said in the past week the
yuan’s flexibility may play a role in countering the fastest
inflation in 32 months. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional
stocks rose 1.2 percent after U.S. companies, including Apple
Inc., reported better results than analysts had forecast.  “Central banks in  Asia , from China to Singapore to
Malaysia, seem to be allowing currency gains to help curb
inflation,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian
and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo .  Singapore’s dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to S$1.2347
against its U.S. counterpart as of 4:44 p.m. local time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.   Taiwan ’s dollar,
Indonesia’s rupiah and Malaysia’s ringgit all advanced 0.3
percent to NT$28.926, 8,628, and 3.0075, respectively.  Taiwan’s dollar touched the highest level in more than two
months after official data released yesterday showed the
island’s export orders rose 13.4 percent in March from a year
earlier, compared with median forecast of 4.7 percent in a
Bloomberg survey.  “The surprisingly good export figures lifted sentiment,”
said Tarsicio Tong, a Taipei-based currency trader at the Union
Bank of Taiwan. “More income from overseas will support the
currency.”  Malaysian Inflation  The ringgit rose to a 13-year high on speculation the
fastest inflation in 23 months will prompt policy makers to
raise  interest rates  when they next meet on May 5. Consumer
prices rose 3 percent in March from a year earlier, the most
since April 2009, the statistics department said yesterday. Bank
Negara Malaysia next has kept its overnight rate at 2.75 percent
since July.  “The inflation data increases the odds of a rate increase
this quarter,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, foreign-exchange
strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “Also,
the intervention risk is lowered with most Asian currencies
gaining in tandem.”  Thailand’s baht touched a four-month high after Bank of
Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said
yesterday that interest rates are on a rising trend and the
central bank needs to keep raising them as the economy expands.
The baht advanced 0.2 percent to 29.89 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 29.88 earlier, the
strongest level since Dec. 6.  Elsewhere, South Korea’s won gained 0.2 percent to 1,080.13
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China ’s
yuan rose 0.08 percent to 6.5205 and  India ’s rupee strengthened
0.1 percent to 44.29. Financial markets in the Philippines are
closed today and tomorrow for the Easter holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 