-- 
Syrian Forces Fire Teargas as Damascus Protesters Test Emergency-Rule End

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y ,   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-04-22T14:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/assad-lifts-48-year-old-emergency-decree-abolishes-state-security-court.html
President Bashar al-Assad’s
security forces fired teargas and live ammunition to break up
protests, Arabiya reported, as demonstrators took to the streets
a day after he lifted a 48-year-old state of emergency.  Protests, clashes and injuries were reported across the
country today, including in Douma, a suburb of Damascus where
UPI reported at least three were injured. The city of Latakia
was blocked off with sandbags, Arabiya said, while demonstrators
clashed with police in Daraa and army units surrounded the city
of Homs, where the  BBC  reported gunfire.  At least 10 people were killed in the clashes today,
Arabiya television cited human-rights activists including Razan
Zaitouneh as saying. Protesters said the “Good Friday
demonstrations” would be a test of whether anything had changed
after Assad announced his apparent concession to three months of
demands yesterday.  “There are protests in Daraa, and 5,000 security personnel
gathered to beat people and use tear gas,” Haitham al Maleh, a
member of the Syrian Human Rights Committee, told Al Jazeera
television. “There are buses ready to transport people
anywhere. Nothing has changed.”  Assad issued the decree yesterday ending emergency rule,
which suspended most constitutional protections, banned rallies,
restricted media freedom and permitted arbitrary detention. He
also abolished the Supreme State Security Court and approved a
measure allowing demonstrations.  Stifle Protests  Josh Landis, a  Syria  specialist who directs the Center for
Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma in Norman,
said he expected Assad to stifle the protests despite the
announcements yesterday.  “He is going to crack down hard, as he can’t allow this
movement to snowball,” Landis said. “He’s made some
concessions but he doesn’t want to look weak.”  Activists said the orders yesterday fall short of what is
needed to end the demonstrations that spread nationwide almost
six weeks ago. A crackdown on dissent has left dozens of
protesters dead, while the government has blamed the violence on
criminals and terrorists who are trying to weaken the state.  At least 130 people have been killed in the unrest,
according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch . Syrian forces
have tortured protesters and it’s impossible to verify how many
remain in detention, HRW said. Activists say the number killed
exceeds 200.  ‘Heavy Security’  “There is tension pretty much in all the cities and a
heavy security presence in preparation for the Friday prayers,”
Abdul-Karim Rihawi, head of the Syrian Human Rights League, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “I don’t believe there is
any tolerance for any demonstrations even if peaceful”  The protests mark the greatest challenge to Assad’s rule
since he inherited power from his father 11 years ago.  Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National Organization for
Human Rights , said in a telephone interview that the concessions
were won with blood.  “What’s happened is good, however it’s not enough,” he
said of Assad’s moves yesterday.  “The issue is not about canceling a law but more about a
prevailing environment that has characterized the state and its
security apparatus,” Yassin Al-Haj Saleh, a Syrian writer and
political activist, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  At least 18 protesters have been killed in clashes at anti-
government rallies since an April 16 address by Assad, Qurabi
said this week.  Assad has accused foreign-led conspirators of taking
advantage of the unrest to undermine Syria, mostly due to its
support for anti- Israel  groups. Assad’s Baath party has been in
power since 1963.  Syria is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring
Lebanon, where it supports Hezbollah, an armed Shiite Muslim
group that fought a war against Israel in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 