-- 
Tata Consultancy Services Profit Increases 23% After Winning More Orders

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-04-21T12:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/tata-consultancy-services-profit-rises-23-beating-analysts-estimates.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the
world’s second-largest computer services provider by market
value, said fourth-quarter profit rose after companies
outsourced more information-technology contracts.  Net income rose 23 percent to 24 billion rupees ($542
million) in the three months ended in March, the Mumbai-based
company said in a statement today. That compares with the 23.6
billion-rupee average of 31 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The earnings are based on U.S. accounting norms.  Chief Executive Officer Natarajan Chandrasekaran, who added
39 clients including Air Liquide SA in the fourth quarter, said
demand continues to be “vibrant.” Tata Consultancy joins
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Accenture Plc (ACN)  in
signaling corporations are raising spending on computer services
and advisory businesses.  “TCS’s top-10 clients’ composition is such that they’re
all in really good financial health,” said Shashi Bhusan, an
analyst at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai with a “buy”
rating on the shares. “Their clients are able to spend more and
more on I.T.”  Tata Consultancy  fell 2.2 percent to 1,192.10 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The company’s price-to-earnings ratio
is the highest among the top three software writers in  India ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand  The company had sales of 101.6 billion rupees in the
quarter, according to the statement, which didn’t provide a
year-ago number. Tata Consultancy had revenue of 77.4 billion
rupees in the fourth quarter last year, according to the
company’s website. A Bloomberg survey of 46 analysts had
estimated sales of 101.5 billion rupees.  “The demand environment continues to be vibrant,”
Chandrasekaran said in the statement. “There are opportunities
across markets and industries.”  Worldwide spending on IT outsourcing by businesses and
governments will grow 7.1 percent this year to $254 billion
after increasing 2.8 percent last year, according to a Jan. 10
report from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester Research
Inc.  U.S. businesses and government will lead the growth,
spending an estimated $104 billion on IT outsourcing this year,
according to an April 1 report from Forrester. Spending in the
country will outpace gross domestic product growth as companies
make up for orders delayed from the recession and replace older
systems, Forrester said.  Volume Growth  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month said U.S. GDP
will expand 2.9 percent in 2011, the same rate as last year.  Tata Consultancy  derived  53 percent of its revenue from
companies in  North America , 16.2 percent from the U.K., and 10.5
percent from continental  Europe  in the year ended March 2010. A
stronger rupee damps the value of overseas earnings during
repatriation.  The company added a net 11,700 employees in the fourth
quarter and had an attrition rate of 14.4 percent, according to
the statement. Volume growth in the fourth quarter was 2.9
percent, the statement said.  Volume at  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) , Tata Consultancy’s
nearest competitor, fell 1.4 percent in same period, Chief
Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan said in an April 15 call with
analysts.  Information-technology services companies define volume as
the number of man-months workers spend on projects for clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  