-- 
Mattel Doesn’t Own Sketches, Idea for MGA’s Bratz, Jury Says

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-04-21T16:25:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/mattel-doesn-t-own-original-sketches-of-mga-s-bratz-dolls-jury-determines.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT)  doesn’t own the
sketches or the idea for Bratz dolls made by MGA Entertainment
Inc. and the rival toymaker didn’t steal the idea for the dolls
from Mattel, a federal jury ruled in the copyright lawsuit.  The federal court jury in  Santa Ana , California, also has
awarded damages of at least $3.4 million to MGA for trade-secret
theft. The jury is continuing to read its verdict.  The jury had been asked to determine whether MGA stole
Mattel’s trade secrets in 2000, when it made an agreement with
the designer who Mattel says worked for it at the time he came
up with the idea for Bratz, and whether the dolls MGA started
selling in 2001 infringed Mattel’s copyright.  Last year, a federal appeals court overturned a 2008
verdict in Mattel’s favor. A jury in Riverside,  California , had
awarded Mattel $100 million in damages after agreeing that the
designer,  Carter Bryant , made most of the initial sketches for
the dolls while he worked for El Segundo, California-based
Mattel. Mattel had sought as much as $1 billion in damages.  In the current trial, Mattel claimed lost profits of
$314 million to $544 million.  The designer has always maintained he came up with the
Bratz idea and made the first drawings in 1998, while he was
living in  Missouri  with his parents in between two stints of
working for Mattel, MGA’s lawyers told the jurors.  The appeals court, in ordering a second trial, said the
lower-court judge had erred in ruling that Bryant’s employment
agreement entitled Mattel to the designer’s drawings as a matter
of law. The appeals court also found that the judge, Stephen Larson, who has since returned to private practice, was wrong to
award Mattel the rights to most of MGA’s Bratz products.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  