-- 
Looted Klimt in Salzburg Museum Returns to Nazi Victim’s Heir

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-21T13:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/austria-has-to-return-gustav-klimt-s-litzlberg-am-attersee-work-to-heir.html
The Austrian province of Salzburg
said it will return a landscape by Gustav Klimt to the heir of a
Jewish woman who was murdered by the Nazis, after research
showed the artwork was looted from her apartment by the Gestapo.  The oil-on-canvas landscape, “Litzlberg am Attersee”
(Litzlberg on the Attersee), is “one of the best and most
valuable masterpieces” in Salzburg’s  Museum of Modern Art , the
provincial government said in a  statement  on its website.  The 1915 picture belonged to Amalie Redlich until she was
deported to  Poland  in 1941 and murdered. The Gestapo cleared her
apartment after her forced departure. The painting will now
return to her grandson and heir, Georges Jorisch, Salzburg said.  The return of the painting is “painful -- not just for the
Museum of  Modern Art ’s collection, but for our state and for all
 Austria ,” said Wilfried Haslauer, deputy governor of Salzburg.
Still, he said, the state “cannot allow itself to be the
beneficiary of a criminal regime.”  Austria is one of 44 countries that in 1998 agreed on non-
binding principles to return Nazi-looted art in public
collections to the prewar owners and their heirs. In 2006, it
was forced to relinquish five Klimt paintings after a court
ordered their return to Maria Altmann of  California .  In 2009, a sixth Klimt painting, the unfinished “Portrait
of Ria Munk II,” was returned from the  Lentos Museum  in Linz to
the heirs of Aranka Munk. It was valued at more than $25 million
by auction house Christie’s International.  “Litzlberg am Attersee” was acquired after 1941 by the
Salzburg art dealer and collector Friedrich Welz, who swapped it
for an artwork in the Salzburg collection, the statement said.  Klimt turned to landscapes relatively late in his career.
Many were painted at Attersee, a lake in western Austria, where
he spent almost every summer from 1900.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  