-- 
Autonomy Says 2011 Estimates Are Conservative on Client Spending

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-21T13:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/autonomy-says-2011-estimates-are-conservative-on-client-spending.html
Autonomy Corp., the U.K.’s second-
largest software company, reiterated that analyst estimates for
2011 are “conservative” as customers increase expenditure.  “We see a gentle, sustained recovery, where discretionary
spending is coming back,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Lynch
said today in an interview.  First-quarter revenue climbed 13 percent from a year
earlier to $220 million, Cambridge, England-based Autonomy said
today in a statement. Net income advanced 9 percent to $54.2
million, beating analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Raised profit and sales forecasts from U.S. technology
companies including  Intel Corp . and International Business
Machines Corp. are reflecting demand from clients seeking to
upgrade computer systems after the recession ended.  Autonomy rose as much as 8.6 percent in  London , the biggest
intraday jump since Feb. 1, and traded 7.6 percent higher at
1,623 pence as of 2:23 p.m.  The company said in February that estimates were
conservative based on the company’s pipeline for business. Full-
year sales are currently predicted to rise 11 percent to $968
million, according to the average estimate of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  A planned acquisition may not be possible, Lynch said,
declining to comment further. Autonomy had aimed to complete a
deal by the end of last year. The transaction with the
unidentified company was delayed because of “changes in the
targeted asset,” Autonomy said in February.  Clients include the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
the U.K Houses of Parliament,  Europe ’s largest defense company
BAE Systems Plc and carmaker Bayerische Motoren Werke AG.  Sage Group Plc (SGE)  is the U.K.’s largest software maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  