-- 
Balkan Economic Recovery Is at Risk From Greek Woes, Mirow Says

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-04-21T08:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/balkan-economic-recovery-is-at-risk-from-greek-woes-mirow-says.html
The Balkans remains at risk from
 Greece ’s sovereign debt crisis as the region’s recovery is
weaker than elsewhere in eastern Europe, said European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development President Thomas Mirow.  Greece, which asked the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  for financial aid last year, is
seeing its borrowing costs surge on investors’ concern that it
may need to restructure its debt. Those concerns may impact
banks operating in the Balkans and the EBRD, along with the IMF,
will work to prevent the contagion, Mirow said.  For the rest of the Balkans, “I would say it is a
potential risk and it needs to be mitigated and contained,”
Mirow said in an interview in Kiev yesterday. “We have been
quite active, especially in the regard to the financial sector,
as subsidiaries of Greek banks play an important role in these
countries.”  The EBRD, which was established after the fall of communism
to help nations in eastern  Europe  and the former  Soviet Union  in
the transition to a market economy, forecast the Balkans to
expand 1.9 percent this year, half the pace of the rest of
central and eastern Europe.  In the region, Slovenia, Romania and  Bulgaria  are already
members of the EU, with Croatia the next in line to join the
world’s largest trading bloc. All former Yugoslav nations want
to eventually become EU members.  “To start with Romania and Bulgaria, they are very slow to
return to growth and that means that they take quite longer than
others to recover from the crisis,” said Mirow.  Bosnia Mess  Bosnia & Herzegovina, the scene of the worst fighting
during the disintegration of  Yugoslavia  in the 1990s, is
suffering the worst, he said.  Bosnia still doesn’t have a central government after
October general elections. Serbs, Croats and Muslims have failed
to agree as each nation seeks a dominant position in the
landlocked Balkan country.  “There is insufficient will between nations to cooperate
in a way that would make Bosnia & Herzegovina a stable and
attractive environment for private investments,” Mirow said.  In neighboring  Serbia , the most populous of the former
Yugoslav republics, the pro-European governments of past years
have helped in some areas, though there is a long way to go.  “Serbia is a country that for some years had quite a pro-
European majority, but it is struggling in many respects at the
same time,” he said. “Western Balkans remain a difficult area
and inclusion into more European perspective still has some
issues and problems.”  ‘Good Signal’  Croatia , which faces elections by the end of the year, aims
to wrap up EU entry talks by the end of June as the Adriatic
nation struggles to overhaul its judiciary and bolster the
economic recovery.  Serbia hopes to win EU candidate status this year. Mirow
said the accession of Croatia into the EU would be a “good
signal” for the rest of the Balkans.  “The European Union has also drawn lessons from premature
accession agreements that do not take into consideration
sufficiently, for instance, the situation of the legal system
and judiciary,” Mirow said. “I hope they will be accomplished,
but I cannot predict it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  