-- 
Beiersdorf Sticks to Margin, Sales Forecasts for Consumer Unit

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-04-21T09:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/beiersdorf-sticks-to-margin-sales-forecasts-for-consumer-unit.html
Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the German maker of
Nivea skin cream, reiterated a 2011 forecast of unchanged
revenue and lower margins for its consumer-products division.  Operating profit as a percentage of sales for the division
will be lower than last year’s 11.3 percent and will improve in
2012, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Quaas said at the company’s
annual general meeting in Hamburg today, repeating a forecast
made in December. Revenue from the unit, which sells skin creams
and shampoos, will remain at the 2010 level of 5.32 billion
euros ($7.8 billion) and rise next year, Beiersdorf said.  Beiersdorf has said it plans to cut its number of beauty
products by 19 percent to focus on skin care. The company
expects restructuring costs of about 270 million euros through
2012 related to writedowns in  China  and a high “double-digit”
euro amount in additional advertising spending for the Nivea
brand. Nivea celebrates its 100th anniversary this year.  “We are decisively strengthening Beiersdorf’s growth and
profitability by focusing on our core business and increasing
our closeness to our markets,” Quaas said. The first months of
the current year have been in line with expectations, he said.  Revenue at the Tesa division, which makes adhesive tape and
bandages, will outpace overall market growth, Beiersdorf
repeated today. Tesa accounts for about 14 percent of revenue.  The company, which is controlled by coffee-retailer
Maxingvest AG, will today ask shareholders to approve an
unchanged dividend of 70 cents a share on last year’s earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 