-- 
Bernanke Bond Market Signals No Change With Obama-Congress Cutting Deficit

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-21T08:24:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/bernanke-bond-market-signals-no-change-with-obama-congress-cutting-deficit.html
The  Federal Reserve  can be counted
on to keep its balance sheet big and  interest rates  low if
President Barack Obama and Republican lawmakers agree on a
multi-year deal to slash the $1.4 trillion  budget deficit .  That’s the message from the Treasury bond market, where
yields on 10-year securities sank to their lowest level in
almost a month this week on speculation that government budget
cuts will slow the economy and encourage the Fed to hold off
from raising borrowing costs, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The more fiscal austerity you get, the more likely that
the Fed will stay on hold for longer,” El-Erian, whose  Newport
Beach , California-based company runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, said in an April 19 interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  A 10-to-15 year agreement to stabilize and then reduce the
ratio of federal debt to gross domestic product would trim U.S.
economic growth by a quarter to a half percentage point a year,
according to a scenario run by Englewood, Colorado-based
consultants IHS. The Fed probably would try to mitigate that
impact by tightening credit more slowly than it otherwise might,
said IHS Chief Economist Nariman Behravesh.  The yield on 10-year notes was 3.41 percent at 9:03 a.m. in
 London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That’s more
than a half-percentage point below the average of about 4
percent during the past 10 years, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s also lower than the 3.74 percent high for this
year, set on Feb. 8.  Plot Monetary Strategy  Central bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues
likely will affirm their pledge to complete $600 billion in
purchases of Treasury debt by the end of June when they meet
next week to plot monetary strategy, said Neal Soss, chief
economist for Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc in New York.  The question then facing the Fed would be when to start
withdrawing stimulus from the economy, with the first step
likely to be a decision to reduce its balance sheet by not
reinvesting into Treasuries the proceeds of maturing debt.  Fed officials were divided at their last meeting over the
timing of tightening, according to the minutes of the March 15
gathering. While a few suggested a move might be warranted this
year, “a few others noted that exceptional policy accommodation
could be appropriate beyond 2011.”  Most of the 50 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey last
month said they expect the Fed will keep its bond portfolio
stable for some time after the $600 billion purchase program
ends. A plurality of 16 saw the central bank waiting four to six
months before allowing its balance sheet to shrink.  Delay Decision  The Fed might delay a decision into next year if Obama and
Congress tighten fiscal policy sooner and more sharply than the
central bank already anticipates, said Roberto Perli, managing
director at International Strategy & Investment Group in
 Washington  and a former Fed official. That also would delay the
timing of the Fed’s first interest-rate increase, he added.  Futures markets in  Chicago  see a more than one-in-three
chance that the central bank will raise its target for the
federal funds rate by January 2012. The target for the rate
banks charge each other on overnight money has been zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Former Fed Governor Laurence Meyer said he is sticking with
his forecast that policy makers will increase the rate in
January, though he added that “steeper spending cuts would put
pressure” on that call.  “ Monetary policy  should always offset what fiscal policy
does” to the economy, said Meyer, who is now vice chairman of
St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers. Bernanke “would never
say that, but that is the case.”  Budget Pact  The economy already looks set to suffer a fiscal hit to
growth of about one percentage point next year as a temporary
cut in payroll taxes and other stimulus measures expire, said
 Mark Zandi , chief economist in West Chester,  Pennsylvania , at
Moody’s Analytics. Any budget pact would be on top of that.  Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen told the Economic Club of
 New York  last week that she hadn’t figured in the possibility of
a “substantial package to tighten fiscal policy” during the
central bank’s last quarterly forecasting round.  At the Jan. 25-26 meeting, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  generally saw the U.S. expanding by 3.4 percent to 3.9
percent this year and 3.5 percent to 4.4 percent in 2012.
Bernanke will present the group’s updated forecasts at his first
press conference on April 27.  Hopes of a multi-year budget deal have grown after Obama
and House Republicans presented separate programs this month to
rein in the deficit and debt.  ‘More Optimistic’  “I am feeling far more optimistic about resolving this
issue now than I was several months ago,” former Fed Chairman
Alan Greenspan said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” television
program April 17.  El-Erian also said he’s become more hopeful about an
agreement, though he cautioned that “there are still hard
decisions to be made.”  While Obama and Republicans in the  House of Representatives 
both want to reduce cumulative budget deficits by $4 trillion,
they disagree over the speed and means to do so. Obama has
called for a “balanced” approach that combines spending cuts
with tax increases to achieve the $4 trillion objective in 12
years. Republicans want to use only expenditure reductions to
accomplish the goal in 10 years.  The announcement this week by Standard & Poor’s that the
U.S. government risks losing its AAA credit rating increases
pressure on Obama and Republicans to strike a deal.  ‘Fiscal Challenges’  “S&P’s outlook certainly adds to motivation in Washington
to confront our fiscal challenges,” said  Tony Fratto , who
served as a White House and U.S. Treasury official under
President  George W. Bush .  New York-based S&P said there’s a one-in-three chance it
might cut the rating within two years, adding its “baseline
assumption” is that Congress and the Obama administration will
come to terms on a program to reduce the deficit.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  voiced confidence
political leaders will bridge their differences and move toward
a long-term plan to narrow deficits and reduce the debt.  “We have an opportunity now over the next two months to
make some real progress,” Geithner said in an April 19
interview on Bloomberg Television. “What we agree on is putting
in place strong targets for savings,  deficit reduction  over a
specific time frame with enforceable limits.”  Borrowing Limit  House Republicans  have warned that they won’t vote to
increase the country’s $14.29 trillion debt limit unless it’s
accompanied by steps to reduce the deficit. The Treasury has
said the borrowing limit will be reached no later than May 16,
at which point it will turn to emergency measures that provide
borrowing room through about July 8.  “We won’t raise, just simply raise, the debt limit,”
House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin
Republican, said April 17 on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
television program. “We will vote to have spending cuts and
controls in conjunction with the debt-limit increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  