-- 
Birth-Control Pills With Drospirenone Raise Clot Risk in Study

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-04-21T22:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/birth-control-pills-with-drospirenone-raise-clot-risk-in-study.html
Women who use birth-control pills
made with the hormone drospirenone, such as  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Yasmin,
are three times more likely to develop blood clots than those
who take an older oral contraceptive, a study found.  The overall risk of developing a clot in the lungs or legs
was still low for women using drospirenone, according to the
 study  published today in the  British Medical Journal . The
research examined U.K. database reports on almost 300 women.  The results support earlier findings from European studies
that drospirenone appears to have a higher risk of clots
compared with the older levonorgestrel, according to the U.S.
and New Zealand researchers. They also contradict two industry-
funded studies that found the hormones had a similar clot risk,
said the researchers, led by Susan Jick, a professor of
epidemiology at the  Boston University School of Medicine .  “Prescribing lower-risk levonorgestrel preparations as the
first-line choice in women wishing to take an oral contraceptive
would seem prudent,” said the researchers in the study.
“Perhaps now is the time for a systematic review on this
topic.”  A separate  study , which was also led by Jick and published
in the journal today, found a doubling of the risk of clots in
women who took drospirenone compared with levonorgestrel. That
research was based on U.S. insurance claims information on
almost 900 women. Women taking any kind of contraceptive pill
have a fivefold higher risk of blood clots compared with those
who don’t, previous research has found.  Bayer Pills  Bayer’s Beyaz, Yaz and Angeliq pills also contain
drospirenone, which is similar to the natural female hormone
progesterone. Levonorgestrel, which also resembles progesterone,
is used in contraceptives made by companies including Bayer,
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   “Given the already large and robust scientific body of
evidence, in Bayer’s opinion these studies do not change the
overall assessment about the safety of Bayer’s oral
contraceptives,” the Leverkusen, Germany-based company said in
an e-mailed statement. The research showed “significant flaws”
and clots are a rare side effect of using any birth-control
pill, Bayer said.  The researchers used a U.K. database to find patients who
had started taking either drospirenone or levonorgestrel as a
first-time contraceptive or after a period of not taking birth-
control pills. They selected women aged 15 to 44 who didn’t have
any major risk factors for blood clots.  Sixty-one women who started treatment after May 2002 had
been diagnosed with clots, the researchers found. The results
couldn’t be explained by differences in how long the patients
were on the treatment or whether they were first-time
contraceptive users.  The main limitation of the study is the small number of
clot cases found, the scientists said. No funding was received
to support the research, they told the medical journal.  About 6,850 lawsuits were pending in the U.S. as of Feb. 1
over alleged injuries and deaths as a result of the use of
Yasmin, Yaz, or Teva’s generic versions of the drugs, according
to Bayer’s annual report. Bayer also faces 13 class action suits
in  Canada . Additional lawsuits are anticipated, Bayer said in
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  