-- 
BlackRock First-Quarter Net Rises 34% as Market Lifts Assets

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-04-21T16:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/blackrock-first-quarter-profit-jumps-34-as-stock-market-gains-lift-assets.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, said first-quarter profit increased 34 percent as
a rising stock market lifted assets.  Net income climbed to $568 million, or $2.89 a share, from
$423 million, or $2.17, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today. Excluding some one-time costs, BlackRock
earned $2.96 a share, beating the $2.76 average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Assets under management rose 2.5 percent from the previous
quarter as market gains offset $12.6 billion in net withdrawals,
mostly in lower-fee money funds. Chief Executive Officer
Laurence D. Fink said redemptions related to the 2009 takeover
of  Barclays Global Investors  are almost over, after clients who
wanted to reduce their investments with the combined firm pulled
a net $139 billion since the deal was completed.  “People have been focused on the legacy attrition from the
acquisition,” Macrae Sykes, an analyst at Rye, New York-based
Gabelli & Co., said in a telephone interview before the results
were announced. “Our thesis is that BlackRock should be the
beneficiary of flows into alternative funds as well as ETFs.”  BlackRock rose $3.93, or 2 percent, to $197.65, at 11:40
a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have increased 3.7 percent this year, compared with a 1 percent
gain for the 17-member asset management and custody banks index.
BlackRock replaced Genzyme Corp. in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index earlier this month.  Withdrawals Slow  Assets rose to $3.65 trillion from $3.56 trillion at the
end of December, helped by market gains of $100 billion.
Redemptions stemming from the BGI acquisition slowed to $18.4
billion from $38.7 billion. Excluding those and withdrawals from
money funds, BlackRock said it attracted $34.7 billion in long-
term business.  BlackRock will stop reporting merger-related withdrawals as
they are winding down, Fink said today in a conference call with
analysts and investors. The firm expects an additional $9.4
billion in such withdrawals, which had already been reported, he
said.  Revenue rose 14 percent to $2.28 billion from a year
earlier as investment advisory fees, performance fees earned for
beating certain benchmarks and income from the firm’s BlackRock
Solutions advisory unit rose.  Helped by Market  Money managers, who earn fees on the assets they oversee
for customers, benefited in the first three months of the year
because of rallying markets, Robert Lee, an analyst with Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc. in New York, wrote in an April 6 note to
clients. Lee raised his estimate for BlackRock’s profit in the
quarter to $2.71 a share from $2.64, according to the note.  Janus Capital Group Inc., the Denver-based money manager,
today reported a 21 percent increase in earnings, while T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. said net income rose 27 percent.  Janus reported long-term net redemptions of $2.7 billion
during the quarter, driven by client withdrawals from its equity
funds. T. Rowe Price drew $5.8 billion into its funds during the
first three months of the year.  Global Index  The MSCI AC World Index of global developed and emerging
market stocks advanced 6 percent this year through yesterday.
The average value of the index in the first quarter rose 14
percent from a year earlier.  Assets under management at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s
investment unit climbed 4.9 percent to $1.23 trillion in the
first quarter, the New York-based firm said April 19. Boston-
based State Street Corp. said assets in its money-management
division grew 5.5 percent to $2.12 trillion.  Fink, 58, has built BlackRock through a series of
acquisitions, including the 2006 purchase of Merrill Lynch &
Co.’s investment unit. BlackRock acquired the hedge fund-of-fund
business of Quellos Group LLC in 2008. The company created a
renewable-power unit in February to expand the alternatives
division, which manages  hedge funds  and real estate funds.  BlackRock may look to expand its alternatives business and
may add private-equity funds, Fink said today.  “We’re re-looking at different types of alternative
activities, including private equity, so we do believe it’s an
opportunity,” he said.  Blackstone Connection  BlackRock was founded in 1988 with financial backing from
buyout firm Blackstone Group LP, which took a 40 percent stake
in BlackRock for a $5 million line of credit. Blackstone, the
world’s largest private-equity firm, manages $150 billion in
assets, including $36 billion in private-equity funds. It late
sold its BlackRock stake.  Blackstone today reported its first profit under generally
accepted accounting principles since the firm went public four
years ago. The company’s net income was $42.7 million, compared
with a loss a year earlier of $121.4 million.  Investors have committed $2 billion to BlackRock’s
alternative investments this year, according to the firm. Assets
in multi-asset class funds, which invest in a mix of stocks,
bonds and other assets, rose by $22.4 billion in the quarter.
The firm’s iShares exchange-traded funds attracted $10.5
billion, including $3 billion into the iShares MSCI  Japan , the
firm said. The firm is also seeing investors put more money into
equities, Fink said.  “Clients are re-risking,” Fink said.  BlackRock is seeing more opportunities to expand globally,
especially in  Europe  and  South America , Fink said. While
investor deposits in  Asia  are “slower than we would like,” the
firm is interested in expanding there, according to Fink.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  