-- 
Blockbuster to Give Dish Network More Time to Decide Leases

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-21T19:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/blockbuster-to-give-dish-network-more-time-to-decide-which-leases-to-keep.html
Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , once the largest
video-rental chain, will give buyer  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  more time
to decide which of 1,500 leases to keep or reject, Blockbuster
lawyer Stephen Karotkin said today.  The sale agreement, which was supposed to close today,
would also be changed to have Dish take on costs for the leases
at video rental stores across the U.S. while it decides whether
to keep them, Karotkin told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland. About 95 percent of the landlords have agreed to extend
their current leases by 90 days, he said.  Dish expects the deal could now close by April 26, and is
working to maximize the number of employees who can keep their
jobs, said spokesman Marc Lumpkin in a phone interview after the
court hearing.  “We’ll continue to work with landlords to try to reach an
agreement to minimize the number of stores that need to be
closed,” Lumpkin said. “We regret some employees will lose
their jobs as a result of store closings. Some workers may get
jobs at stores that will stay open, he said.  Dish’s $320 million offer to buy all of the Dallas-based
chain’s assets was declared the highest and best offer after an
auction April 6.  Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S., saying sales fell in recent
years while rivals  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  grew by renting movies online
and through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  put Redbox DVD vending
machines in supermarkets and drugstores.  29,000 Jobs  Blockbuster’s deal with Dish will build the Dallas-based
chain’s subscriber-based service as it evaluates how many stores
to close with its new owner, Blockbuster Chief Executive Officer
James W. Keyes said in an interview after the winning bid was
approved earlier this month. He said 29,000 jobs and
“billions” in contracts with suppliers were in limbo until the
deal is completed.  “There are over 1,500 store leases and Dish deciding what
to do with leases by the closing date became an issue,”
Karotkin said in today’s hearing.  Keyes compared the company’s current on-demand service with
those of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
which are all based on individual transactions. Netflix Inc.
sells subscriptions for unlimited viewings by the month.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  