-- 
Borders Said to Be Seeking at Least $50 Million in Additional Financing

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r ,   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-21T16:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/borders-said-to-be-seeking-at-least-50-million-in-additional-financing.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , the bankrupt
book chain, is seeking at least $50 million in additional
financing as sales trail expectations and publishers demand cash
in advance, said two people who have seen the chain’s plans to
reorganize.  The funds are needed to help Borders emerge from its in-
court restructuring, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the process isn’t public. The retailer
already has a $505 million debtor-in-possession loan, which
offers sufficient capital for the next few months, the people
said. The retailer may risk liquidation without further
investment, easier terms from vendors or a buyer, they said.  Some publishers are spurning the reorganization the chain
proposed to them privately, said a person familiar with the
publishers’ strategy. At least one deems the revenue projections
unrealistic because Borders no longer has enough stores to
generate those sales, said the person, who declined to be
identified because Borders’s presentations aren’t public.  Annual sales may drop to $1.5 billion, according to court
papers, less than half what the chain generated two years ago.
Borders, which is winding down about one-third of its more than
600 stores, has yet to file an outline of its reorganization
plan in court.  “As a matter of ongoing company policy, we don’t comment
on rumors,” said  Mary Davis , a spokeswoman for  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan-based Borders.  Company’s Origins  The book chain, which once operated more than 1,000 stores,
lost business as customers switched to e-readers such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle, introduced in 2007. Larger rival
 Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  invested in its own Nook device to attract
customers.  Brothers Tom and Louis Borders founded the company four
decades ago, building the chain to almost 20 stores before
selling to Kmart Corp. in 1992. Three years later the retailer
spun off the business, which had locations under the Borders,
Waldenbooks and Planet Music brands.  Jefferies & Co. is a financial adviser to Borders. Josh
Passman and  Tom Tarrant , spokesman for Jefferies, didn’t return
calls for comment.  Borders is seeking to reorganize, raise more capital, or
find a buyer for all or parts of the company, according to Bruce
Buechler, a lawyer for the unsecured creditors. New York-based
Barnes & Noble isn’t viewed as a potential buyer for Borders,
according to two people familiar with the process.  The lenders financing the bankruptcy reorganization are led
by  GE Capital .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at  
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  