-- 
Botswana Unions Warn State of Violence Over Strike Replacement Workers

-- B y   J e r r y   B u n g u
-- 
2011-04-21T13:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/botswana-unions-warn-state-of-violence-over-strike-replacement-workers.html
State-employee unions in  Botswana ,
the world’s biggest diamond producer, warned a 10-day strike
over pay may become violent if the government continues to use
replacement workers.  The state has until 4:30 p.m. in Gaborone, the capital, to
remove those workers, the Botswana Federation of Public Sector
Unions said in a statement handed to Mokgweetsi Masisi, the
minister of presidential affairs, today. The group also
challenged the state in the industrial court over the use of
replacement workers.  “Do not push us to the extremes, we can be violent,”
Johnson Motswaragole, secretary-general of the Botswana Manual
Workers’ Union, an affiliate of the federation, said as he
handed over the petition after a protest in Gaborone.  Doctors, immigration officials and other civil servants in
the southern African nation are on the fourth day of a pay
strike. The unions want a 16 percent increase while the state is
offering 5 percent. Annual inflation was unchanged at 8.5
percent in March. As many as 90,000 workers are expected to join
the strike, according to Andrew Motsamai, secretary-general of
the union federation.  The unions’ wage demand is unreasonable and the state will
keep negotiating with workers, Masisi said in an interview.
“The government does not have the money,” he said.  Botswana has vowed to slash a  budget deficit  that widened
to about 10 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year
through March after a decline in diamond demand hit revenue and
sent the economy into recession.  The economy expanded 7.2 percent in 2010 after contracting
4.9 percent in 2009, according to the  Central Statistics Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerry Bungu in Gaborone at 
 jbungu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  