-- 
BP Agrees to Pay $1 Billion for Oil Spill Restoration

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-04-21T23:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/bp-commits-to-early-restoration-projects-along-gulf-coast.html
BP Plc (BP)  agreed to pay $1 billion to
restore areas damaged by its  oil spill , which spewed 4.9 million
barrels of crude into the  Gulf of Mexico  for three months last
year.  The U.S. Justice Department, which helped negotiate the
deal, called it a “first step toward fulfilling BP’s
obligation” to repair damage to natural resources. The money
will be used to replenish beaches, barrier islands and damaged
wetlands and for efforts to conserve ocean habitats, the
department said in a statement.  “We believe the early restoration projects to be funded
through this agreement represent the best way forward in
restoring the Gulf,” Lamar McKay, president of BP America Inc.,
said in a statement  The agreement doesn’t affect BP’s potential liability from
the spill, the  Justice Department  said. The U.S. has said it
will seek from the companies involved as much as $4,300 in civil
penalties for each barrel spilled, in the case of negligence or
willful misconduct.  The London-based  oil company  told a federal court in  New
Orleans  the fine may be based instead on the number of days the
well gushed. The  Clean Water Act  provides a fine of $32,500 for
each day of a spill, a difference that would amount to billions
of dollars for the company.  Justice Review  Justice Department officials also are considering whether
to charge BP managers with manslaughter, according to people
familiar with the matter who spoke last month on condition of
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss the case
publicly. Authorities are investigating whether BP managers who
worked both on the rig and onshore should be charged in
connection with the workers’ deaths, the people said.  Distribution of the resource restoration money will be
overseen by trustees from Alabama,  Florida , Louisiana,
Mississippi, Texas, the Interior Department and the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, according to the
statement. The group will begin working after a public comment
period.  “This is a good step to address the damage caused by the
BP oil spill and to begin restoration,” Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat and chairman of the Senate
Commerce Committee, said in a statement.  The agreement will “jump-start restoration projects that
will bring Gulf Coast marshes, wetlands and wildlife habitat
back to health,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said in a
statement.  The $1 billion comes from a $20 billion fund BP set up to
pay for restoration and to compensate spill victims. The  Gulf
Coast Claims Facility , which is run by Washington attorney
 Kenneth Feinberg  and draws from the account, has paid more than
$3.9 billion to individuals and businesses hurt by the spill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  