-- 
Transocean Blamed in BP Suit for Billions in Damages on Spill Anniversary

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 4 6 4 6 3 1 5 ]   K a r e n   G u l l o   [ ]
-- 
2011-04-21T17:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/bp-sues-transocean-seeking-to-recover-billions-in-damages-for-gulf-spill.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner and
operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded one
year ago yesterday, was sued by  BP Plc (BP/)  for billions of dollars
in damages related to the  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill .  BP said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
New Orleans that it has incurred costs of $17.7 billion and that
it took a pretax charge last year of $40.9 billion in relation
to the spill. The London-based company said that without
Transocean’s “misconduct,” there wouldn’t have been any
explosion, fire, deaths or oil spill.  “The simple fact is that on April 20, 2010, every single
safety system and device and well control procedure on the
Deepwater Horizon failed, resulting in the casualty,” BP said
in its complaint.  The Macondo well blowout and the explosion that followed
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors. BP’s filing
yesterday came as part of a series of complaints and
counterclaims by plaintiffs and defendants meeting a deadline
set by the federal judge overseeing the suits.  The lawsuits also name as defendants  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services, and BP’s minority partners in the
well,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore
LLC unit. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  has scheduled a
nonjury trial for February 2012 to determine fault.  ‘Specious and Unconscionable’  BP accused Transocean, based in  Switzerland , of breaching
its contractual duties, including failing to adequately maintain
the drilling rig and fix earlier engine problems and failing to
train its crew and properly coordinate efforts to fight fires on
the vessel.  “This suit is specious and unconscionable,” Lou Colasuonno, a Transocean spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Deepwater Horizon was a world-class drilling
rig manned by a top-flight crew that was put in jeopardy by BP,
the operator of the Macondo well, through a series of cost-
saving decisions that increased risk -- in some cases,
severely.”  BP’s complaint was its “latest desperate bid” to turn its
back on an agreement with Transocean to assume full
responsibility for the costs of the spill damage, Colasuonno
said.  Transocean’s Claims  Transocean yesterday filed cross-claims against its former
partners in the Macondo well project, accusing BP of failing
“to honor its contractual commitments,” said Kerry Miller, a
Transocean attorney. BP has failed to indemnify Transocean
against lawsuits for death, personal injury and pollution, as
required by its drilling contract, Miller said.  Also yesterday, BP sued  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  over
allegations that that company’s blowout-prevention equipment was
a cause “in whole or in part” of the well blowout and spill.  Cameron’s design and manufacture of the blowout preventer,
or BOP, “used on the Deepwater Horizon, as well as Cameron’s
maintenance and modification of that BOP, did not meet the
standards of a reasonable manufacturer and service provider,”
BP said in a filing. The blowout preventer “failed to properly
operate when needed and was unreasonably dangerous when used as
intended,” BP said.  Blowout Preventer  BP is seeking damages from Cameron for providing an
allegedly defective product, as well as contributions for any
money the  oil company  has to pay for claims under the Oil
Pollution Act, BP said in the filing. BP said it has committed
to paying all legitimate claims while reserving the right to
collect from Cameron or other responsible parties.  Cameron said in court filings last week that the explosion
wasn’t its fault because oil and gas were already surging toward
the rig when workers tried to activate the blowout-prevention
equipment to seal the well. “Hydrocarbons had entered the riser
well before the crew attempted to activate the BOP, and even a
perfectly functioning BOP could not have prevented the
explosions,” Cameron said in its April 15 filing.  Plaintiffs suing the companies over the spill have claimed
Houston-based Cameron’s BOP wasn’t designed to handle the
extreme environment and thicker drill pipes found in ultra-deep
wells. BP claims the blowout preventer was defectively designed
and incapable of working as expected.  ‘Not Surprising’  “It is not surprising that the companies are filing to
protect their indemnity rights,”  Rhonda Barnat , a Cameron
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Cameron has also filed claims “in order to protect
ourselves,” she said.  BP also accused the Halliburton unit that provided
cementing services for the well of “improper conduct” before
the blast. BP said a Halliburton engineer and others at the
Houston-based company concealed problems with its “foam cement
slurry” from BP before and after the explosion.  “Halliburton could not have caused the resulting damage
without concealing from BP material facts and expert opinions
about its cement slurry, including its properties, weaknesses
and its likelihood of failure,” according to a BP complaint
against Halliburton Energy Services, filed yesterday.  Three days after the explosion, “Halliburton falsely told
BP that the cement job was completed successfully” and
“repeated those false assertions to the world,” BP said in its
complaint.  Halliburton Claim  Halliburton filed claims against BP, Transocean and the
other contractors, claiming any damages resulting from the
blowout or spill were “proximately caused by the actions and/or
omissions” of the other parties “and not by any conduct on the
part of Halliburton Energy Services.”  “BP decided on the well design. BP decided when to conduct
rig activities,” Halliburton said in a complaint. “BP decided
what products and services to use, and whether to accept or
reject its contractors’ recommendations regarding those products
and services.”  Halliburton claimed indemnity for any damages it might be
assessed.  “Halliburton remains confident that we executed our work on
the Macondo well under BP’s direction and according to their
plan,”  Cathy Mann , a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“The claims we have filed against BP confirm that we are seeking
simply to enforce the indemnity BP provided to Halliburton in
our contract with them.”  Nalco Holding  Nalco Holding Co. (NLC) , which supplied the chemical dispersant
Corexit, used to break up the spilled crude, filed a claim
yesterday against the U.S. government, which the company said
was “directing and controlling the response to the oil spill.”  Nalco faces suits from fishing interests claiming the
dispersants further fouled the ocean and from spill-response
workers claiming injury from contact with the toxic chemicals.  More than 1.8 million gallons of dispersants were pumped
into deep Gulf waters at the leaking wellhead or sprayed by
boats and aircraft onto oiled waters and shoreline. As a
government-approved contractor, Naperville, Illinois-based Nalco
says, it’s entitled to contribution or indemnity from the U.S.
for any damages caused by its product.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ). 