-- 
Brain Collector Seeks Trump-Like Donors to Probe How Personality Is Formed

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-04-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/brain-collector-seeks-trump-like-donors-to-probe-how-personality-is-formed.html
Jacopo Annese  wants Donald Trump’s
brain, literally.  That’s the example cited by Annese, a 45-year-old
neurologist, in describing who might be the ideal candidate for
a 1,000-donor campaign being run this year by his University of
California  San Diego   brain bank . The center is seeking people
who can supply detailed life histories before they die, and
their physical brains afterward.  Annese already is working with a  former flying monkey  from
the “Wizard of Oz,” and a woman who can’t feel fear. Trump’s
history as a real-estate developer, author and TV star would be
a good addition, he said. The center, begun six years ago, is
creating novel technologies and strategies to help researchers
study how personality, memories, emotions and other traits are
reflected within the brain’s chemical and electrical signaling
systems. Success, Annese said, depends largely on the depth of
information shared by the bank’s donors.  The ideal is “someone with an interesting life, a
politician or businessman whose biography has already been
written,” he said in a telephone interview. “We want to write
the last few chapters of their biography in neurological terms.
We should go after  Donald Trump , really; that’s a lot of work
saved up front for us.”  While Trump, whose autobiography is titled “ The Art of the
Deal, ” may fit the ideal, he may not be interested. Rhona Graff, a Trump spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Querying Donors  Potential donors are queried closely by workers at the San
Diego center. They’re asked about their medical histories, as
well as where they lived, what jobs they held, how and what they
like to eat, and their hobbies. The results, categorized and
cross-referenced, can then be used by researchers to compare the
physical makeup of the donors’ brains once they die.  “Once you really discover who these people are and what
they did, the word ‘ordinary’ doesn’t fit,” Annese said.  The project received $500,000 in seed funding from the
 National Science Foundation  in Arlington,  Virginia , the  National
Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland , the  Dana Foundation 
in New York, and private donors.  Annese is continuing to seek funding, even as the center
embarks on its 1,000-brain campaign, Annese said. Imaging a
complete organ requires about one petabyte of disk storage, or
about 50,000 Blu-ray discs.  “We’re banking on the fact that digital storage will get
cheaper as this goes along,” he said.  Flying Monkey  One potential donor is 92-year-old Bette Ferguson, who says
she worked as an extra on the “Wizard of Oz” movie and, at one
point, was strapped into a flying monkey suit when another actor
wasn’t available. Her donation allows researchers to study a
person whose memory remains perfectly intact, even at an
advanced age, Annese said.  Ferguson was born on a World War I troop ship as it sailed
back to the U.S., she said in a telephone interview. She recalls
vivid details from each of her five marriages.  “I have five children and that’s my legacy, and that’s
pretty good,” Ferguson said yesterday, explaining why she
decided to sign up for the UC San Diego program. “If I can do
more by donating my brain, why not?”  Annese, she said, “makes a point of really knowing people,
and why we do what we do. That attitude is important, and it
will help the future.”  Molaison’s Memory  The central idea behind the UC San Diego center was built
around Annese’s work with a brain acquired in 2008, donated by a
man named  Henry Molaison , who couldn’t retain a memory beyond
twenty seconds when he was alive. That organ was the first to
undergo the complex process Annese now uses to produce all the
images placed on the center’s open-access website.  Once the brains are recovered, they’re frozen and cut into
2,600 to 2,700 slices, each 70 microns wide, or about the width
of a human hair. Each piece is then scanned on a microscopic
level using proprietary technology developed at the center.  The images are then re-assembled into three-dimensional
models that can be viewed wholly, or in dissected portions.
Before he died, Molaison’s case was one of the most studied ever
by neurologists, allowing the center to provide researchers with
all of his personal and medical information.  The method lets multiple scientists access Molaison’s brain
and medical information at the same time, helping speed up and
expand research, according to Lynne Bernstein, program director
for cognitive neuroscience at the  National Science Foundation .  ‘Biological Basis’  “Cognition, intelligence and love all have a biological
basis,” said Bernstein, who helped coordinate NSF funding for
the Molaison project. “How do we go from the cellular level, to
the brain’s larger structural level, to what we observe in
living humans when they remember, when they think, when they do
things? That’s an open question. We need data at that level to
start making those links.”  That’s where UC San Diego comes in. “It’s a huge
endeavor,” Bernstein said. “That kind of science has been done
in the past in pieces, but with tools now available, multiple
scientists from multiple disciplines can easily get involved.”  An  Iowa  woman who can’t  experience fear  is the latest to
agree to donate her brain once she dies, Annese said. Her case
was chronicled in December in the medical journal Current
Biology. Her donation offers the chance to study an organ that’s
been injured by a genetic illness, he said.  The disease, called Urbach-Wiethe, destroyed the woman’s
 amygdala , an almond-shaped section that is a bridge between
areas that affect fear. Researchers at the  University of Iowa  in
Iowa City used snakes, spiders and frightening movies, along
with interviews, to chronicle her response, the article said.  After she dies, that information will be funneled to UC San
Diego, along with her physical brain.  “With a growing group of living, willing donors, we can
really catalog many aspects of behavior and personality,”
Annese said. “You never know what’s going to be important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 