-- 
Brazil Signals More Rate Increases at a ‘Softer’ Pace As Inflation Surges

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-21T03:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/brazil-signals-more-rate-increases-at-a-softer-pace-as-inflation-surges.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled it
may keep raising borrowing costs for a longer period of time
than many economists had expected after slowing the pace of rate
increases yesterday.  Policy makers raised the benchmark Selic rate by a quarter
point to 12 percent, surprising the 41 of 58 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg who expected them to maintain the 50 basis point
pace of the previous two meetings. Fifteen analysts predicted
the smaller increase, which was anticipated by traders,
according to interest-rate futures. Two dissenting members of
the board favored raising the Selic to 12.25 percent.  The bank’s seven-member board said in a statement that an
adjustment of monetary conditions for a “sufficiently long
period” is the “most adequate” strategy to guarantee
inflation returns to its 4.5 percent target in 2012. The board,
led by President Alexandre Tombini, said it reduced the pace of
increases because of uncertainty over the global recovery and
Brazil’s domestic slowdown.  Inflation expectations could deteriorate further if
analysts judge the strategy insufficient to rein in consumer
prices that rose this month at their fastest pace since 2008,
said Zeina Latif, a senior economist with RBS Securities Inc.  “You can lose credibility very fast but to regain it is
very slow,” said Latif in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“Even though they signaled that they will do more, it doesn’t
mean markets will be comfortable. It doesn’t mean that markets
will celebrate.”  Inflation Accelerating  Consumer prices rose 6.44 percent in the year through mid-
April, close to the upper limit of the central bank’s target
range of 4.5 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.
Analysts surveyed by the central bank on April 15 expect prices
to rise 6.29 percent this year, and 5 percent in 2012.  The same survey showed economists had expected policy
makers to raise the Selic to 12.25 percent yesterday, then keep
it on hold for the rest of the year.  The signaling of “softer” increases to come is a “costly
strategy given the de-anchoring of inflation expectations and
recent inflationary surprises,” said Marcelo Salomon, chief
Brazil economist for  Barclays Capital .  “It would be better to go more proactive and continue at
50 basis point pace and then stop,” Salomon said in an
interview from  New York .  Yesterday’s decision reinforces the bank’s strategy of
relying on a mix of policy tools, including budget cuts and
measures to curb  consumer lending , to fight inflation, said
 Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank in Sao Paulo.  Paring Bets  Traders have pared bets for the year-end Selic since policy
makers said March 10 that such measures are a “rapid and
potent” weapon. The yield on interest rate futures maturing in
May 2011 rose five basis points yesterday to 11.92 percent.  Total outstanding credit in Brazil’s economy rose 21
percent from a year earlier in February, to 1.74 trillion reais.
Tombini told lawmakers March 22 that growth in  consumer credit 
of more than 15 percent needs to be monitored “very carefully”
to avoid “excessive risks.”  The 6.4 percent appreciation of Brazil’s currency against
the dollar in the past month may have been decisive in
persuading policy makers to increase borrowing costs by a
smaller amount, said Gustavo Rangel, chief Brazil economist for
ING Financial Markets in New York.  “That clearly adds to the bank’s more benign assessment of
inflation,” Rangel said before the decision was announced.  Currency Gains  The real gained 0.6 percent to 1.5663 per  U.S. dollar , its
strongest close since August, 2008. The real’s gain in the last
month is the third best among the 16-most traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the New Zealand and Australian
dollars.  While fighting currency gains, Brazil is raising borrowing
costs along with policy makers in Russia, India and  China  -- the
other so-called BRIC nations -- that are contending with similar
inflationary pressures as commodity prices surge. Regional peers
Chile, Colombia and  Peru  have also raised their borrowing costs
in the past month.  Brazil’s bank may be expecting a supply shock caused by
higher commodities prices globally to recede in the coming
months, said  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based economist for
Latin America at 4Cast Inc. Food and beverage prices rose 2.15
percent in the first three months of 2011, after increasing 10.4
percent in 2010.  The central bank expects consumer prices to rise 5.6
percent this year, and 4.6 percent in 2012, according to its so-
called reference scenario in its March 30 quarterly inflation
report, which assumes an interest rate of 11.75 percent.  ‘Dovishness’  “Given the recent dovishness showed by the monetary
authority, the stability of the Selic rate at 12 percent should
not be seen with surprise,” Enestor Dos Santos, senior Brazil
economist for BBVA in  Madrid , said in a report.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said April 18 that Brazil is
neither “patient” with nor “tolerant” of faster inflation,
and that the measures already taken will be effective after a
lag.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government cut 50.7 billion
reais ($32.4 billion) from its 2011 budget to help curb
inflationary pressure. In December, the central bank raised
banks’ reserve requirements to slow credit growth, and this
month the government doubled to 3 percent the so-called IOF tax
on consumer credit.  Growth in Latin America’s biggest economy is slowing after
a 7.5 percent expansion last year, though it’s unclear how
quickly.  Capacity utilization rose to its highest level in three
years in February as the central bank’s economic activity index,
a proxy for gross domestic product, rose at the fastest pace
since August. Brazil is close to full employment, Mantega said
April 18, a day before the government reported a 6.5 percent
March jobless rate that was the lowest for the month since 2002.  Retail sales unexpectedly fell 0.4 percent in February,
down from a revised 1.1 percent increase in January. Tombini
said March 22 that the retail sector is “perhaps the best
expression of the current state of the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  