-- 
Builders, Landscapers Use Pricelock to Hedge Fuel Like Southwest

-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 
2011-04-21T15:57:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/builders-landscapers-use-pricelock-to-hedge-fuel-like-southwest.html
The last time U.S. gasoline prices
approached $4 a gallon, in May 2008, Chrysler offered new car
buyers a payment card that would let them purchase gas at $2.99
a gallon for three years. The promotion didn’t halt Chrysler’s
sales slide, down about a third from the year before. Most
buyers chose other incentives, such as cash rebates, over the
gas card. Customers who did take the discount saw market prices
drop below their guaranteed price after the financial crisis.
Refuel America, as the campaign was called, may have done more
for  Pricelock,  the  Redwood City  (Calif.) fuel hedging company
that engineered it, than for car buyers or for Chrysler, which
filed for bankruptcy the next year.  Today Pricelock is trying to parlay its promotions with
automakers into a broader business selling price protection to
small and midsize companies that don’t buy enough fuel on their
own to hedge in the  futures markets . Founded in 2007, the 40-
employee company has 24,500 fuel-card customers from the
promotion with Chrysler and a similar one with Hyundai the
following year. An additional 500 small businesses, such as
building contractors, landscapers, and tow operators, pay
Pricelock directly to control their fuel costs.  “They’re trying to take the mystery out of hedging and making it
easy and attracting more people who should be hedging,” says  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at PFG Best, a futures brokerage.
“It’s not high prices that normally kill a business. It’s
uncertainty in price and volatility.”  Now, with the cost of a gallon of gas nearly a dollar higher
than it was a year ago, demand from small companies that want to
manage their fuel costs has tripled since last year, according
to Naveen Agarwal, Pricelock’s chief operating officer. The
company forecasts revenue this year to more than double, to $12
million, Agarwal says, and it expects to be profitable by the
end of 2012. Some big names are betting on the idea: In March,
Pricelock raised $12 million in series B financing from
Barclays, RenaissanceRe, Travelers -- all companies it buys
hedges from as well -- and venture capital firm Artiman
Ventures, bringing its total outside investment to $22 million.
(Goldman Sachs, another trading partner, invested in the first
round.)  HOW THE HEDGING WORKS  On Pricelock’s website, businesses enter the size of their
fleets, the number of miles they drive, and their average miles
per gallon. Then they choose what maximum price they want to pay
-- based on the national average price for regular gasoline or
diesel -- and for how long. Pricelock charges a premium for the
plan. If  gas prices  rise above the level selected in any month
of the contract, Pricelock pays business owners the difference.
If prices fall, customers lose their premiums but can still take
advantage of lower prices at the pump. (The company uses federal
data for the national average price at the pump and helps
customers adjust their plans for regional differences.)  For example, to protect 1,000 gallons a month for three months
at a price of $3.85 -- about the national average on Apr. 18 --
would cost a premium of $749.50, according to a quote on the
site obtained Apr. 21. At that rate, borrowers would save more
than the cost of the premium if average gas prices for the
three-month period rose to $4.10, according to the site’s online
calculator.  Business customers typically have between five and 100 vehicles.
A handful have a few thousand. Pricelock bundles smaller orders
from these fleets into deals large enough to buy futures
contracts tied to the price of gasoline or diesel in volumes of
21,000 gallons per month or more. Agarwal says Pricelock
typically charges customers 5 percent above its own cost of
hedging. In any given month, Pricelock insures between a few
hundred thousand and a few million gallons. Pricelock offsets
its own risk with contracts from banks and insurers -- many of
which have also invested in the company.  BIG TECHNIQUES FOR SMALL FRY  “We want to empower [small companies] with the same risk
management and the hedging tools that the large guys have,” says
Agarwal, a former president of E*Trade Capital Management who
joined Pricelock in February 2009. Agarwal cites the success of
companies such as Southwest Airlines that use hedges to manage
costs during oil price spikes. The risk to Pricelock’s customers
is that prices will hold or drop after they buy price
protection, as they did for Chrysler customers, who saw gas
prices peak the summer after the promotion and drop below $3
that autumn.  Most small companies have few options to blunt the impact of
higher gas prices, says Paul Lauria, president of Mercury
Associates, a fleet management consultant in Gaithersburg, Md.
While some transportation businesses can pass fuel surcharges
along to their customers, most companies have to absorb
increases. The value of a service like Pricelock “comes down to
how well an organization is equipped to deal with rising fuel
prices,” he says. “What you’re insuring is your budget against
undesirable or unmanageable spikes.”  To expand, Pricelock plans to help companies hedge other fuel
costs, such as natural gas or electric power, by the first
quarter of next year. Building the system to track prices and
handle such transactions is the challenge, says Agarwal: “Doing
a car program [such as Refuel America] is much easier.”  To contact the reporter on this story: John Tozzi at
 jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  