-- 
Bullying in Schools Connected With Family Violence in U.S. CDC Research

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-04-21T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/bullying-in-schools-connected-with-family-violence-in-u-s-cdc-research.html
Bullying behavior isn’t just
limited to school settings and can be tied to violence in the
home, a study from the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  showed.  Middle and high school students who were either  bullies  or
victims were four times more likely to be physically hurt by a
family member than those who weren’t, the CDC said today. The
agency’s study, based on a survey of Massachusetts students,
also found bullies and victims were about three times more
likely to witness family violence.  About 44 percent of middle school students and 31 percent
of high schoolers are involved in harassment incidents, the
researchers said. Previous studies have linked the behavior to
substance use, poor grades and mental illness. Knowing the full
range of risks may help create successful prevention strategies,
the agency suggested.  “Bullying is a pervasive  public health  problem requiring
comprehensive solutions,” according to the research, published
today in the Atlanta-based CDC’s Morbidity & Mortality Weekly
Report. “The results underscore the importance of primary
bullying prevention programs and of comprehensive programs and
strategies that involve families.”  Researchers analyzed data from the 2009  Massachusetts Youth
Health Survey , which polled 2,859 middle schools students and
2,948 high schools students. Classes and schools were randomly
selected, with a probability of school selection proportional to
the number of students enrolled.  Almost 27 percent of middle school students were bully
victims versus 16 percent of high school students. About 7.5
percent of the middle school students were bullies, compared
with 8.4 percent for the high school students.  Students who were both bullies and victims accounted for
9.6 percent of middle school students and 6.5 percent of high
school students, the data showed.  The CDC did the study with the  Massachusetts Department of
Public Health .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  