-- 
Burkina Faso's Prime Minister Pledges New Government Based on ‘Competence’

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o
-- 
2011-04-21T05:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/burkina-faso-s-prime-minister-pledges-new-government-based-on-competence-.html
Burkina Faso ’s newly appointed
prime minister said he will select a government based on
“competence” to deal with a political crisis that has shaken the
West African country for the past two months.  “All of the persons who will enter this government will be
there by merit,” Luc Adolphe Tiao said in an interview late
yesterday on  Radio Television du Burkina , the state-owned
broadcaster, in the capital, Ouagadougou. “Competence will be
the main criterion” of the appointments, he said.  Tiao was named on April 18 to replace Tertius Zongo, after
President Blaise Compaore dissolved the government to quell a
mutiny by soldiers protesting over their  living conditions .
Compaore, who has ruled since seizing power in a 1987 coup, also
dismissed the chiefs of staff of the army, air force and police.  Burkina Faso, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s biggest cotton producer,
has been in turmoil since February, when five people were killed
during demonstrations against police following the death of a
student in their custody. On March 22, soldiers protested a
court decision sentencing five officers to prison after their
involvement in a dispute with civilians.  Tiao called for calm in the country in order to repair the
damage that resulted from the unrest.  “We are going to work with all the sons and daughters of
Burkina Faso under the supervision of President Compaore to pick
up the pieces and advance,” he said.  Tiao is a former director of  Sidwaya , the state-owned
newspaper, and was also previously president of the Supreme
Council for Communication, the media regulator.  Gold miners including Montreal-based  Semafo Inc. (SMF)  and
London-based  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  have operations in Burkina Faso.
Semafo said on April 18 the unrest hasn’t disrupted operations
at its Mana mine, while Avocet said the same on April 15.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 