-- 
Business Group Pledges Support for U.S. Lawmakers to Cut Budget Deficits

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/business-group-vows-support-for-u-s-lawmakers-to-cut-deficits.html
A group of business leaders pledged
to back any lawmakers who craft a long-term plan to cut the  U.S.
budget deficit , saying all tax and spending policies should be
part of the negotiations.  “The business community strongly supports a comprehensive
deficit-reduction plan and will support members of Congress who
help get it enacted,” according to a statement from the
Committee for Economic Development released today in Washington.
“Serious deficit reduction cannot be painless, and no one
should expect or demand that the spending and revenue provisions
they care most about will not be touched.”  Among the 104 business and academic leaders who endorsed
the statement were Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, who led
President  Barack Obama ’s debt commission last year, as well as
Alice Rivlin and former Senator Pete Domenici, who head a debt-
reduction task force at the Bipartisan Policy Center.  Obama has directed Vice President  Joe Biden  to start
meeting next month with congressional leaders from both parties
with the goal of producing a deficit-reduction agreement by the
end of June. The timing would coincide with a debate over
raising the nation’s debt limit, which Republicans have tied to
cutting  government spending . Today’s statement urged lawmakers
to participate in the Biden-led process.  Separate Plans  The White House and House Republicans have offered separate
plans to reduce cumulative budget deficits by $4 trillion, over
12 years and 10 years respectively. Obama’s plan would include
$1 trillion in tax increases that his advisers say could be
raised from families earning at least $250,000, while the
Republicans’ measure wouldn’t raise taxes.  Standard & Poor’s this week put the U.S. government on
notice that it risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy
makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt. Sovereign  credit quality  has gained prominence as
European countries from  Greece  to Portugal struggle to finance
their debt.  Europe ’s debt crisis shows the perils of allowing deficits
to grow unchecked, Charles Kolb, president of the Committee for
Economic Development, said in a telephone interview. He said his
group’s statement does not take a political stand or endorse any
specific measures, other than to oppose any “preconditions”
for reaching a deal.  “We’re at a point now where there are all sorts of warning
bells,” Kolb said. “Anyone who thinks that this couldn’t
happen in this country is kidding themselves.”  Also supporting the statement were Jeffrey Joerres,
chairman and chief executive officer of Milwaukee-based Manpower
Inc., the world’s second-largest provider of temporary workers;
Patrick Toole, vice president and chief information officer of
Armonk, New York-based International Business Machines Corp.,
the world’s largest computer-services provider; and  Michael Morris , chairman and CEO of American Electric Power Co., based
in Columbus, Ohio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in  Washington  at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  