-- 
Canada February Retail Sales Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-21T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/canada-february-retail-sales-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's retail sales report for February as released by
 Statistics Canada .  Retail sales increased 0.4% in February to $37.3
billion, offsetting most of the decline in January. Higher
sales were reported in 9 of 11 subsectors.  In volume terms, sales increased 0.4%.  The largest contribution to the gain in current dollars
came from gasoline stations, where sales increased 1.3%.
This was the seventh increase in eight months.  Sales at clothing and clothing accessories stores
advanced 2.5%, more than offsetting the decline in
January. Clothing stores (+3.1%) as well as jewellery,
luggage and leather goods stores (+1.8%) had higher sales,
while sales fell at shoe stores (-1.5%).  After declining in January, sales at furniture and home
furnishings stores grew 2.1% in February. Higher sales at
furniture stores (+4.5%) accounted for the gain. Sales at
furniture and home furnishing stores have risen in six of
the past seven months.  Food and beverage store sales advanced 0.3% in
February, the second consecutive monthly increase. Sales
gains were reported at supermarkets and other grocery
stores (+0.4%) and beer, wine and liquor stores (+0.7%).  Sales at  motor vehicle  and parts dealers fell 0.6%, a
third consecutive monthly decline. The main contributor
was a 0.6% drop in sales at new car dealers. Lower sales
were also reported at automotive parts, accessories and
tire stores (-0.3%) and at other motor vehicle dealers 
(-1.7%). The exception was used car dealers (+0.5%), where
sales increased for the fifth time in six months.  Electronics and appliance store sales fell for a fourth
month in a row, decreasing 0.6%.  Sales up in six provinces  Retail sales rose in six provinces in February.  The largest contributor to the national gain was
Ontario, where sales increased 0.7% following two
consecutive monthly declines.  The 1.5% sales increase in Alberta offset two previous
months of declines.  The 0.8% decline in  Quebec  contributed the most towards
the dampening of national retail sales. The decline
reflected, in part, lower sales of new motor vehicles in
the province. This was the second decline in retail sales
in Quebec following six consecutive monthly gains.  In Newfoundland and Labrador, sales declined 0.3% in
February following four consecutive months of increases.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Unadjusted monthly estimates were revised back to
January 2010, while seasonally adjusted estimates were
revised back to January 2007. The revisions take into
account late reporting or correction of respondent
information, classification changes, as well as updates to
seasonal and trading day factors. With these revisions,
the annual sum of seasonally adjusted figures will now
correspond to the annual sum of unadjusted estimates for
reference year 2010.  Total retail sales by volume are measured by deflating
values in current dollars of the various trade groups
using consumer price indexes. This retail sales in chained
dollars series (2002) is a chain Fisher volume index with
2002 as the reference year. This series has been revised
back to January 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  