-- 
Capital One Profit Surges as Credit-Card Write-Offs Drop

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-04-21T14:17:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/capital-one-profit-surges-as-credit-card-write-offs-decrease.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
top performer this year in the KBW Bank Index, said first-
quarter profit surged 60 percent as fewer credit-card borrowers
defaulted. The firm rose in New York trading.  Net income climbed to $1.02 billion, or $2.21 a share, from
$636.3 million, or $1.40, in the same period a year earlier, the
McLean, Virginia-based company said today in a statement.
Results exceeded the $1.54-a-share average estimate of 22
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Loan-loss provisions fell 64
percent to $534 million as charge-offs declined, the firm said.  Chief Executive Officer Richard D. Fairbank, 60, has been
pulling funds from reserves set aside to cover soured loans as
defaults have fallen amid U.S. job growth. Capital One’s U.S.
credit-card write-offs for loans deemed uncollectible declined
to 5.87 percent in March, the lowest in more than two years,
after peaking at almost 11 percent a year earlier.  “We are gaining momentum across our businesses, and the
period of shrinking loans through the Great Recession came to an
end in the first quarter,” Fairbank said in the statement.  Capital One rose $1.48, or 2.9 percent, to $52.01 at 9:38
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 19 percent this year through yesterday, compared
with the 3.7 percent decline of the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   The firm plans on deploying capital through takeovers,
growth and returning it to investors, Fairbank said today during
a conference call.  ‘Returning Capital’  “Returning capital to our shareholders is an increasingly
important part of how we deliver value,” he said.  Capital One said March 18 that it expects to leave its
first-quarter dividend at 5 cents while banks including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  announced $5.94 billion in
annualized dividend increases. The  Federal Reserve  reviewed the
ability of the 19 largest U.S. banks to weather another
recession and approved some banks’ plans to boost payouts.  Capital One didn’t say whether the Fed objected to its
capital plan. The Fed may have rejected a proposed increase
because of concern that it will incur more costs linked to bad
loans, Brian Foran, a Nomura Securities International Inc.
analyst, said in a March 24 note to clients.  Revenue rose 3 percent to $4.1 billion from the fourth
quarter and fell about 5 percent from a year earlier on lower
non-interest income, Capital One said. Net interest income
declined about 2.7 percent from the year-earlier period to $3.14
billion.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. lender by assets,
said first-quarter profit in its card division surged 78 percent
to $1.71 billion. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank said
this month that it reduced the amount set aside to cover soured
credit-card loans by $2.6 billion in the first quarter, compared
with the same period a year earlier, as write-offs and
delinquencies declined.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the world’s biggest credit-card
issuer by purchases, said yesterday that first-quarter profit
rose 33 percent to $1.18 billion as it slashed the funds set
aside to cover bad loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  