-- 
Red Wings Sweep Coyotes in NHL Playoffs; Capitals Beat Rangers in Overtime

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-21T05:59:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/capitals-beat-rangers-4-3-in-double-overtime-lead-nhl-playoff-series-3-1.html
The  Detroit Red Wings  became
the first team to reach the second round of the National
Hockey League playoffs, while the  New York Rangers  moved to
the brink of elimination with a double-overtime loss to the
 Washington Capitals  after giving up a three-goal lead.  The Red Wings beat the Phoenix Coyotes 6-3 to sweep
their best-of-seven Western Conference series 4-0.  At New York’s Madison Square Garden, the Capitals
allowed three goals in the second period, then tied it with
three of their own in the third. Jason Chimera got the
winner in the second overtime period to give the Capitals a
4-3 win and a 3-1 lead in games in the series. Washington
can close out the series with a home win in Game 5 on April
23.  “That was a fabulous hockey game, two warrior teams
going at it and leaving nothing,” Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau said. “This has been a hell of a series so far. I
don’t anticipate anything different on Saturday.”  The Rangers opened the scoring 5:24 into the second
period through Artem Anisimov. Eight minutes later, Marian Gaborik and Brandon Dubinsky scored within seven seconds of
each other to make it 3-0 for  New York .  The score didn’t change until 2:47 into the third
period, when Alexander Semin got the Capitals on the
scoreboard. Marcus Johansson scored Washington’s second
goal 57 seconds later and Johansson got his second goal of
the game to tie it at 3-3 with 7:53 to play.  Chimera scored the game winner 12:36 into the second
20-minute overtime period.  ‘Nothing Goal’  “We looked nervous,” Rangers coach John Tortorella
said. “We got beat by a goal that is a nothing goal. It is
just a nothing play that turns into something -- obviously
something big.”  At Jobing.com Arena in Glendale, Arizona, Daniel Cleary scored 13:41 into the third period to give the  Red
Wings  a 4-3 advantage. Todd Bertuzzi extended the lead to
two goals less than two minutes later and Patrick Eaves got
his second goal with 36 seconds left to play.  Also last night, Jason Pominville got the only goal at
HSBC Arena in Buffalo as the  Buffalo Sabres  tied their
series against the  Philadelphia Flyers  at two games each.  James Neal scored to break a 2-2 tie in double
overtime as the  Pittsburgh Penguins  beat the Tampa Bay
Lightning 3-2 to take a 3-1 lead in games in their series.  Corey Perry scored a goal 1:17 into the third period
to snap a 3-3 tie as the Anaheim Ducks beat the Nashville
Predators 6-3 to tie their series at two games apiece.  Boston plays tonight at Montreal, which holds a 2-1
series lead. Defending Stanley Cup champion Chicago is at
Vancouver trying to avoid elimination by the Canucks, who
lead 3-1 in their series. San Jose has a 2-1 series lead as
it heads into Game 4 tonight in  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  