-- 
McDonald’s Predicts Further Food Cost Increases After Profit Rises 11%

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-04-21T20:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/mcdonald-s-profit-climbs-11-on-increased-sales-in-u-s-as-menu-enhanced.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  said first-quarter
profit rose 11 percent, fueled by U.S. demand for coffee and
burgers, and predicted further increases in food costs this
year.  Net income advanced to $1.21 billion, or $1.15 a share, the
world’s biggest restaurant chain said today in a statement.
Analysts on average projected $1.14, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Items such as beverages and the Chipotle BBQ Bacon Angus
burger helped lure people in the U.S., the  Oak Brook , Illinois-
based company said.  McDonald’s and other restaurant chains are weighing price
increases as surging expenses for commodities such as beef, pork
and eggs cut into profitability. Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen reiterated today that the company will probably raise
prices to help counter the surge in ingredient costs.  “Food costs pressures are out there,” said  Jack Russo , an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis  who recommends
holding the shares. “They may run into a few challenges this
year, it will be interesting to hear them talk about raising
prices because we know that McDonald’s is seen as a value
brand.”  McDonald’s expects food expenses to rise as much as 4.5
percent in the U.S. and  Europe , according to a filing today. In
February, the company forecast an increase of as much as 2.5
percent in the U.S.  McDonald’s fell $1.49, or 1.9 percent, to $76.91 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
decline in more than a month. The shares have gained 0.2 percent
this year.  Beef Prices  Beef prices may rise as much as 5.5 percent and pork may
jump 7 percent in 2011, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture  data . The fast-food chain is the biggest beef user
of all restaurants in the U.S., according to Kevin Good, a
senior analyst at CattleFax in Centennial,  Colorado .  To keep customers coming in, Chief Executive Officer  Jim Skinner  has debuted items like oatmeal and a line of McCafe
frozen drinks, broadening the appeal of McDonald’s menu beyond
burgers.  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , the burrito chain spun off
from McDonald’s in 2006, reported yesterday that restaurant
operating profit margin shrank 0.9 percent to 25.2 percent in
the first quarter on higher ingredient costs. The chain has
raised menu prices in certain regions of the U.S. to help
counter food inflation.  Japan Sales  McDonald’s sales at stores open at least 13 months climbed
4.2 percent globally last quarter. They rose 2.9 percent in the
U.S., 5.7 percent in Europe, and advanced 3.2 percent in  Asia ,
the Middle East and  Africa . Comparable-store sales are an
indicator of growth because they exclude the impact of store
openings and closings.  McDonald’s Holding Co. Japan Ltd. said this month that
March comparable sales fell 7.3 percent because of restaurant
closures following the March 11 earthquake. Of the 3,300 stores
in  Japan , more than 50 remain closed as of April 14, according
to Heidi Barker, a company spokeswoman. McDonald’s has also
increased its exports of produce, sauces and oil to Japan to
keep restaurants there stocked.  In the first quarter, McDonald’s sales increased 8.9
percent to $6.11 billion, compared with the average analyst
estimate of $6.01 billion. In the year-earlier period, profit
was $1.09 billion, or $1 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  