-- 
CFC Insurance, First Kenyan Listing in Two Years, Doubles on Nairobi Debut

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-21T12:24:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/cfc-insurance-first-kenyan-listing-in-two-years-doubles-on-nairobi-debut.html
CFC Insurance Holding Ltd.,  Kenya ’s
first listing in 28 months, more than doubled on its first day
of trading in Nairobi.  Stock of CFC Stanbic Holding Ltd.’s insurance unit traded
at 14.8 shillings by the 3 p.m. close in Kenya’s capital,
Nairobi, compared with a reference price of 6.52 shillings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya has a low penetration rate for insurance, creating
opportunity for the market to grow, Gregory Waweru, an analyst
at Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital East Africa Ltd., said in a
phone interview today. “The broadening of the financial sector
at the  Nairobi Stock Exchange  is being spearheaded by insurance
companies,” Waweru said.  CFC’s listing is among five the Nairobi Stock Exchange,
 Africa ’s worst-performing bourse in the first quarter, is
targeting by the end of the year, Chief Executive Officer Peter Mwangi said on April 1. British American Insurance Co. and
TransCentury Ltd., a Kenyan investor in infrastructure projects,
are among companies that plan to trade on the exchange. Co-
Operative Bank of Kenya Ltd., the country’s third-biggest lender
by assets, started trading its shares in December 2008.  CFC Stanbic shareholders approved on Aug. 9 a plan to
delink its insurance businesses. The largest shareholder of CFC
Insurance is South African-based  Liberty Holdings Ltd. (LBH)  which
controls 56.82 percent, according to a statement distributed by
the company in Nairobi today.  CFC Insurance owns The Heritage Insurance Co. and CFC Life
Assurance Ltd. and has other investments in Tanzania, it said.  The company aims to grow its presence in East Africa by
offering diversified insurance products such as health coverage
in Tanzania and  Uganda , Mike du Toit, regional managing director
for Liberty, said in an interview today in Nairobi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  