-- 
China Open to Buying More Bonds of Indebted Euro Countries

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-04-21T15:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/china-open-to-buying-more-bonds-of-indebted-euro-area-countries.html
China  is open to buying more bonds
of indebted euro-area nations as part of a strategy to bolster
the European Union economy and diversify away from investments
in  U.S. debt , said the Chinese ambassador to the EU.  Song Zhe  said China owns “several billion euros” of bonds
sold by Greece and  Portugal  and may embark on another round of
purchases of sovereign debt in the euro area, where bailouts for
three nations have failed to prevent borrowing costs from
soaring.  “In the next step, it is possible we will purchase more
sovereign debt” in Europe, Song told reporters today in
Brussels. “We hope to see financial stability and sustained
economic growth in the euro zone.”  The EU has looked to China over the past year for support
in tackling the euro-area debt crisis triggered by  Greece , which
received a 110 billion-euro ($160 billion) rescue last May to
prevent a default. Ireland followed in late November with an 85
billion-euro package and the EU is now preparing 80 billion
euros in emergency aid for Portugal.  Vice Premier Wang Qishan said in December that China had
taken “concrete action to help some EU members counter the
sovereign-debt crisis.” In October, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
China had acted as a “real friend” to the euro area through
“a large quantity” of bond purchases in the past and a policy
to “maintain the debt stability in the euro zone.”  ‘Fundamental Purpose’  Song said China would decide whether to offer more support
to the European sovereign-debt market “in light of the evolving
situation and giving due consideration to the requests of
several countries.”  China believes the euro-area can overcome its debt crisis
and the “fundamental purpose” of Chinese investments in  Europe 
is to protect the country’s “huge” foreign-exchange reserves,
he said. China’s foreign-exchange reserves jumped to a world-
record $3 trillion in March.  “We do have confidence in the currency and it will remain
one of our choices for investment,” Song said. “We hope
governments in Europe can ensure the security of our
investment.”  He defended the budget-cutting steps that the euro area
imposes on aid recipients, saying an oversized public sector at
least in Greece means “austerity measures might be an effective
tool to contain the crisis.”  ‘Good Shape’  China is in discussions to invest in the restructuring of
 Spain ’s savings banks, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said
today after a four-day visit by Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero to  Asia .  China already holds 25 billion euros of Spanish sovereign
debt, up from 6 billion euros in 2009, Zapatero said on April 15
at the end of his Asian tour. That’s equivalent to 12.5 percent
of the Spanish debt in foreign hands, he told reporters.  Song said EU-China trade ties are generally in “good
shape,” while urging Europe to refrain from imposing punitive
tariffs on imports of cheaper Chinese goods. The 27-nation EU is
China’s biggest trade partner.  “I have also detected the growing sentiments of trade
protectionism,” Song said through a translator. “Chinese
products won the market in Europe because of their own merits.”  Trade Dispute  The EU plans next month to open a new front in the battle
to help European manufacturers vie with lower-cost Chinese
competitors by imposing anti-subsidy tariffs against China for
the first time. The target is Chinese paper.  The EU decision due by mid-May would introduce the duties
for five years to counter alleged trade-distorting government
aid to Chinese exporters of coated fine paper, which is used for
books, brochures and magazines. Producers in Europe including
 Sappi Ltd. (SAP)  have requested the trade protection.  In November, as part of a parallel trade inquiry, the EU
introduced provisional duties on Chinese coated fine paper to
counter below-cost exports, a practice known as  dumping . EU
governments face a separate mid-May deadline to decide whether
to turn these anti-dumping levies into definitive five-year
measures.  Europe has imposed anti-dumping duties on Chinese goods
ranging from chemicals and steel pipes to bicycles and ironing
boards. China faces such EU taxes on almost 60 products, more
than any other nation. The EU has never imposed anti-subsidy
levies against China.  “These measures, when sanctioning the Chinese
manufacturing businesses, are also sanctioning the welfare of
European consumers,” Song said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  