-- 
China’s SAIC Keen to Sell Cars in U.S., NHTSA’s Strickland Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-21T04:22:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/china-s-saic-keen-to-sell-cars-in-u-s-nhtsa-s-strickland-says.html
SAIC Motor Corp.,  China ’s largest
domestic carmaker, is among “a number” of Chinese companies
keen to sell their models in the U.S., the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  said.  NHTSA’s administrator David Strickland came to China this
week to meet and explain the U.S. agency’s safety standards to
the automakers, he said in  Shanghai  yesterday. SAIC’s car
production plant is just one of the visits he planned during the
trip, Washington-based Strickland said.  China carmakers such as SAIC,  Geely Automobile Holdings
Ltd. (175)  and Great Wall Motor Co. are looking to exports as growth
in their home market slows. Deliveries in China this year may
miss initial growth forecasts of between 10 to 15 percent, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said this month,
as the government eliminated incentives that boosted buying in
the world’s largest auto market. Chinese domestic brands are
projected to match international brands in quality between 2015
and 2018, industry analyst J.D. Power Asia Pacific said.  “When they offer their vehicle for sale, we will treat
them like we will treat any company whether it is a Detroit
company or a Japanese company or a Chinese company,” Strickland
said in an interview. He declined to name the other automakers.  Shanghai-based SAIC has no plans at the moment to sell cars
in the U.S. and is currently concentrating on its overseas
businesses in the U.K. and  India , Judy Zhu, the company’s
spokeswoman, said today.  “In the future, when we have more suitable products, we
may consider more overseas markets,” Zhu said.  SAIC, which sells the MG Rover-derived Roewe 550 model in
China, markets Britain’s MG sports-car brand in the U.K. The
carmaker will also start selling vehicles in India this year
with partner General Motors Co. SAIC aims to sell 800,000
vehicles outside China annually by 2015, the company said on
April 19.  About 97 percent of the vehicles made in China last year
stayed in the country, according to CAAM figures calculated by
Bloomberg News. China’s Trade Ministry aims to boost exports by
up to 20 percent a year between 2012 and 2015.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  