-- 
Citigroup Says Reverse Stock Split, Payout Lure Investors

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-21T21:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/citigroup-ceo-says-reverse-split-dividend-attract-new-investors.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  investors approved a
reverse stock split as Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
said the plan, along with a renewed dividend, will attract more
investors to the New York-based bank’s shares.  “These actions open doors for more potential investors to
buy in,” Pandit said today in remarks prepared for the
company’s annual shareholders meeting in  Manhattan . “Some
institutional investors will not buy stocks that trade at less
than $10 or $5 per share or that do not pay a dividend.”  Investors voted to approve the reverse split, elected all
the company’s nominees to the board of directors and rejected
shareholder proposals including one that would require an
independent review of internal foreclosure controls.  Some attendees at the Hilton hotel called on Citigroup to
buy back shares and work to increase the current price instead
of carrying out the reverse stock split and dividend payment.
Shares have fallen almost five percent so far this year.  Citigroup, ranked third by assets among U.S. lenders, plans
to convert every 10 common shares into one new common share at
the close of trading on May 6 and start paying a dividend of 1
cent a share in the current quarter.  “Cut expenses, take the proceeds and reduce the shares
outstanding,” said Vincent Russo from Eastchester, New York,
who said he owned about 55,000 shares. “Not a reverse split.
That’s the easy way out.”  Other shareholders were concerned that the split wouldn’t
reduce volatility as Pandit said, and that short-sellers would
drive back down the price.  Citigroup Shares  “There’s a conspiracy out there against Citi,” said
Russell Forenza of Ridgewood,  New Jersey , who said he owns more
than 20,000 shares. Short-sellers borrow shares and sell them in
anticipation of buying back at lower prices, pocketing the
difference as profit.  Citigroup’s stock tumbled to about $1 during the financial
crisis, and the company suspended dividends as it struggled to
stay afloat. The shares sold for $4.55, a decline of 2 cents, as
of 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Pandit, 54, steered the company back to profitability after
losses tied to subprime home loans forced it to seek a
government bailout during the financial crisis. The bank’s
capital plan passed a Federal Reserve review earlier this year,
clearing Citigroup to resume a one-cent dividend and repurchase
stock.  Plea for Buybacks  “There’s no guarantee that the reverse stock split will
achieve any of our goals,” said Mario Milelli from Morristown,
New Jersey, who said he was a former employee of  Smith Barney .
“Why can’t we use the massive  cash flow  that’s generated on a
quarterly basis to buy back shares?”  Pandit asked shareholders during a question-and-answer
session for “just a little bit of patience” on share buybacks,
citing the need to be “in line with where the world is going
with  capital requirements .” Regulators in the U.S. and
internationally are pushing banks to hold more capital as a
cushion against another financial crisis.  About 350 shareholders attended the four-and-a-half-hour
meeting, which has served as a forum for small investors’ anger
in the past. In 2009, about 1,500 shareholders attended a six-
hour meeting and ISS Proxy Advisory Services, a shareholder
consulting firm, recommended investors vote against four of the
board members.  Recommendations  ISS, a unit of MSCI Inc., was this year in favor of all
Citigroup directors, each of whom were re-elected with at least
88 percent of the vote, according to the bank’s general counsel
Michael Helfer.  “The board has been almost completely reconstituted since
the start of the global financial crisis in 2007,” according to
the ISS report. “A significant number of Citi’s directors have
financial services experience.”  Four directors, including Chairman  Richard Parsons , former
Alcoa Inc. CEO Alain Belda and Rockefeller Foundation president
Judith Rodin, still faced opposition from  Glass Lewis  & Co,
another consulting firm, for failing to ensure the bank’s risk
controls were “robust enough” to withstand the subprime
crisis.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , which
controlled about 73 million Citigroup shares at the end of
March, withheld votes for Rodin, who has served on the board
since 2004. E-mails to Rodin, a director of the bank since 2004,
were not returned. Wayne Davis, a spokesman for CalPERS,
declined to comment on her re-election.  Consulting Role  Glass Lewis also recommended against director Robert Joss
because of a consulting agreement he holds with Citigroup which
paid him $350,000 last year. He also received $262,500 in fees
and stock and the bank does not consider him an independent
director.  “Independence is very much a state of mind,” Joss said in
a phone interview. “My engagement with the company is something
I feel adds value and I enjoy doing and I think I’m making a
contribution, but it’s not work I need.”  The vote rejected all the shareholder proposals including
one from  New York  City Comptroller  John Liu  that the bank carry
out an independent review of its foreclosure operations. Liu
oversees about 62 million Citigroup shares as trustee of the New
York City Pensions Fund. His proposal won 25 percent of the
vote.  “It sends a strong message to the board,” said Mike
Garland, executive director for corporate governance with the
comptroller’s office. “They have not restored confidence in
shareholders in what they have done with regard to oversight of
the company’s response to the foreclosure process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  