-- 
Consumer Comfort Index in U.S. Climbs for Fourth Straight Week

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-21T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/consumer-comfort-index-in-u-s-climbs-for-fourth-straight-week.html
Consumer confidence  rose for a
fourth consecutive week as Americans became less pessimistic
about the state of economy and their personal finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 42.6
in the period to April 17, the best reading since the end of
February, from minus 43 the prior week. A measure of
expectations fell to the lowest level since September, a sign
rising fuel costs are causing families to think the economy will
take a turn for the worse in coming months.  While employment has picked up over the past two months,
households are struggling to maintain spending as the price of
gasoline climbs to the highest level in almost three years. The
world’s largest economy probably grew at a slower pace in the
first quarter as  consumer spending  cooled, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Consumer sentiment is resting on the knife’s edge,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New
York . “Sentiment is likely to continue to move based on labor
market conditions, fuel costs and equity prices.”  The latest results for the comfort survey reflected
improvements in two of the three subcomponents. The index of
Americans’ views of the economy rose to minus 78.2 last week,
the best reading since the first week of March from minus 80.4
the prior week.  The measure of personal finances increased to minus 0.3,
the highest since the end of February, from minus 0.5. The index
of the buying climate declined to minus 49.2 from minus 48.  Monthly Gauge  Bloomberg’s gauge of economic expectations, released once a
month, declined for a third straight time with pessimistic views
jumping to the highest level since September 2009.  The measure fell to minus 16 from minus 8, and 40 percent
of respondents said the economy is getting worse. In January
that component fell to the lowest level since 2002. The share of
those in April saying the economy is getting better fell to 24
percent from 30 percent the prior month.  Figures from the Labor Department last week help explain
why Americans’ expectations of the economy soured and why they
may be less inclined to make purchases. The consumer-price index
showed the cost of living in the U.S. rose in March for a ninth
consecutive month, led by increases in food and fuel costs.  Record Low  The  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index , with data dating back
to December 1985, fell to a record low of minus 54 in November
2008, while the peak of 38 was reached in January 2000. Readings
averaged minus 45.7 last year.  A Labor Department report today showed that new
applications for  unemployment benefits  fell less than forecast
last week, indicating the improvement in labor-market has
stalled.  Jobless claims decreased by 13,000 to 403,000 in the week
ended April 16. Economists projected a decline to 390,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
number of people on unemployment benefit rolls and those
receiving extended payments declined, according to the
government data.  Stocks climbed on better-than-estimated earnings at Apple
Inc., General Electric Co. and Morgan Stanley. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,336.22 at 9:36 a.m. in
New York.  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump rose 6
cents to $3.83 a gallon in the week ended April 17, according to
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization. It climbed to
$3.84 on April 19, the highest since September 2008.  “Gloom has spread this year in step with the price of
gasoline,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement. “In addition to increased pain at the pump,
politics play a role in heightened economic worry.”  Budget Woes  A partisan debate in Washington over how to reduce fiscal
budget deficits and trim the nation’s debt could send a “near-
term shock” through a  U.S. economy  still struggling to recover,
said  Deere & Co. (DE)  Chief Executive Officer  Samuel Allen .  “I have a lot of concerns for the economy,” Allen, who
leads the world’s largest maker of  farm equipment , said
yesterday in an interview in Bloomberg’s Chicago bureau. “I
don’t think we are out of this.”  The economy created 216,000 jobs last month, the most since
May, and the jobless rate fell for a fourth straight month to a
two-year low of 8.8 percent, data from the Labor Department
showed.  Reflecting the labor market outlook, the comfort gauges
improved last week for Americans with full-time jobs, as well as
for those who were unemployed.  Consumers became less pessimistic in most income ranges,
led by those making $50,000 to $74,900 a year. The comfort index
for this group improved to minus 36.5 from minus 40.3 the prior
week.  Index Details  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  