-- 
Cyprus to Cut Jobs, Contain Pay to Aid Finances, Stavrakis Says

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-04-21T11:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/cyprus-to-cut-jobs-contain-pay-to-aid-finances-stavrakis-says.html
Cyprus’s government plans to cut
workers and contain wages on the public payroll to get finances
on a sustainable path after the country’s credit rating was
downgraded, Finance Minister Charilaos Stavrakis said.  The government will hold talks with unions on “the
containment of wages in the public sector, the reduction in the
number of employees and cuts to operating expenditure,”
Stavrakis said on April 19 in answer to e-mailed questions.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating for Cypriot  government
bonds  by one step to A- from A on March 30. Moody’s Investors
Service pared its rating by two levels on Feb. 24 to A2 from Aa3
while  Fitch Ratings  said on Jan. 17 it was considering a one-
level downgrade from AA-. They cited  government spending  and the
exposure of the Cypriot financial system to  Greece .  The downgrades have had a negative impact on the country’s
borrowing costs, Stavrakis said. “However, we remain positive
that with the implementation of a prudent fiscal consolidation
policy, we will achieve our fiscal targets,” he said.  Cyprus is targeting a budget shortfall of 4 percent of
gross domestic product this year after a deficit of about 5.3
percent in 2010, he said.  A planned financial-stability fund is part of a crisis-
management framework that “can contribute both to securing
financial stability and supporting, to some extent, public
finances,” Stavrakis said. The fund is designed to boost state
revenue and finance a bank-support reserve.  On April 14, Cyprus’s parliament passed a law to impose a
levy of 0.095 percent on local  bank deposits  that will raise a
total of 70 million euros ($102.4 million) in 2011 and 2012 in
state revenue and 50 million euros for the fund. From 2013, the
Central Bank of Cyprus will determine the rate of the tax.  The fund should have 500 million euros in capital, Central
Bank Governor Athanasios Orphanides said on March 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
Or  sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  