-- 
Dai-Ichi Life to Boost Yen-Bond Holdings This Year to Safeguard Returns

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-21T04:24:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/dai-ichi-life-to-boost-yen-bond-holdings-this-year-to-safeguard-returns.html
Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.,
 Japan ’s second-biggest life insurer, said it plans to boost its
holdings of Japanese  government bonds  this fiscal year and take
a cautious stance on the country’s stocks.  The insurer, with about 30 trillion yen ($365 billion) in
assets, plans to mainly invest in Japanese government bonds with
maturities of at least 20 years in the year through March 2012,
said Takashi Iida, a manager in the investment planning division.
He declined to give figures, saying the information is private.  Dai-ichi Life joins Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in
sticking to the relative safety of government debt as they seek
stable returns in a country with the world’s fastest-aging
population. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is trying to avoid issuing
bonds to pay for reconstruction costs following last month’s
record earthquake and tsunami because the public debt burden is
already twice the size of gross domestic product.  “We are basically adhering to the investment plan from
last year by concentrating on super-long bonds,” Iida said in
an interview in Tokyo today. “We realize that we need to be
well-prepared to control risks in a market like this given how
unclear the outlook is” following the disaster, he said.  ‘Cutting Risks’  The insurer plans to invest in Japanese stocks by “cutting
risks,” incorporating hedges such as selling futures and buying
options depending on market moves, Iida said. Investments in
overseas equities will probably remain unchanged and there is no
plan to reduce the holdings, he said.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbled 12 percent in the
year ended March 31. In contrast, holders of Japan’s bonds
earned 1.9 percent on their investments, as measured by indexes
compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  Among other asset classes, holdings of foreign bonds with
and without currency hedges, and alternative investments such as
 hedge funds  and real estate, will remain unchanged, while loans
to companies will “decrease slightly,” Iida said.  Dai-ichi Life publicly listed its shares for the first time
last year to expand fundraising options for acquisitions and
partnerships as waning economic growth in Japan compounds the
problem of the aging society and low birth rate. The stock has
fallen 6.1 percent this year and traded at 123,900 yen on the
 Tokyo  Stock Exchange at 1:16 p.m. local time.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bonds will yield 1.4 percent as
of March 31, Dai-ichi Life forecast. They yielded 1.24 percent
today.  The government is set to unveil an initial economic
spending package this month to provide relief in the wake of the
March 11 magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami. The government
estimates damage from the disaster of as much as 25 trillion yen.  The temblor and tsunami left more than 27,000 people dead
or missing and crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant owned by Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Following are Dai-ichi Life’s market forecasts for the current
fiscal year through March 2012. The ranges refer to where the
insurer expects securities to trade during the period.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 