-- 
Daiwa CEO Weighs Overseas Purchase Including Brazil as Japan Prospects Ebb

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 
2011-04-21T06:36:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/daiwa-ceo-eyes-overseas-acquisition-as-japan-prospects-ebb-1-.html
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , the
Japanese brokerage that analysts estimate lost money last fiscal
year, may acquire an overseas company to spur revenue growth,
Chief Executive Officer Takashi Hibino said.  Daiwa may seek to buy an asset or wealth management company
or form a joint venture in  India ,  South Korea  or  Brazil , Hibino,
55, said in an interview in  Tokyo  on April 19. Japan’s second-
biggest brokerage also plans to form a Seoul-based affiliate as
early as August that will underwrite and sell  government bonds 
and derivatives, he said.  Hibino, who took the post at the start of Daiwa’s fiscal
year on April 1, plans to capitalize on economic growth
elsewhere in Asia as a record earthquake dims prospects for
 Japan , which last year was overtaken by  China  as the world’s
second-largest economy. Daiwa aims to increase revenue from Asia
to 30 percent of the total this year from about 10 percent.  “We’re making the whole of Asia our home market,” Hibino
said. “If we just stick to Japan, the business pie would never
expand enough.”  Daiwa swung to a loss of 3.8 billion yen ($46 million) for
the 12 months ended March 31, according to the median estimate
of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would compare
with profit of 43.4 billion yen for the previous year. The
Tokyo-based company will announce its earnings on April 26.  Top Five  Hibino said he aims to lift Daiwa to the top five equity
underwriters in  Asia , including Japan, within five years. The
firm climbed to No. 11 among equity underwriters in the region
this year from No. 25 in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Global lenders including Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc are expanding wealth management teams in Asia
as the number of millionaires climbs. Asians who own more than
$1 million of financial assets rose 26 percent to 3 million in
2009, catching up with  Europe  for the first time,  Mitsubishi UFJ
Merrill Lynch PB Securities Co.  said in September.  Japan’s economy may shrink 3 percent in the current quarter
as companies cut production and face supply-chain disruptions
following the March 11 quake and tsunami, according to the
median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Japan
will grow 1.4 percent this year and Asia will expand 6.7 percent,
the  International Monetary Fund  forecast on April 11.  ‘Big Potential’  Daiwa will hire more staff in India and South Korea to
bolster investment banking operations including advising on
cross-border mergers and acquisitions involving the two
countries, Hibino said.  “India has big potential. The market isn’t that mature and
we can better compete there, especially in  Mumbai ,” Hibino said.
“As for South Korea, the market is big enough to form an
affiliate.”  Daiwa shares declined 27 percent in the past year, more
than the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average’s 13 percent drop, after the
company ended a 10-year investment banking venture with Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. in 2009. Daiwa rose 1.1 percent to
362 yen at 3 p.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japan’s magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami may
discourage local companies from raising cash in  equity capital
markets  because the catastrophe clouded their business outlook,
Hibino said. Daiwa was scheduled to underwrite initial public
offerings by drugmaker RaQualia Pharma Inc. and glass substrate
maker AvanStrate Inc. Both companies canceled the share-sale
plans and postponed listings because of the disaster.  Turning to Retail  To bolster revenue at home, Daiwa is seeking to expand its
retail banking business after receiving a license from the
Financial Services Agency on April l2. The firm will start
lending money in a year and aims to collect 1 trillion yen of
deposits from individuals in three years, Hibino said.  Daiwa joins bigger rival  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in
diversifying into retail banking to augment its brokerage
services. Nomura aims to expand outstanding loans backed by
clients’ investments sevenfold to 200 billion yen over five
years, according to two executives this month who declined to be
identified.  The earthquake and tsunami, Japan’s worst postwar disaster,
didn’t prevent Daiwa from planning to recruit more university
graduates. The brokerage said this month it aims to hire 490
graduates next year, up from the 446 who joined on April 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  