-- 
Dish Network Wins $214.9 Million Judgment in Piracy Suit Against Prisoner

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/dish-network-wins-214-9-million-judgment-in-piracy-suit-against-prisoner.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest satellite television provider in the U.S., won a $214.9
million judgment against an imprisoned maker of piracy software
used to unscramble encrypted subscription programs.  U.S. District Judge Roger Benitez awarded the damages in an
amended order posted yesterday on the electronic docket of the
case in San Diego federal court. That order amended an earlier
judgment, also posted yesterday, in which the judge had awarded
Dish $300 million in damages.  A woman answering the phone at Benitez’s chambers, who
declined to give her name, said the judge couldn’t comment on
the rulings.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , had sued Viewtech Inc.,
a distributer of set-top boxes, and the company’s founder Jung
Kwak in 2007. The company’s receivers are purportedly designed
for “free-to-air” satellite programs but can be modified with
piracy software to receive encrypted programs, according to
yesterday’s order.  Dish’s request for damages was unopposed, according to the
ruling. Kwak is currently serving an 18-month prison sentence
after pleading guilty to orchestrating a conspiracy to
circumvent Dish’s security measures, Benitez said in the order.
Kwak was representing himself in the case and couldn’t be
reached for comment.  Chad Hagan, a lawyer representing Dish, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office after regular business hours
yesterday.  The case is EchoStar Satellite LLC v. Viewtech Inc.,
07-cv-01273, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 