-- 
Dow Chemical Plans Ethylene Plant as Shale-Gas Supplies Rise

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-04-21T20:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/dow-pursues-additional-feedstocks-from-the-eagle-ford-marcellus.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker, plans to build its first ethylene production
plant in the country since 1995 to take advantage of increasing
shale-gas supplies.  The new cracker, as ethylene plants are called, will be
constructed on the  Gulf Coast  and start output in 2017, Midland,
Michigan-based Dow said today in a statement. A cracker at Dow’s
St. Charles operations near Hahnville,  Louisiana , that was shut
during the recession will reopen by the end of next year. Dow
also plans to build a plant at Freeport,  Texas , to make
propylene from propane and is considering another such unit.  Shale-gas drilling is boosting supplies of U.S. domestic
natural gas and prices are near record lows relative to oil,
which is the primary raw material used by Dow’s Asian and
European competitors. The planned plants will get ethane and
propane via supply agreements from producers in the Eagle Ford
and Marcellus shale-gas regions.  “The improved outlook for U.S. natural gas supply from
shale brings the prospect of competitively priced ethane and
propane feedstocks,” Jim Fitterling, a Dow executive vice
president, said in the statement.  The projects will boost Dow’s ethylene production capacity
by 2.3 million metric tons a year, a 20 percent increase in Gulf
Coast capacity, said Rebecca Bentley, a company spokeswoman.
Ethylene is a gas used to make plastics.  Range Resources  The new cracker would be Dow’s first in the U.S. since
1995, Bentley said. Propylene capacity will increase by about
900,000 tons, she said.  Dow rose $1.25, or 3.3 percent, to $39.48 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain
since March 3.  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  has a preliminary accord to supply
ethane from the Marcellus region in southwest  Pennsylvania  to
Dow’s Louisiana operations.  Dow, the world’s largest producer of ethylene and
polyethylene plastics, also said it continues to consider joint-
venture options to build a natural-gas liquids fractionator, a
plant that separates the components of natural gas, to secure
supplies of ethane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 