-- 
DPL Deal With AES Stops at Lowest Premium for Widest Margins: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-04-21T02:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/dpl-deal-stops-at-lowest-premium-for-widest-margins-real-m-a.html
DPL Inc. (DPL)  shareholders may be pining
for the days when utilities were dull and predictable after the
partial deregulation of the Ohio market consigned them to the
industry’s lowest takeover premium.  AES Corp. (AES) , a power utility with operations in 28 countries,
agreed to buy Dayton, Ohio-based DPL for $30 a share -- a 9.5
percent premium, the cheapest ever for an all-cash takeover of a
U.S. electric utility, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The $4.6 billion deal including net debt values DPL at 7.2 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the last 12 months, lower than the industry median of 7.5.  While the shares surpassed the acquisition price, investors
may not be able to count on a sweetened offer or rival bid for
the company with the highest profit margin among similar-sized
utilities. Earnings at DPL, a regulated power supplier with more
than 500,000  Ohio  customers, are projected to fall 4.4 percent
this year after rivals were allowed to enter the market and
companies like  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  pressured pricing.  “They looked and saw very limited growth and they took
this premium,” said William Costello, a Dallas-based utility
analyst and fund manager at Westwood Holdings Group Inc., which
oversees $10 billion including 2.7 million DPL shares. “I would
like to see them raise it, but I don’t think they’re going to
have to. I don’t envision another company coming in to bid for
it. There’s not that many people that would find Ohio
attractive.”  Yesterday’s Trading  Lucas Bushman, a spokesman for AES, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. A representative for DPL didn’t respond to
e-mails requesting comment.  AES of Arlington,  Virginia , announced yesterday that it
would pay $3.5 billion for DPL’s equity and assume more than
$1.1 billion in debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The deal,
which is expected to close in the next six months to nine
months, was unanimously approved by both boards and still
requires signoff from shareholders and regulators.  DPL climbed 9.4 percent to $30.17 yesterday, or 17 cents
above the offer price, indicating some investors may expect a
marginally higher bid. AES gained 3.3 percent to $12.88 after
the announcement, the biggest increase in a month.  AES’s $30-a-share bid is 9.5 percent higher than DPL’s 20-
day trading average prior to the announcement. That’s one-third
of the average 29 percent offered in all-cash takeovers of U.S.
electric utilities focused on integration and distribution since
at least 1998, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  No Bidding War  “I don’t foresee a bidding war over an Ohio regulated
utility,” said  Walter Todd , who helps manage $950 million at
Greenwood Capital Associates in Greenwood,  South Carolina . “AES
is much more globally diversified. They can utilize the stable
 cash flow  from a business like DPL and use that to fund more
growth-oriented acquisitions elsewhere.”  AES is getting a company that is generating about 15 cents
of net income for every dollar of sales, the highest profit
margin among comparable U.S. electric utilities with market
values between $1 billion and $10 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. DPL’s operating margins are also the
highest, at almost 27 percent, the data show.  The company’s earnings climbed 24 percent to $2.50 a share
last year as a strengthening economic recovery and warmer-than-
normal weather drove demand, Chief Executive Officer Paul Barbas
said on a Feb. 18 conference call.  ‘The Story’  “DPL seems to execute well,” said Bill Bunn, a
Cincinnati-based portfolio manager and utility analyst at  Fort
Washington  Investment Advisors Inc., whose parent Western &
Southern Financial Group manages about $30 billion. “That seems
to be the story over time.”  Still, “if I was a small utility in the Midwest, I’d be a
little bit nervous about the future, especially in Ohio. They’re
facing an uphill battle in holding their margins,” he said.  Ohio was one of the U.S. states that moved toward electric-
utility deregulation in the 1990s, betting that competitive
markets would improve efficiency and lower prices after a round
of rate cuts. Ohio hasn’t completed the transition and is left
with a hybrid model that has a mix of regulated and deregulated
market segments, Bunn said.  “Ohio has allowed other companies to come in and undercut
their prices and open it up to competition,” Westwood’s
Costello said. “It’s kind of a really messed up utility
situation in there.”  In a regulated market, utility providers can pass costs
incurred along to customers by raising rates while the state
monitors the prices so that the providers aren’t earning
excessive returns.  Duke Energy  The deregulated portion of the Ohio power market has drawn
companies such as  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK)  into the  mix . Duke CEO James E. Rogers said in an
interview on Sept. 21 that the company was considering selling
$3.84 billion of  power plants  in Ohio after profit margins
narrowed and customers switched suppliers.  FirstEnergy in Akron, Ohio, and American Electric Power Co.
of Columbus, Ohio, are also providers in the region.  “The issue with DPL has been, what do they make when the
next rate agreement comes up in 2013 and 2014,” David Parker, a
Tampa, Florida-based analyst for Robert W. Baird & Co. said.
“No one knows. AES was able to take that risk.”  DPL’s earnings are projected to drop 4.4 percent to $2.39 a
share this year, according to the average of four analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  AES may be pursuing DPL in part for its proximity to one of
AES’s Midwest assets, Fort Washington’s Bunn said. AES owns
Indianapolis Power & Light, about a two-hour drive from Dayton.  Turkey , Latin America  It may also be a way to offset AES’s international
investment risks in countries such as Turkey, according to Bunn.
AES said on Dec. 1 it will buy almost half of Turkish utility
Entek Elektrik Uretimi AS for $136.5 million to form an energy
partnership with  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL)  in Istanbul.  AES generated 69 percent of its $16.65 billion in revenue
last year in Latin America and 19 percent in  North America ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The deal would boost
its North American sales by 60 percent.  DPL agreed to pay $53 million if it rejects the AES merger
in favor of a higher offer within 45 days, and a fee of $106
million if it takes a higher offer after that.  UBS AG (UBSN)  of Zurich and New York-based Cadwalader Wickersham &
Taft LLP are advising DPL on the transaction. Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. and Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP of  New York  are counseling AES.  Overall, there have been 7,526 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $729.3 billion, a 31 percent increase from
the $556.9 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 