-- 
Drought-Fueled Cattle Sales May Ease Rising Beef Costs for Tyson

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-21T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/drought-fueled-cattle-sales-may-ease-rising-beef-costs-for-tyson.html
A prolonged drought from  Kansas  to
Texas probably forced U.S. ranchers to sell more cattle to
feedlots last month, signaling increased supplies for meat
processors including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and lower beef prices.  Deteriorating pasture conditions in the southern Great
Plains and record cattle prices prompted the sale of 1.935
million head to feedlot operators, up 4.2 percent from March
2010, according to a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  will disclose the feedlot inventory
today at 3 p.m. in  Washington .  As the animals near their slaughter weights in the next
three or four months, retail-beef prices may slip from all-time
highs and cattle futures may drop 14 percent from a record
$1.21625 a pound reached April 4, said Troy Vetterkind, the
owner of Vetterkind Cattle Brokerage. More cattle will reduce
costs for processors, including Tyson and  JBS SA (JBSS3) , and wholesale
meat buyers such as  Morton’s Restaurant Group Inc. (MRT)   “There’s just going to be ample numbers of cattle come to
slaughter later on this summer,” Vetterkind said by telephone
from Chicago. “You’ll probably see beef prices start to trend
lower into July and August.”  In the U.S., the world’s largest beef producer and second-
largest exporter, after  Brazil , feedlots buy year-old cattle
that weigh 500 pounds (227 kilograms) to 800 pounds, called
feeders. It takes about four or five months on a diet of mostly
corn before the animals weigh about 1,200 pounds, when they are
sold to meatpackers.  Cattle for Processors  More slaughter-ready supplies of cattle “probably would be
good for the Tysons of the world,” said Timothy S. Ramey, a
 Lake Oswego , Oregon-based analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co.  Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson, which also processes
poultry and pork, is the biggest U.S. meat company. Sao Paulo-
based JBS is the largest beef processor, after acquiring U.S.
producers including Smithfield Beef Group in 2008.  “Higher placements in the near-to-medium term mean more
animals heading through the system,” said Ramey, who has a
“buy” rating on Tyson shares. “Right now, all protein is
tight for the nine- to 18-month time horizon. They need raw
material. They would love to have higher placements from the
perspective of earnings three quarters out to six quarters.”  Operating profit in beef fell 2.5 percent to $116 million
in the first fiscal quarter ended Jan. 1, compared with a year
earlier, Tyson said on Feb. 4. Earnings for the unit were the
lowest since the first quarter of 2009, company data show.  Summer Supply Surge  Slaughter rates in in the next three to four months may be
6 percent to 8 percent higher than last year because ranchers
have been placing more animals into feedlots, said  Rich Nelson ,
the director of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry,  Illinois .
There’s “no doubt” that prices will fall as meat production
increases, he said.  “We expected supplies to peak in summer and then drop
sharply going into the third quarter,” Nelson said. “We may
have the supply flow push into the third quarter.”  Some ranchers can’t afford to feed their livestock when dry
weather limits the amount of grass on pastures. Parts of  Texas ,
the largest cattle-producing state, had less than 10 percent of
normal rainfall in March, according to the  National Weather
Service . The state had the “driest March in reported state
history,” said Holly Huffman, a spokeswoman for the Texas
Forest Service.  “The drought in the southern Plains is pretty bad right
now, and pasture conditions in Texas and  Oklahoma  are really not
good at all,” said Doug Houghton, an analyst at Richard A.
Brock & Associates in  Milwaukee . “It’s forcing cattle into
feedlots that wouldn’t normally be going there.”  Mexican Exports  A jump in imported feeder cattle from  Mexico  also is
boosting the number of placements into U.S. feedlots, analysts
said. Parts of Mexico has been hurt by “severe drought,”
according to the North American Drought  Monitor . The U.S. has
imported 437,819 Mexican feeder cattle since Dec. 31, up 35
percent from 324,776 head a year earlier, USDA  data  show.  “Drought is pushing them out of Mexico, and our high
prices are pulling them into the U.S.,” said Jim Robb, the
director of the Livestock Marketing Information Center, a
Denver-based researcher funded by the industry and government.  Cattle futures have jumped 23 percent on the  Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange during the past year, as demand increased
for U.S. beef exports, domestic supplies tightened and the cost
of raising animals rose with a doubling of corn prices. Retail
beef advanced to a  record  $4.475 a pound last month, up 13
percent from a year earlier, government data show. Costlier meat
has spurred grocery stores and restaurants to pass along the
increases to consumers.  More Expensive Steaks  Morton’s Restaurant Group, the Chicago-based steakhouse
chain, has been able “to pass along the dollar cost of our beef
increases,” Chief Financial Officer Ronald M. DiNella said in a
presentation on March 30. If “the cost of the steak goes up, we
need to pass it along,” he said.  U.S. shoppers may pay as much as 5.5 percent more for beef
this year, compared with a 2.9 percent gain in 2010 and a 1
percent decline in 2009, the  USDA  said March 25.  Climbing beef demand and the surge in prices helped
increase the total number of cattle on U.S. feedlots in March,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  The total herd on April 1 probably was 5.3 percent larger
than a year earlier at 11.307 million head, the survey showed.
Producers probably sold 1.958 million animals to beef-processing
plants in March, up 2.9 percent from a year earlier, the
analysts said.  Rising Beef Demand  Cattle prices are climbing as global economic growth boosts
incomes and demand for meat protein in emerging economies.  Japan 
also is importing more after a nuclear disaster led to concern
that domestic food supplies were unsafe.  In the first two months of 2011, U.S. exporters  shipped 
about 388 million pounds (176 million kilograms), up 25 percent
from the same period last year, government data show.  Cattle futures for June delivery fell 0.6 percent yesterday
to $1.165 in Chicago. Feeder-cattle futures, which touched a
record $1.42 a pound on April 1, rose 0.2 percent yesterday to
settle at $1.38475.  While the increase in supplies may send prices down in the
near term, fewer animals will be available for slaughter later
in the year, Allendale’s Nelson said.  “We’re going to see an extreme shortfall in supplies in
the fourth quarter, and it will get worse in the first half of
2012,” Nelson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 