-- 
DuPont Net Tops Analysts’ Estimates; 2011 Forecast Raised

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-04-21T20:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/dupont-raises-full-year-forecast-after-first-quarter-profit-tops-estimates.html
DuPont Co., the third-biggest U.S.
chemical maker, raised its 2011 earnings forecast and posted
first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as sales of
titanium-dioxide pigment and genetically modified seeds gained.  Net income climbed 27 percent to $1.43 billion, or $1.52 a
share, from $1.13 billion, or $1.24, a year earlier, Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont said today in a statement. That topped the
$1.37 average estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Net
sales advanced 18 percent to $10 billion from $8.48 billion.  DuPont has exceeded estimates in each of the nine quarters
Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  has been in charge, even
as expiring drug patents cut pharmaceutical royalties. Profit
climbed 21 percent in the agriculture unit, the largest
business, on seed sales, and performance chemicals profit more
than doubled on pigment and refrigerants.  “Sales and earnings were all better than expected across
the board and the biggest one was performance chemicals,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at Soleil Securities who
recommends buying DuPont shares, said in a telephone interview.
“It looks like a fairly big beat and raise.”  DuPont rose 54 cents, or 1 percent, to $55.91 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
advanced 12 percent this year, compared with an 8 percent
increase in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Danisco Bid  Full-year earnings will be $3.65 to $3.85 a share, compared
with a previous prediction of $3.45 to $3.75, DuPont said. The
company reiterated that its planned acquisition of Danisco A/S
may cut 2011 profit by as much as 45 cents a share.  DuPont on Jan. 9 agreed to pay 31.7 billion kroner ($6.22
billion) to acquire Copenhagen-based Danisco, the world’s
biggest producer of food additives and the second-largest maker
of industrial enzymes, which are used in the production of
biofuels. The deal, which requires the support of Danisco
investors holding 90 percent of shares, should be completed this
month, DuPont said last week.  Kullman is investing in agriculture, electronics and safety
and protection units to boost per-share earnings about 12
percent a year through 2015.  DuPont raised average product prices 8 percent in the first
quarter, more than making up for higher raw-material costs.
Sales volumes increased 9 percent.  Teflon Coatings  First-quarter pretax profit in the agriculture unit
increased to $1.14 billion. Seed sales climbed 19 percent, led
by corn and soybean seed gains in  North America , DuPont said in
a presentation on its  website .  Profit from performance chemicals climbed to $394 million
as prices jumped 21 percent on demand for titanium dioxide,
refrigerants and fluoroproducts such as Teflon nonstick
coatings.  DuPont is the world’s largest maker of titanium dioxide,
which is used to add opacity and brightness to paints, plastics
and paper. Demand for more environmentally friendly refrigerants
got a boost from regulations in the European Union and
 California , said Karen Fletcher, a DuPont spokeswoman.  Profit at DuPont’s coatings unit, the world’s biggest maker
of car paint, rose 44 percent as North American auto demand
improved, DuPont said. Global auto production will be down
“significantly” in the second quarter because of the Japanese
earthquake, and coating sales will gain “modestly” as a
result, DuPont said in the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  