-- 
Leading Indicators in U.S. Probably Rose a Ninth Straight Month in March

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-21T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/leading-indicators-in-u-s-probably-rose-a-ninth-straight-month-in-march.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators probably increased for a ninth month in March,
signaling higher fuel costs will fail to derail the expansion,
economists said before a report today.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.3 percent after a 0.8 percent gain in
February, according to the median forecast of 53 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other data today may show claims for
jobless benefits fell manufacturing continues to expand.  The labor market is improving and manufacturing is enjoying
stronger export growth and business investment, underscoring the
 Federal Reserve ’s view of a “moderate” economy. At the same
time, the leading index was likely restrained by a drop in
consumer expectations linked to higher gasoline prices that mean
Americans have less to spend on other goods and services.  “The recovery seems to be strong enough to continue
despite all these crises,” including unrest in the Middle East
and north  Africa  that’s helped drive up  oil prices , said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in  New York .
“We probably have seen most of the impact of high oil prices in
the first quarter.”  The New York-based Conference Board, a private research
group, is scheduled to release its report at 10 a.m. Bloomberg
survey estimates ranged from no change to a 0.5 percent
increase.  10 Measures  Seven of the 10 measures that make up the Conference
Board’s leading index are known ahead of time: stock prices,
jobless claims, building permits, consumer expectations, the
yield curve, factory hours and supplier delivery times. The
Conference Board estimates new orders for  consumer goods ,
bookings for capital equipment and money supply adjusted for
inflation.  In February, eight components contributed to the gain,
including a positive spread between short- and long-term
 interest rates , an increase in stocks values and fewer people
filing for  unemployment benefits  for the first time.  Jobless claims have declined since the beginning of the
year. A Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. in Washington may
show fewer Americans filed first-time applications for
unemployment benefits in the week ended April 16. New claims 
dropped by 22,000 to 390,000 from the prior week, according to
the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.  Manufacturing Mainstay  Factories have been the mainstay of the expansion that
began in June 2009. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index, due at 10 a.m., will probably show
manufacturing in the region moderated in April after expanding
last month at the fastest pace in 27 years. The gauge eased to
36.8 from 43.4 in March, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey.  Shares of machinery producers have outpaced the broader
market so far this year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Machinery Index has gained 8.7 percent through yesterday
compared with a 5.8 percent rise in the  S&P 500 .  Strength at the nation’s factories is spilling over into
the rest of the economy. CSX Corp., the third-biggest U.S.
railroad, said yesterday that profit rose 30 percent as shipping
volumes increased.  “We’re continuing to see, quarter after quarter, the
markets keep improving,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Ward
said in an interview at Bloomberg News’ New York headquarters on
April 6.  The Fed said April 13 in its Beige Book report in
Washington that most of its districts “stated that gains were
widespread across sectors” in February and March.  Hurdles for consumers, whose spending accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, include higher prices for fuel and food.
The average price of a gallon of gasoline was $3.84 on April 19,
the highest since September 2008. In March, gas averaged $3.53 a
gallon, compared with $2.78 a year earlier.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  