-- 
Heat Comes to Eastern U.S. Next Week, CWG’s Matt Rogers Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-21T11:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/heat-comes-to-eastern-u-s-next-week-cwg-s-matt-rogers-says.html
Temperatures may reach into the
upper 80s Fahrenheit (low 30s Celsius) in the Mid-Atlantic
states next week, according to  Matt Rogers , president of
 Commodity Weather Group  LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  From April 26 to April 30, the eastern U.S. has a good
chance of being warmer than normal, according to Rogers’ 6- to
10-day outlook. The hottest period is expected to cover an area
from  New York  to  North Carolina  from April 26 to April 27, he
said.  “Next week we should see two to three days of 80-degree
weather on the East Coast with the peak heat days focusing in
now on Tuesday and Wednesday,” Rogers wrote in a short note to
clients.  After the heat comes, the U.S. is expected to cool, with
the coldest air probably developing across the northern tier of
the country from the Pacific Northwest to  New England  in the 11-
to 15-day timeframe, Rogers said.  Natural gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  New York’s average temperature in late April is about 56
degrees Fahrenheit (13 degrees Celsius), according to  MDA
EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland . The average
temperature in  St. Louis  is about 58 degrees; in Boston, 52; in
Philadelphia, 57; in Atlanta, 64; and in Dallas, 68.  Rogers said weather forecasting models show the North
Atlantic Oscillation slipping into its negative phase. The
oscillation is a difference in pressure over the ocean and
Greenland. When it’s negative  North America  tends to be cooler
than normal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  