-- 
EDF to Set Up Emergency Task Force for Nuclear Accidents

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-04-21T14:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/edf-to-set-up-emergency-task-force-for-nuclear-accidents-1-.html
Electricite de  France  SA plans to
set up a national  task force  to intervene in the event of a
nuclear accident in France, able to bring extra power and water
supplies within 24 to 48 hours, the company said today.  The utility said it will begin a detailed review of its
nuclear plants before the end of this year. The review will be
supervised by France’s atomic safety watchdog, Autorite Surete
Nucleaire, and include an assessment of safety standards in the
event of earthquakes, flooding and power outages, EDF said in a
statement.  Last month’s disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
station triggered the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in
1986 and prompted international concern about the safety of
nuclear reactors. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  announced a
90-day moratorium on planned nuclear-plant lifespan extensions,
the U.K. asked its chief nuclear inspector Mike Weightman to
report on the implications of the crisis, and France ordered
stress tests of its plants.  “EDF, as part of its continuous improvement process, has
launched a primary action plan,” the company said in today’s
statement, adding that it “wishes to see a rapid harmonization
of the specifications for these audits on a European level.”  Measures recommended by ASN include an assessment of
technical and human resources in place for accidents, as well as
the creation of the rapid reaction task force, EDF said. The
company’s in-depth review will involve reactors and spent fuel
ponds.  Separately, EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said
reactor maintenance may take slightly longer after safety
improvements are made following the Fukushima disaster,
according to a Reuters report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Rhinds at 
 srhinds@bloomberg.net  