-- 
Egypt Pound Drop May Raise Government's Debt Cost as Country Seeks IMF Aid

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-04-21T14:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/egypt-pound-drop-may-raise-government-s-debt-cost-as-country-seeks-imf-aid.html
Egypt ’s pound may drop to a record
low this year as economic growth slows the most in almost two
decades, prompting foreign investors to snub local-currency debt
and pushing up the government’s borrowing costs.  The currency, which fell to a six-year low of 5.9758
against the dollar on March 30, may drop to 6.3 by the end of
this year, according to the median of five estimates compiled by
Bloomberg this month. That’s a depreciation of 5.5 percent from
today’s spot rate of 5.9543 at 3:53 p.m. in Cairo. Egypt raised
1.5 billion Egyptian pounds ($252 million) from the sale of one-
year treasury bills at an auction today, less than its target
3.5 billion pounds as the yields climbed to 12.79 percent to the
highest since November 2008.  The rising borrowing costs and a  budget deficit  the
government expects to widen to a six-year high have prompted
Finance Minister Samir Radwan to turn to the  International
Monetary Fund  and the World Bank for as much as $6.2 billion of
loans. The  Finance Ministry , facing an economy that shrank 7
percent last quarter after a revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak , is stepping up sales of fixed-income securities to
local banks.  “If negative political headlines increase, more
depreciation risk is imminent,” said Sergey Dergachev, who
helps manage the equivalent of $8.5 billion in emerging-market
debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt . “For a
foreign investor in treasury bills that would be a hit and
investment over one year is also not juicy since budget deficit
financing is a key worry. I sold my entire stock at the end of
January and do not plan to re-enter the market soon.”  Worst Performer  Twelve-month non-deliverable pound forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations, traded at 6.535 to the dollar,
reflecting bets the currency will weaken 8.9 percent. The pound
has depreciated 2.5 percent this year against the dollar, the
worst performer among 11 currencies in the Middle East and North
Africa. It dropped 5.5 percent last year.  The central bank has “intervened” on the domestic
 currency market  to stem declines, Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez
said Feb. 8. The regulator doesn’t have a target exchange rate,
he said.  Egypt’s net international reserves fell 16 percent to $30.1
billion in the first quarter, the biggest such decline on
record, according to Bloomberg data. Foreign investors held 57.7
billion pounds ($9.7 billion) in treasury bills before the
uprising,  central bank data  show. They trimmed their holdings by
$7.5 billion in the two months ending March 31, Cairo-based Al
Masry Al Youm newspaper reported on April 3, citing Central Bank
Governor Farouk El-Okdah.  Supporting the Currency  “If we see reserves continuing to fall at the pace they
did in the first quarter, there would be concern because it
would mean that capital outflows are continuing and the central
bank is still supporting the currency,” Richard Fox, the
London-based head of Middle East and North Africa Sovereign
Ratings at  Fitch Ratings , said April 19.  London-based Barclays Plc and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
expect the pound to weaken to 6.3 per dollar by year-end,
according to data on Bloomberg. Standard Chartered Plc, the
U.K.’s bank that earns most of its profit in  Asia , has its
target at 6.31 per dollar.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at 8.25
percent on March 10, the lowest in more than four years. It
introduced regular repurchasing agreements last month, setting
the rate of seven-day repo at 9.25 percent.  Financing Bets  Egypt needs as much as $4 billion from the IMF for the
remainder of this fiscal year, which ends in June, and for 2012,
Radwan said in Washington D.C. April 18. The government is also
seeking about $2.2 billion in soft loans from the  World Bank ,
according to the state-run Middle East News Agency.  Economic growth will slow to as little as 1 percent this
year, the IMF said in its World Economic Outlook report on April
11, the lowest annual rate since 1992, when the economy expanded
0.3 percent according to IMF data. The budget deficit may widen
to 9 percent of gross domestic product from 8.1 percent in 2010,
the highest level since the fiscal year that ended in June 2005,
according to Finance Ministry data.  The ministry plans to sell 135 billion pounds in domestic
debt this quarter, 15 percent more than in the same period a
year ago, according to an issuance calendar on its website.  “My worry here is that this huge supply pressure will lead
to more pressure on yields, making them less valuable for their
holders,” Union Investment’s Dergachev said.  Rising Yields  The yield on the 5.75 percent debt due in April 2020 soared
to as high as 7.21 percent on Jan. 31. The rate was yesterday at
6.54 percent, or 107 basis points higher than at the end of
2010. The extra yield investors demand to hold Egypt’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries climbed to 337 basis points on April
20, compared with 300 basis points for emerging markets today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The political upheaval will "inevitably keep rates under
upward pressure, particularly if the economic slowdown also
means that the government’s borrowing needs are higher," said
 Simon Williams , the chief Middle East economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc in Dubai. "Given how uncertain the political environment is,
though, I’ve been struck by how smoothly the auctions have gone
and how modest the pick-up in yields has been."  Moody’s Investors Service cut Egypt to Ba2 on Jan. 31 and
to Ba3 on March 16, the third-highest non-investment ranking.
 Standard & Poor’s  has a negative outlook on the nation’s BB
rating, the second-highest junk grade. Moody’s cut the outlook
on Egyptian banks to negative from stable on April 19, citing
“relatively high exposure” to government debt. Local banks may
increase their holdings because they will “likely continue to
finance the government’s growing deficit as foreign investors
are reducing their exposure to Egypt.”  The budget gap "is still manageable for the short terms,"
Mona Mansour, a director of research at CI Capital, a Cairo-
based investment bank, said by telephone. "But we cannot
continue like this. It will affect the sovereign rating of the
country."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/21/ :28 GMT 