-- 
Egypt’s Ex-Oil Minister Jailed for 15 Days, Prosecutor Says

-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-04-21T19:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/egypt-s-ex-oil-minister-jailed-for-15-days-prosecutor-says-1-.html
Egypt ’s public prosecutor ordered
the detention for 15 days of former Egyptian Oil Minister  Sameh Fahmy  and five former energy officials who are being
investigated in connection with the export of gas to  Israel .  Investigations in the case looked into the “procedures of
the negotiations” with Israel and the “crime of hurting the
country’s interest, squandering public money and enabling others
to make financial gains” through exporting gas to Israel below
market price and based on “unfair contractual conditions,” a
faxed statement from the prosecutor general’s office said.  The deal cost Egypt more than $714 million in wasted money
that could have gone to the state as revenue, the statement
said. The prosecutor also ordered the arrest of businessman
Hussein Salem.  The detentions were announced amid a wider anti-corruption
campaign being waged after an uprising led to the ouster of
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February. Corruption allegations
against former officials and a clique of businessmen close to
the regime fueled the mass demonstrations that ended Mubarak’s
three-decade rule.  Egypt’s opposition has long criticized the gas deal with
Israel. Egypt has 77 trillion cubic feet (2.18 trillion cubic
meters) of gas reserves and is the main producer of the fuel in
the eastern Mediterranean, according to the  U.S. Energy
Department . The country exported 650 billion cubic feet in 2009,
30 percent of which went by the Arab  gas pipeline  to Jordan,
Syria and Lebanon or via the El Arish-Ashkelon line to Israel,
according to the department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in London at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Langan at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net  