-- 
Telenor Asks India Venture’s Chief to Step Down After License Probe Arrest

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 
2011-04-21T03:22:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/telenor-asks-india-venture-s-chief-to-step-down-after-license-probe-arrest.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  asked the head of its
Indian mobile-phone venture with  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  to step down after
a court ordered his arrest in a probe into a sale of mobile-
phone licenses.  Telenor, the biggest Nordic phone company, asked Unitech to
name a replacement for Unitech Wireless Chairman  Sanjay Chandra 
for as long as the court case goes on, Glenn Mandelid, a
spokesman at the Fornebu, Norway-based company said in an e-
mailed statement.  Billionaire Chandra, who is also the managing director of
Unitech, India’s second-largest real estate company, is among
five officials from three companies who were arrested yesterday
after being charged by federal investigators with offenses
linked to a mobile-phone permit sale in 2008. The sale of
licenses at “unbelievably low” prices may have denied the
exchequer $31 billion, the nation’s chief auditor has said.  “Given their reputation globally, given that Telenor is
actually a government company, they’re going to be extra
sensitive, extra careful,” said Kunal Bajaj, head of
telecommunications consulting company Analysys Mason India Pvt.
in  New Delhi .  Telenor is 54 percent owned by the Norwegian government,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Appropriate and Decent’  “Withdrawing from the chairman position is the most
appropriate and decent thing for Sanjay Chandra to do given the
current circumstances,” Mandelid said. “It is of vital
importance that the running business of our Indian operation is
not hampered.”  The probe into the sale of mobile-phone spectrum won’t have
an “adverse” impact on Unitech’s real estate and
telecommunications businesses, the Indian company said in an e-
mailed statement.  Telenor entered India by buying a stake in Unitech
Wireless, an arm of Unitech. The Norwegian company began
accumulating its stake in the venture known as Uninor in 2009
and now owns 67.25 percent. The Unitech group holds the
remaining stake.  Others arrested yesterday were Reliance ADA Group Managing
Director Gautam Doshi and Senior Vice Presidents Hari Nair and
Surendra Pipara and  DB Realty Ltd. (DBRL)  Managing Director Vinod Goenka. Trials will resume today.  Cheating, Forgery  India’s Central Bureau of Investigation charged the five
company officials on April 2 along with former
telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , his personal
secretary R.K. Chandolia, former ministry secretary Siddhartha Behura, and three private companies, Reliance Telecom Ltd.,
Unitech Wireless and Swan Telecom Pvt.  Raja and the two other former government officials were
charged under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The company
officials and companies were charged with “lesser offenses”
under statutes relating to conspiracy, cheating and forgery.  Unitech Wireless and Chandra have been charged “for
actions when it was a fully owned Unitech company, prior to
Telenor Group entering India,” Mandelid said.  Reliance Communications dropped 1.9 percent to 105.8 rupees
at the close of trading in  Mumbai  yesterday. The shares have
tumbled 27 percent this year. Unitech slid 5.6 percent to 40.45
rupees while DB Realty fell 4.3 percent to 102.3 rupees.  The Reliance ADA Group said April 2 that its three
employees deny the charges and have a legal presumption of
innocence pending the completion of a trial. Unitech said the
same day it complied with applicable rules in obtaining its
licenses and that none of its employees have done anything
“inappropriate or illegal.”  ‘Lame Duck’  Balwa hasn’t done anything “inappropriate or illegal,” DB
Realty said in a statement in March. Raja has denied wrongdoing.  Raja, Behura, Chandolia and Balwa were arrested by the CBI
for alleged irregularities in the allocation of phone licenses.
The scandal has weakened the government of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh , forcing him to deny he had become a “lame-
duck” leader. Singh agreed in February to a parliamentary probe
of the license sales, after opposition protests paralyzed
legislation.  CBI lawyer Uday Lalit has argued that the five company
executives should not be granted bail because of concerns they
may try to influence witnesses in the case. Mukul Rohatgi, a
lawyer for the three Reliance ADA Group executives, has said his
clients should be granted bail as they were cooperating with
investigators.  The  CBI  said in its 80,000-page charge sheet that Raja
conspired with government and private company officials to
benefit companies including the then-Swan Telecom, now known as
Etisalat DB Telecom  India  Pvt., and Unitech by violating
guidelines in the license sale. The CBI said their actions
caused a loss of 309.8 billion rupees ($7 billion) to the
government.  DB Realty’s Chief Financial Officer Asif Yusuf Balwa and
Chief Operating Officer Rajiv Agarwal are also in judicial
custody after the CBI arrested them March 29. They have not been
charged.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  