-- 
Emanuel Winnows Daley Crowd as He Confronts a $600 Million Fiscal Hangover

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/emanuel-winnows-daley-crowd-as-he-faces-600-million-hangover.html
Rahm Emanuel , Chicago’s mayor-in-
waiting, ran for office with the pledge of “no more business as
usual” in the nation’s third-largest city.  In his transition to succeed Mayor  Richard M. Daley  on May
16, Emanuel is appointing an administration of outside
professionals and some Daley allies to govern a city that is
losing population, faces a 2012 budget deficit of more than
$600 million and must, as Emanuel said yesterday, begin
“charting a new course.”  While Emanuel can pick his own leadership team, a 40-year-
old federal court decree limits his hiring control to about 900
of Chicago’s 40,000 employees. That makes charting new courses
difficult, said Donald Haider, who in 1979 was budget director
under then-Mayor Jane Byrne.  “When I got to City Hall 30 years ago, someone told me,
‘Kid, information is power, and you ain’t getting any,’” Haider
said, referring to  Chicago ’s neo-Classical government
headquarters as a “puzzle palace” that can confound the best-
intentioned administrations.  After 22 years of Daley, practical reality dictates that
the new mayor will need insiders with experience to navigate the
thicket of Chicago politics, said Haider, who teaches at
Northwestern University’s  Kellogg School of Management .  Keeping it Close  “A lot about running Chicago is institutional knowledge,”
he said in a telephone interview from Kellogg’s Evanston campus.
“A lot of people have it, but they don’t want to share it.”  Emanuel shook up the leadership of  Chicago Public Schools 
on April 18 with the appointment of Jean-Claude Brizard,
superintendent in Rochester,  New York , to run the district of
400,000 students and 675 schools. He also replaced the entire
board with a collection of business executives.  Chicago teachers’ union leaders have bristled at Brizard’s
advocacy of  charter schools  and linking pay to performance.
Emanuel has said he’ll push for a longer school day.  Daley made similar vows -- two decades ago, said Linda
Lenz, founder and publisher of  Catalyst Chicago , a magazine that
chronicles school reform.  “I remember Daley saying it was time to get some
concessions from the unions,” Lenz said. “We’ve been fighting
the same battles and the same issues for a long time.”  Skin in the Game  Emanuel, 51, signaled a different direction on fiscal
issues by appointing Mark Angelson, former chief executive
officer of Chicago-based printer R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co., to
lead the newly created Economic, Budgetary and Business
Development Council. Angelson, who agreed to work for $1 a year,
will develop ways to cut costs while improving services, Emanuel
said yesterday in a Chicago news conference.  “The status quo does not work,” Emanuel said in a public
event yesterday sponsored by the  Chicago Tribune . “You want
change? Everyone has to have skin in the game.”  The appointments of people such as Angelson and Brizard
were intended to send a message of change, said Dick Simpson, a
professor of political science at the  University of Illinois  at
Chicago.  “Everyone’s a reformer and everyone’s for change, but the
question is, which direction?” Simpson asked. “Which way is
this going to go?”  His appointment of Lois Scott as chief financial officer
was less of a break from the past. Scott is president of the
Chicago financial advisory firm Scott Balice Strategies, which
is handling a $1.1 billion revenue bond sale next week for
O’Hare International Airport improvements.  Her company also advised the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago on a 2009 bond sale that the
Securities and Exchange Commission is examining.  Pension Gap  Emanuel faces a deficit of more than $600 million, not
including hundreds of millions in unfunded pension liabilities.
He has ruled out a property-tax increase and won’t have the
kitty of money from leasing parking meters that Daley tapped.  Repeated use of such reserve funds by the current mayor to
balance budgets led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit
rating on Nov. 5 by one level to A+, the fifth-highest grade.  Those conditions mean that Emanuel likely will have to push
for more public-employee furloughs, firings and labor-union
concessions, Simpson said.  “It looks like labor relations will be contentious,” he
said. “That could be a real problem.”  Emanuel in a Feb. 8 speech called for a spending freeze and
$75 million in immediate cuts. He released a six-page  plan  that
outlined $500 million in potential  savings  through
“efficiencies and better use of existing resources.”  While financial strains will worsen friction with the
unions, it’s unlikely to lead to work stoppages, Haider said.  “I don’t see a lot of municipal strikes around the country
-- what you see is grudging accommodation,” he said. “If you
want to hold public office and expect your employees to love
you, don’t run for mayor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 