-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks May Be Hit by Earnings Downgrades, Citigroup Says

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-21T04:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/emerging-stocks-face-risk-of-earnings-downgrades-citi-says-1-.html
The pace of earnings growth in
emerging markets is slowing, leading to an increased risk of
downgrades to analysts’ profit estimates in coming months,
according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Analysts are now predicting 12-month per-share earnings
growth of 16 percent, compared with an average estimate of 30
percent in early 2010, analysts led by Geoffrey Dennis wrote in
a report yesterday.  “Investors are worried about top-line growth due to gross
domestic product downgrades and margin pressure due to rising
commodity prices and higher wages,” the report said.  The  International Monetary Fund  trimmed its forecast for
U.S. economic growth to 2.8 percent from 3 percent for 2011,
predicting higher  oil prices  and the pace of job gains will
restrain the recovery, according to the fund’s World Economic
Outlook on April 11. Growth in  developing countries  will slow to
6.5 percent this year from 2010’s 7.3 percent, the IMF said.  China ’s government risks a “hard landing” for the world’s
second-largest economy by failing to tighten monetary policy
quickly enough to cool inflation, independent economist  Andy Xie 
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.7 percent as of
11:51 a.m. in Singapore. The gauge has advanced 17 percent in
the past 12 months, compared with a 10 percent climb by the MSCI
World Index of developed nations. Companies in the developing
nations’ index trade for 11.7 times estimated earnings, less
than developed countries’ 12.9 times.  Bull Market   Earnings downgrades likely won’t derail the “bull market”
in developing-nation equities in the near term, the Citigroup
analysts wrote. “Assuming the global economy continues to grow,
we continue to expect solid gains in emerging markets over the
rest of 2011.”  Inflows into emerging-market equity funds slowed to $2
billion for the week ended April 13 from $5.7 billion the
previous week, according to Citigroup reports on April 8 and
April 15 that cited data from  EPFR Global .  Corporate earnings may also be hurt by the magnitude-9
earthquake and resulting tsunami on March 11 that devastated
 Japan ’s northeast coast and dented production at companies from
Toyota Motor Corp. to chipmaker Renesas Electronics Corp.,
according to Lee King Fuei, a  money manager  at Schroders Plc.  Analysts estimate earnings at companies in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index to rise 19 percent in the next 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit at MSCI World
companies may increase 21 percent, the data show.  “If your production is not kept up, the likelihood is that
you won’t have the earnings that analysts have in place in the
beginning of the year,” Lee, whose firm held $307.9 billion as
of Dec. 31, said by telephone from Singapore today. “With all
that has happened, the risk is that companies are not able to
make those earnings numbers that analysts have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in  Singapore  
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 