-- 
Tenaga Warns Coal Cost Increases to Hurt Full-Year Earnings

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-04-22T02:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/tenaga-warns-climbing-coal-costs-to-impact-full-year-earnings.html
Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) ,  Malaysia ’s
biggest electricity producer, warned that increases in coal
costs in the next six months will have a “negative impact” on
its full-year earnings.  The Kuala Lumpur-based utility paid 29 percent more for
coal burned at its plants in the three months ended Feb. 28 from
a year earlier, according to an exchange filing yesterday.
Prices will continue to rise due to accelerated coal demand from
 Japan  to compensate for reduced nuclear power generation
following last month’s earthquake and tsunami, Chief Executive
Officer Che Khalib Mohamad Noh said.  Tenaga shares have fallen 10 percent this year, compared
with the 0.5 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia
KLCI Index. They were unchanged at 6.03 ringgit at 10:49 a.m. in
 Kuala Lumpur . The earnings were released after yesterday’s close.  “Rising coal prices will be a drag on Tenaga’s earnings,”
June Ng, an analyst at HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn., said in a
report today. “But this has been priced-in” and the company
may win government approval for a power price increase next
financial year.  Power demand is expected to rise in the second half of this
year as major projects are implemented, she said.  Lower Profit  Tenaga’s net income dropped 37 percent to 630.3 million
ringgit ($210 million), or 14.2 sen a share, in its fiscal
second quarter from 1 billion ringgit, or 23.05 sen, a year
earlier, the company said yesterday. Sales rose 1.5 percent to
7.5 billion ringgit.  The results were “below expectations,” Ivy Ng Lee Fang,
an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., wrote in a
report today. “Second-half earnings are expected to remain
weak due to higher fuel costs.” She cut her share price
estimate by 7 sen to 6.82 ringgit and kept her “neutral”
rating, according to the report.  Coal prices may rise more than 30 percent to a record this
year as demand from  China  and  India  accelerates and Japan boosts
imports to make up for nuclear power lost after the March
earthquake, according to a Bloomberg survey this week. The Kuala
Lumpur-based utility said it paid on average $103.80 a metric
ton for its coal during the three-month period, up from $80.70 a
year earlier.  Prices of coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, a
benchmark for  Asia , may average $130 a ton in 2011, the median
forecast of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows. That
compares with $99 a ton last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and  IHS McCloskey , a Petersfield, England-based
researcher.  “Coal prices have currently surpassed $120 per metric ton
and the price is expected to increase further due to the current
global situation,” Tenaga said in yesterday’s statement.
“Hence, the results for this financial year is expected to be
adversely affected.”  The group earlier warned that profit may fall by as much as
20 percent this fiscal year on higher cost of the fuel. For
every $10 a ton increase in coal prices, Tenaga’s profitability
will be cut by 18 percent, Che Khalib said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  