-- 
Merkel Faces Backbench Coalition Rebellion Over Future Euro-Area Bailouts

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-04-21T13:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/merkel-faces-backbench-coalition-rebellion-over-future-euro-area-bailouts.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
faces a backbench revolt over the permanent rescue fund for
euro-area countries that risks making her dependent on
opposition votes to push the backstop through parliament.  Lawmakers from Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and her
Free Democratic Party coalition partner are threatening to
withhold their support for the European Stability Mechanism as
they grow increasingly concerned that it eases the way for
future bailouts rather than making them less likely.  Between 30 and 40 coalition lawmakers are prepared to
oppose or abstain on the ESM when it goes to parliament later
this year, CDU lawmaker Klaus-Peter Willsch said by phone from
his electoral district near  Frankfurt . Merkel has a 41-seat
 majority  in the 621-seat lower house, the Bundestag.  “I want automatic sanctions, real sanctions that hurt
infringers, and this package comes nowhere close enough to
delivering them,” Willsch, one of three CDU members to reject
aid for  Greece  in a Bundestag vote last May, said today. “Ever
since we’ve had the euro we’ve seen nothing but flagrant bucking
of the rules and it’s going to carry on” under the ESM.  Dissent in her bloc would embarrass Merkel without
derailing ratification of the mechanism. In a litmus test of
support, the opposition Greens and  Social Democrats  last month
backed a non-binding coalition resolution on the ESM based on
proposals drawn up by euro-area leaders on March 11.  Bundestag Vote  The Bundestag will vote on the legislation “sometime in
the second half of the year,” Finance Ministry spokesman
 Bertrand Benoit  said by phone today. “Everything will be
bundled into one package, including a vote on extending the
financial capacity of the ESM’s forerunner,” the European
Financial Stability Facility.  Coalition lawmakers will use the intervening time to push
for changes to the ESM, above all to prevent the mechanism from
automatically triggering bailout aid without consulting
lawmakers, said  Otto Fricke , the FDP’s budget spokesman.  “It’s an understatement to say we’re keen on preserving
parliament’s control over the budget,” Fricke said in an
interview on April 19. “We’ve made that pretty clear in talks
with Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble .”  Economy Minister Rainer Bruederle is also pushing for
changes to the mechanism and has urged Schaeuble, a  Christian
Democrat  like Merkel, to improve his communication with
lawmakers.  The ESM blueprint drawn up in March “needs to be improved
and made more precise on many central points,” Bruederle’s
deputy, Bernhard Heitzer, said in a letter dated April 18 and
addressed to Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen.  Once the ESM comes into force from mid-2013, aid may only
be drawn “as a last resort” if the euro’s stability is at
risk, Heitzer said in the letter, which was distributed to news
organizations. Bruederle also seeks more precise wording in
legislation on the role of private bondholders in future crises.  Also on April 18, the Bundesbank published a report saying
the ESM contained “imprecise” rules for voting on aid that are
potentially “contradictory” with regard to the roles of
private creditors. Imprecise rules on the unanimity of aid
decisions may mean there is “no upper limit” to help from
members, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  