-- 
Thermal Coal’s 30% Gain to Outpace Oil, Gas on Japan Quake: Energy Markets

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-04-21T18:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/thermal-coal-s-30-gain-to-outpace-oil-gas-on-japan-quake-energy-markets.html
Thermal coal may outpace oil and
gas this year, rising more than 30 percent to a record, as
demand from China and  India  accelerates and  Japan  boosts imports
to make up for nuclear power lost after the March earthquake.  Prices at the Australian port of Newcastle, a benchmark for
 Asia , may average $130 a metric ton in 2011, the median forecast
of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows. That compares
with $99 a ton last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and  IHS McCloskey , a Petersfield, England-based
researcher. New York crude futures are forecast to rise 26
percent next year, while U.S. natural gas will be unchanged.  Demand for coal is increasing in China and India as the
countries look to fuel economies that are outpacing the rest of
the world.  China ’s purchases may rise by 7.8 percent in 2011,
while India’s may climb 28 percent,  Societe Generale  SA said
last month. Japan may consume as much as 1 million extra tons
this year as the country turns to coal-fired plants make up for
the loss of nuclear generation, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “The demand story for thermal coal is going to look quite
strong,” said  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne , who
estimated contract prices for the 12 months starting April 1
would reach $130 a ton. “This year we’re going to see quite an
accelerated increase in demand from India. China will again be a
strong contributor.”  Thermal coal will average $132 a ton this year and $145 in
2012 as demand from Japanese utilities for fuel with high-energy
content rises,  Daniel Brebner , an analyst for Deutsche Bank in
 London , said in an April 8 report. Price estimates ranged from
$118 to $150 a ton in the survey.  Contract Prices  Benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude futures may average
$100.14 a barrel in 2011 from $79.61 last year, according to the
average forecast of 37 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, with the
most recent predictions given the heaviest weightings. Crude
rose 0.8 percent to $112.29 a barrel today on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Natural gas futures for delivery next month to  Louisiana ’s
 Henry Hub , the U.S. benchmark, will be unchanged at $4.38 per
million British thermal units, according to 25 estimates. The
price rose 2.4 percent today to $4.412 in New York.  Thermal coal at Newcastle dropped 40 cents to $122.80 a ton
in the week ended April 15, according to IHS McCloskey data. The
fuel averaged $128 a ton in 2008, the highest-ever annual cost.
Buyers have already agreed to pay record prices for yearly
supply contracts, which can be used as an indicator for the
direction of spot prices.  Chugoku Electric Power Co. agreed to pay $129.85 a ton
under a term contract from  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s biggest
exporter of coal for power stations, compared with $98 a ton
last year, Deutsche Bank said in its report.  Japan’s Power  Jakarta-based PT Bumi Resources, Asia’s biggest exporter of
power-station coal, forecasts prices may rise to between $140
and $150 a ton by December because of increased demand from
China, India and Japan, Kenneth Farrell, a company director,
said in  Singapore  this month.  Japan, the world’s biggest importer of coal, is seeking
alternatives to nuclear generation after the record 9.0-
magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami shut 11 reactors.
The country imported 115 million tons of thermal coal last year
and purchases may rise to 118 million next year when almost 9
gigawatts of coal capacity is brought back on line following
damaged by the temblor, Societe Generale said. The Paris-based
bank estimated Newcastle prices will average $128 this year.  “Despite the near-term challenges for coal-fired power
producers in Japan, domestic utilities are anxious to secure
volumes to ensure supply as power consumption resumes,”
Deutsche Bank’s Brebner said.  95% Capacity  Japanese utilities can use an extra 5 million to 10 million
tons of coal by running plants at 95 percent of capacity, Pervan
said in an interview last month.  Immediate demand for the fuel from Japan may still decline
in the next six to 12 months as the effects of the March 11
disaster reduce the requirements of some customers, Coal &
Allied said in its first-quarter production report April 13.  Prices may fall to $105 a ton next year from $127 this year
because the market is well supplied, Jodi Morgan, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail.  “I see coal prices getting softer in another three to six
months, as the market is going to have excess coal to the tune
of 12 million tons because of the Japan incident,” Vinay Prakash, chief executive officer for coal and carbon credits at
Adani Enterprises Ltd., India’s biggest importer of the fuel,
said in an e-mail. “We see Chinese imports slowing down and
their export figures increasing on a month-to-month basis, which
makes the current market more bearish and we may see a
correction in the current market price.”  China’s Production  Seaborne-coal demand is projected to exceed 1 billion tons
in 2011, with the Asia Pacific region “comprising the vast
majority” of growth,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S.
coal producer, said Feb. 25.  “China has no signs of slowing,” said  Helen Lau , Hong
Kong-based analyst with UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “The demand outlook
this year, we think, should remain strong,” she said, citing an
increase from Japan because of nuclear plant closures.  India increased imports of thermal coal by 17 percent to 47
million tons last year and shipments may rise to 60 million tons
in 2011, according to Societe Generale.  China will remain a growing import market for thermal coal
in the next decade as domestic mine production lags behind power
demand, said Paworamon Suvarnatemee, a Bangkok-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG. The country’s 2012 imports of the power-
plant variety may rise to 70 million tons, Societe Generale
said.  Indian Demand  Contract prices for the fuel in the year starting April 1,
2012, may rise to $135 a metric ton, “with India’s additional
demand and China again showing that it’s a big net importer,”
said Pervan, who estimates annual prices in 2013 may increase to
$140 a ton. Demand will rise 5 percent this year and 8.5 percent
in 2012, driven by a jump in Indian consumption.  Global thermal-coal trade is projected to increase 4
percent a year to 962 million tons in 2016, underpinned by
demand from China and India, the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences said in a
report last month.  “We expect strong demand growth in China and India will
continue throughout 2011 and the long-term prospects are also
bright,” Chris Renwick, chairman of Rio Tinto Group’s  Coal &
Allied Industries Ltd. (CNA)  unit, told the company’s annual general
meeting April 15. “Our traditional Asian markets have returned
to pre-global financial crisis demand levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  