-- 
European Stocks Climb as Global Economic Rebound Spurs Growth in Earnings

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-23T07:07:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/european-stocks-advance-as-akzo-nobel-beats-estimates-royal-kpn-tumbles.html
European stocks climbed this past
week, recovering from a selloff, as earnings from  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to PSA Peugeot Citroen and  L’Oreal SA (OR)  spurred
investor optimism in the global economic recovery.  Infineon Technologies AG,  Europe ’s second-largest chipmaker
rallied more than 3 percent. Peugeot and Fiat SpA led gains in
carmakers, while L’Oreal, the world’s biggest cosmetics maker,
climbed more than 2 percent in Paris.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1 percent in
the holiday-shortened week as 37 of the gauge’s companies
reported earnings. The measure sank 1.7 percent on April 18, the
largest drop in a month, after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its credit
outlook for the U.S., the world’s largest economy.  “We continue to favor equities as our preferred asset
class,” said Tristan Hanson, head of  asset allocation  at
Jersey, Channel Islands-based Ashburton Ltd., which oversees
$1.7 billion. “Behind the scenes, corporate profits and cash
flows have continued to recover strongly from the crisis.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX Index rose 1.6 percent, France’s
CAC 40 Index climbed 1.2 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
rose 0.4 percent. Western European stock markets were closed
April 22 for the Good Friday holiday.  Greece’s ASE Index and Portugal’s  PSI-20 Index (PSI20)  were the
region’s worst performing markets, falling 2.6 percent and 1.7
percent respectively as the cost of insuring debt sold by the
countries rose to records.  Infineon,  ARM Holdings   Infineon led technology shares higher, jumping 6.1 percent
after the company said second-quarter sales and profitability
beat its own forecasts. The shares also advanced after Intel,
the world’s biggest chipmaker, posted first-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ projections.  ARM Holdings Plc climbed 1.6 percent as Apple reported
second-quarter profit that almost doubled to $5.99 billion,
boosted by sales of smartphones. ARM designs chips that are used
in Apple’s iPhones.  Of the western European companies that that reported
earnings since April 11, profits have topped estimates by an
average of 5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In the U.S., companies on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index have
beaten forecasts by an average of 9.7 percent.  Peugeot rallied 7.3 percent after Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker posted a 10 percent increase in first-quarter revenue.
Fiat advanced 6.8 percent, even as the company said it will pay
$1.27 billion to build a 51 percent stake in Chrysler Group LLC
two years earlier than planned.  L’Oreal, Synthes Gain  L’Oreal rose 2.1 percent after first-quarter sales beat the
average analyst estimate.  Other companies including LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA, the world’s largest luxury-goods group, and  Burberry Group
Plc (BRBY) , Britain’s biggest luxury-goods retailer, posted sales that
topped analysts’ projections. LVMH jumped 6.5 percent and
Burberry surged 10 percent.  Elsewhere, Synthes Inc. soared 7.1 percent after the
biggest maker of devices to treat  bone fractures  and trauma
confirmed it has held talks about a possible takeover by Johnson
& Johnson.  Alpha Bank SA led a selloff in Greek banks, tumbling 12
percent as investors charged a record amount to insure Greece’s
debt obligations. German officials said the Mediterranean nation
will probably have to restructure its debt even after the
nation’s Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said late last
week in  Washington  that the country has no such plans.  Popolare di Milano  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl sank 13 percent after the
Italian lender announced plans to raise as much as 1.2 billion
euros ($1.75 billion) by selling new shares. The Bank of Italy
had asked the country’s oldest cooperative bank to strengthen
its capital. The Milan-based bank will ask shareholders at a
meeting in June to approve the plan.  Royal KPN NV, largest Dutch telephone company, slipped 8.3
percent after lowering its earnings forecast for 2011 and
outlining plans to eliminate as much as 25 percent of its
workforce.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , Sweden’s biggest phone company,
declined 3.8 percent after posting first-quarter net income of
4.65 billion kronor ($763.7 million). That fell short of
analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  