-- 
Goldman Ex-Director Seeks to Have District Judge Decide SEC Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ex-goldman-sachs-director-gupta-says-sec-s-leak-case-belongs-in-u-s-court.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director  Rajat Gupta , accused by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission of leaking inside information about the
company, seeks to have his SEC dispute heard by a U.S. district
judge in  New York .  The SEC, in an administrative proceeding filed March 1 in
 Washington , accuses Gupta of giving information to Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
$5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The agency also alleges
Gupta told Rajaratnam about the New York-based bank’s quarterly
earnings and those of  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also
a director. Gupta hasn’t been criminally charged.  Gupta sued the SEC on March 18 in federal court in
Manhattan, denying the SEC’s allegations and arguing he was the
only one of more than two dozen people tied to the government’s
Galleon case to have such an administrative proceeding filed
against him. He also argued the SEC’s allegations occurred at
least 1 1/2 years before regulators were allowed to bring such
an action under the Dodd-Frank Act.  “We have a constitutional issue here,” Gupta’s lawyer,
 Gary Naftalis , told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is
presiding over Gupta’s lawsuit.  “This man, of all the Galleon defendants -- 27 individuals
and eight corporations -- he is the only one who’s been singled
out by the SEC for an administrative proceeding,” Naftalis said
yesterday.  ‘Business of the Courts’  Naftalis argued that under the SEC proceeding, Gupta won’t
have access to the evidence collected by the SEC which must be
turned over to a defendant during a civil lawsuit. He also told
Rakoff that an administrative law judge will first make a
finding and that a final determination is made by the SEC. Gupta
could appeal only after the SEC makes its finding, Naftalis
said.  “The Constitution is the business of the federal courts,”
Naftalis said. “What’s the harm here? The fact is that you have
to go through an administrative proceeding to vindicate your
rights and that’s wrong.”  In such an SEC proceeding, the judge is allowed to consider
hearsay, or evidence that may only be indirect or speculative.
Brenda Murray, the SEC’s chief administrative law judge,
previously declined to stay the commission’s action and
scheduled a July 18 administrative trial for Gupta.  ‘Proper Process’  Richard Humes, a lawyer for the SEC, yesterday said that
federal courts don’t have jurisdiction in the dispute before any
findings are made in its administrative action against Gupta. If
there is a finding in the administrative proceeding, Gupta must
take any appeal directly to a federal appeals court, Humes said.  “Even if it makes a mistake, the proper process is to take
the appeal to the appeals court and correct it,” Humes said.  Rakoff said he would issue a ruling later.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in federal court in  Manhattan 
in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of gaining
$63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders including
Gupta. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing, saying he based trades on
research.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-01900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The Rajaratnam case
is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  