-- 
Ex-Goldman Sachs Banker Starts Hedge Fund Analyzing Japanese Blog Traffic

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-04-21T01:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ex-goldman-banker-starts-hedge-fund-analyzing-japanese-blogs.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
banker Hideki Furusho and a  University of Tokyo  professor have
teamed up to create a hedge fund that invests in Nikkei 225
futures based on a computer model that analyzes Japanese blogs.  The Pluga AI Fund, which uses a web-mining model developed
by Yutaka Matsuo, an associate professor at  University of Tokyo ,
is aiming to raise 5 billion yen ($61 million) after starting
with 30 million yen in August, said Furusho, the founder of
 Pluga Capital Co. , which runs the fund. Pluga plans to target
overseas investors starting from June, he said.  Hedge funds investing in  Japan  are diversifying their
strategies away from long-short equities funds that bet on
rising and falling stock prices. The fund exploits the
increasing traffic of information on the Internet by tracking
about 20 million blogs in Japanese with keywords that may affect
the moves of  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  futures, according to Matsuo.  “We’re leveraging on the global web environment through
this fund which is probably the first of a kind in the world,”
Furusho, 32, said in an interview in Tokyo. “Over the next 10
years, the web universe is going to grow, which will allow us to
become more accurate in making investment decisions.”  Simulated Trades  The fund returned 46.8 percent from November 2006 through
July 2010 based on simulated trades using the algorithm model as
well as usual quantitative analysis of Nikkei 225 futures,
Furusho said. Since the fund started in August, it has returned
7.5 percent through April 11, he said. That compares with
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average’s 1.9 percent return
in the same period.  The fund, which targets annual returns of 30 percent, every
day makes an  investment decision  to either buy, sell or not
invest in Nikkei 225 futures based on the algorithm model, and
closes its position at the end of trading by cashing out to
maintain liquidity of the fund, Furusho said. The algorithm
finds patterns between blog data and stock movements to form its
investment decision.  “In an environment like this, investors are looking for
liquidity as well as redemption requirements,” he said.  The fund eventually aims to expand its investment universe,
such as bets on overseas futures and foreign exchange markets,
as it incorporates wider web data beyond Japanese blogs, Matsuo
said in the same interview.  Artificial Intelligence  Pluga AI, which is short for artificial intelligence,
adjusted its model last month as the magnitude-9 earthquake and
ensuing tsunami on March 11 crippled  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
nuclear plant in Fukushima prefecture, leading to the worst
nuclear disaster since 1986, according to Furusho. The fund made
changes to the amount it invests in futures as well as its loss-
cut rules to counter the volatile moves in the market, he said.  The amount of information available over the Internet has
increased 51 times from 2001 to 2008, according to the firm,
citing government data. Among keywords found in blogs that tend
to move the market recently are “nuclear,” “earthquake,”
“Tokyo Electric” and “compensation,” Matsuo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  