-- 
Ex-Nomura Trader Overcomes Japan Quake as Hedge Fund Returns 5% in March

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-21T01:30:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ex-nomura-trader-overcomes-japan-quake-as-hedge-fund-returns-5-in-march.html
Go Horiuchi, a former trader at
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , led a 5 percent return with his hedge fund
that invests in Nikkei 225 Stock Average options in March,
weathering losses caused from  Japan ’s record earthquake.  The Developed Asia Gamma Strategy Fund, run by Singapore-
based Sherp Alternative Advisors Pte, began on Sept. 1 with “a
few million dollars” and aims to grow the fund size to about 10
billion yen ($121 million) by the end of the year, said Managing
Director Ken Fukui. Sherp is in talks with Japanese financial
institutions to start selling the fund locally, he said,
declining to elaborate further saying talks are private.  The fund’s March return compares with the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average’s 8.2 percent slide last month as a magnitude-9 temblor
and ensuing tsunami crippled a nuclear plant, creating Japan’s
worst disaster since World War II. The fund invests in highly-
traded  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Options listed on Osaka Securities Exchange
and limits losses by trading the derivatives -- that give the
right, though not the obligation, to buy or sell a security at a
set price and date, Fukui said.  “We are in an interesting time where we have to expect the
unexpected as we saw with the disaster in Japan,” Fukui, 48,
said in an interview yesterday in  Tokyo , where he’s on a
business trip. “The investments to buy downside protections
before the earthquake contributed to the return in March.”  Volatility Surges  Sherp is trying to capture demand from investors who are
seeking to use options to protect against losses in their
portfolios and boost returns. Investors use options to guard
against fluctuations in the price of securities they own,
speculate on share-price moves, or bet that volatility will
increase or decrease.  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, a gauge of
Japanese option prices, almost tripled in two business days
following the March 11 earthquake to a two-year high of 69.88
while the Nikkei 225 fell the most since 1987.  The Developed Asia Gamma Strategy Fund’s March gain also
beat the 0.2 percent return by the Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index,
which tracks more than 2,600 funds worldwide.  Fukui -- whose former stints include chief investment
officer of GCI Asset Management and  fund manager  at Sparx Group
Co. -- and Horiuchi, 35, a former derivatives trader at Nomura,
set up Sherp Alternative Advisors in January 2010.  “The fund aims to win a place where investors will see it
as a good protection for downside risks,” Fukui said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 