-- 
Texas Fund Driven by Oil Rally May Reach $12 Billion by 2013, Senator Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/texas-fund-driven-by-oil-rally-may-reach-12-billion-by-2013-senator-says.html
Texas ’s reserve fund may climb to
28 percent more than officially forecast by 2013 as energy
prices rally, a gain that might help the second-most populous
state avoid some spending cuts, a key senator said.  The fund, fed by energy taxes and forecast by the state
comptroller to reach $9.4 billion by the end of August 2013, may
gain much more by then, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Steve Ogden, a Bryan Republican, said yesterday.  “That fund could easily rise to $12 billion,” Ogden said
at a committee hearing. He based his estimate on revenue
increases from taxes on oil and natural-gas production in the
state as energy prices climb.  Crude oil futures have jumped 34 percent in the past year,
touching $113.46 in  New York  on April 11, the highest level
since September 2008. Ogden said he favors using $3 billion from
the reserve to help cover general-fund spending to avoid some
cuts in education and health-care services. The state faces a
projected deficit of at least $15 billion in the budget for the
fiscal biennium that begins in September.  Ogden’s estimate of the so-called rainy-day fund’s growth
was supported by John O’Brien, executive director of the
 Legislative Budget Board . The nonpartisan research unit advises
lawmakers on fiscal issues.  “It doesn’t take a whole lot of speculation that if prices
stay high, it might be $12 billion,” O’Brien said at the
hearing. Natural-gas futures have risen 8.6 percent in the past
year in New York trading.  Industry Executive  Ogden is president of Ogden Resources in Bryan and has
worked in oil and gas exploration for more than 20 years. He
holds a master of business administration degree from  Texas A&M
University  in  College Station  and graduated from the U.S. Naval
Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland .  Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, has said he won’t sign a
2012-2013 budget that relies on reserve funds. Conservative
groups have pressed state legislators to cut spending rather
than use the fund, since it may be needed in the future.  “Governor Perry understands the situation and is letting
the Senate do its job,” Ogden said. Comptroller Susan Combs
said in January that the reserve fund held $8.2 billion and
projected a 15 percent gain by the end of the next biennium.  Texas’s House of Representatives has approved spending the
$3 billion from the rainy-day fund to fill a budget gap in the
current fiscal year. The Senate is likely to support that plan,
Ogden said.  Greater demand for oil and natural gas from an improving
global economy and increased  production  in Texas from oil shale
is building confidence that the state can count on a much larger
reserve fund, Ogden said in an interview.  Rising Output  “Oil production is increasing in Texas,” Ogden said. Crude
output, which  hasn’t risen  in the state since 1972, climbed
almost 3.6 percent last year, according to figures from the
state Railroad Commission.  Natural-gas demand is also likely to rise as development of
nuclear power slows because of the crisis in  Japan , where four
reactors damaged in the March 11 earthquake and tsunami have
leaked radiation into the environment, Ogden said.  Even if it uses the reserve, Texas’s Senate will probably
approve a 2012-2013 biennial budget that spends about $10
billion less than in the current period, Ogden said. Failure to
use the rainy-day fund would “crater” public education, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  