-- 
Meyer Burger Says It Won’t Increase Acquisition Offer Price for Roth & Rau

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-04-21T13:54:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/meyer-burger-says-it-won-t-increase-acquisition-offer-price-for-roth-rau.html
Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  Chief
Executive Officer Peter Pauli said the biggest maker of solar
panel manufacturing equipment won’t raise its 357 million-euro
($520 million) offer for  Roth & Rau AG. (R8R)   “Why should we raise it?” Pauli said in an interview
today in Bern following the Baar, Switzerland-based company’s
annual general meeting. “We have no reason to. The analysts
considered it a fair price.” A new offer, he said, is “out of
the question right now. No one else is bidding.”  Roth & Rau has traded above Meyer Burger’s offer of 22
euros a share since the bid was announced April 11 and rose 0.70
euro to 23.545 euros at 3:23 p.m. in  Germany  today. The bid is
part of a consolidation in the solar business as companies seek
economies of scale to cope with falling panel prices and
competition from Chinese rivals.  “Investors are expecting an upgrade in the offer,” Lars Dannenberg, an analyst at Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. in
 London , said by phone. “They have to go to 25-something.”  Pauli said Roth & Rau has surpassed the offer price because
“ hedge funds  always start speculating immediately.” Meyer
Burger’s Chief Financial Officer Michel Hirschi said Roth & Rau
shares are behaving normally following a bid.  Management Stakes  Roth & Rau’s management sold their stakes to Meyer Burger
this month after endorsing the bid. The Hohenstein, Germany-
based company is the biggest gainer on the 98-member WilderHill
New Energy Index, up 71 percent since March 1. Meyer Burger
shares have climbed 35 percent in the same period.  Meyer Burger has 60 percent of the market for solar panel
manufacturing lines and will be able to offer a broader package
once it controls Roth & Rau’s cell-making equipment, Dannenberg
said. The company’s profit more than tripled last year to 98
million Swiss francs ($111 million) as Chinese panel producers
ramped up manufacturing capacity.  “China accounted for about half of our total sales,”
Hirschi said. “We are starting to get a lot more business in
 India ,  Korea  and  Taiwan .”  Meyer Burger has no further acquisition plans in the near
future, he said.  Roth & Rau shares will likely rise further because of the
protection offered to minority shareholders under German
takeover law, Dannenberg said. An acquiring company can’t force
minority shareholders in Germany to sell until its stake reaches
95 percent, he said.  Today, Meyer Burger announced it had acquired a further 6.3
percent of Roth & Rau from OTB Group BV of the Netherlands at 22
euros a share, raising its stake to 17.7 percent. The company
today also added Roth & Rau’s CEO Dietmar Roth to the Board of
Directors before the takeover.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  