-- 
Ex-Amaranth Trader Hunter Is Fined $30 Million in Market-Manipulation Case

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-04-21T19:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ferc-sets-30-million-fine-for-ex-amaranth-trader-hunter-1-.html
The  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  issued a $30 million civil penalty against former
Amaranth Advisors LLC energy trader Brian Hunter, who is accused
of manipulating the natural-gas futures market in 2006.  The fine “is a sufficient deterrent” to discourage
traders from engaging in market manipulation, FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff told reporters today at the agency’s monthly
meeting. Hunter has 30 days to pay or appeal, FERC said.  The agency alleged Hunter manipulated the price of
contracts on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in 2006 while
boosting the value of financial derivatives.  Amaranth lost $6.6 billion betting on the price of natural
gas. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund that once
controlled half of the natural-gas market, collapsed in 2006. In
August 2009, the company agreed to pay $7.5 million to end U.S.
cases brought by FERC and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission for trying to manipulate natural-gas prices. FERC had
initially proposed a $291 million fine against Amaranth, Hunter
and another trader, Matthew Donohoe, who settled with the
agency.  A FERC judge ruled in January 2010 that Hunter had
manipulated gas markets.  “The FERC has no jurisdiction according to Congress and
the CFTC; therefore this means nothing,”  Michael Kim , an
attorney at Kobre & Kim LLP in  New York  who represents Hunter,
said in a e-mailed statement today. Hunter can ask the agency to
re-hear his case and, if denied, appeal to the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the District of Columbia Circuit.  The case was the first in which FERC went after a
participant in the futures market for actions it said affected
the price of delivered gas, which it oversees.  “This is a seminal case in FERC law,” Susan Court, an
attorney with Hogan Lovells US LLP and a former FERC enforcement
director, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  