-- 
Fiat Industrial Net Rises on Iveco Truck Sales, Misses Analyst Estimates

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-21T12:17:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/fiat-industrial-first-quarter-profit-rises-on-iveco-sales-1-.html
Fiat Industrial SpA, the
commercial-vehicle and tractor units spun off from  Fiat SpA (F)  in
January, reported that first-quarter profit more than doubled,
led by sales of Iveco trucks.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time items, which
Fiat Industrial calls trading profit, advanced to 277 million
euros ($406 million) from 122 million euros a year earlier, the
Turin-based company said today. Profit missed the 301 million-
euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Quarterly trading profit is mainly driven by Iveco,”
Andrea Balloni, a Fidentiis Equities SA analyst in Milan with a
“sell” rating on the stock, said in a note to investors ahead
of the earnings.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , 58, put the
automaker’s industrial units into a separate company at the
beginning of the year to focus on cars and foster further
alliances for the two companies. He also serves as chairman of
Fiat Industrial.  Iveco’s trading profit jumped to 71 million euros from 3
million euros a year earlier as sales rose 25 percent.  CNH
Global NV (CNH) , a maker of agricultural equipment, increased its
trading profit 68 percent to 213 million euros.  CNH, which is listed in  New York , said the March 11
earthquake in  Japan  could reduce full-year sales as much as $500
million and operating profit by between $40 million and $60
million.  Unlike Daimler AG, which keeps its Mercedes-Benz luxury-car
operations and its truck unit under the same group, Fiat said
that different earnings cycles,  capital requirements  and returns
on capital argue for a separation of the industrial operations
from automaking.  Fiat Industrial isn’t interested in a merger with Daimler’s
trucks unit, Marchionne reiterated last month. The company may
want to acquire Volkswagen AG’s stakes in MAN SE and Scania AB
if VW put the holdings up for sale, Marchionne said in January.  Fiat Industrial today also confirmed its target of trading
profit between 1.2 billion euros and 1.4 billion euros in 2011.  The shares fell as much as 2.3 percent and traded at 10.02
euros, down 1.3 percent, at 1:33 p.m. in Milan, giving the
company a market value of 12 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 