-- 
Marchionne to Get Chrysler Control Two Years Early With 16% Stake Purchase

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-21T20:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/fiat-will-exercise-option-to-buy-another-16-of-chrysler-for-1-27-billion.html
     April 21 (Bloomberg) --  Fiat SpA (F)  will pay $1.27 billion to
reach a 51 percent stake in Chrysler Group LLC as Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is set to gain control of
the American carmaker two years faster than planned.  Fiat aims to increase its Chrysler stake to 46 percent in
the second quarter after completing refinancing needed for
Chrysler to repay government loans, the Turin, Italy-based
carmaker said today. The remaining 5 percent will come from the
U.S. later this year after meeting previously agreed targets.  The Obama administration tapped Marchionne, who now runs
both automakers, to revive Chrysler after it emerged from
bankruptcy in 2009. In exchange for sharing technology,
management and reaching operating milestones, the U.S. and
Canadian governments are giving Fiat 35 percent of Chrysler
without paying any cash. The original deal was for Fiat to buy
the final 16 percent stake in 2013.  “It’s a promising a sign for Chrysler,” Jessica Caldwell,
an analyst with Edmunds.com, said in an interview today at the
New York International Auto Show. “There was a time in which you
literally didn’t know what the fate of Chrysler was.”  Fiat gained 29.5 cents, or 4.6 percent, to 6.87 euros, the
highest since Feb. 18, in Milan trading. The shares have climbed
2.6 percent this year, valuing the automaker at 8.48 billion
euros ($12.4 billion).  Chrysler Debt  Chrysler owes the U.S. and Canadian governments $7.53
billion, according to a Feb. 25 filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Marchionne needs to reach a refinancing
deal with banks to pay back the government debt before he can
exercise his option to buy the additional 16 percent. The CEO
today declined to comment on the refinancing talks.  “Today’s announcement takes us one step closer to exiting
the U.S. taxpayers’ investment in Chrysler,” Timothy Massad,
the Treasury Department’s acting assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in a separate statement. “We are
looking forward to the full repayment of our loan to Chrysler,
which today’s announcement from Fiat is contingent upon.”  Marchionne, who says Fiat will pay cash to exercise the
option, is saving money by making the purchase earlier because
the cost is linked to the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company’s
earnings. Marchionne is pushing Chrysler to post its first net
income this year since emerging from bankruptcy as he works to
finish the refinancing.  Improved Earnings  Chrysler expects to almost triple what the carmaker calls
modified operating profit to more than $2 billion in 2011 from
$763 million last year, and to earn as much as $500 million in
net income. Modified operating profit excludes interest, taxes
and items such as pension-related costs.  “Fiat should save more than $400 million by exercising the
call option in the second quarter instead of in the following
quarters,” Gabriele Gambarova, a Banca Akros analyst in Milan
with a “buy” rating on Fiat stock, said in a note to
investors. “As long as Chrysler’s results improve, the  call
option  exercise would have become more expensive.”  Fiat, which had 13.1 billion euros of liquidity at the end
of March, reported yesterday that first-quarter profit gained
9.1 percent powered by the Ferrari brand and demand in  Brazil .
Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items, which Fiat
calls trading profit, advanced to 251 million euros.  Marchionne said today that the timing of a planned initial
public offering of Chrysler will depend on the American
carmaker’s performance and market conditions.  Increased Holding  Fiat received an additional 5 percent in Chrysler from the
U.S. government last week, giving it a 30 percent holding, by
reaching targets that included opening Fiat’s dealerships in
Brazil to Chrysler products.  Fiat expects to get the final 5 percent needed to reach a
51 percent majority by the end of the year from the government
after meeting a requirement for Chrysler to assemble a Fiat-
derived car in the U.S. that gets 40 miles per gallon.
Marchionne said Fiat may consolidate Chrysler even before
receiving the last 5 percent.  “It makes little sense to maintain these as separate
entities,” Marchionne said on a conference call with analysts,
adding it’s “almost irrelevant” how and when a full merger
between the two takes place because “the operational
integration started in 2009.”  Deeper Ties  Sharing parts between models and brands is a key feature of
the Fiat-Chrysler makeover. Future models will cut costs by
sharing parts that comprise up to two-thirds of an auto’s value.  In compact cars, more than 20 Fiat-Chrysler models will be
based on the same technology. They include a Fiat sedan destined
for a new factory in  China , which will mark its belated entry
into the world’s biggest market, as well as the 40 miles-per-
gallon Dodge for U.S. buyers.  “Fiat, together with Chrysler, will create a stronger
automobile group, with a full range of products, present in
every market around the world and able to compete with the
best,” Fiat Chairman John Elkann said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  