-- 
Financial Lobbying Costs Increase as Bank Bill Takes Effect

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-04-21T20:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/financial-lobbying-costs-increase-as-u-s-bank-bill-takes-effect.html
The largest U.S. banks, including
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , boosted their
spending on lobbying in 2011’s first quarter as the Obama
administration began writing regulations required by the new
financial services law and congressional Republicans moved to
repeal or amend it.  The 10 biggest U.S. banks by assets spent more than $11
million on lobbying from January through March, up from the
$10.3 million during the same period a year ago, when Congress
was debating the most extensive federal banking regulations
since the Great Depression. The measure passed in July.  The U.S. government is drafting rules to comply with the
law’s provisions, while House Republicans try to change some of
the regulations and Senate Republicans push for repealing them.  “The banks see an opportunity to weaken reform and they’re
pulling out all the stops,” said  Ed Mierzwinski , consumer
program director for the Boston-based  U.S. Public Interest
Research Group , which supports stronger banking regulations.  Wells Fargo spent $1.9 million on first-quarter lobbying
this year, up from $1 million last year. JPMorgan increased its
spending to $1.8 million from $1.5 million.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  spent $1.3 million, compared with $1.2 million a year
earlier.  Richele Messick, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo;  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs; and Howard Opinsky, a spokesman for New York-
based JPMorgan, all declined to comment.  Health Industry  In contrast to the financial industry, lobbying by health-
related industries declined after Obama signed legislation
overhauling health care, extending coverage to millions of
uninsured Americans. House Republicans voted earlier this year
to repeal the law. The Democratic-controlled Senate is unlikely
to act on that effort.  The  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ,
the Washington-based trade group for drug companies such as New
York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , spent $4.5 million in the first three
months of 2011, down from $7 million during the same period in
2010.  “We continue to focus our efforts on public policies that
improve patient care and access to medicines, foster medical
innovation and protect U.S.-based biopharmaceutical jobs,” said
Jennifer Wall, a spokeswoman for the group.  America’s Health Insurance Plans , the Washington-based
trade group for health insurers such as Indianapolis-based
 Wellpoint Inc. (WLP) , reported spending $2.3 million in first-quarter
lobbying expenses, down from $2.7 million last year.  “We continue to focus on reaching out to policymakers
about how to minimize coverage disruptions and cost increases as
the new law is implemented, while also advancing policies that
improve the quality, safety, and affordability of patient
care,” said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 