-- 
Fox’s $3 Billion TV Agreement With Dodgers May Hinge on Selig Team Trustee

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/fox-s-3-billion-tv-agreement-with-dodgers-may-hinge-on-selig-team-trustee.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers’ new $3
billion broadcast agreement with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox may need the
approval of Major League Baseball’s yet-to-be-named trustee for
the team, according to a former  CBS Sports  executive.  “The trustee would take a very serious look at that deal
and could very well void it,” Neal Pilson, a former president
of CBS Sports, said in an interview, noting he isn’t privvy to
the details. “He may very well think the team can get more
money if they put it up for bid.”  MLB must approve any TV deal Dodgers owner Frank McCourt
negotiates. The 20-year accord is worth about $3 billion, the
Los Angeles Times reported today, citing Steve Soboroff, team
vice chairman. McCourt would use proceeds to reduce debt and
settle a property dispute with his ex-wife Jamie. Citing the  Los
Angeles Lakers ’ deal with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , a trustee
might seek bids, Pilson said.  “It’s in everyone’s best interest to find a long-term
solution to the Dodgers current challenges, and we’ll continue
to work with Major League Baseball and the Dodgers to be a part
of that solution,” New York-based News Corp. said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Time Warner Cable and the Los Angeles Lakers entered into a
20-year broadcast agreement that creates two high-definition
cable channels to carry the team’s games starting with the 2012-
2013 season. Financial terms weren’t provided.  Lou D’Ermilio, a Fox Sports spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the statement. Josh Rawitch, a Dodgers spokesman, said
the team had nothing to say beyond Soboroff’s comments to the
Los Angeles Times. Pat Courtney, a spokesman for  Major League
Baseball  in  New York , declined to comment.  MLB Takeover  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , gained 19 cents to $17.48 today in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares have climbed 20
percent this year.  Major League Baseball took over business operations of the
Dodgers, which is struggling with debt and a fight over whether
Frank or Jamie McCourt owns the team.  Commissioner Bud Selig announced yesterday that baseball
would appoint a representative to run the Dodgers “because of
my deep concerns regarding the finances and operations” as the
divorced owners argue over how to divide the team.  Bloomberg Businessweek reported last August that, according
to unidentified people close to the McCourts, the Dodgers’ debt
stood at around $525 million, the majority of it borrowed
against future ticket sales. Forbes magazine estimated almost
all the team’s profit was being eaten up by interest.  McCourt, a Boston real-estate developer, bought the Dodgers
from Murdoch’s News Corp. for $430 million in 2004.  Below .500  The Dodgers, coming off their second losing season since
1999, have a losing record again this year. The team went to the
playoffs three times under McCourt’s ownership.  The McCourts were granted a divorce in October after almost
31 years of marriage. A Los Angeles judge last year invalidated
a postnuptial agreement that  Frank McCourt  claimed made him the
sole owner of the Dodgers, leaving the team’s status in limbo.  Court documents filed in the divorce said the McCourts took
$108 million in personal distributions from the team between
2004 and 2009, almost half for mortgages and real estate.  The Dodgers, who moved to Los Angeles in 1958 from
 Brooklyn , New York, are one of the most storied franchises in
American sports. Jackie Robinson of the  Brooklyn Dodgers  broke
baseball’s color barrier in 1947 as the first black player in
the major leagues in the modern era.  The O’Malley family ran the Dodgers from 1950 until the
team was sold in 1998 to Fox Entertainment Group, which is owned
by News Corp.  “The end of the road seems pretty clear,” said Alan I.
Rothenberg, Los Angeles-based founder of  Major League Soccer  and
chairman of Premier Partnerships Inc., a sports and
entertainment marketing firm. “A sale will be overseen,
monitored, controlled -- whatever you want to say -- by Major
League Baseball.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  