-- 
FTC’s Timothy Wu Says Dominant Internet Firms Should Not Add Monopolies

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-04-21T13:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ftc-s-wu-says-dominant-internet-companies-can-t-have-multiple-monopolies.html
Timothy Wu, an information
industries scholar hired by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission,
said in his first interview since joining the regulator that
dominant Internet companies should be barred from monopolizing
more than one market.  “We just take it for granted the Internet is always going
to be vibrant, always going to be moving,” Wu, who joined the
FTC in February, said in an April 18 interview. “It may require
some oversight and also may require that the government itself
doesn’t become the guarantor of monopoly.”  People familiar with the agency have said it’s weighing a
probe of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s most popular Internet
search engine. Wu said the FTC may consider how to prevent the
more powerful Internet firms from gaining multiple monopolies,
which would make them hard to displace.  He cited as an earlier example AT&T, which controlled local,
long-distance and wireless telephone service and switching
before it was broken up in 1984.  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , which dominated  computer hardware , software, operating
systems, accessories and repair businesses, is another example,
Wu said, adding that his comments reflect his own views, not the
commission’s.  Wu, 38, is on leave from  Columbia University  in  New York ,
where he teaches telecommunications and copyright law. He is
working on preliminary investigations and formal probes, and
running a weekly internal discussion group that examines how
companies come to dominate the Internet business.  Google Expansion  Google, facing increased scrutiny by regulators as it
bolsters its search business, is expanding into mobile-phone
services, display ads and software for business and government.
Officials in  Texas  and at the European Commission have started
investigations into Google’s search dominance and advertising
policies, while Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine said he is
considering such a probe.  “What I’m interested in is whether the next Google could
come along or whether the environment has become one where it’s
hard for the next deck-clearing innovation to make its impact,”
Wu said.  Wu is “precisely the type of person the FTC and other
agencies involved in competition policy should be bringing into
the mix,” said Spencer Waller, a professor of antitrust law at
Loyola University in  Chicago  and director of its Institute for
Consumer Antitrust Studies. “He understands the history and the
policy and the technology and is extremely valuable at strategic
and policy levels in thinking about these ideas.”  Buzz Settlement  The Washington-based commission on March 30 settled with
 Mountain View , California-based Google over allegations that it
used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies
when it introduced its Buzz social-networking service last year.
The FTC has also been taking “a very close look” at Facebook
Inc.’s privacy policies, Chairman Jonathan Leibowitz told
Bloomberg News in June.  “We have ongoing conversations with regulators and
agencies around the world and do not comment on specific
interactions,” said Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for  Palo Alto ,
California-based Facebook in Washington.  Google’s spokesman, Adam Kovacevich, declined to comment.  FTC Chairman Leibowitz said in a telephone interview that
he’s pleased with Wu’s contributions to the agency’s work,
“particularly with respect to technology markets, which is a
critical area for competition and where competition has brought
enormous benefit to consumers.”  “It’s great to have someone like Tim who can think outside
the box,” said Leibowitz, who declined to comment on any
current or future investigations.  ‘The Master Switch’  Wu is the author of “The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall
of Information Empires.” The  book , published last year,
documents how information empires shut out innovation as
competition erodes. Wu is also known for coining the term “net
neutrality” to refer to giving access to the Internet
unrestricted by equipment, service providers or any other
element.  Bert Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute in
Washington, said it was “logical” the FTC would use Wu to
develop the ideas in his book.  “These are the issues of our time,” Foer said. “An
agency like the FTC, that sees where the action is, wants that
kind of expertise.”  Wu said he has been leading weekly meetings with Ed Felten,
a professor of computer science and public affairs at  Princeton
University  in  New Jersey  who started as the FTC’s first chief
technologist in January. The meetings include  University of
California , Berkeley, professor Joseph Farrell, director of the
FTC’s Bureau of Economics, and Howard Shelanski, another
Berkeley professor who is deputy director of the Bureau of
Economics and head of the bureau’s antitrust division.  ‘Pool of Expertise’  “There is an enormous pool of expertise here,” Wu said,
joking that he and Felten enjoy tracking Washington food carts
at lunchtime with a mobile-phone application.  The FTC had been waiting for the  Justice Department  to
complete its review of Google’s acquisition of travel
information software company ITA Software Inc. before deciding
whether to proceed on a larger probe, two people familiar with
the situation said earlier this month. The department cleared
Google’s $700 million purchase of ITA on April 9.  Wu is also watching developments in the mobile-telephone
market as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google compete for supremacy in the
growing market for smartphones and tablets. Google’s Android
operating system -- used by Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and other companies -- will account for
39.5 percent of global smartphone shipments this year, compared
with 15.7 percent for Apple, according to market research firm
IDC.  “Now the whole issue is whether people can start
businesses on the Web, on mobile, or tablet platforms,” Wu said.
“No one imagined the telephone industry in the 1920s would
become a stagnant industry, but it happened. What do the
conditions for competition look like as the Internet reaches
middle age?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at   sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  