-- 
Funds Bet Against Volatility While VIX Notes Plummet 94%

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-04-21T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/funds-bet-against-volatility-while-vix-notes-plummet-94-.html
Investors have poured about $265
million over the past year into exchange-traded notes that rise
as stock-market volatility declines, looking for profits where
others have lost.  Accuvest Global Advisors and Armstrong Investment Managers
LLP are two buyers using the exchange-traded notes, or ETNs, to
bet against futures linked to the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index. The bet seeks to make money from the
contracts’ tendency to decline in value over time, a phenomenon
that causes losses for volatility speculators.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
VXX note, which gains when the futures rise, has lost 94 percent
of its value since it started trading in 2009.  “I was sitting around here and thinking, ‘If it’s that
bad, what about getting on the other side of it?’” said David
Garff, who helps manage about $350 million as president of
Accuvest in Walnut Creek,  California . He bought about $5 million
of a  UBS AG (UBSN)  note called XVIX in January, seeking to profit from
declining VIX futures prices.  The market value of the Zurich-based bank’s ETN was $88
million yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Two
inverse-volatility notes created in November by  New Canaan ,
Connecticut-based  VelocityShares LLC  had a market value of $98
million. The company markets the notes with the slogan, “Take
The Other Side.”  Barclays also sells two inverse ETNs with an outstanding
value of $80 million.  ‘Complicated Instrument’  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Index is
known, tracks the price of using options as insurance against
declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The Barclays VXX
note, also called the  iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN (VXX) ,
had a market value of $1.5 billion yesterday. It’s purchased by
investors who want to bet on the VIX, which can’t be traded
directly.  Harbinger Capital Partners, the New York-based hedge fund
founded by  Philip Falcone , bought 3.5 million shares of VXX
valued at $60.5 million during the third quarter of 2010 and
held the same number of shares at the end of the year, adjusted
for a reverse split, according to regulatory filings. The ETN
fell 46 percent in the fourth quarter.  “The CBOE is promoting the VIX as a hedging vehicle,”
said Robert Daigler, a professor of finance at  Florida
International University  in Miami. “It’s a very complicated
instrument.”  Tendency to Decline  Barclays’s VXX periodically buys longer-term contracts as
its holdings near maturity, Daigler said. That means the ETN
will tend to decline when long-term VIX futures are more
expensive than short-term contracts, he said.  Inverse VIX notes profit from the same tendency, said James
de Bunsen, portfolio manager at Armstrong Investment Managers in
 London . The company has earned about 15 percent since January on
a $5 million investment in one of Barclays’s inverse volatility
notes called IVO, he said.  Exchange-traded notes are unsecured debt whose value is
generally designed to mirror the performance of an index. They
are backed only by their issuer’s credit, unlike exchange-traded
funds, which hold assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 