-- 
MGA Wins $88.4 Million Award Against Mattel in Bratz Doll Copyright Trial

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-04-21T21:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/mga-wins-88-4-million-award-against-mattel-in-bratz-doll-copyright-trial.html
MGA Entertainment Inc. won an
$88.4 million award against  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  from a jury that ruled
MGA didn’t steal the idea for Bratz dolls from the rival
toymaker or infringe its copyright.  The federal court jury in  Santa Ana ,  California , found
Mattel, the maker of the Barbie doll, liable for stealing
closely held MGA’s  trade secrets  when its representatives used
fake identities to gain access to MGA’s showrooms at toy fairs.  “I think this is really a great victory for all the
entrepreneurs around the world, for MGA employees, for my family
and more importantly, for all the immigrants who come to this
country to pursue the American dream,”  Isaac Larian , founder
and chief executive officer of MGA, said after the verdict. “It
also sends out a message to the multinational companies of the
world that they won’t be allowed to bully us.”  Jennifer Keller, a lawyer for  Van Nuys , California-based
MGA, said the company can seek punitive damages that may triple
the award because the jury found Mattel’s conduct was “willful
and malicious,” as well as attorney fees.  The jury rejected Mattel’s claim that MGA stole its trade
secrets in 2000, when MGA made an agreement with Carter Bryant,
the designer who Mattel says worked for it when he came up with
the idea for Bratz and made the first sketches. It also rejected
claims that the dolls MGA started selling in 2001 violated
Mattel’s copyright.  Mattel’s Next Move  Michael T. Zeller , a lawyer for Mattel, said the company
will ask the judge to set aside the jurors’ findings and rule in
favor of the Mattel claims they rejected.  “There is clear and compelling evidence that
overwhelmingly proves that  Carter Bryant  made these drawings and
sketches while he was employed at Mattel,” Zeller said.  The jury awarded Mattel $10,000 in damages on its claims
that MGA interfered with the contract of Mattel’s former
employee. The jury also found that that Mattel should have known
as early as 2002 about the contract interference.  The judge will have to determine whether the damages are
barred by the statute of limitations, Thomas McConville, another
lawyer for MGA, said after the verdict was read.  A federal appeals court last year overturned a 2008 verdict
in Mattel’s favor. A jury in Riverside, California, awarded
Mattel $100 million in damages after agreeing that Bryant made
most of the initial sketches for the dolls while he worked for
El Segundo, California-based Mattel. Mattel had sought as much
as $1 billion in damages.  Lost Profit  In the current trial, Mattel claimed lost profit of from
$314 million to $544 million.  “We are disappointed by the verdict, but we remain
committed to protecting the intellectual property that is at the
heart of business success,” Mattel Chief Executive Officer
Robert Eckert said in an e-mailed statement. “Mattel’s first
priority is, and always has been, to make and sell the best toys
in the world.”  The jury calculated a total of $88.5 million on MGA’s
trade-secret claims. U.S. District Judge David O. Carter said he
may revise that amount because the total, based on 26 instances
of trade-secret theft for which the jury awarded $3.4 million
each, was $88.4 million.  Carter also said that one of the $3.4 million trade-secret
theft findings appeared to be duplicative and that he probably
will strike it.  Designer’s Version  Bryant has always maintained he came up with the Bratz idea
and made the first drawings in 1998, while he was living in
 Missouri  with his parents between two periods of working for
Mattel, MGA’s lawyers told the jurors.  The appeals court, in ordering a second trial, said the
lower-court judge erred in ruling that Bryant’s employment
agreement entitled Mattel to the designer’s drawings as a matter
of law. The appeals court also found that the judge, Stephen Larson, who has since returned to private law practice, was
wrong to award Mattel the rights to most of MGA’s Bratz
products.  Mattel fell 2.3 percent in the minutes after the first
verdict was read. After declining as much as 2.8 percent from
its opening price today, shares fell 26 cents, or 1 percent, to
$26.67 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in  San Diego 
at   callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 