-- 
Gandolfini Exposes Bickering Louds in Landmark Reality Show: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-04-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/gandolfini-exposes-bickering-louds-in-landmark-reality-tv-show-greg-evans.html
“ Cinema Verite ,” HBO’s dishy new
docudrama about the making of 1973’s “An American Family,”
vividly captures what some consider reality TV’s big-bang
moment.  “This is heaven!” gushes a dazzled Lance Loud (Thomas
Dekker) upon first seeing the camera crew that’s going to follow
his family around and record its most intimate moments.  The paradise was short-lived. The Louds of  Santa Barbara ,
 California , paid a high price for opening their closet doors to
millions of TV viewers.  Four decades later, that groundbreaking series still merits
attention, even as loudmouthed chefs, has-been celebrities and
recovering addicts compete for the reality spotlight.  “Cinema Verite” starts in 1971, when producer Craig
Gilbert (James Gandolfini) envisions “a brave new experiment”
in TV programming: He will present a genuine American family as
it lives life, shattering the idealized images presented by
sitcom clans like “The Partridge Family.”  Through a friend, he meets and woos Pat Loud (Diane Lane),
her husband Bill (Tim Robbins) and their five mostly teenage
children, convincing them to share their home with a small film
crew.  What happened on camera made TV history and helped put PBS
on the map. Twelve hourlong episodes of “An American Family”
introduced the nation to the Louds.  Gay Son  Lance, ensconced in  Manhattan ’s fabulously seedy Chelsea
Hotel, became TV’s first openly gay son. Pat, a desperate
housewife decades before her time, demanded a divorce from
cheating, dumbstruck Bill in a scene that still chills with
repressed tension.  So what’s left to tell? Quite a bit, “Verite” suggests,
as it recreates the off-camera drama “Family” viewers didn’t
witness.  We see the nervous, tepid support for the series by PBS
executives, and the envious reactions of the Louds’s friends and
neighbors. Gilbert battles with his film crew (Patrick Fugit and
Shanna Collins) over what today seems like quaint notions of
privacy.  Most revealingly, “Verite” focuses on the role Gilbert
played as a behind-the-scenes instigator. (The real Gilbert
didn’t participate in “Cinema Verite,” and has reportedly
dismissed it as “fiction.”)  As portrayed, quite convincingly, by Gandolfini, Gilbert
flirts with Pat and rats out Bill as he pursues truth and drama
in equal measure.  David Seltzer’s script doesn’t shortchange Gilbert’s
serious intent, though. Manipulations aside, Gilbert and his
project seem light-years ahead of today’s contrived, cartoonish
reality programs.  Icy Mom  The performances are uncanny. Lane gets Pat’s icy, broken
demeanor just right, and Thomas Dekker, with bravado and
bluster, demonstrates why Lance all but stole the show. Robbins
nails Bill’s arrogant, middle-age panic, portraying a father
both befuddled by and envious of his children.  Even at a brisk 90 minutes (the movie ends too abruptly and
mostly ignores several lesser Louds), “Cinema Verite,” smartly
conveys the lure of fame and its unpredictable ramifications.  “Cinema Verite,” directed by Shari Springer Berman and
Robert Pulcini, airs Saturday on  HBO  at 9 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: ***1/2  Some PBS stations will also air “American Family” this
weekend. Check local listings for times.  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 