-- 
GE Slips as Tight Industrial Margins Overshadow Profit, Dividend

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-21T20:26:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ge-posts-fourth-straight-profit-rise-as-industrial-orders-gain.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  fell the most
in a month as tighter margins in industrial divisions
overshadowed a fourth straight quarter of profit growth combined
with a dividend increase.  The company boosted its quarterly payout for the third time
since July after earnings from continuing operations rose 58
percent to $3.58 billion, or 33 cents a share, excluding pension
costs. That topped analysts’ 28-cent average estimate.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  plans to speed sales
and profit growth this year and in 2012 by focusing on
industrial units. He is spending on research and more than $12
billion of acquisitions since October, mostly in energy, as he
builds technology offerings and the oil and gas division.  “Some investors may have ratcheted up expectations that GE
was another ‘beat and raise’ candidate this quarter,” said Deane Dray, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in  New York  with a “buy” rating
on the stock. “Longer-term investors should be encouraged about
the incremental progress GE is making in its turnaround.”  GE fell 45 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $19.95 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest decline
since May 16.  Before today, GE’s 12 percent gain this year had outpaced
increases of 5.8 percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
7.6 percent by the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Total sales climbed to $38.4 billion in the quarter,
topping the average projection of $34.3 billion.  Order Book  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s total order
backlog, a gauge of future profitability, was $177 billion,
exceeding the fourth quarter’s $175 billion. Orders at large-
equipment divisions including energy, aviation and health care
rose 13 percent to $19 billion.  “The status of their order book was a major concern for us
as the recovery limped along,” said  Peter Sorrentino , senior
portfolio manager at Huntington Asset Advisors Inc. in
Cincinnati, whose parent company owns more than 2 million GE
shares. “We feared they would run down the backlog and imperil
future earnings, but this report quiets that fear.”  Sales, which rose 6.2 percent, were helped by more selling
days as the quarter ended April 3 rather than March 28 a year
earlier.  “It’s rare for a diversified industrial like GE to have
every cylinder running smoothly,” said  Joel Levington , managing
director at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York.
“GE had enough positives, particularly energy and GE Capital,
to get its engine driving forward.”  Dividend Increase  The dividend will rise 1 cent to 15 cents a share payable
July 25 to shareholders of record at the close of business on
June 20. GE cut its shareholder payout in February 2009 for the
first time since the Depression to conserve about $9 billion as
the global recession and credit crunch drained profit from the
finance unit. The increases resumed in July.  Share buybacks and the dividend will “take priority as we
get to the second half of the year,” Immelt said on a call with
investors and analysts. “Our major transactions are done for
2011.”  Immelt said he’s satisfied with the company’s portfolio of
businesses and plans no large divestitures.  GE will buy back the $3 billion in preferred shares sold to
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. during the financial
crisis by the fourth quarter, adding back 3 cents a share
annually, Immelt said.  Pension Costs  First-quarter revenue included proceeds from the sale of
NBC, which generated 4 cents a share, tempered by 3 cents in
restructuring, acquisition and disposition costs, GE said. About
 $3 billion  in charges related to the sale helped push the
consolidated tax rate to 53 percent in the quarter, GE said.  This is the first quarter GE has broken out pension costs
or benefits in its income statement on a per-share basis.
Including a pension cost of $163 million, net income
attributable to common shareholders was $3.43 billion, or 31
cents a share.  Earnings in the energy unit, which includes the world’s
biggest power-generation equipment maker and an oil and gas
exploration division, fell 6.8 percent to $1.38 billion amid
lower prices for  wind turbines . Sales rose 9.2 percent to $9.45
billion, helped by acquisitions.  GE is “more bullish” on gas-turbine sales amid emerging-
market growth including in the Middle East,  Japan ’s rebuilding
of infrastructure after a March earthquake and tsunami and lower
natural-gas prices, Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin said on
the call.  GE Capital  GE Energy  said March 29 it agreed to buy most of  France ’s
Converteam from Barclays Private Equity Ltd. and LBO France for
$3.2 billion to add equipment that helps electricity flow to the
 power grid  from devices such as wind turbines. That capped about
$11 billion in energy purchases alone since October.  Profit at the aviation division, the world’s largest jet-
engine maker, rose 5 percent to $841 million on sales of $4.37
billion, higher than some analysts’ estimates.  GE Healthcare, the world’s biggest maker of medical-imaging
equipment and information technology systems, posted a 7 percent
increase in profit to $531 million. The division’s sales rose 10
percent to $4.09 billion.  “We’re in really good shape for accelerating industrial
earnings growth,” Immelt said. “All the precursors are in
place: good equipment orders, good backlog growth, good service
orders, international growing double digits.”  GE Capital ’s net income more than tripled to $1.84 billion
from $583 million as consumer finance rebounded and losses
declined. Revenue rose 3.3 percent to about $12.3 billion. The
unit’s results exceeded Sprague’s forecast by 5 cents.  Garanti Stake Sale  A $317 million gain  from GE Capital’s sale of a stake in
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS helped profit by about 3 cents a
share, and having six more days in the quarter than a year
earlier added about 1 cent a share, Scott Davis, a New York-
based analyst with Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note to clients.  The “stock sell-off may be a bit overdone, but GE gave us
little today to get excited about,” Davis, who has an
“overweight” rating on the shares, wrote in a note to clients.
“While sympathetic to frustrated holders and the bear view,
reality is that GE remains one of the only ‘value’ names left in
industrial-land.”  Even excluding Garanti, “we feel like we have a very good
quarter,” Sherin said in an interview.  Cash generated from industrial operating activities was
$1.7 billion in the quarter, as the company works toward a goal
of $12 billion to $13 billion a year excluding NBC. GE had $82
billion in consolidated cash at the end of the quarter.  Industrial Sales  The narrower margins pushed profit in GE’s industrial units
below estimates from analysts including Jeffrey Sprague of
Vertical Research Partners and Nigel Coe of Deutsche Bank AG,
who both rate the stock “hold.”  “At the industrial operating level, results missed our
forecast by a penny, despite additional days” in the quarter
from the year-ago period, said Sprague, who’s based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . He cited weaker than expected margins in energy,
oil and gas and health care.  Industrial product sales declined 6 percent from a year
earlier because the figure includes about 1 month of NBC revenue
in 2011. Excluding NBC from both periods, revenue rose 8
percent.  GE’s consolidated  tax rate  was 37 percentage points higher
than a year earlier, reflecting the company’s projection that
the rate would rise significantly after the NBC sale.  The company’s taxes have been in the public spotlight since
the New York Times reported March 24 that GE had a tax bill of
zero in 2010, an assertion the company called misleading on its
 GE Reports website . The criticism prompted a hoax press release
last week.  GE has rebuffed the tax bill claim specifically and said
the company received no rebate, refund or payment from the
government on its 2010 taxes.  Excluding the NBC-related charges and gains, GE’s quarterly
tax rate was about 22 percent, and the GE Capital unit’s rate
was about 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  