-- 
German Atomic Halts May Add 1 Euro to CO2 Price, New Energy Finance Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-21T10:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/german-atomic-halts-may-add-1-euro-to-co2-price-new-energy-finance-says.html
Permanent closure of  Germany ’s
seven nuclear plants may boost the price of carbon permits in
the European Union to 20.30 euros ($29.70) this year, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said.  Demand in the secondary market for EU emission allowances
could rise by 85 million metric tons this year if Germany
decides against bringing back the oldest reactors after a three-
month halt ordered in March, New Energy analysts led by Matthew Cowie in  London  said in a research note today. That would push
up the year-end price for December permits by 1 euros compared
with New Energy’s March forecast. EU permits were unchanged
today at 16.98 euros on London’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  “Given the increasingly negative political statements
around the future of nuclear power in Germany, there is a
growing probability that these seven reactors will remain closed
at the end of the three month review,” Cowie said.  Germany’s  Social Democratic Party , the main opposition,
presented a bill last week to the upper house of parliament
calling for the immediate closure of eight reactors, and all 17
nuclear plants to be shut within about a decade.  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  last month ordered the seven oldest plants idled
pending industry-wide safety checks after an earthquake and
tsunami damaged six atomic reactors in  Japan , triggering
protests against nuclear power across Europe.  Revised Hedging  The seven reactors on the temporary halt are owned by RWE
AG, E.ON, EnBW and Vattenfall. The companies will initially need
to cover 9 terrawatts of power they had previously sold for
delivery over the three month review period, New Energy said.
Should they be closed definitely, those companies will need to
correct their hedging by either generating more power from their
thermal power stations or buy more thermal power from other
companies, in either case boosting demand for emission permits.  “The permanent closure of these older nuclear power
stations would therefore be an important driver within the EU
allowances market from hedging demand alone over the next couple
of years,” Cowie said. “The impact on supply and demand
fundamentals within Phase 3 is also material, as the permanent
closure of these seven plants would raise our Phase 3 price
forecast by 1 euro per ton to 31 euros.”  The European emissions program imposes limits on more than
11,000 utilities and manufacturing companies and sets a 2020 cap
on discharges that would be 21 percent below 2005 levels. One EU
permit carries the right to emit 1 metric ton of carbon dioxide.  Under the permanent-closure scenario, carbon prices for
December 2012 could advance to 21.69 euros per metric ton, a 7
percent increase compared with New Energy’s previous forecast,
according to the note, with net demand rising 27 million tons
that year.  “Power companies are likely to already be preparing
themselves for the permanent closure of these nuclear plants by
buying EU allowances,” Cowie said. “If the decision is taken
to reopen the plants at the end of the three-month review
period, they could have around 30 million tons of allowances to
sell into the market, prompting prices to fall at this point
instead,” according to the note.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  