-- 
German Business Confidence Declines for Second Month as Energy Prices Rise

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-21T08:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/german-business-confidence-declines-for-second-month-as-energy-prices-rise.html
German business confidence fell for
a second month in April after oil prices rose to the highest in
2 1/2 years, damping the global economic outlook and threatening
to curb domestic  consumer spending .  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 110.4
from 111.1 in March. Economists expected a decline to 110.5,
according to the median of 38 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. The index rose to 111.3 in February, the highest since
records for a reunified  Germany  began in 1991.  Crude oil climbed above $112 a barrel this month, the most
since September 2008, on political unrest in North Africa and
the Middle East. While market researcher GfK AG says rising
prices are eroding German  consumer confidence , the Bundesbank
estimates economic growth accelerated in the first quarter as
companies increased spending and hiring to meet export orders
from emerging nations such as China.  “The Ifo has now peaked, though it’s still at a remarkably
high level,” said Andreas Moeller, an economist at WGZ Bank in
Dusseldorf, whose forecast matched the reading. “While growth
remains robust, German companies will have to get used to the
fact that the pace of growth will slow.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation rose to 116.3 from
115.8, while an index measuring executives’ expectations fell to
104.7 from 106.5. The euro, which has climbed 9 percent against
the dollar this year, eased to $1.4615 after Ifo’s report from
$1.4641 beforehand.  Losing Momentum  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam, said Ifo’s expectations indicator broadly tracks
changes in quarterly gross domestic product.  “The recent decline may be a sign that the German economy
is losing some of its momentum,” he said. “Indeed, we think
that higher oil prices, the rise in the euro, fiscal
consolidation and some cooling of global growth could see the
pace of the recovery slow in the coming months.”  The German government predicts growth of 2.6 percent this
year after a record 3.6 percent in 2010. Rising oil prices may
put a brake on the global recovery and fan inflation as
companies pass on higher input costs. Higher energy costs pushed
German inflation to 2.3 percent last month.  Faster Inflation  The  European Central Bank , which aims to keep inflation
below 2 percent across the 17-nation euro region, this month
raised  interest rates  from a record low. It left the door open
for further moves even as a sovereign debt crisis damps growth
in peripheral euro-area nations such as Greece, Portugal and
Ireland.  “German companies are not really going to be hit by
tighter monetary policy,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “It’s still going to be
loose for a booming economy.”  German carmaker Volkswagen AG on April 15 posted record
first-quarter sales, powered by deliveries in China,  Europe  and
the U.S. Daimler AG and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG said this
month they expect double-digit growth in  China  this year.  Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s largest automotive industry
supplier, said April 14 that it expects record sales of 50
billion euros ($73 billion) in 2011 and plans to hire 15,000
workers globally.  Rates ‘Too Low’  The benchmark DAX share index has gained 5.4 percent this
year. German factory orders and industrial production jumped in
February.  “ECB rates are too low, and I don’t see that the ECB will
raise rates in the near future to a level that’s appropriate for
the German economy,” Ifo economist Kai Carstensen said in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  According to the Bundesbank, Europe’s largest economy may
have expanded as much as 1 percent in the first three months of
the year and will probably maintain its growth momentum in the
current quarter.  “The oil price is putting pressure on both companies and
consumers,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “But for now the economy is booming, and that
is unlikely to change in the near future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  