-- 
Gillard Vows to Supply Japan Rare Earths on Trip After Quake

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-04-21T11:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/gillard-vows-to-supply-japan-rare-earths-on-trip-after-quake-2-.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  promised Japan a steady supply of liquefied natural gas
and rare-earth metals used to make automobiles and electronics
following last month’s record earthquake and tsunami.  “Over the next few years  Australia  will become Japan’s
most important supplier of liquefied natural gas, as we are
already with coal and iron ore,” Gillard said in a speech today
in Tokyo. “Japan can rely on Australia at a time when you have
never needed these resources more.”  Gillard met today with Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to discuss
cooperation as Japan recovers from the March 11 disaster and
ongoing crisis at the Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in Fukushima
prefecture. Australia has already aided Japan by dispatching
rescue teams to devastated areas and its military cargo planes
helped carry equipment to the  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. plant.
  “We will also be a secure and reliable supplier to Japan of
rare earth metals which are so important for advanced
manufacturing,” Gillard said.  Australia and Japan are also focused on concluding a
bilateral free trade agreement that has been under negotiation
since 2007, Gillard said. Australia is Japan’s largest energy
supplier while Japan is Australia’s second-biggest trading
partner.  In a joint statement following the leaders’ meeting,
Gillard assured Kan that Australia would provide a stable supply
of LNG and mineral resources through “commercial market
mechanisms.” Gillard also welcomed investment from Japanese
companies in Australia to develop LNG.  ‘Maximum Transparency’  “Australia has been supplying LNG to  Japan , and is working
actively on clean energy,” Kan told reporters in the briefing
with Gillard. “We’ve agreed to cooperate on this area as well
as on the development of rare earth minerals.”  In the statement, Kan said his country would provide
information to the international community on the nuclear crisis
with “maximum transparency.”  Japan, already the world’s biggest buyer of liquefied
natural gas, may increase purchases of the cleaner-burning fuel
after the Dai-Ichi crisis, analysts including David Hewitt at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets have said. Japan may now need a
further 14 million metric tons of the fuel by 2020, he said
earlier this month.  LNG Supply  Australia supplied 20 percent of Japan’s liquefied natural
gas last year, second only to Malaysia’s 22 percent, according
to Finance Ministry statistics.  China  controls more than 95 percent of the world’s supply
of rare earths, used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPods and Toyota Motor
Corp.’s Prius. In 2010, China said it would slash exports of the
metals, souring ties with major users including the U.S. and
Japan and causing prices to surge.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements, including
neodymium and dysprosium.  Gillard is scheduled on Saturday to visit the town of
Minami-Sanriku in  Miyagi prefecture , where an Australian relief
team operated last month. She will then travel to  South Korea  to
meet President  Lee Myung Bak  before ending the trip in Beijing,
where she will meet Chinese President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/21/ :24 GMT 