-- 
GM Seeks to Regain Share in Germany After Magna Saga

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-04-21T20:51:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/gm-intends-to-regain-market-share-in-germany-after-magna-saga.html
(Corrects production location in sixth paragraph.)  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s European
division intends to expand its market share in  Germany , the
region’s second-biggest automobile market, as the carmaker seeks
to rebound after its restructuring, said the unit’s president.  The automaker, which filed for bankruptcy in June 2009,
considered selling the Opel unit to Magna International Inc. and
drew up plans to slash jobs at its plants in Germany, before
deciding to hold on to it in November of that year.  “Our market share is up across Europe, and encouragingly
is up in Germany, which has been one of our difficult markets,”
Nick Reilly said by phone today from GM’s U.K. headquarters in
Luton,  England . “We lost market share there, and were
particularly damaged two years ago. The issues around Opel were
very much in the media and the brand got damaged.”  GM’s share of the German market is about 8.5 percent,
having been as high as the “mid-teens” in the years before the
Detroit-based carmaker considered selling off its Opel and
Vauxhall brands, the executive said. He declined to specify a
target, saying it’s much harder to regain market share than lose
it.  The company has received 4,000 letters of intent from
customers in  Europe  for its first-generation model of its plug-
in hybrid Opel Ampera, with 1,500 buyers having already put down
deposits, Reilly said.  The first of the models sold in Europe will be built at the
company’s Detroit-Hamtramck plant, and it is “quite likely”
that a second-generation model of the Ampera will also be built
at one of GM’s European plants, though no decision has yet been
taken, the executive said.  “This is the first generation of a new technology; we
think it’s going to go well but, obviously you don’t make money
on the first generation,” said Reilly. “So we don’t want to
overinvest in different facilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  