-- 
GM Pays Akerson $2.5 Million for 2010 After IPO, Profit

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-04-21T20:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/gm-pays-akerson-2-5-million-for-2010-after-ipo-annual-profit.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  paid Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson $2.53 million for 2010, when he
led the automaker through an initial public offering and its
largest annual profit in more than a decade.  Akerson, whose pay is subject to government review,
received $566,667 in salary and $1.96 million in stock awards
and other pay, Detroit-based GM said today in a filing.  Ed Whitacre , who served as chairman and CEO until September, earned
$5 million last year, according to the filing.  The compensation for Akerson is less than one-tenth the
package that  Ford Motor Co. (F)  paid CEO  Alan Mulally  last year. GM
raised $23.1 billion in a sale of common and preferred shares
during its IPO in November, which reduced the  U.S. Treasury 
Department’s stake to about one-third.  “These salaries are not outrageous for a company of GM’s
size,”  Charles Elson , director of the Weinberg Center for
 Corporate Governance  at the  University of Delaware  in Newark,
 Delaware , said in a telephone interview.  GM earned $6.17 billion of net income in 2010, the largest
annual profit since its predecessor earned $6.7 billion in 1997.
The comparison excludes a $127.1 billion profit in the third
quarter of 2009, when GM accounted for its post-bankruptcy
recapitalization. Mulally led Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan ,
to a $6.56 billion profit last year, the largest since 1999.  GM is subject to executive compensation limitations after
getting a $49.5 billion bailout in 2009. The U.S. Treasury will
wait for GM’s first-quarter earnings before deciding whether to
sell more of its investment in the nation’s largest automaker, a
person familiar with the matter said this week.  Pay Restrictions  Akerson, 62, said in December that some key executives were
leaving the automaker because of government-imposed pay
restraints.  “We have to be competitive,” Akerson said. “We’ve been
able to attract great people. We’re starting to lose them now.”  GM said “appropriately recognizing and rewarding”
executives and competing with other large multinational
employers to attract and retain talent “is extremely difficult
within the compensation constraints” imposed by the Troubled
Asset Relief Program and its special master.  GM hired  Chris Liddell , a former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive,
as chief financial officer last year with a compensation
structure that was “specially designed to be competitive with
that offered by his previous employer,” according to the
filing. Liddell, who was paid $6.23 million last year, said in
March he was leaving the company after 15 months on the job.  Treasury Plans  The Treasury can sell some of its remaining more than 500
million GM shares, which equals about 32 percent ownership,
starting May 22. Officials are waiting for GM’s earnings and to
see what happens to the stock when bondholders in GM’s bankrupt
predecessor company receive shares as partial compensation for
their losses, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified
because the plans aren’t public.  GM rose $1.02, or 3.4 percent, to $30.95 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped
16 percent this year.  Mulally, 65, received a $26.5 million package for 2010 that
included salary, bonus, stock, option awards and other pay.
 Sergio Marchionne , Chrysler Group LLC’s CEO, last year received
so-called deferred phantom shares valued at $2.87 million as of
Dec. 31 for his three-year term on the board, the automaker said
in February. He didn’t receive a salary from Chrysler, which is
operated by  Fiat SpA. (F)   Union Negotiations  United Auto Workers President  Bob King  will negotiate new
contracts this year with GM, Ford and Chrysler. King, who has
criticized Mulally’s pay, has said workers must share in the
gains now that the automakers are recovering and be rewarded for
the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions they each gave up since
2005.  While the UAW’s agreements don’t expire until September,
the union will seek early contract settlements in talks with the
automakers this year, two people familiar with the plan said
this week.  Akerson will receive $1.7 million in annual salary, $5.3
million in stock that pays out over three years and $2 million
in restricted stock, GM said in a Sept. 10 regulatory filing.  Chairman, CEO Roles  GM said its board “may reconsider” its decision to have
one person serving as both chairman and CEO. The board elected
to have Akerson serve in both roles “in light of the advantages
that resulted from combining the positions under Mr. Whitacre.”  Stephen Girsky, GM’s vice chairman of corporate strategy,
received compensation of $3.71 million in 2010, including
$416,667 in salary.  David Bonderman , the co-founder of TPG Capital, had his
$200,000 annual retainer reinstated in August after requesting
that it be reduced to $1 when he joined the board in July 2009.
He received $91,478 in compensation from GM for the year,
according to the filing.  GM plans to hold its annual shareholders’ meeting June 7 in
Detroit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net  