-- 
Goldman Sachs to Buy Back Hong Kong Warrants at 10% Premium

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-04-21T12:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/goldman-sachs-to-buy-back-warrants-in-hong-kong-at-10-premium.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it
will buy back at a premium warrants that were suspended from
trading in Hong Kong because of a misprinted settlement formula.  The New York-based bank is offering 110 percent of the
higher of either the total net purchase price paid or the total
buyback value, according to a  statement  filed to the Hong Kong
stock exchange today. It will also pay investors agreeing to the
repurchase a one-off fixed administrative fee of HK$5,000
($643.5) each.  The buyback value has been calculated using the highest
level of the index on each trading day during the March 30 to
April 21 period for the call warrants, and the lowest level for
the put warrants, the statement said. The bank also took into
account swings in the index level and the passage of time, it
said.  The calculation method is to ensure existing investors
“get the benefit but not the downside of any market movements
in the index during the relevant period,” it said.  Goldman Sachs said on April 7 that it’s in talks with
regulators about warrants linked to the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
that were suspended from trading in  Hong Kong  on March 31.
Trading in the warrants will be halted until further notice,
Goldman Sachs said at the time.  The formula for the cash settlement amount per board lot
for European-style put and call warrants due Sept. 9 and Dec. 9
was wrong in the listing and announcement documents, Goldman
Sachs said on March 31.  Take Responsibility  According to the original document, the formula for
calculating the cash settlement included multiplying by the
 exchange rate . In the amendment, the formula is calculated by
dividing by the exchange rate.  The four warrants at least doubled on the exchange on March
31 before being suspended.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. Chief Executive Charles
Li said he hopes that the group that amended the warrant
contracts will take responsibility for compensating investors,
the Hong Kong Economic Journal reported on April 19.  Goldman Sachs said today it will issue new warrants with
the same key economic terms to investors who wish to retain such
investments. The buyback value of the existing warrants will be
39 percent to 106 percent higher than the issue price of the new
warrants, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net  