-- 
Google Probed By Belgian Authorities Over Privacy Lapses

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-04-21T14:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/google-is-working-with-belgian-authorities-over-privacy-lapses.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is being probed by
Belgian prosecutors over possible privacy breaches concerning
wireless Internet data collected by its Street View service.  The country’s federal prosecutors “have opened a file”
and will investigate whether Google broke rules when it
collected private data, Eric Van Der Sypt, a spokesman for the
authority, said in a phone interview. De Morgen  reported  the
probe earlier today.  Google has been targeted by data-protection agencies across
the European Union for its Street View program, which lets users
click on maps to see photographs of roadsides. It was
fined 100,000 euros ($146,100) in  France  for violating the
country’s privacy rules. Dutch watchdogs on April 19 gave the
company  three months  to inform users about the data collected
via WiFi by its Street View cars.  The owner of the world’s biggest search engine mistakenly
collected data from unencrypted networks and had never inspected
it or used it, Anoek Eckhardt, a Google spokeswoman in
Amsterdam, said in an e-mail.  “We are working with the authorities in  Belgium  and
continue to answer any questions and concerns they might have,”
Eckhardt said.  Belgian data protection regulators concluded earlier this
year that Google had committed “flagrant violations of privacy
law” by collecting and storing wireless Internet addresses and
traffic between computers and WiFi hotspots, said Emmanuel
Vincart, a spokesman for Belgium’s Privacy Commission, in a
telephone interview today.  Vincart said Belgian privacy regulators don’t have the
power to fine the  Mountain View , California-based company and
passed the case to the federal prosecutors in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 