-- 
Google’s Android Faces More App Attacks in New Frontier

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-21T14:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/google-s-android-system-faces-more-app-attacks-in-new-security-frontier-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android mobile-phone
platform faces soaring software attacks and has little control
over the applications, according to security firm Kaspersky Lab.  Applications loaded with malicious software are
infiltrating the Google operating system at a faster rate than
with personal computers at the same stage in development, said
 Nikolay Grebennikov , chief technology officer for Kaspersky. The
company identified 70 different types of malware in March from
just two categories in September.  “The growth rate in malware within Android is huge, in the
future there will definitely be more,” Grebennikov said in an
interview in  London . Kaspersky will offer security on Android in
the third quarter of this year.  Hacking into mobile-phone software has become increasingly
sophisticated, forcing  Mountain View , California-based Google to
remove malicious applications that were available from its
Android Market store last month. The applications, which were
remotely disabled, gathered information about mobile devices and
could be used to access personal data.  Google declined 0.2 percent to $524.68 at 10:04 a.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Company spokesman Ollie Rickman referred back to the
Google’s comment in a blog post last month.  “We are adding a number of measures to help prevent
additional malicious applications using similar exploits from
being distributed through Android Market,”  Rich Cannings , an
Google engineer who works on Android security, said in the blog
post.  Popular and Targeted  Android will run on 38.5 percent of smartphones sold this
year, according to market research firm Gartner. The Google
software is moving into cheaper hardware and starting to compete
with high-volume, low-margin phones made by companies such as
 Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   “Any time a technology becomes adopted and popular, that
technology will be targeted by the bad guys,” said  Jay Abbott ,
Director of Threat and Vulnerability at PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP.  The proliferation of mobile app stores at platforms from
companies including Google,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
 Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and Nokia has made the functions and
devices harder to secure, said  Richard Overill , a senior
lecturer in computer science at King’s College, London  “It is a new frontier,” said Overill, who has been
researching the industry since 1992. “It’s been an area that
the criminal fraternity hasn’t gone into before because they are
doing quite nicely thank you in the computer space.”  Software Code  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular online search
engine, offers Android to handset manufacturers for free and
allows developers access to some of its code for writing
software. Apple, whose iOS software trails Android in smartphone
market share, requires every application to be approved before
being sold in its online store.  Android’s open model is “a benefit but equally a
drawback,” said PwC’s Abbott. “Anyone can develop anything at
any time,” he said, adding that the “model makes it a lot
easier for people to exploit it.”  Other experts such as Overill say Android’s model may not
make it more vulnerable to attack than a closed platform as its
community of users can watch out for and report on any evidence
of malware to ensure it gets fixed.  Infected Devices  Aad van Moorsel , the director of Centre for Cybercrime and
Computer Security at Newcastle University, said that closed
systems also face threats. “The fact that Microsoft is a closed
system in the personal computing space hasn’t stopped it from
being attacked,” he said.  Google removed more than 50 applications containing
malicious code known as DroidDream last month, according to San
Francisco-based mobile security firm Lookout. The code enabled
the software to gain a “substantial amount of control in the
infected device,” and could help to install additional
applications, Lookout said.  Google doesn’t have antivirus protection on the file level
within its operating system, Grebennikov said.  “The malware was not like before,” Grebennikov said.
Previously mobile attacks were limited to sending  text messages 
to premium numbers hitting the user with high charges, he said.  Kaspersky Lab,  Russia ’s largest maker of antivirus
software, this year sold 20 percent of its shares to private
equity group General Atlantic LLC. The Moscow-based company,
founded by majority shareholder Eugene Kaspersky, is aiming to
become the world’s largest provider of end-user Internet
security software.  Google and Apple risk approving applications with hidden
malware. “I worry about what gets rubber stamped,” said  David
Emm , a Kaspersky analyst. “The walled garden is great unless
the wolf gets over the wall and runs amok.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  