-- 
Greece Default Hit on Banks Cushioned by ECB, Goldman Says

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-21T14:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/greece-default-hit-on-banks-cushioned-by-ecb-cash-goldman-says.html
The impact of a Greek debt
restructuring on non-Greek European banks would be “milder”
now than a year ago thanks to European Central Bank loans,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts.  A so-called haircut of 20 percent to 60 percent on Greek
government bonds corresponds to losses of between 13 billion
euros ($19 billion) and 41 billion euros for European banks,
Goldman Sachs banking analysts led by London-based Jernej Omahen
said in a research note today. That represents 1 percent to 3
percent of their aggregate  Tier 1 capital , they said.  “In the context of the sector aggregate, this is small,”
the analysts said. “By extending 91 billion euros of
refinancing facilities to Greek banks (and a further 153 billion
euros to Portuguese and Irish banks), the ECB has effectively
dis-intermediated the ‘core’ banks from the periphery.”  “As a consequence, the knock-on effects of a restructuring
would be milder for European banks today than, say, just last
year,” the analysts added.  Greek bonds have slumped the past week, with two-year
yields exceeding a record 22 percent, reflecting mounting
investor expectations that Greece will renege on its debts. The
government in  Athens  has ruled out a restructuring, saying it
would devastate domestic banks and hammer the economy.  Greek debt holders who accept that a restructuring is
inevitable should push for it to be executed as soon as
possible, Citigroup Inc. analysts said in a separate note today.  ‘Accelerate the Event’  “Once debt holders fully realize that  Greece  cannot escape
a haircut, they should accelerate ‘the event’ as soon as
possible,” Citigroup analysts led by Stefan Nedialkov said in
the note. “Leaving the haircut for the future means a larger
haircut for the same reduction” in indebtedness, they said.  Banks in Belgium, France and Germany are the most exposed
to Greece apart from Greek banks, Citibank said. The Association
of German Public Sector Banks and  Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, both said this week that they could handle a Greek
debt restructuring. French banks could withstand a default by a
euro-area nation, Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer also
said this week. German insurers would overall be able to handle
a haircut, Handelsblatt reported today, citing figures from
 Germany ’s  Finance Ministry .  Greek Recapitalizing  As much as 80 percent of Tier 1 capital at Greek banks
would be wiped out if there was a 60 percent haircut, the
Goldman analysts said. They would need “pre-emptive” capital
injections to avoid contagion, Goldman Sachs said.  “Greek banks would realistically require substantial
additional capital to cover for incremental losses from a
theoretical restructuring,” the analysts wrote. “In our view
pre-emptive provision of incremental capital would be required
to stem potential second round effects, most notably loss of
creditor confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  