-- 
Georgiadis Hired by Groupon From Google to Be Coupon Site Operating Chief

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-21T23:31:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/groupon-said-to-hire-google-s-georgiadis-as-coupon-site-s-operating-chief.html
Groupon Inc. , the largest provider
of daily coupon deals online, named Margo Georgiadis as chief
operating officer, hiring her away from  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Georgiadis, who joined Google in 2009, was the company’s
vice president of global sales operations, Groupon said today in
a statement. She managed sales and technology teams involved in
the company’s advertising units, as well as local and commerce
businesses such as Google Checkout.  “Margo is a strong leader with a passion for helping small
business owners and consumers,”  Andrew Mason , chief executive
officer of Groupon, said in the statement. “We’re thrilled to
have her on our team.”  Groupon is bolstering its management ranks as it expands
into hundreds of new cities and adds customers. The startup also
is preparing for an initial public offering, a person familiar
with the matter said this month. The IPO, which would value
Groupon at $15 billion to $25 billion, is likely to happen
before October, the person said.  Georgiadis replaces Rob Solomon, who announced plans to
step down from the position in March. The company brought in
Solomon as president and chief operating officer in March of
last year, adding an Internet veteran with experience as an
entrepreneur, venture capitalist and manager at Yahoo! Inc.  Solomon said last month he was better at managing companies
“at the startup and growth stage” than when they become large.
He said he would be advising Groupon in the coming months as it
seeks to replenish executive ranks with “a nuts-and-bolts
operator to make the trains run on time.”  Her earlier experience included a stint as chief marketing
officer at Discover Financial Services.  “I’m grateful for all that Margo has done for our team
over the past two years,” Nikesh Arora, Google’s head of global
sales, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  