-- 
Microsoft Says Cash to Be Bigger Part of Worker Compensation

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-21T19:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/microsoft-says-cash-to-become-bigger-part-of-worker-compensation.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said that cash will
play a larger role in employee compensation amid stiffening
competition for valuable workers.  “For all employees, we will shift a portion of stock award
targets into base salary, providing more cash up front,”  Steve Ballmer , Chief Executive Officer of Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, wrote today in a memo, which was obtained by
Bloomberg.  Ballmer said he’s making the shift to improve how the
world’s biggest software maker rewards staff. As economic growth
rebounds, technology companies are adding employees, touching
off a tussle for engineers and computer scientists among such
companies as Microsoft,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. More cash
may be a more alluring reward than Microsoft’s shares, which are
lower now than they were a decade ago.  “The newer companies may be more attractive, because of
thinking there might be better  stock options  with them,” Denise
Lidell, CEO of  High-Tech Professionals , a technology recruiter
based in San Diego, whose clients have included  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Companies are courting prospective employees with
everything from coffee with the CEO to piles of cash. The
competition for talent is especially fierce among social media
and other Internet companies as well as computer systems
manufacturers.  Bonus, Stock Awards  Ballmer said Microsoft also will increase funding for bonus
and stock awards so that it can give full awards to 80 percent
of eligible employees, compared with about 50 percent in
previous years. The company will increase compensation for
workers involved in certain geographies and other business
areas, such as research and development.  “Through our history, we have been the place people came
when they wanted to make a difference in the world through
software, hardware and services,” Ballmer wrote. “The changes
we’re rolling out today will help ensure Microsoft continues to
be the place that top talent comes to change the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  