-- 
Middle Eastern Unrest Spurs Business-Jet Booking Growth From Region’s Rich

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-04-21T07:37:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/mideast-unrest-spurs-business-jet-bookings-among-region-s-rich.html
Business-jet operators say Middle
East demand has jumped as much as six-fold as political unrest
prompts companies and wealthy individuals to flee trouble zones.  Abu Dhabi-based charter carrier Al Jaber Aviation has added
500 percent more flights in the past three months versus a year
earlier, led by services from  Egypt , Tunisia, Bahrain and Yemen,
Chief Operating Officer Mark Pierotti said in an interview.  “Egypt saw the biggest increase, with high net worth
individuals flying to Dubai,  Abu Dhabi  and  Europe ,” Pierotti
said. The company operates a mix of five Airbus SAS and  Embraer
SA (EMBR3)  aircraft and will add a sixth plane in May to meet demand.  Royal Jet, a luxury business carrier owned by the Abu Dhabi
government, projects a 15 percent boost in sales this year and
an increase in profit that will be “comfortably ahead” of
targets, according to Chief Executive Officer Shane O’Hare, who
says corporations have accounted for 60 percent of customers and
governments 20 percent, with the rest being rich individuals.  “There was a spike around the issues in Tunisia and
certainly with Egypt we saw a very sharp increase in demand,” he
said. “Some of that was around evacuation, some for government
missions with a lot of traffic to and fro, and this certainly
helped the buoyancy of the market over the last few months.”  Royal Jet ordinarily serves customers mainly from the
United Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia  and operates a fleet of
six  Boeing Co. (BA)  Business Jets, making it the largest independent
operator of the model. It also has two mid-range  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  Gulfstream G300s, a single long-range Gulfstream
IV-SP, a  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  Learjet 60 and an Embraer Lineage 1000.  ‘Natural Haven’  Oil-rich Abu Dhabi and the trade hub of Dubai are among the
preferred options for companies and families seeking to avoid
the unrest, which began in Tunisia, toppled the government in
Egypt and sparked the ongoing events in Libya, Yemen and Syria.  “It certainly appears that Dubai has become a natural haven
for people,” Royal Jet’s O’Hare said.  Dubai, emerging from the 2009 debt crisis, is the Middle
East’s biggest financial hub and home to the regional bases of
many international companies that do business in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  