-- 
Leading U.S. Indicators, Consumer Confidence Gain as Fuel Costs Discounted

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-21T20:36:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/index-of-leading-economic-indicators-in-the-u-s-rises-0-4-.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators increased for a ninth month in March and Americans’
confidence rose for a fourth week, signaling the expansion may
withstand higher fuel costs.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.4 percent after a revised 1 percent
gain in February that was larger than previously estimated, the
New York-based group said today. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index climbed to minus 42.6 in the period to April 17, the best
reading since the end of February.  Further improvement in the labor market is needed to help
accelerate  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, and sustain recent gains in production.
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia area slowed more than forecast
and jobless claims fell less than projected, separate data today
showed, underscoring the  Federal Reserve ’s view of a
“moderate” economic recovery.  “The pluses continue to outweigh the minuses for the
economy,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global
Inc. in New York. “There’s been a bit of a hit to the economy
from rising energy prices, but it still doesn’t look huge. The
caveat is, this could change if  oil prices  continue to rise.”  Stocks advanced as better-than-estimated earnings at
companies from Apple Inc. to Morgan Stanley bolstered optimism
in the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent
to 1,337.38 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York .  Exceeds Forecast  Economists forecast a 0.3 percent March increase in the
leading index, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg
News survey. Estimates of the 54 economists ranged from a drop
of 0.1 percent to a 0.5 percent increase.  Six of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the gain, led by the spread, or difference between the
overnight federal funds rate and the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note, which boosted the measure by 0.34 point.  Building permits and a gauge of supplier delivery times
also contributed positively to the index.  The leading index “continues to point to sustained
economic growth through year end,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist
at the Conference Board, said in a statement. At the same time,
“global disruptions, including unrest in the Middle East,
rising oil prices and the  Japan  earthquake, may have some
repercussions.”  As the expansion progresses, production gains at the
nation’s factories are spilling over into the rest of the
economy.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the third-biggest U.S. railroad, said
yesterday that profit rose 30 percent after shipping volumes
increased.  ‘Keep Improving’  “We’re continuing to see, quarter after quarter, the
markets keep improving,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Ward
said in an interview at Bloomberg News’ New York headquarters on
April 6.  Rising energy costs and supply-chain disruptions at auto
producers like  Ford Motor Co. (F)  following last month’s earthquake
and tsunami in Japan may restrain manufacturing in coming
months.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region slowed more than
forecast in April, at odds with a report last week that showed
New York-area factories grew at the fastest rate in a year.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index dropped to 18.5, the lowest level since November, from
43.4 the prior month. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware . Measures of orders and sales declined
in April.  Higher Fuel  Four of the Conference Board’s index components retreated,
led by a measure of consumer expectations. Sentiment has been
depressed in part by rising costs for fuel and food. The average
price of a gallon of gasoline was $3.84 on April 20, the highest
since September 2008. In March, gas averaged $3.53 a gallon,
compared with $2.78 a year earlier.  Higher fuel and food costs may limit consumer purchases of
other goods and services, a sign further gains in employment are
needed to bolster incomes. A Labor Department report today
indicated improvement in the labor market will be slow to
develop.  New applications for  unemployment benefits  dropped by
13,000 to 403,000 in the week ended April 16, the Labor
Department said. Economists projected claims at 390,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  