-- 
India Builders Face ‘Large-Scale Distress’ on Debt Trap, Knight Frank Says

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-04-21T05:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/india-builders-face-large-scale-distress-on-debt-trap-knight-frank-says.html
India ’s real estate industry is
expected to face “large-scale distress” amid rising borrowing
costs and shrinking access to credit that may force developers
into fire sales for assets, according to  Knight Frank  LLP.  Indian developers will have to repay 1.8 trillion rupees
($40.8 billion) of debt to state-run banks, private equity funds
and other lenders over the next two to three years, said Amit
Goenka, national director of capital transactions at the Indian
unit of Knight Frank. Their  cash flow  may also be under pressure
as creditors seek earlier repayments, he said.  “I see large-scale distress coming up,” Goenka said in an
interview today. “Right now it’s more of financial jugglery
which is keeping builders alive for a few months before
everything starts to cave in.”  Small privately held developers may go “belly up” and the
industry will see large scale mergers and acquisitions and more
distressed sales, Goenka said. The central bank’s interest rate
increase this year to curb inflation has led to tighter
liquidity and higher borrowing costs for developers. The  Reserve
Bank  of India last month raised the repurchase rate to 6.75
percent from 6.5 percent and boosted the reverse repurchase rate
by 25 basis points to 5.75 percent.  Many property companies raised capital at interest rates of
between 21 percent and 25 percent from finance companies, while
sales volumes dropped by about 50 percent, Sanjay Dutt, chief
executive officer of business at the Indian unit of Chicago-
based Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., said last month.  Unsold Homes  Home inventory levels have climbed to 28 months in Mumbai,
the highest among the six cities tracked by  Liases Foras , a real
estate research company whose clients include Housing
Development Finance Corp., India’s largest mortgage lender.  Developers who had access to cheap capital after the 2008
credit crisis are now facing a cash crunch as the equity fund
raising route has been shunned by investors. Banks have also cut
lending amid a bribery probe in November and the central bank
has tightened provisioning rules.  Real estate debt outstanding with state-run banks is about
1.6 trillion rupees while those at private equity funds stand at
almost 100 billion rupees, Goenka estimates. Private lenders are
owed about 40 billion rupees, he said.  “It’s clearly a debt trap, the story has turned and will
only get more dramatic this year,” Goenka said. “I do see
shades of the 2008 crisis playing out with some failures in the
industry.”  Mumbai, India’s most expensive real estate market, had a
record number of unsold housing units, Goenka said. Still, he
doesn’t expect developers to slash prices. Land values have
declined by as much as 40 percent from peak rates, he said.  Developers need to repay 220 billion rupees and some have
defaulted, Goenka said, without naming any company. “There will
be continued defaults this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  