-- 
India Targets Economic Growth of at Least 9% to 2017, Singh's Adviser Says

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-04-21T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/india-targets-economic-growth-of-as-much-as-9-5-ahluwalia-says.html
India  aims for economic growth of 9
percent to 9.5 percent in the five years through March 2017 even
though inflation is a concern, a top economic adviser to Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh said.  “The rising inflationary pressure is a weak point,”
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of the nation’s Planning
Commission, said in New Delhi yesterday. “We think proper
fiscal balance and good agriculture production will help bring
inflation under control.”  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
8.98 percent last month, more than the Reserve Bank of India’s 8
percent estimate, prompting Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Standard
Chartered Plc and Barclays Plc to raise their forecast for
interest-rate increases this year. India’s 11-year bond yields
closed near a two-month high yesterday.  “Unless inflation is controlled, achieving such high
growth rates may not be possible,” said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd. “The key challenge will
be to slow price increases.”  India’s inflation will average 5 percent between 2012 and
2017, Ahluwalia said.  The yield on the 8.08 percent bond due August 2022, the
most-traded government security, was 8.24 percent in Mumbai
yesterday, near the highest level since Feb. 8, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index rose 0.7
percent while the rupee weakened 0.1 percent to 44.36 per
dollar. India’s financial markets are closed today because of
Good Friday.  Slower Growth  Even as the government targeted faster economic expansion,
Goldman Sachs yesterday cut India’s growth forecast for the
current financial year because of rising borrowing costs and
weak investments.  The economy may grow 7.8 percent in the year ending March
31, less than the 8.7 percent predicted earlier,  Tushar Poddar ,
Mumbai-based chief India economist at Goldman Sachs, said in an
e-mailed report.  Poddar estimates the  Reserve Bank  will probably increase
rates by another 1.25 percentage points in 2011, more than the
half-point increase predicted earlier. He raised his inflation
forecast for India to 7.5 percent from 6.7 percent for this
financial year.  The Reserve Bank has boosted rates by 200 basis points
since mid-March 2010 in eight moves. The central bank’s
benchmark repurchase rate is 6.75 percent. The next monetary
policy announcement is scheduled for May 3.  Rate Forecast  Standard Chartered forecast on April 18 the repurchase rate
will rise by 1 percentage point in six months, while Barclays
Plc predicted a 75-basis point increase, compared with original
calls of 50 basis points.  A government report yesterday showed that the food
inflation rate for the week ended April 9 rose to 8.74 percent,
accelerating for the first time in four weeks.  Persistent inflation particularly in food products is a
cause for concern, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said yesterday.  Singh is betting on normal rains this year to boost farm
production and tame food inflation, which averaged 18 percent in
2010.  The June to September monsoon rain, the main source of
irrigation in India, will be normal for a second year, the  India
Meteorological Department  said April 19.  To damp inflationary pressures, Singh’s government aims to
cut the  budget deficit  to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product
in the year ending March 31 from 5.1 percent in the previous 12
months.  Manufacturing Inflation  Last month’s jump in India’s inflation rate was driven by a
surge in the cost of factory goods. The price gauge of non-food
manufactured products, the central bank’s measure of  core
inflation , accelerated to 7 percent in March from 6.1 percent in
February, according to Goldman Sachs.  Higher salaries have boosted consumer demand for houses,
cars and household appliances, stoking price risks.  Salaries in India in 2011 will likely rise the most in the
Asia-Pacific region, a survey by Aon Hewitt LLC showed March 8.
Spending under the government’s National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act of 2005 has surged almost fourfold to 399 billion
rupees ($9 billion).  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
plans to boost capacity by 21 percent in the current financial
year as part of investment plans totaling as much as 40 billion
rupees, Chief Financial Officer Ajay Seth said in an interview
on April 6. The company’s sales climbed to a record in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ；
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  