-- 
Insider Trading, Ratings, Mortgage Negotiations, Swiss Banks: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-04-21T11:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/insider-trading-ratings-mortgage-negotiations-swiss-banks-compliance.html
Raj Rajaratnam corrupted friends
and employees of his hedge fund to “conquer” Wall Street, a
prosecutor told jurors in his summation at the insider-trading
trial of the Galleon Group LLC co-founder.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky told jurors in
Manhattan federal court yesterday that Rajaratnam was guilty of
more than just insider trading: He was a corrupter of others.  Brodsky said Rajaratnam “corrupted his friends and
employees” to “get secret information.” The goal was to get
money and “conquer the stock market at the expense of the
law,” the prosecutor said.  The prosecutor’s summation, which lasted more than 4 1/2
hours, came in the seventh week of a trial that might send
Rajaratnam to prison for 20 years. Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of
gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders and
hedge-fund traders about a dozen stocks, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Intel Corp., Clearwire Corp. and Akamai Technologies
Inc.  “Getting information that others didn’t have was very
valuable,” the prosecutor said. “It meant the defendant knew
tomorrow’s news today, and it meant big money for the
defendant’s fund and for himself.”  As he has throughout the trial, Rajaratnam sat quietly in a
second row of defense lawyers, his hands folded, while Brodsky
told jurors that government wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s
conversations were “devastating evidence of the defendant
committing crimes in real time.”  John Dowd, an attorney for the Sri Lankan-born money
manager, spent the first hour of his summation urging an
acquittal, accusing the government of “smearing” his client.
He repeatedly said the U.S. case was “a fiction.”  “The government is trying to make Galleon into something
it wasn’t,” Dowd said. “Rajaratnam worked hard for Galleon
investors.”  Jurors saw that Rajaratnam was hard-working, that Galleon’s
research operation was extensive and that Rajaratnam demanded
transparency at meetings where analysts defended investment
ideas, Dowd said. The lawyer assailed government witnesses for
their “unreliable” testimony and said prosecutors gave several
who pleaded guilty a “free pass” in return for their
testimony.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Courts  S&P Can’t Be Sued in Frankfurt Over Lehman Ratings, Court Says  Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, a unit of McGraw-
Hill Cos., can’t be sued in Frankfurt over its ratings of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , a German court ruled.  A German pensioner seeking compensation for 30,000 euros
($43,500) he lost investing in Lehman certificates had his suit
turned away yesterday, Frankfurt court spokesman Arne Hasse said
in an interview, because the tribunal doesn’t have jurisdiction
to decide the case. The suit claimed S&P’s A+ rating for the
securities in May 2008 was misleading.  Rating companies have come under fire for their alleged
failure to foresee the financial crisis and for granting top
rankings to mortgage bonds that fell in value after home-loan
defaults. Investors brought cases in Germany after a U.S. court
ruled the ratings companies can’t be held liable because their
ratings are protected speech.  A different chamber of the Frankfurt court last month sent
another case against S&P to a Munich tribunal, saying that court
may have jurisdiction because the firm owns a trademark
registered with the German trademark office based in that city.  The judges in March rejected a similar suit against  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO)  saying the New York-based company couldn’t be sued in
Frankfurt. That case is now on appeal.  The case is: LG Frankfurt, 2-13 O 111/10.  Compliance Policy  Swiss Lawmakers Asked to Back Plan to Curb Bank Risk-Taking  Switzerland’s government asked lawmakers to approve
proposals to limit risk-taking by the country’s biggest banks,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   The proposals, largely based on a report commissioned by
the government, also take account of comments by Swiss parties,
lobbying groups and cantons. Both houses of parliament will
debate the bill, which could be passed as early as January.  “If we don’t act, the big banks will continue to engage in
very risky activities because they can count on the state
assisting them if they incur problems,” Finance Minister
Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told reporters yesterday in the Swiss
capital Bern. The measures are “about making Switzerland as a
financial center stronger and more secure,” she said.  Swiss rule makers want UBS and Credit Suisse, which each
have assets more than twice the size of the Alpine economy, to
hoard capital to cut the risk of an Icelandic-style collapse.
Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand last month said
he remains confident the proposals will be turned into law.  The country’s biggest banks must build additional capital
by the end of 2018, meet more stringent liquidity requirements
and improve their risk diversification, the government said in
an e-mailed statement.  The government has recommended changes to banking laws that
would require UBS and smaller rival Credit Suisse to hold
capital equal to at least 19 percent of assets, weighted
according to risk, by 2019. While the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision has proposed a 10.5 percent requirement for lenders
worldwide, that figure doesn’t yet include a surcharge for
systemically important banks, which has been incorporated into
the Swiss number.  Capital requirements for the largest Swiss banks should
first be set at 13 percent until it’s clear what regulators
elsewhere demand of their lenders, UBS said last month in a
written response to the proposed law. “If Switzerland goes a
lot further than other countries that would damage the
competitiveness of the financial center,” the Zurich-based bank
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Swiss political parties have also criticized the
government’s proposals. The proposals, however, follow a
government-commissioned report by a panel that included members
of the Swiss National Bank, academics and representatives from
banks and insurers.  For more, click here.  Obama May Make Contractors Disclose Political Giving  The Obama administration has drafted an executive order
that would require government contractors to disclose some of
their political donations, White House press secretary  Jay
Carney  said. Carney declined to confirm any specifics about the
proposal, saying it “could change over time.”  President Barack Obama “is committed to improving our
federal contracting system,” Carney told reporters traveling
with the president on  Air Force One  to California. “His goal is
transparency and accountability.”  Politico reported April 19 that the administration is
circulating an executive order that would require companies
seeking government contracts to disclose contributions they make
to groups that air political advertisements. Some of those
contributions can now be kept secret, Politico said.  The draft order follows last year’s Supreme Court decision
that struck down a federal law banning companies and unions from
using money from their general treasuries to support or oppose
political candidates. After the ruling, Obama urged Congress to
pass legislation requiring additional disclosures to limit the
impact of anonymous political spending.  Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell yesterday said
Obama’s executive order was “outrageous.”  “No White House should be able to review your political
party affiliation before deciding if you’re worthy of a
government contract,” the Kentucky senator said in a statement.  Craig Holman, a campaign finance lobbyist for Public
Citizen in Washington who advocates greater campaign spending
disclosures, said the executive order shows a more “active
role” being taken by the White House after the high court’s
action.  Hedge Funds Resist Dodd-Frank Rules on Disclosure, Registration  Hedge funds and private-equity firms are asking the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to back off from demanding a
level of disclosure they don’t currently give their own
investors.  The regulator is on the verge of asking for wide, routine
disclosure of assets and leverage from the funds, as required by
last year’s Dodd-Frank Act. Two pending rules -- which could be
finalized before July 21 -- would require many funds for the
first time to  register  with the SEC and provide  information 
about their inner workings.  “The burden for advisers will be extraordinary and
unprecedented in the private investment funds industry,” said
Joanne Medero, a managing director at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , in a
letter to the SEC last week. She said it will “divert advisers’
attention from their primary duty of managing client assets
without a sufficiently clear benefit to justify such burdens.”  The Dodd-Frank overhaul gave the SEC new authority over the
funds, whose complex investments had previously avoided most
government scrutiny. Besides the registration requirement, large
fund managers such as Paulson and Co. will also have to provide
quarterly disclosures designed to help regulators identify
potential systemic risks from the funds.  Hedge fund officials say their trades don’t threaten the
financial system and don’t deserve the level of scrutiny
suggested in the SEC’s initial proposals for the rules. The
systemic-risk disclosures laid out by the regulator call for
quarterly filings that include the value of assets the funds say
aren’t calculated with any frequency and can be difficult to
determine.  “We don’t even provide quarterly reports to our own
investors, typically,” said Doug Lowenstein, president of the
Washington-based Private Equity Growth Capital Council. “You’re
talking about assets that are illiquid, long-term assets.” He
called conducting such valuations an “extremely burdensome
process” requiring multiple accounting firms.  Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who led a two-
year congressional investigation into the financial crisis,
wrote in a January letter that hedge funds have become so
entrenched in the financial markets “that their actions can
significantly impact market prices, damage other market
participants, and even endanger the U.S. financial system.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Banks Await Payment Terms in Foreclosure Deal as AGs Split  State attorneys general negotiating the settlement of a
nationwide foreclosure investigation have yet to approach banks
with a proposed dollar amount that would fund principal
reductions for borrowers, a state official said.  The states have agreed on some terms while failing so far
to reach an accord on monetary payments by lenders, a person
familiar with the talks said last week. Eight Republican
attorneys general have publicly challenged the concept of
principal reductions as part of a 50-state settlement.  Last month, state officials and federal agencies, including
the Justice Department, submitted settlement terms to five
mortgage servicers, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. They called for a “substantial portion” of an
unspecified monetary amount to go toward a loan modification
program.  Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli and six other
Republican attorneys general assailed the proposal as
overreaching, with four calling principal reduction a “moral
hazard.”  “You’re declaring in advance who the winners and losers
are,” Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens said in an interview
April 19. “I’m a little concerned that this process disengages
the normal market forces.”  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt is seeking an
alternative settlement with banks that respects “the
appropriate role of attorneys general,” his office said in a
statement yesterday. The settlement could be a model for other
states, Pruitt said.  The six-month probe by the states was triggered by claims
of faulty foreclosure practices following the housing collapse,
which state officials said may violate their laws. Geoff
Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a
Democrat who leads the investigation, said in an interview that
the states haven’t presented a dollar figure to the banks,
declining further comment.  Another person familiar with the talks said state
negotiators are discussing what form a financial component may
take, and that there will be no settlement without a monetary
payment. The person, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private, said it may take four months to reach a deal.  Bank of America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Citigroup
Inc. and Ally Financial Inc. are the five companies involved in
the talks with the 50 states.  For more, click here.  Justice Department Seeks Data in Nasdaq-NYSE Antitrust Study  The U.S. Justice Department is asking market participants
how a takeover of the New York Stock Exchange would affect
competition in equity listings, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter who declined to be named because
the conversations are private.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to a $9.5 billion merger with  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  in February. It’s trying to fend off an unsolicited
$11.3 billion bid by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   NYSE Euronext rejected the Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid on April 10,
saying it wouldn’t create enough long-term value for
shareholders even though it was worth approximately 15 percent
more than Deutsche Boerse’s February agreement to combine with
the company  Antitrust review is emerging as a key test in the battle
for the 219-year-old market. Giving Nasdaq control would create
a monopoly in listings, a prospect that may create undue risk
the takeover will be blocked, according to NYSE CEO Duncan
Niederauer.  “A Department of Justice review can be quite significant
to a deal given that antitrust regulators have the legal
authority to sue to block transactions they deem
anticompetitive,” said Gregory Neppl, a Washington-based
attorney at Foley & Lardner LLP. “That can force parties to
modify the transaction in a material way, abandon it or litigate
with the government over the antitrust legality of the
transaction.”  Nasdaq OMX may consider selling the NYSE Amex business to
allay competition concerns, a person familiar with the matter
said April 15. NYSE Amex, home to more than 500 stocks, is one
of four main listing venues in the U.S., including the Big
Board, which offers all except three companies in the 30-member
Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Nasdaq Stock Market, and NYSE
Arca, which provides exchange-traded funds.  Scott Cutler, executive vice president and co-head of U.S.
listings at NYSE Euronext, said separating the Amex listings
business from a combined NYSE-Nasdaq company wouldn’t improve
competition in the listings business or give U.S. issuers more
choice about where to offer their shares.  “If the concern is antitrust, this does little to resolve
that,” he said in an interview on April 17. Most companies that
have initial public offerings in the U.S. list on Nasdaq or
NYSE, “so you’re not improving issuer choice by not having Amex
owned by either of them,” he said.  Christine Varney , head of the Justice Department’s
Antitrust Division, said in an April 14 interview in Washington
that her unit is reviewing the NYSE Euronext-Deutsche Boerse
deal. Regulators focused on competition in Europe are also
looking at that deal since it creates a monopoly in fixed-income
derivatives trading by combining NYSE Euronext’s Liffe business
and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex futures operation.  For more, click here.  FSA Asks Prudential to Investigate Its Failed Bid for AIA  The  Financial Services Authority  has told  Prudential Plc (PRU) ,
the U.K.’s biggest insurer, to hire a law firm to investigate
its failed $35.5 billion bid for AIA Group Ltd., two people
briefed on the matter said.  The FSA requested the probe to review advice given to
Prudential during its attempt to buy American International
Group Inc.’s Asian unit last year, said the people, who declined
to be named because the talks are private. Credit Suisse AG,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  advised London-based
Prudential on its bid. Clifford Chance LLP is conducting the
review, the people said.  The bid foundered in June after Prudential investors forced
the insurer to cut its offer, which AIG rejected. The probe is a
Skilled Person report under Section 166 of the Financial
Services Act, one of the people said. It can lead to recommended
changes in procedure or in some cases enforcement action. Last
year, 140 reports were ordered, up from 88 the previous year,
according to the FSA’s business  plan  for 2011.  Spokesmen at Prudential, Credit Suisse, JPMorgan, HSBC, the
FSA and Clifford Chance declined to comment on the probe, which
was reported earlier today by the Financial Times.  Investors including Schroders Plc called for Prudential’s
Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam and Chairman Harvey
McGrath to resign after the AIA talks broke down, costing the
firm 284 million pounds ($470 million) in fees. Both men have
stayed in their positions.  Prudential has risen by almost a third in London trading
since the talks ended, as profit at its own Asian division
increased. The company raised its dividend 20 percent in March.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names Leiman-Carbia Head of Broker-Dealer Examinations Unit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission named Julius
Leiman-Carbia as an associate director to lead the agency’s
national broker-dealer examination program, according to a
statement on its website.  Leiman-Carbia will oversee a staff of about 300 lawyers,
accountants and examiners responsible for the inspections of
U.S.-based broker-dealers in the unit, part of the SEC’s Office
of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, according to the
statement. He succeeds Mary Ann Gadziala, who retired in
September, the SEC said.  “Julius is a great addition to the leadership team of the
National Exam Program and brings a wealth of technical expertise
and broker-dealer industry experience to this role,” OCIE
Director Carlo di Florio said in the statement.  Leiman-Carbia, who previously worked at the SEC from 1989
to 1994 as a counsel in what was then the Division of Market
Regulation, has served for the past two years as vice president
for integrated supply and trading compliance for North America
for BP Plc, according to the statement. He has also held legal
and compliance leadership positions at Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the SEC said.  Obama Said to Choose Gallagher as Casey’s Replacement at SEC  President Barack Obama may nominate Daniel M. Gallagher, a
former Securities and Exchange Commission official, as one of
the watchdog’s five commissioners, said two people familiar with
the appointment.  Gallagher, a former SEC deputy director who left the agency
last year, would replace Kathleen L. Casey after her five-year
term expires in June, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the White House hasn’t announced the
selection.  Gallagher, 38, oversaw the agency’s response to the 2008
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and worked on the
Credit Rating Agency Reform Act. SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro
named Gallagher and James Brigagliano co-acting directors of the
agency’s trading and markets division after Erik Sirri stepped
down in April 2009.  When Gallagher left the SEC in January 2010 to become a law
partner in the Washington office of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale
& Dorr LLP, Schapiro said he had “served this agency well
during a very difficult time in the markets.”  Before joining the SEC, Gallagher was general counsel and
senior vice president of Fiserv Securities Inc., a unit of
Brookfield, Wisconsin-based  Fiserv Inc. (FISV)   Obama “will nominate someone to fill that role as quickly
as possible, but we won’t speculate or comment on possible
candidates before the president makes his decision,” said Amy
Brundage, a White House spokeswoman.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment. A call
to Gallagher yesterday wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 