-- 
Investors Bound for Shock If Rising Rates Sink Bonds, Cohen Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/investors-bound-for-shock-if-rising-rates-sink-bonds-cohen-says.html
Investors who poured more than half
a trillion dollars into bond mutual funds since 2007 will
experience a market crash when interest rates rise, according to
 Marilyn Cohen , a Los Angeles money manager.  Cohen lays out a grim scenario in “Surviving the Bond  Bear
Market ” (John Wiley & Sons Inc.), co-written with husband Chris
Malburg. Rates will surge if the global economy strengthens or
because investors lose faith in governments with growing
deficits, said Cohen, whose book came out this month. Standard &
Poor’s this week put a “negative” outlook on U.S. credit,
citing the risk that leaders will fail to curb debt.  “The baby boomers, who really have been all-in to all
kinds of bonds and bond funds since the end of the credit
crisis, they’ve never lived through a bear market with skin in
the game,” Cohen said in a telephone interview. “It’ll freak
people out.”  Fixed-income mutual funds took in net deposits of $645
billion from 2008 through 2010, according to the Washington-
based  Investment Company Institute . Cohen, who oversees $325
million as chief executive officer of Envision Capital
Management Inc., said falling bond prices will lead to a wave of
sales, much as the 2008 financial crisis triggered a 46 percent
drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index before the U.S. stock-
market benchmark bottomed out in March 2009.  Cohen, 61, worked as an equity analyst at William O’Neil &
Co. and as a bond broker at Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. before
founding her firm, which manages fixed-income portfolios for
individuals, 16 years ago. She writes a Forbes Magazine column
and a newsletter on bond investing. This is her third book.  ‘Bad to Terminal’  Cohen warned in November against  California ’s general
obligation bonds because of the state’s deficits, saying, “The
news headlines are going to continue to go from bad to
terminal.” Since then, yields have risen to 4.44 percent from
4.09 percent.  Investors can guard against the steepest losses by
switching to shorter-term funds, or profit through bearish
Treasury bets, Cohen said. A 2 percentage point climb in
 interest rates  over the next 12 months, which she said is
possible, could spur price declines of 14 percent in 10-year
U.S. Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors should keep a substantial amount of cash on
hand during the nuclear winter to take advantage of the
opportunities that inevitably occur,” said Cohen, whose book
features a mushroom cloud on its cover.  Not everyone agrees with her thesis.  “Fear sells,” said Chris Ryon, who co-manages $6.5
billion in municipal bonds at Thornburg Investment Management in
 Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .  Muni Market Risk  The risk of municipal bankruptcies is overblown, he said.
The average default rate for investment-grade municipal debt in
the 10 years after issuance from 1970 through 2009 was 0.06
percent, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Investors are better off diversifying their holdings among
funds with short, intermediate and long-term maturities than
putting assets in cash at money-market yields close to zero,
Ryon said.  Short-term interest rates might rise more than long-term
rates, said Ryon, whose Thornburg Limited Term Municipal Fund
averaged 4.1 percent gains in the five years through April 19,
beating 89 percent of peers, according to Bloomberg data.  “The steepness of the yield curve makes the cost of
insuring against rising rates very expensive,” Ryon said in a
phone interview.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury note yielded 3.41 percent
yesterday, up from the recent low of 2.38 percent on Oct. 7.
Economists predict a rate of 3.91 percent in the fourth quarter,
the average of 73 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Indicators  Improvements in indicators such as employment,  consumer
confidence  and housing starts could signal an economic upswing
and interest-rate increases, Cohen wrote.  U.S. unemployment declined to 8.8 percent in March from a
cyclical peak of 10.1 percent in October 2009. The Consumer
Confidence Index decreased to 63.4 in March from 72 in February,
the Conference Board said last month.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said earlier this
month he expects an increase in commodity prices to create a
“transitory” boost in U.S. inflation, and that the central
bank would act if he’s proven incorrect.  Interest rates will be driven higher if investors demand
better returns from the U.S. government, which owes  $14 trillion 
and faces a deficit estimated at more than $1.6 trillion this
year.  China , the largest foreign owner of U.S. Treasury
securities, cut its holdings to $1.15 trillion in February from
$1.17 trillion in October, according to the Treasury Department.  ‘Big Rumblings’  At worst, China “will stop buying U.S. Treasuries,” Cohen
wrote. “At best they will drastically reduce their purchases.
Either way, the consequences will be the largest interest-rate
hikes in history.”  The Fed, which is purchasing an additional $600 billion in
 government bonds  under a strategy dubbed QE2, may cause “big
rumblings” when that program winds down at midyear, Cohen said.  Interest rates could also jump if a state such as  Illinois 
or a city such as  Los Angeles  defaults on its debt, she said.
Los Angeles, she wrote, has a fiscal 2012 deficit equal to about
10 percent of its general-fund expenditures.  “We’ve never been in a sea of red ink like we are in
now,” Cohen said. “If things get really worse, we will have
some cities and some counties, and certainly in all types of
little projects, we’ll see more defaults. Historic numbers have
absolutely no relevance.”  Muni-Fund Withdrawals  Meredith Whitney , the analyst who predicted Citigroup
Inc.’s dividend cut, sparked a sell-off in municipal bonds when
she told CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” in December the market could
see at least “50 to 100 sizable defaults.”  Shareholders withdrew a net $43.1 billion from U.S. muni-
bond funds from mid-November through April 13, according to the
investment institute. Redemptions can force managers to sell
securities to raise cash, speeding price declines.  Unlike previous bond bear markets,  baby boomers  are more
invested in fixed-income securities, Cohen said. Of the $4.69
trillion in mutual funds held in retirement accounts as of Dec.
31, one-third was in bond funds or hybrid funds that own stocks
and fixed income, according to the institute.  The Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index averaged 6
percent annual returns in the five years through March 31,
versus 2.6 percent for the  S&P 500 .  ETF Strategies  Investors can benefit from the coming slide by purchasing
exchange-traded funds, such as the ProShares UltraShort 20+ Year
or iPath U.S. Treasury 10-year Bear ETN, whose prices move
inversely to U.S. Treasury bonds, Cohen wrote.  They can buy floating-rate funds such as the  Fidelity
Floating Rate High Income Fund (FFRHX)  or the Oppenheimer Senior
Floating Rate Fund that purchase bank loans or corporate bonds
whose yields rise along with interest rates, she said.  Another option is short-term ETFs whose holdings expire on
a specific date, such as the iShares 2013 S&P AMT-Free Municipal
Series or  Guggenheim BulletShares 2012 Corporate Bond ETF. (BSCC)  Funds
with shorter maturities will maintain more value than longer-
dated ones if rates climb, she wrote.  Municipal-bond investors should stick to prefunded
securities whose principal and interest payments have been set
aside by the issuer, minimizing credit risk, she said. She also
suggested bonds backed by projects that provide essential
services such as sewer and water facilities.  Cohen recommended putting as much as 25 percent of a
portfolio in money-market funds, which invest in short-term
Treasury bills and commercial paper. Their yields rise along
with interest rates.  Higher Yields  Instead of buying low-yielding money funds, investors would
do better to spread their cash between municipal-bond funds that
hold short-term bonds and longer-term ones so they can capture
higher yields and lose less principal if interest rates rise
steeply, said Thornburg’s Ryon.  Large, well-run bond funds such as Bill Gross’s  Pimco Total
Return Fund (PTTRX)  may be relatively unscathed, Cohen said. The fund
had a minus 3 percent of its $236 billion in assets in  U.S.
government debt  and 31 percent in cash last month. It can have a
negative position by using derivatives to short, or wager
against, the market.  “That’s the smartest guy in the room,” Cohen said. “He’s
already in the bomb shelter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  