-- 
Iron Mountain Calms Bondholders on Dividend: Corporate Finance

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-21T15:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/iron-mountain-calms-bondholders-on-2-2-billion-payout-corporate-finance.html
Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM) , the document-
storage company that was pressured by Elliott Management Corp.
to change its strategy, is persuading the  bond market  it can
reward shareholders without harming its creditworthiness.  The company’s $300 million of 8 percent notes due June 2020
rose for the first time in six days yesterday, gaining 0.25 cent
to 103.5 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Its 8.375 percent debt due August 2021 rose today for a second
day, Trace data show.  Iron Mountain Chief Executive Officer Richard Reese assured
debt investors yesterday the Boston-based company’s leverage
would face no more than a “slight increase” as it returns $2.2
billion to shareholders through 2013. Last month, hedge fund
Elliott Management called for a review of Iron Mountain, citing
a loss of  shareholder value  from parts of its international and
digital businesses.  “The sources of the funds are coming, by and large, from
operations, free  cash flow , as well as from a slight increase in
our leverage,” Reese, 65, who led the company between 1981 and
2008 and resumed that role last week, said in a conference call.
“I want to be real clear to the debt markets who might be
listening, or hopefully are listening, we’re talking about going
from a little under 3 times leveraged to 3.5.”  12-Month Return  The return to shareholders in the next 12 months will be
$1.2 billion, including “potential one-time dividends,” in
addition to quarterly distributions and share buybacks, Iron
Mountain said in a statement on April 19.  The 8 percent notes fell to 103.25 cents on the dollar that
day to yield 7.46 percent, Trace data show. The debt traded at
107.6 cents with a 6.92 percent yield on March 2, Trace data
show.  The average B rated security yields 7.38 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The senior
subordinated notes from Iron Mountain are graded B1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and B+ by  Standard & Poor’s , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors were concerned the company might take on more
debt to make payouts to fend off pressure from shareholders,
said  Sabur Moini , a  money manager  who oversees more than $2
billion of high-yield debt at Los Angeles-based Payden & Rygel,
including bonds from Iron Mountain.  ‘Not Bondholder-Friendly’  “Whenever news like this comes out, it’s bad for the bonds
because the expectation is that the company to save itself will
have to do something that’s not bondholder-friendly,” Moini
said. “It probably makes sense to take in more information and
not be one of the first to sell at a low print,” he said on
April 19.  Iron Mountain initially adopted a so-called poison-pill
provision, meant to keep dissident investors from gaining
control of it. Last week, Bob Brennan resigned as CEO, and the
company said in an April 19 statement it plans to sell parts of
its digital unit and return cash to shareholders.  Iron Mountain also said it’s setting up a committee to
explore conversion into a real estate investment trust as part
of an agreement with Elliott Management. REITs must pass on at
least 90 percent of their annual taxable profit to shareholders
through dividends.  New York-based Elliott Management, run by  Paul Singer , has
said it owns “slightly under” 5 percent of Iron Mountain’s
stock.  As part of its agreement with Elliott Management, Iron
Mountain also agreed to nominate Allan Loren, one of the
company’s four candidates, to its board at the 2011 annual
meeting, scheduled for June 10. Elliott Management agreed to
withdraw its other nominees at the event, Iron Mountain said.  Underground Facility  Iron Mountain, founded in an underground facility near
Hudson, New York, in 1951, stores and maintains materials for
clients, including records, electronic files, medical data and
e-mail, according to its most recent annual report. It works
with more than 150,000 corporations in  North America ,  Europe ,
Latin America and Asia Pacific.  The company, which had $2.9 billion of long-term debt as of
Dec. 31, went public in 1996 and joined the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  in
January 2009, according to the filing.  Iron Mountain’s $548 million of 8.375 percent bonds
maturing in August 2021 rose yesterday after falling since April
14, Trace data show. The debt climbed 1.5 cents to 106 cents on
the dollar to yield 7.5 percent, the data show.  The bonds rose again today, gaining 0.5 cent to 106.5 cents
to yield 7.46 percent as of 9:37 a.m., the data show.  Before yesterday’s call, S&P, which assigns Iron Mountain a
BB- grade, changed its outlook on the company to “negative”
from “stable,” according to an April 19 note.  ‘Financial Risk’  “We expect the company will have to raise new debt and
draw under its revolving credit facility to finance the entire
planned $2.2 billion,” S&P analysts Tulip Lim and Andy Liu
wrote in the note. “The transaction will raise financial risk
amid uncertainty as to financing terms.”  The payouts could increase the company’s debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to more
than five times from the “low” four times area now, the
analysts wrote. A debt to EBITDA ratio above 5.5 times would
spur a downgrade, they wrote.  “More leverage makes bondholders increasingly
uncomfortable,” said Andrew Wittmann, an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee .  The company’s target leverage of 3.5 times looks “about
right,” said Wittman, who has a “neutral” rating on the
stock. “Shareholders feel very comfortable there, and I feel
like bondholders should feel pretty comfortable as well,” he
said.  Credit Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Iron Mountain’s subordinated bonds
fell after soaring on April 19 to the highest since September,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts, which typically
rise as investor confidence worsens and fall as it improves,
fell 7 basis points to 418.9 yesterday, CMA data show.  Default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “Some could even argue we’re under-levered,” Reese said
on the conference call. “We think we’re appropriately levered
at this space, given where the business is and given the amount
of capital we’re talking about and we think this is the right
thing to do. But this is not coming from a big leverage up for
the business at this stage.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles@bloomberg.net  