-- 
Irradiated Lobsters in Irish Sea Point to Safe Japan Sushi, Scientists Say

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-04-21T09:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/irradiated-lobsters-in-irish-sea-point-to-safe-japan-sushi-scientists-say.html
Radiation from fish and lobsters
near the U.K.’s biggest nuclear polluter suggest radioactive
material dumped into the sea from  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant isn’t a long-term health threat, scientists said.  The  Sellafield  nuclear-waste plant in northwest  England  has
discharged about 44 times more cesium-137, one of the most
harmful radioactive materials to humans, into the  Irish Sea 
since 1952 than what has leaked from the Japanese plant this
month, based on data from both sites. Still, average radiation
doses by seafood-consumers near Sellafield over 15 years have
been half the recommended limit, studies show.  The Sellafield research suggests bans on Japanese seafood
are unnecessary, said  Richard Wakeford , a professor of
epidemiology at the University of Manchester’s  Dalton Nuclear
Institute . The U.S. and European Union are among nations that
have curbed imports from Japan, and hotels including  Shangri-La
Asia Ltd. (69) ’s luxury chain have stopped serving seafood from the
East Asian country because of radiation fears.  “It is not a long-term problem, and that’s what you learn
from Sellafield,” Wakeford said in a telephone interview. “I
don’t think there’s any need for this knee-jerk reaction, which
is hitting someone when they’re down.”  Dangerous Leakage  About 4,700 terabecquerel of radiation leaked from the
plant into the sea between April 1 and April 6, Junichi
Matsumoto, a general manager at Tokyo Electric Power Co., the
plant operator, said at a news conference today. That’s 31,333
times more than what the utility said it dumped into the sea
from April 5. The leak included 940 terabecquerel of  cesium-137 ,
which takes 30 years to decay by half and can cause cancer if
ingested.  Between 1952 and 2009, Sellafield legally discharged about
41,353 terabecquerel of cesium-137, based on data from the U.K.
 Environment Agency  and the  Journal of Radiological Protection .
The biggest discharge in a single year was 5,200 terabecquerel
in 1975.  The highest radiation doses in the U.K. were found in the
1970s among consumers of fish and shellfish in Cumbria, the
English county in which Sellafield is located.  The average dose in that group was as much as 3
millisieverts a year, according to a  study  published in 2000,
triple the annual limit of 1 millisievert for man-made exposures
set by the Ottawa-based  International Commission on Radiological
Protection . The group’s average dose between 1995 and 2009 was
0.5 millisievert, Environment Agency data show.  ‘Short-Term Effect’  “Although it was fairly high levels being discharged, that
initial discharge has stopped,” said Tony Irwin, a visiting
nuclear technology lecturer at the  Australian National
University  and  University of Sydney , who helped review practices
at Russian reactors after the world’s worst nuclear disaster at
Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986. “You get a vast dilution with the
sea. It was more of a short-term effect.”  Globally, people are exposed to an average of 2.4
millisieverts a year from the earth’s crust and cosmic rays,
according to the  World Nuclear Association  in  London . Exposure
of 100 millisieverts a year is the lowest level at which any
increase in cancer is evident.  A becquerel is a measure of radioactivity and a
terabecquerel is one trillion becquerel. A millisievert is a
measure of the dose of radiation received by a person. The
formula for converting becquerel into millisievert varies
according to the radioactive material involved.  Cancer Cases  An excess of leukemia cases was observed between 1950 and
1980 among children in Seascale, the nearest town to the
Sellafield plant. A 1990  study  suggested the increase was linked
to men employed at Sellafield who were exposed to radiation of
100 millisieverts or more before conceiving children. Subsequent
research  disputed  those findings, and suggested the cases may
have been related to an unidentified infection.  “On current knowledge, environmental  radiation exposure 
from authorized or unplanned releases could not account for the
excess” leukemia cases, an independent committee wrote in a
 1996 report .  Japan plans to measure the radiation exposure of 150,000
residents near the Fukushima plant, the Yomiuri newspaper
reported yesterday, citing Welfare Minister Ritsuo Hosokawa.  Areva SA (CEI)  will deliver a decontamination unit to the
Fukushima plant to help Tepco remove radioactive water, the
Paris-based company said April 19. Tepco wants to start using
the unit by June, said Junichi Matsumoto, a company official.  U.S., European Curbs  Russia restricted supplies of fish and marine products from
242 processors in Japan, joining the U.S. and EU in limiting
shipments. India said April 5 it suspended Japanese food imports
for three months or until “credible information” on the
radiation hazard is available.  Japan exported 565,295 metric tons of marine products worth
195 billion yen ($2.4 billion) last year. The northern island of
Hokkaido and southern prefectures of Kagoshima and Nagasaki are
the nation’s major exporters of seafood, said Rika Tatsuki, a
spokeswoman for the National Federation of Fisheries Co-
Operative Associations in  Tokyo .  Contamination of the earth within 100 kilometers of the
crippled Fukushima plant is likely to have a greater long-term
effect on human health than radiation in seawaters, said Peter
Burns, a former chairman of the United Nations Scientific
Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation.  “The only significant pathway at this stage is the
contamination that’s on the ground, and people getting external
radiation from living in the contaminated area,” Burns, now
retired, said by telephone from his home in  Melbourne .  Sellafield, built to produce explosives during the Second
World War, became the world’s first commercial nuclear power
station, and is now a nuclear waste-reprocessing plant,
according to its  website . The facility is owned by the U.K.
government’s  Nuclear Decommissioning Authority  and is operated
by Sellafield Ltd., a joint venture of Areva, San Francisco-
based  URS Corp. (URS)  and London-based  AMEC Plc. (AMEC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  