-- 
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley CEO Said to Plan Resignation Following Loss

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-04-21T04:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/mitsubishi-ufj-morgan-ceo-said-to-plan-resignation-after-loss.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co.  President Fumiyuki Akikusa, 61, will resign after
the investment bank had a full-year loss of 140 billion yen
($1.7 billion), two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The joint venture between  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  and Morgan Stanley had a loss of 80 billion yen from fixed-
income trading in the fourth quarter ended March 31, said the
people, declining to be identified because the information isn’t
public. The Tokyo-based brokerage plans to announce results for
the year on April 28.  The investment bank, 60 percent owned by Mitsubishi UFJ and
40 percent held by New York-based Morgan Stanley, lost money
from trading derivatives on its own account, the people said.
The 11-month-old brokerage plans to boost capital by about 30
billion yen from a sale of new shares to Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities Holdings Co., the people said.  “The relationship between the partners may be changed by
this event and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  will possibly get stronger
negotiation power over the Japanese bank,” said Shinichi Ina, a
Tokyo-based banking analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “It was
crucial for Mitsubishi UFJ to generate a profit from the
brokerage business.”  Hiroaki Konishi, a Tokyo-based spokesman at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley, declined to comment. Akikusa wasn’t available to
take a call made to his office. The brokerage will hold a board
meeting today and make an announcement at about 5 p.m., it said
in a statement.  Forecast Unchanged  Mitsubishi UFJ,  Japan ’s largest bank, won’t change its
estimated earnings of 500 billion yen for the year ended March
31 even after its brokerage unit books a loss of about 50
billion yen, the people said. The lender is scheduled to report
full-year results on May 16.  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ fell as much as 1.8 percent to 373
yen and traded at 374 yen as of 12:58 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Mitsubishi UFJ teamed up with Morgan Stanley after
investing $9 billion in the Wall Street firm in 2008. The Tokyo-
based bank is seeking to bolster its ranking in advising on
Japanese mergers, where it has trailed foreign investment banks
and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest securities firm.  The 6,900-employee joint venture offered an early
retirement program in December and 270 people will leave the
firm in July, Konishi said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at  F
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  