-- 
Janus Profit Increases 21% as Rising Global Markets Outweigh Withdrawals

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-04-21T20:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/janus-profit-increases-21-as-rising-markets-boost-assets.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , the
mutual-fund company with about 90 percent of its assets in
equities, said first-quarter earnings rose 21 percent as
rallying stocks boosted client assets.  Net income increased to $37.9 million, or 21 cents a share,
from $31.3 million, or 17 cents, a year earlier, the Denver-
based company said in a statement today. Excluding certain
items, analysts had expected earnings of 20 cents a share,
according to the average of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “Revenue was a bit better than expected and expense
discipline was good, so margins were higher,”  Michael Kim , an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said in
a telephone interview. Kim expected Janus to earn 21 cents a
share.  A increase in global stocks since the start of the year is
lifting assets and fees for overseeing them, even as clients
pulled a net $2.7 billion from Janus’s funds, the seventh
straight quarter of redemptions. Chief Executive Officer Richard M. Weil, a former executive at Pacific Investment Management Co.
who took over in February 2010, said he may consider personnel
changes if performance of the firms’ stock funds doesn’t
improve.  Shares Rise  Janus rose 4 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $12.68 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Its stock has
declined 2.2 percent this year, while the 17-member  Standard &
Poor’s  index of asset managers and custody banks rose 1 percent.  Janus announced an increase in its dividend to 5 cents a
share from 4 cents, payable May 13.  The company said Chief Financial Officer Greg Frost will
leave the firm on or about Aug. 1 and will be replaced by Bruce Koepfgen, a former executive with Allianz Global Investors.  Janus benefited as the MSCI AC World Index rose 6 percent
since the start of the year. That helped lift the amount of
money Janus oversees for clients by 2.4 percent since the end of
December to $173.5 billion, overcoming withdrawals.  New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  said today that first-quarter
net income rose 34 percent to $568 million, or $2.89 a share.
Baltimore’s T. Rowe Price Group Inc. said net income increased
27 percent to $194.6 million, or 72 cents a share.  Intech’s Withdrawals  Investors pulled money from Intech, the company’s unit that
makes investments based on mathematical models, for the tenth-
straight quarter. Intech lost $2.6 billion to client withdrawals
in the quarter, the same as in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Janus-branded stock funds saw $700 million in withdrawals.  In the year ended March 31, 88 percent of Janus’s equity
funds ranked in the bottom half of their peer groups, and 60
percent were below average over the past three years, according
to Lipper FMI.  “Performance on the equity side continues to be a
challenge,” Weil said today in a conference call with analysts.
He said personnel changes may have to be made “if bad
performance doesn’t get better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  