-- 
Japan’s Government Bonds Advance as Extra Budget Avoids New Bond Issuance

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-22T06:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-for-fifth-day-as-yen-strengthens-to-three-week-high.html
Japan’s bonds rose, pushing 10-year
yields to a four-week low, after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
government compiled a 4 trillion yen ($49 billion) extra budget
that didn’t include new debt issuances.  Ten-year securities gained for a fifth day, the longest
winning streak since September, on prospects the first spending
package for rebuilding from last month’s record earthquake won’t
add to the nation’s debt burden, the world’s largest. Benchmark
bonds completed the biggest weekly gain since October after
Economy and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said on April 20
that taxes must be used to help fund the recovery.  “People are finding it favorable that policy makers are at
least talking about a tax increase and trying to respect”
fiscal discipline, said Shinichi Horikawa, who helps to manage
the equivalent of $12 billion at Mitsui Sumitomo Kirameki Life
Insurance Co. “Investors are inclined to buy toward month-
end.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 fell 1.5
basis points to 1.21 percent as of 3:12 p.m. at  Japan  Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
price rose 0.133 yen to 100.795 yen.  The yield was the lowest since March 25 and has dropped 7.5
basis points since April 15, the most since the week ended on
Oct. 8. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery rose 0.17 to 139.75
at the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange. They touched 139.82, the highest
since March 31.  Extra Budget  The budget will be financed by using 2.5 trillion yen from
pension funds and money originally intended to increase payments
to families with children, according to a statement released in
Tokyo today. It won’t increase an earlier plan for 44.3 trillion
yen in new bond issuances this fiscal year.  Nippon Life Insurance Co. said it plans to invest about 1
trillion yen in the year ending March 31, using as much as 80
percent of the money to buy yen-denominated bonds. Japan’s
biggest life insurer will focus on  government bonds  with longer
maturities and corporate debt, said Yosuke Matsunaga, general
manager of the finance and investment planning department.  Japan’s public debt will reach 204.2 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, the highest level among
nations tracked by the group.  The OECD yesterday cut its 2011 growth forecast for Japan
to 0.8 percent from the 1.7 percent rate it projected in
November. The Paris-based organization urged that the  sales tax 
be doubled to finance relief efforts, saying Japan’s fiscal
situation has reached a “critical point.”  Stronger Yen  Bonds also advanced after the yen reached a three-week high
against the dollar, weighing on exporter shares and boosting
demand for the relative safety of debt.  The yen touched 81.62 per dollar yesterday, the highest
level since March 29. A stronger yen cuts the value of overseas
income at Japanese companies.  “If the yen keeps rising against the dollar, expectations
are likely to mount for the  Bank of Japan  to add to monetary
easing,” Makoto Noji, a senior debt and foreign-exchange
strategist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., wrote in a
note today. “A stronger yen boosts demand for bonds.”  The central bank doubled an asset purchase program on March
14 to 10 trillion yen and injected 40 trillion yen in successive
one-day emergency cash injections through March 22 to calm
markets and soften the economic impact of the March 11 quake and
tsunami. BOJ policy makers will convene on April 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  