-- 
Kan Compiles $49 Billion Extra Budget to Start Japan Earthquake Rebuilding

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-04-22T10:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/japan-compiles-49-billion-extra-budget-for-quake-relief-efforts.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
proposed a 4-trillion yen ($49 billion) extra budget that is
likely to be the first of several packages to rebuild areas
devastated by last month’s record earthquake and tsunami.  The government plans to fund the budget without increasing
the 44.3 trillion yen in new bond issuances set for the year
ending March 2012, according to a government statement released
in  Tokyo  today. Bond sales will be necessary for a second
reconstruction budget, the prime minister said at an evening
news conference.  Kan has said several extra budgets may be needed to rebuild
after the quake led to damage the government estimates could
reach 25 trillion yen. To avoid boosting a debt burden double
the size of the economy with a large increase in bonds, higher
taxes may be imposed to fund future packages even at the risk of
damping private demand already weakened by the disaster.  “Increasing taxes looks unavoidable,” said  Hideo Kumano ,
chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
“Rebuilding plans are ultimately about how the government will
fund extra budgets without hurting its fiscal credibility.”  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yield fell to its lowest
level since March 25 on optimism the government will fund the
reconstruction at least partly with taxes to contain an increase
in government debt. The yield dropped 1.5 basis points to 1.21
percent today.  ‘Temporarily’ Use Bonds  “A second supplementary budget to ensure a genuine
reconstruction will be of a considerable scale,” Kan told
reporters. “It will become necessary to temporarily use
 government bonds  to secure funding,” he said, adding that the
details such as the scope of sales will need to be discussed.  The first budget will be financed using 2.5 trillion yen
from pension funds as well as money originally intended to
increase payments to families with children. The size of the
proposed package was in line with predictions by officials
including Kan. The government plans to submit the budget to
parliament next week and win approval for it in the first week
of May, Kan said.  The spending aims to provide more than 100,000 temporary
housing, build infrastructure and clean up debris after the
March 11 temblor which left more than 27,000 people dead or
missing. Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said
this week that reconstruction “must” be backed by higher levies.  ‘Little Wiggle Room’  A Nikkei newspaper survey released on April 18 showed that
69 percent of people said they would support a tax increase to
help pay for rebuilding.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
yesterday urged the government to at least double the  sales tax 
to 10 percent and to implement those increases as soon as
possible. It also halved its estimate for Japan’s growth to 0.8
percent this year.  Japan has “very little wiggle room” to deploy stimulus
and raising the sales tax alone won’t be enough to restore its
fiscal health, OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria said in an
interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television in Tokyo.  The  Finance Ministry  also said today it will sell 2
trillion yen of so-called zaito bonds during the current fiscal
year to expand an emergency loan program for businesses hit by
the disaster.  No-Entry Zone  Those bonds are Japanese agency securities issued under the
government’s Fiscal Investment and Loan Program. The sales
increase will push up Japan’s total debt issuance this year to a
record 171.6 trillion yen.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has said he needs to assess
conditions in stricken areas in the northeast before discussing
the size of a second extra budget and when to compile it.  The Cabinet has already unveiled measures to help people in
disaster areas including tax breaks for victims whose homes were
washed away or damaged by the tsunami.  The government imposed a 20-kilometer (12 mile) no-entry
zone starting today around the crippled Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant in Fukushima prefecture amid the worst nuclear disaster
since Chernobyl in 1986. It also allocated 18 billion yen for
companies to help deal with power shortages caused by the
shutdown of the plants.  Data have shown exports and confidence plunging while
businesses have downgraded their profit forecasts, underscoring
the widening impact of the quake. Exports fell 2.2 percent in
March from a year earlier, the first drop in more than a year,
and economists say those drops may accelerate in coming months.  Bank of  Japan  Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura said
yesterday there’s a risk the disaster and the nuclear power
plant accident “might put a chill on corporate investment and
households’ consumption, thereby reducing expectations for
Japan’s economy.” 