-- 
Japan Sets No-Entry Zone Around Stricken Plant to Stop Return of Residents

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-04-21T02:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/japan-sets-no-entry-zone-around-stricken-plant-to-stop-return-of-residents.html
Japan  imposed a 20-kilometer (12
mile) no-entry zone around the crippled Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant in Fukushima in the interests of public health, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  “Entry into the zone will be banned except for authorized
persons for emergencies and for temporary visits,” Edano said
at a press conference today in Tokyo. The order will go into
effect at midnight tonight, he said.  About 80,000 people lived in the area before the March 11
earthquake and tsunami slammed into the plant, causing the worst
nuclear disaster in 25 years. While the residents were evacuated,
some have returned against the advice of officials. About 40
people are living in the area, said Yusuke Matsumura, a
spokesman at Japan’s atomic safety agency.  One person per household will be allowed to return to their
homes for a two-hour period to retrieve belongings, Edano said
today. Residents whose homes were within three kilometers of the
plant, though, won’t be permitted to make a temporary visit, he
said.  “There has been a strong desire from evacuees who left
without anything to go back,” Edano said. Groups will be
transported by bus and required to wear protective gear, he said.  The tsunami wrecked the plant’s cooling systems, causing
partial meltdowns and releasing radiation into the air, ground
and sea, contaminating food and water supplies.  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co., owner of the facility,  laid out  a plan this week to
end the crisis within the next six to nine months.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  visited the area today and met
with Fukushima Governor Yuhei Sato.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  