-- 
Japan’s 10-Year Yield Falls to Three-Week Low on Reconstruction Tax Talks

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-21T06:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/japan-s-10-year-yield-is-near-three-week-low-on-reconstruction-tax-talks.html
Japan ’s 10-year bond yields were at
the lowest level in three weeks after Economy and Fiscal Policy
Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said taxes must be used to help fund
earthquake reconstruction.  The comment helped temper speculation that damage estimated
at as much as 25 trillion yen ($302 billion) will exacerbate the
nation’s debt burden that’s near 200 percent of gross domestic
product. Bonds were also supported after Dai-ichi Life Insurance
Co., Japan’s second-biggest life insurer, said it plans to boost
its holdings of Japanese  government bonds  this fiscal year.  “Talks on tax increases may ease concern over the fiscal
deficit,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin
Research Institute Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest lender for
farmers and fishermen in  Tokyo . “That’s positive for bonds.”  The benchmark 10-year yield slid half a basis point to
1.225 percent as of 3:12 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due March 2021 added 0.045 to 100.662 yen. The yield
was the lowest since March 29.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery declined 0.04 to
139.58 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Twenty-year yields fell half a basis point to 2 percent,
extending their decline to a seventh day. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “Of course our borrowing must be backed by taxes,”
Yosano, 72, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. While a
 sales tax  increase “is one possibility we could explain to
people, the government hasn’t made any progress on
discussions.”  Sales Tax  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano indicated this week
that raising the nation’s 5 percent sales tax could be an option
ruling party members will consider. Sixty-nine percent of people
said they would support an increase in levies to fund
rebuilding, according to a Nikkei newspaper survey released this
week.  Dai-ichi Life, with about 30 trillion yen in assets, plans
to mainly invest in Japanese government bonds with maturities of
at least 20 years in the year through March 2012, said Takashi Iida, a manager in the investment planning division. He declined
to give figures, saying the information is private.  Net Buyers  Insurance companies bought a net 1.08 trillion yen in
Japanese bonds including non-government debt last month, the
most this year, data compiled by the Japan Securities Dealers
Association showed yesterday. Insurers were the country’s
second-biggest buyers of debt after city banks in the year
through March 31.  The Ministry of Finance sold 1.1 trillion yen in 20-year
bonds today. The lowest price at the auction of the securities
was 99.50 yen, matching the median forecast of 13 traders
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The sale drew bids valued at 2.92
times the amount on offer, compared with a so-called bid-to-
cover ratio of 4.13 at the March 16 auction.  “The auction results were not that bad,” said  Koji Ochiai , chief market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest publicly traded
lender. “There’s demand from investors at the beginning of the
fiscal year.”  The yield spread between 20-year Japanese government debt
and five-year notes narrowed to 1.50 percentage points, the
least since March 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 