-- 
Japan's Corporate Loan Demand Rises for First Time Since 2009 After Quake

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-21T01:53:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/japan-corporate-loan-demand-rises-for-first-time-since-2009-1-.html
Japanese demand for bank loans rose
for the first time in two years as the nation’s strongest
earthquake on record spurred companies to borrow.  An index of demand for loans to businesses was at 8 in the
period between March 11 and April 12, the  Bank of Japan  said in
a survey of loan officers in Tokyo today. It was the first
positive reading since April 2009, a sign demand increased.  Companies have been seeking funds since the disaster,
causing cash in circulation to increase at the fastest pace in
more than five years last month. The central bank unveiled a
one-year lending program for banks in affected areas on April 7
as it grew more concerned about the risks the temblor posed on
the world’s third-largest economy.  “Companies need to borrow now to keep things going as
revenue plunges,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas
in Tokyo. “But we may see loan demand drop if sales and
production keep shrinking.”  Businesses sought 7.5 trillion yen ($91 billion) in loans
from the nation’s three largest banks including Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. to cope with the catastrophe.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. received applications for
about 2.5 trillion yen in loans, said Shinya Matsumoto, a
spokesman for the unit of  Japan ’s biggest bank. Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. and Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. got requests for
about the same amount, according to spokeswomen for the lenders.  The central bank’s loan demand index surged to 43 points in
January 2009 during the global credit crisis, only to start
declining again in July, a sign that the current surge may only
be temporary, Kato said. Lending slid 1.8 percent in March from
a year ago, the 16th straight drop, a sign demand has yet to be
reflected in outstanding loans.  Data released since the temblor indicate the nation’s
expansion is slowing. Exports fell 2.2 percent in March, the
first drop in more than a year, and consumer and corporate
sentiment weakened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  