-- 
JPMorgan Settles Military Mortgage Suits for $56 Million

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-04-21T20:46:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/jpmorgan-chase-settles-military-mortgage-overcharging-suit-for-56-million.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , one of the
lenders criticized over improper foreclosures on military
families’ homes, agreed to pay $56 million to settle claims it
overcharged service members on their mortgages.  JPMorgan will pay $27 million in cash to about 6,000
active-duty military personnel who were overcharged on their
mortgages, cut interest rates on soldiers’ home loans and return
homes that were wrongfully foreclosed upon, according to
settlement terms filed in federal court in Beaufort,  South
Carolina .  JPMorgan officials said three months ago that one of the
bank’s units had made errors in the handling of mortgages
covered by the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. That law was
enacted in 1942 to shield deployed military personnel from
financial stress.  “We are sorry and regret the mistakes our firm made on
mortgages for members of the military,” Frank Bisignano, a
JPMorgan official appointed to oversee the company’s home-
lending unit in February, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
hold ourselves accountable and responsible for these mistakes.”  In February, JPMorgan officials said they returned 10 homes
to families protected by the law that were found to have been
taken improperly in foreclosure actions. The servicemembers law
requires enhanced reviews of soldiers’ mortgages and payment
histories before such actions are undertaken.  JPMorgan officials said at the time that its mortgage unit
didn’t provide the required review to a total of 18 military
families whose homes were foreclosed upon.  ‘Painful Aberration’  “This company has a great history of honoring military and
veterans, and the mistakes we made on military foreclosures are
a painful aberration on that track record,” Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon said in a February statement.  The bank said in January it would pay about  $2 million  to
about 4,500 service members after discovering they’d been
overcharged on their JPMorgan mortgages.  The servicemembers law allows soldiers to demand mortgage
 interest rates  be set at 6 percent while on active-duty status.
The law applies to current loans and those taken out by troops
prior to being deployed.  JPMorgan executives discovered the errors after Marine
Captain  Jonathon Rowles , a fighter pilot, sued the bank in
federal court in South Carolina last year over the mortgage
unit’s handling of his $255,000 loan.  Interest-Rate Reduction  Rowles contends  Chase Home Finance LLC  officials originally
failed to heed his interest-rate reduction request, according to
court filings. After agreeing to comply with the law, the lender
required him to reapply for the protections four times in a
year.  The bank also failed to credit Rowles’ payments based on
the mandated 6 percent interest rate and began a round of
“aggressive collection methods for what it characterized as a
past-due balance” on the account, according to court filings.  The bank threatened to report Rowles to credit bureaus and
start foreclosure proceedings against his home, the captain said
in his  lawsuit .  Under the terms of the settlement, Rowles and an estimated
6,000 other service personnel whose mortgage accounts were
mishandled will split $27 million in cash, according to court
filings. That will provide an average payout of $4,500 per
soldier. Recoveries in the cases will vary based on service
member’s individual damage claims.  Rowles, now stationed in  South Korea , will become “an
informal advisor” to a veterans advisory council JPMorgan has
created, according to court filings.  Interest-Rate Cut  The accord also calls for JPMorgan to cut interest rates on
all mortgages held by deployed troops to 4 percent for one year,
the filing shows.  The lender has agreed to return houses that have been
improperly foreclosed upon and not yet sold and to pay fair
market value for those already auctioned off, according to the
filing. It also will forgive any remaining mortgage debt of
military borrowers who were protected by the law and mistakenly
foreclosed upon.  JPMorgan officials said in today’s statement they’ve
already made $6 million in payments to military borrowers who
were overcharged. Under the settlement, the bank also will
provide an estimated $6.4 million in additional benefits to
soldiers who may have been subjected to “wrongful foreclosure
practices.”  Finally, the company will pay $8 million in legal fees for
Rowles and other affected military personal who sued over the
mishandled mortgages, according to court filings.  Judge Must Approve  U.S. District Judge Margaret B. Seymour still must approve
the class-action settlement before it becomes final.
“We are very satisfied with this negotiated settled as are our
clients,” Richard Harpootlian, a Columbia, South Carolina-based
lawyer representing soldiers who sued the bank over the mortgage
miscues, said in an interview.  The U.S.  Justice Department  has launched an investigation
of lenders’ handling of service members’ mortgages in the wake
of disclosures about mistakes.  Units of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest  U.S. bank  by
assets, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are being probed over alleged
violations of the servicemembers law, Justice Department
officials said last month.  A  Michigan  judge found in 2009 that  Saxon Mortgage , the
Morgan Stanley unit, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
violated the servicemembers law by foreclosing on a U.S. Army
sergeant’s home in Michigan. The case later settled and terms of
the accord weren’t made public.  The South Carolina case is Rowles v. Chase Home Finance
LLC, 10-1756-MBS, U.S. District Court, District of South
Carolina (Beaufort Division).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 