-- 
Kenya Petroleum Hires Consultant for $899 Million Upgrade

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-04-21T07:23:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/kenya-petroleum-refineries-hire-engineering-consultant-for-upgrade-project.html
Kenya Petroleum Refineries Ltd. ,
the East African nation’s sole fuel processor, hired an
engineering consultant to carry out design work on its proposed
$899 million upgrade, the Energy Ministry said.  Standard Chartered Bank Plc is helping raise funds for the
upgrade, which is expected to be completed by 2015-16, the
Nairobi-based ministry said in a statement published in the
Daily Nation newspaper today.  A new pipeline from Nairobi to the western town of Eldoret
is expected to be completed by August, the ministry said. Once
commissioned, the facility is expected to deliver fuel at
600,000 liters (158,503 gallons) per hour, compared with the
current 200,000 liters per hour, it said.  Last month, Business Daily reported  Standard Chartered  had
been appointed to advise the refinery on a $784 million upgrade,
and the lender would raise 75 percent of the debt needed to fund
the revamp while the rest would be provided by shareholders.  Kenya  raised the maximum retail price for gasoline in
Nairobi, the capital, by 7.2 percent to 108.16 shillings per
liter ($1.29), the Energy Regulatory Commission said April 14.  In a bid to lower pump prices, Kenya has cut excise duty on
kerosene by 30 percent and 20 percent for diesel, Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said April 18.  Petroleum Reserves  State-run  National Oil Corp.  was granted the mandate to
import 30 percent of Kenya’s total fuel requirements as part of
measures to improve fuel supply, Energy Ministry Permanent
Secretary  Patrick Nyoike  said in the statement.  NOCK, as the company is known, was also mandated to
establish petroleum reserves.  “This has not been operationalized due to the colossal
amount of money required,” Nyoike said. “The current cost of
procuring such products is estimated at 84 million shillings for
a 90-day cover.”  Kenya is now asking private companies to invest in fuel
storage facilities, Nyoike added.  The refinery is 50 percent state-owned and the balance is
held by Essar Energy Overseas Ltd., while the pipeline company
is wholly owned by the Kenyan government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  