-- 
NATO Upgrades Libyan Rebel Contact That Was Reliant on Cell Phones, Skype

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-21T01:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/nato-upgrades-libyan-rebel-contact-reliant-on-cell-phones-skype.html
Handheld radios from the U.S. and
trainers from the U.K. may fill a sometimes lethal
communications gap that had  Libya ’s rebels and their foreign
allies relying on cell phones, Skype and an American military
attaché evacuated to  Germany .  The flaw of the patchwork approach became fatally evident
within days after the North Atlantic Treaty Organization took
command of the U.S.-led air war. The coalition confirmed on
April 8 that its airstrikes the previous day had mistakenly hit
tanks commandeered by rebels, who until then had only used
pickup trucks. The  Associated Press  said at least five were
killed and 20 injured.  The “friendly fire” incident raised the issue of
communications with the rebels to the top of a packed agenda for
a coalition trying to protect Libyan civilians without getting
too embroiled with disparate groups seeking to oust leader
 Muammar Qaddafi .  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton yesterday announced $25
million in aid to the opposition’s  Interim Transitional National
Council , including non-secure radios. Improving communications
was the first priority for the aid, according to an official
briefed on the plan who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Clinton had admonished the alliance to do better when she
spoke to fellow foreign ministers at a NATO meeting in Berlin
last week.  ‘Communicate and Cooperate’  “NATO should communicate and cooperate with the opposition
as required to advance our objectives” under a United Nations
Security Council resolution authorizing the operations, Clinton
said.  The spotty and sometimes entirely absent communications
illustrate the ad-hoc nature of the Libyan rebel forces, made up
of local tribes more often defending their own communities than
working as a unified whole. It also may reflect the skepticism
of the coalition’s military commanders carrying out a
politically driven mission they resisted from the start.  “There’s certainly a tension within the administration,”
said  Marina Ottaway , director of the Middle East program at the
 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , a Washington policy
group. The division is less between agencies than “between a
moral imperative to do something about a horrible situation, as
reflected in statements coming out of the State Department, and
the reality of escalating our involvement.”  Second Month  The coalition this week entered its second month of the air
campaign, commanded initially by the U.S. and handed over to
NATO starting April 1. Qaddafi’s defiant military push has
forced the rebels to retreat from some areas and has them
struggling to hold the besieged port city of Misrata.  NATO forces have encountered more difficulty in defending
civilians from the air as Qaddafi’s troops began using the same
sort of civilian vehicles as the rebels and infiltrating cities
such as Misrata with snipers.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and top military
officials cautioned political leaders before the operations
began that enforcing a no-fly zone over Libya and trying to
protect civilians would be more complex than many seemed to
believe. Gates referred to “loose talk about some of these
military options.”  Once the air campaign started, the U.S. and NATO commanders
had only rudimentary communications with rebel leaders at first,
even as Clinton met twice with a senior member of the rebel
council, Mahmood Jibril, and sent a special envoy to the rebels’
base in the eastern city of Benghazi.  “I’m not aware of any communication between the military
and rebel leaders,”  Geoff Morrell , a spokesman for the U.S.
Defense Department, told reporters at the Pentagon on April 5.  Who’s in Charge  The rebels were dispersed and were mostly defending or
taking charge of their own cities, without any unified command,
two U.S. military officials said on condition of anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. The U.S. and
then NATO leadership didn’t know who was in charge and even cell
phones were rare, one of the officials said.  In a typical scenario, the rebels would fan out across a
desert landscape in  pickup trucks  loaded with machine guns to
confront Qaddafi’s forces, relying on one leader with a cell
phone, the official said. When a call advising on the enemy’s
location prompted the leader to veer away, the rest would
follow.  A military attaché who had been among evacuees from the
U.S. Embassy in Tripoli tried to use his contacts in Libya to
reach the rebels, the official said.  Communications Methods  The coalition also relied on French and British officials,
who had more ties historically, to make contact with rebels via
the Internet, regular mail and Skype Technologies SA’s PC-to-PC
phone service, the military official said.  The sparse communications sufficed until it became more
difficult for NATO aircraft to distinguish Qaddafi’s forces from
the rebels and civilians. Still, coalition commanders rejected
criticism that they weren’t trying hard enough to establish
reliable contact with the rebels, even after the April 7 strike.  “It is not for us, trying to protect civilians of whatever
persuasion, to improve communications with those rebel forces,”
Rear Admiral Russell Harding of the U.K.’s Royal Navy, the
deputy commander of the NATO mission, told reporters April 8 at
the operation’s headquarters in Naples,  Italy .  In the past few weeks, the rebels have become better
equipped, the U.S. military official said. They have set up a
headquarters, and NATO can connect to the location by telephone.  More Gear  Members of the coalition have hand-carried in cell phones
and satellite communications technology, and special forces
provided by countries other than the U.S. have helped exchange
information, the official said.  The U.K.  Ministry of Defence  this week said about 20
British army personnel who served in Iraq and  Afghanistan  are
being deployed to advise the rebels, including on
communications.  The Benghazi-based opposition needs more support because it
wasn’t an established organization, Clinton said yesterday at
the State Department.  “These are mostly business people, students, lawyers,
doctors, professors, who have very bravely moved to defend their
communities and to call for an end to the regime in Libya,” she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  