-- 
Natural Gas May Drop as Weather Moderates, Survey Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-04-21T19:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/natural-gas-futures-may-drop-as-weather-moderates-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may decline as
milder weather crimps demand for the heating fuel, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  Nine of 14 analysts, or 64 percent, forecast that gas
futures will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
April 29. Three, or 21 percent, said futures will rise and two
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 40 percent
of participants said gas prices would advance.  Warmer-than-normal weather is likely in the Northeast and
part of the Great Lakes region next week, according to MDA
EarthSat Weather in Rockville,  Maryland . Temperatures may be as
much as 14 degrees above normal in the mid-Atlantic, MDA said.  “Some of the factors driving up prices this week are going
to go away,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst with PFGBest in
 Chicago . “I do think we’ll see some seasonal spring
temperatures.”  Natural gas for May delivery climbed 20.8 cents, or 5
percent, to settle at $4.412 per million British thermal units
this week on the  New York  exchange. The exchange will be closed
for Good Friday.  The high temperature in New York on April 26 may be 70
degrees Fahrenheit (21 Celsius), 6 above normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 48 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3     9         2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  