-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Craig Drimal to Plead Guilty, Court Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-26T15:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/new-york-lawyer-jason-goldfarb-pleads-guilty-in-probe-of-ex-galleon-trader.html
Craig Drimal, a former Galleon
Group LLC employee charged with  insider trading  as part of
federal investigation of the New York hedge fund, is scheduled
to plead guilty today in  Manhattan , a court clerk said.  Drimal, a trader, and several co-defendants face trial next
month for allegedly taking part in what U.S. prosecutors said is
one of three insider-trading rings tied to Galleon. The fund’s
co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , is on trial for insider trading in
Manhattan federal court. The jury began deliberations yesterday.  Drimal would be the 21st person to have pleaded guilty in
the overlapping schemes. The probe of Galleon expanded into a
nationwide investigation that has implicated other  hedge funds ,
banks, technology companies and so-called expert-networking
consulting firms.  Janeanne Murray, a lawyer for Drimal, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment. At a hearing last week before
U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in Manhattan, Murray asked
for a two-month delay in the case, citing a new indictment.
Sullivan granted a week delay, setting the trial for May 16.  Last week, one of Drimal’s co-defendants, a  Brooklyn , New
York, lawyer, admitted to taking part in the same alleged
insider trading scheme. Jason Goldfarb pleaded guilty April 21
to conspiracy and securities fraud before Sullivan.  1,000 Wiretaps  Drimal lost a bid on April 20 to suppress all of the
secretly recorded wiretapped conversations made by agents with
the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.  While Sullivan ruled that agents had improperly failed to
reduce several recorded discussions Drimal had with his wife,
including a call where the couple “had a deeply personal and
intimate discussion about their marriage,” he said he would
allow the U.S. to use the tapes at trial.  “The fact that several of the more than 1,000 intercepted
calls were not properly minimized does not automatically entitle
Drimal to blanket suppression of the wiretap,” Sullivan wrote
in an April 20 ruling.  Drimal, who the U.S. said worked as a trader at Galleon’s
office space in Manhattan, was accused in a new indictment filed
April 7 of conspiring to commit  securities fraud  with co-
defendants and five counts of securities fraud.  The U.S. said Drimal and his co-defendants, including ex-
Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , paid tens of thousands of dollars to
Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at Boston-based
Ropes & Gray LLP, for information about transactions their firm
was working on.  Not Guilty  Goffer and three other traders accused in the scheme -- his
brother Emanuel Goffer, Michael Kimelman and Drimal -- pleaded
not guilty to new federal charges against them at a hearing
before Sullivan on April 19.  Goffer’s trades on the tips resulted in profits of about $1
million, and he gave Goldfarb $97,500 for the information, to be
distributed among the three men, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish has said.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  