-- 
New York Times Shares Fall as Advertising, Circulation Revenue Decline

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-21T20:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/new-york-times-shares-fall-as-ads-circulation-decline-on-print-weakness.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , publisher of
the namesake newspaper, fell after reporting first-quarter
revenue that trailed analyst estimates as advertising sales and
circulation declined.  Revenue dropped to $566.5 million from $587.9 million a
year earlier, the New York-based company said in a statement
today. Analysts had projected $569 million, according to the
average estimate from a Bloomberg survey. Earnings per share,
excluding one-time expenses, were 2 cents, meeting analysts’
estimates.  Advertising revenue slid 4.4 percent to $299 million
compared with a year ago, though digital ad sales rose 4.5
percent. Circulation revenue declined 3.7 percent to $228
million.  “Tight cost controls could not shield print ad weakness,”
said William Bird, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets who
rates the shares “sell,” in a research note.  Times Co. said ad revenue trends in the first half of April
are in line with those of the first quarter, which may lead
analysts to lower their earnings estimates, Bird said.  The company’s stock fell 20 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $8.92
at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has declined 9 percent this year.  “The advertising marketplace faced increased pressure in
the first quarter, reflecting the uncertain economic
environment,” Chief Executive Officer Janet Robinson said in a
conference call.  Paywall Introduction  Times Co. said more than 100,000 people signed up for new
digital subscriptions, after it introduced a so-called paywall
March 28. The pay system requires customers to purchase online
content, often after they’ve read more than 20 articles, and led
to an increase in home-delivery print subscriptions in April,
Robinson said in the conference call.  “My break-even number for subscriptions for 12 months is
200,000, and the Times is already at 100,000 after three
weeks,” said Douglas Arthur, an analyst at Evercore Partners in
New York who has an “overweight” rating on shares and doesn’t
own any. “That’s a pretty good number.”  Operating costs excluding depreciation, amortization and
severance increased 0.3 percent to $506 million, primarily due
to higher promotion and newsprint expense, the company said.  NYTimes.com is the world’s most viewed English-language
newspaper site, receiving about 62 million unique visitors in
the month of March, according to comScore Inc. In the first 12
days after the company instituted its paywall, site usage fell
between 5 and 15 percent most days, according to Experian
Hitwise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  