-- 
New York City to Develop Solar Power in Landfills, Bloomberg’s Aides Say

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-21T17:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/new-york-city-to-develop-solar-power-in-landfills-bloomberg-s-aides-say.html
New York City  will create solar
 power plants  atop capped landfills capable of generating power
to supply 50,000 homes as part of a renewed effort to reduce
climate-changing carbon gas emissions.  The program, announced in a speech by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  today, would reduce the city’s reliance on emergency
generators that burn petroleum-based fuel on hot summer days
when electricity demand peaks, said Jason Post, a spokesman for
the mayor.  The mayor also unveiled a plan to use $40 million of
federal economic stimulus funds to create a nonprofit Energy
Efficiency Corp. It will provide low-cost financing to building
owners to conserve energy with more efficient lighting, heat and
insulation, Post said.  “Banks are often reluctant to lend money for energy-
efficiency projects because the loans are relatively small and
difficult to manage,” the mayor’s office said in a memo
outlining the financing proposal.  The ideas are part of Bloomberg’s  PlaNYC , which has more
than 100 programs, including tree plantings, rainwater
recapture, rooftop gardens and reflective paint. Bloomberg began
PlaNYC in 2007 with the goal of reducing carbon-gas emissions
citywide 30 percent by 2030. The city cut emissions 13 percent
between 2005 and 2009, the mayor said in September.  Harlem Stage  The initiatives were outlined in a speech at  Harlem Stage ,
a performing-arts center inside a 121-year-old  gatehouse 
guarding a tunnel that delivers water from the Croton reservoir
system to the north.  The new city-owned corporation will also provide technical
advice and information on energy-saving technology and other
opportunities for financial support, the mayor’s office said.  One percent of buildings in the city produce 86 percent of
the soot -- more than all vehicles -- by burning the dirtiest
grades of heating fuel, Bloomberg said. To reduce emissions, the
mayor announced new rules to phase out use of those grades.
Incentives will include financing by the corporation to help
building owners convert to natural gas and low-sulfur oil.  The plan to create solar plants capable of generating as
much as 50 megawatts of power in the capped landfills of  Staten
Island  and  Brooklyn  would seek partnerships with private
companies developing renewable-energy technology.  “Installing solar power at these sites could
significantly improve local  air quality  by reducing generation
at the city’s dirtiest plants during periods of peak summer
demand,” the administration’s memo stated.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  