-- 
Newmont Says Arbitration Orders Indonesian Partner to Drop Suits

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-04-21T08:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/newmont-says-arbitration-panel-orders-indonesian-partner-to-drop-lawsuits.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  said a
Singapore arbitration panel ordered the company’s Indonesian
partner PT Pukuafu Indah to drop several lawsuits against it in
a Jakarta court.  Newmont will take steps to enforce the award in Indonesian
and Singapore courts if Pukuafu fails to comply with the order,
which includes the payment of damages, costs and expenses, Blake Rhodes, the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based miner’s vice
president and deputy general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Pukuafu and Newmont, the world’s second-largest gold
producer, are among shareholders of PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara,
operator of the Batu Hijau gold and copper mine on Indonesia’s
Sumbawa Island. Pukuafu has filed five lawsuits in Jakarta
against Newmont disputing ownership of the property.  Tri Asnawanto, Pukuafu’s vice president of legal and
external affairs, didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone
seeking comments. Pukuafu is a unit of Merukh Enterprises, which
has interests ranging from hotels to gold, copper and coal mines
in  Indonesia .  Two Newmont units, Newmont Indonesia Ltd. and NVL (USA)
Ltd., sued Pukuafu and members of the Merukh family for reneging
on terms tied to a $300 million loan, in a bid to have the
Jakarta legal proceedings against the  U.S. company  dropped as
agreed under the pact, according to papers filed with the
Singapore High Court in January. Pukuafu has denied breaching
terms of the loan.  Government Pact  Under a 1986 agreement with the Indonesian government,
Newmont and its foreign partners including  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  must
sell a 31 percent stake in Newmont Nusa from 2006 to 2010 to the
central government or local companies. Pukuafu says it has
rights to that 31 percent, while Newmont says it has properly
reduced the shareholding.  Newmont has so far sold 24 percent of Newmont Nusa to a
venture of the unit of PT Bumi Resources,  Asia ’s largest thermal
coal exporter, and three administrations in Nusa Tenggara. The
Indonesian government will buy the last 7 percent stake, the
 Finance Ministry  said April 17.  Including the 7 percent, Newmont and its overseas partners
now own 56 percent of Newmont Nusa, said Rubi Purnomo, a
Jakarta-based spokesman at Newmont.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  