-- 
NFL, Players Break From Talks Ahead of Minneapolis Judge’s Lockout Ruling

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-21T05:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/nfl-players-break-from-talks-ahead-of-minneapolis-judge-s-lockout-ruling.html
The  National Football League  and
its players suspended talks on a new labor accord for almost a
month while they await a federal judge’s ruling on a request to
end the lockout.  Players’ and owners’ representatives met four times over
the past two weeks in Minneapolis with the mediator, Chief
Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan, under orders from U.S. District
Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul , Minnesota.  “We’re going to be back here on May 16 to continue the
mediation,” James Quinn, outside counsel for the players, said
as he left yesterday’s meeting, according to video comments
posted on NFL.com. “Everybody believes that it was helpful.”  Jeff Pash , executive vice president and general counsel for
the league, said Boylan’s contributions are moving the sides
toward a conclusion.  “This was a valuable process. I don’t think a single
minute of it was wasted time,” Pash said on NFL.com. “We’ll be
back here ready to make a deal; that’s the only way we’re going
to solve this problem.”  Before the players and owners meet again, Nelson is
expected to rule on the players’ lawsuit to end the lockout.  Quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and Drew Brees led a
group of 10 NFL players who sued the league on March 11 after
negotiations on a new labor contract ended without agreement.
The players moved to decertify their union and owners declared a
lockout. Players claim the league’s policies violate U.S.
antitrust laws.  No Jurisdiction  The 32-team league says the court doesn’t have jurisdiction
over the dispute, which the owners say should be resolved by the
 National Labor Relations Board .  Nelson told the players and owners on April 6 that she
would need a couple of weeks to issue a ruling.  U.S. District Judge David Doty will preside over a hearing
on May 12 in  Minneapolis  on the use of $4 billion in television
money. Doty overturned an arbitrator’s decision by ruling that
the league improperly negotiated the rights fees.  “The network case is not a major factor, never has been a
major factor as far as our thinking goes,” Pash said.  The league two days ago issued a schedule of games for the
2011-12 season, while the  NFL Draft  is set to proceed on April
28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  