-- 
Nigeria Violence Won’t Halt Final Election Round, President Jonathan Says

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   E m i l y   B o w e r s
-- 
2011-04-21T09:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/nigeria-violence-won-t-halt-final-election-round-president-jonathan-says.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  said violence across the mainly Muslim north that
killed more than 150 people won’t delay next week’s final round
of voting in Africa’s biggest oil producer.  Jonathan, speaking in a nationally televised address today
after rioting erupted following his victory in an April 16
election, said he ordered the security agencies to protect
voters going to the polls on April 26 to choose state governors
and legislators, the third stage of a monthlong election cycle.  “Enough is enough,” he said. “I assure you all that calm is
being restored in troubled parts of the country and that the
elections scheduled for next Tuesday will go on as planned.”  At least 153 people died in rioting started by supporters
of opposition presidential candidate  Muhammadu Buhari , who lost
to Jonathan, according to the Civil Rights Congress, which is
based in the northern city of Kaduna. Another 39,000 residents
have been displaced and 410 people injured, according to the
Nigerian Red Cross.  Jonathan, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger River delta
region, won 57 percent to defeat Buhari, a northern Muslim and
former military ruler who took 31 percent, according to the
Independent National Electoral Commission. Buhari’s party
rejected the election result. The national legislative vote on
April 9 and last week’s presidential poll were regarded as
credible by most international observers.  Civil War Reminders  “These acts of mayhem are sad reminders of the events which
plunged our country into 30 months of an unfortunate civil war,”
Jonathan said, referring to the 1967-70 Biafra war, which
claimed the lives of as many as 3 million people.  Jonathan blamed “miscreants” for the violence that he
said targeted government offices, traditional institutions,
travelers and youth in  Africa ’s most populous nation.  “These disturbances are more than mere political
protests,” he said. “Clearly they aim to frustrate the
remaining elections.”  A judicial commission will be established to investigate
the causes of the violence, he said.  “I have authorized our security services to use all lawful
means, including justifiable force, to bring an immediate end to
all acts of violence against our fellow citizens,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
 Emily Bowers  in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 