-- 
Nine Indian Accused to Appear in Court as Phone Trial Resumes

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-04-21T03:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/nine-indian-accused-to-appear-in-court-as-phone-trial-resumes.html
A former Indian minister, two aides
and six company executives will for the first time be taken from
jail to court today as the trial of those charged over the 2008
sale of licenses to run mobile-phone services begins in earnest.  A judge in New Delhi is hearing charges brought by Indian
investigators that as telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja ,
whose party is the second-biggest ally in the government of
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , “entered into a conspiracy”
with the businessmen. The alleged awarding of permits to
ineligible companies denied the government more than 220 billion
rupees ($4.9 billion) in revenue, the  Central Bureau of
Investigation  said in court documents. India’s chief auditor put
the potential loss at about $31 billion.  Three private companies -- Reliance Telecom Ltd., Unitech
Wireless and Swan Telecom Pvt. -- have been charged. Reliance
Telecom is a wholly owned unit of  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ,
the main company in Anil Ambani’s  Reliance ADA Group . Swan
Telecom is now known as Etisalat DB Telecom India Pvt.  “It is better to avoid stocks like Unitech, DB Realty and
Reliance Communications till the issues raised against them get
resolved,” said Anita Gandhi, director at Arihant Capital
Market Ltd. in Mumbai.  Reliance Communications,  India ’s second-largest mobile
phone operator, sank as much as 2 percent in Mumbai yesterday.
Unitech fell 2.4 percent, while DB Realty dropped 4.6 percent
yesterday. Shares in all three companies gained in early trading
today.  ‘Grave Magnitude’  “On the face of it, the case is of grave magnitude,”
Judge O.P. Saini said yesterday while denying bail to five of
the company executives. “There is incriminating evidence on
record which I have not deliberately discussed at this stage.”  Raja, his personal secretary R.K. Chandolia, former
ministry secretary Siddhartha Behura and former  DB Realty Ltd. (DBRL) 
Managing Director Shahid Balwa have been in judicial custody
since February following their arrest and interrogation by the
federal investigative agency.  Reliance ADA Group Managing Director Gautam Doshi and
Senior Vice Presidents Hari Nair and Surendra Pipara, DB Realty
Managing Director Vinod Goenka and  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  Managing
Director Sanjay Chandra were sent to jail yesterday following
their arrest at the special court India’s capital.  India’s chief auditor reported in November that the
airwaves were sold for an “unbelievably low” price when they
may have been worth 10 times as much. Raja resigned Nov. 14 from
Singh’s government two days before the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India gave its report in parliament.  Corruption Act  Raja and the two other former government officials were
charged under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The company
officials and companies were charged with “lesser offenses”
under statutes relating to conspiracy, cheating and forgery.  The allegations of corruption against a cabinet minister
has damaged Singh, who was forced to deny he had become a
“lame-duck” as opposition protests over the license sale
paralyzed an entire session of parliament. Demonstrations,
including a hunger strike in the heart of  New Delhi  covered 24
hours a day on television, have further raised the pressure.  The five executives sent to jail yesterday applied to the
Delhi High Court challenging the lower court’s refusal to give
them bail. The high court is likely hear their pleas today, said
Manali Singhal, an advocate for Reliance ADA group.  Telenor ASA has asked Chandra to step down from the post of
chairman of Unitech Wireless, an arm of Unitech, which is the
Indian mobile-phone partner of the Nordic phone company.  Reliance, Unitech  The Reliance ADA Group said April 2 that its three
employees deny the charges and have a legal presumption of
innocence pending the completion of a trial. Unitech said the
same day that it complied with applicable rules in obtaining its
licenses and that none of its employees have done anything
“inappropriate or illegal.”  Balwa hasn’t done anything “inappropriate or illegal,” DB
Realty said in a statement in March. Raja has denied wrongdoing.  DB Realty’s Chief Financial Officer Asif Yusuf Balwa and
Chief Operating Officer Rajiv Agarwal are also in judicial
custody after the CBI arrested them March 29. They have not been
charged.  -- With assistance from Rajhkumar K Shaaw and Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai. Editors:  Mark Williams , Sam Nagarajan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
P.S. Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  