-- 
Nissan Leaf Runs 99 MPG on $35,000, Freezes Your Tootsies: Cars

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/nissan-s-leaf-runs-99-mpg-on-35-000-freezes-tootsies-jason-h-harper.html
The  Nissan Leaf  is the stuff of
science fiction. An actual, no-kidding, all-electric car,
costing less than $35,000 and aimed at regular consumers.  Yet Nissan opted to wrap this revolutionary ride in
excitement-repelling protoplasm. It’s the stuff of Amazing
Stories magazine, if you’d take out the cyborgs and time travel,
and replaced “amazing” with “sort of interesting.”  “Back to
the Future”  without the flux capacitor,  Comic-Con  without
costumes.  The arrival of a mass-produced electric vehicle (EV), sans
gas tank or tail pipes, should feel momentous. You’re not
spewing bad stuff into the sky. (The same can’t be said about
energy production itself, but still.)  The act of driving the Leaf oddly belies this buzz, feeling
like a run-of-the-mill hybrid. A slightly down-market  Toyota
Prius , perhaps. Run out for pizza and by the third mile you’ve
forgotten the historical significance and are wishing the seats
were a bit better cushioned.  There’s method in this (lack of) madness. Nissan is making
a huge bet on EVs, with the potential to eventually produce
several hundred thousand worldwide.  So it makes sense that the act of motoring should feel
“normal” to most drivers. After all, ardent early adopters are
few and far between. (Remember the huge audience for the  Segway ?
Me neither.)  Mileage Count Down  The Leaf starts at $32,780 not including a $7,500 federal
tax break. Leases begin at $349 a month.  The Leaf and its competitor, the $40,280  Chevy Volt , were
both released late last year in limited markets. The Volt is not
a pure EV, as it has a small gas engine which can recharge its
batteries, offering a superb mix of practicality and new-age
technology. So far, it has outsold the Leaf.  The natural disasters in  Japan  will have an effect on
production. The Oppama plant, where the Leaf is made, has seen
delays, though a ship with 600 of them left before the
earthquake.  To its credit, the Leaf doesn’t look like a standard five-
door hatchback -- it’s far uglier. Many people will do a double-
take at the pinched nose, oddly jutting headlamps and squishy
silhouette.  The interior has a few sci-fi details, like a blue-lit knob
which selects drive and park. The navigation system shows your
range graphically on a map, and a digital readout counts down
your number of remaining miles. Call it the Doomsday Clock.  You can also pre-program the car to turn on the heater or
A/C -- say ten minutes before you leave for work every day.  Gasless MPG  Otherwise the plastic dash and manually-adjusting cloth
seats are pretty standard for a mid-level sedan. Bluetooth,
navigation and power windows are standard. There are two trims,
the SV and pricier SL, which includes a solar panel built into
the spoiler and a rearview monitor.  The Leaf runs on an 80 kW AC motor powered by a 24 kWh
lithium-ion battery pack. The EPA insisted on giving it fuel
economy numbers: a 99 miles-per-gallon equivalent. This means
exactly nothing, since it doesn’t hold gas, reminding me of an
old joke: How many surrealist painters does it take to screw in
a light bulb? Answer: Fish!  Range is 100 miles, give or take many, many miles. Real-
world range depends on everything from topography, driving mode
(eco or regular), and whether you might like to pass slower
vehicles or stay forever in the right-hand lane.  Also worth remembering: Heat isn’t free in an EV. I had the
car for two days in February, when it was so cold that my breath
crystallized. Not only are extreme temperatures bad for
batteries, climate control uses lots of energy.  Charge It  Instead of frittering away range using the luxurious
heater, I donned a puffy coat and thick wool socks while
driving. Fashion can also be a victim of the green-and-clean
life.  Yet overall range actually proved to be good, especially
for the miserable weather and stop-and-go traffic around
Manhattan and  Brooklyn .  Over two days I drove more than 60 miles in the two
boroughs, with the computer indicating another 19 miles of
range. (My feet were frozen though.)  My biggest issue was the lack of access to a 240-volt
charger, which most owners will buy and install in their home
garages. A full charge takes eight hours with one.  Instead I had to make do with a regular 120-volt outlet in
the  Quik Park  near my apartment. According to the Leaf computer,
after only 33 miles it would take 16 hours to get back to a 100
percent charge. Parking was quick; recharging wasn’t.  Plan Ahead  The Leaf will be most rewarding to those suburbanites with
a set pattern of daily driving. It isn’t unlike recharging your
smart-phone each night. You tend to have a pretty good idea how
many calls and what amount of web surfing you can partake in
before hitting the out-of-juice danger zone.  When you do forget to recharge, however, the next day can
be worrisome and annoying.  And for some reason, my Leaf failed to take a charge. A
Nissan rep said no problems were found with the car or charger,
and suggested the issue was my 120-v outlet. The next day’s
driving was a bit tense.  Just a small bit of excitement for a revolutionary ride.  The 2011 Nissan Leaf SL-E At a Glance  Engine: 80kW AC synchronous motor, rated at 107 horsepower  and 207 lb-ft of torque.  Battery: 24-kWh lithium-ion pack.  Range: 100 miles, more or less, depending on weather and  driving style.  Price as tested: $35,430.  Best feature: A real-life electric vehicle without any  emissions.  Worst feature: For all of that, it’s kind of mundane.  Target buyer: The local commuter looking to out-green his  Prius-touting neighbors.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 