-- 
Nokia Profit Tops Estimates; $1.5 Billion Cost Cuts Planned

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-21T15:57:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/nokia-quarterly-net-beats-estimates-lower-margins-forecast.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  reported a smaller-than-
expected decline in profit and will slash 1 billion euros ($1.5
billion) in expenses at the handset business as it seeks to
regain lost ground through a partnership with Microsoft Corp.  First-quarter net income fell 1.4 percent to 344 million 
euros, beating the 177 million-euro average of 19 analyst 
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Handset revenue rose 6.4 
percent to 7.09 billion euros ($10.3 billion), surpassed for 
the first time by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone sales of $12.3 billion 
in the same period.  Nokia, whose mobile phones based on its Symbian software
have struggled to keep up with iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
system, signed a final agreement with Microsoft on the use of
the U.S. company’s Windows Phone 7. Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop, the 47-year-old former Microsoft executive,
forecast operating margins in the Espoo, Finland-based company’s
handset business will decline further this quarter.  “They came in closer to the high end of the guidance which
is good for the first quarter,” said  Alexander Peterc , a
London-based analyst with Exane BNP Paribas. “But their
smartphone sales aren’t sustainable in their current form
because of the transition.”  Nokia, which dropped as much as 4.3 percent after the
earnings announcement, rebounded and closed at 5.96 euros, or
0.4 percent higher, at the close of trading in Helsinki. The
world’s largest maker of mobile phones has seen its market value
shrink about 45 percent in the past year to 22.3 billion euros.
The stock has fallen 27 percent since the Feb. 11 agreement with
Microsoft.  Cost Cuts  The 1 billion-euro target in reduced expenses from devices
and services is for 2013, Nokia said today. The figure compares
with spending of 5.65 billion euros in 2010 and will include
cuts in outsourcing and facility costs as well as job
reductions, the company said.  “Because new programs will be ramped up as others are
transitioned, generally all employees can stay on the payroll
through the end of the year,” CEO Elop said on a conference
call. Nokia will start talks with employee representatives about
the scope of planned job cuts next week, he said.  The company predicted an adjusted operating margin in the
handset business of 6 percent to 9 percent this quarter, on
sales of 6.1 billion euros to 6.6 billion euros.  Margin Forecasts  “The margin guidance was shockingly low even before you
take out the royalties,” said Michiel Plakman, who helps manage
about 8 billion euros at Robeco Group in Rotterdam and sold his
Nokia shares before the Microsoft alliance. “Until there are
competitive handsets coming out with Windows Phone 7 it remains
a very tough story.”  The first-quarter margin was 9.8 percent on sales of 7.09
billion euros.  Year-earlier  margin was 9.5 percent on 6.8
billion euros in revenue.  Nokia’s long-term debt rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s 
and Moody’s Investors Service in the past month, with both
agencies citing the company’s weakened position against
smartphone competitors.  Group sales, including Nokia Siemens Networks and the
Navteq map division, gained 9.2 percent to 10.4 billion euros,
topping the average estimate of 10.14 billion euros from 
39 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Share Slides  Nokia sold 24.2 million smartphones in the quarter for a
market share of 26 percent, down from 41 percent a year earlier,
the company said. Its market share for all handsets declined to
29 percent from 33 percent a year earlier on volumes of 108.5
million phones.  Symbian may fall to a 19.2 percent market share this year,
while Android, which is used by dozens of handset vendors from
Samsung Electronics Co. to Chinese manufacturers, will lead with
38.5 percent, researcher Gartner Inc.  forecast  on April 7.  “We expect price erosion to accelerate in the second
quarter due to competitive industry dynamics and our planned
tactical pricing actions,” Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila said on the call. “This is a rough time for the
company but we have a clear new direction and we’re moving
swiftly to improve our execution.”  Nokia’s E7 smartphone, a model running a revamped version
of Symbian and a pop-out keyboard, was announced days before the
Microsoft shift. Other models with the new Symbian include the
N8, C6 and the C7, which is sold by  T-Mobile USA  as the Astound.  R&D Spending  Apple said yesterday its second-quarter profit almost
doubled to $5.99 billion, beating estimates, as revenue jumped
83 percent to $24.7 billion. The Cupertino, California-based
sold 18.7 million iPhones during the quarter.  Starting this month, Elop split Nokia’s handset operations
into a smartphone division and a low-end phones division, each
with separate financial and reporting responsibilities. The CEO
also plans to reduce the use of outside contractors and
eliminate positions in the research and development
organization, which spent 3 billion euros and  employed 16,134
people  in 2010.  The low-end phone business accounted for about half of
Nokia’s revenue and 78 percent of units shipped last year. It
has developed more smartphone-like capabilities including e-
mail, social networking and maps for so-called feature phones
costing less than 150 euros. Nokia said in March it plans to
open a new plant in  Vietnam  to expand its manufacture of low-end
phones.  Rival Sony Ericsson Communications AB, which made the
switch from Symbian to Android last year, reported a first-
quarter profit of 11 million euros this week after selling
higher-priced handsets.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the company’s joint venture with
 Siemens AG (SIE) , has struggled to remain profitable as it spars with
market leader Ericsson AB and Huawei Technologies Co. for
contracts with the world’s richest carriers.  Nokia Siemens said today it has received approval from
 China ’s Ministry of Commerce for the acquisition of assets from
Motorola Solutions Inc., removing the last major hurdle to allow
the transaction to be completed this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  