-- 
Northern Sudanese Oil Workers Expelled From South Will Return in 24 Hours

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-04-21T15:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/northern-sudanese-oil-workers-expelled-from-south-will-return-in-24-hours.html
Northern Sudanese workers who were
expelled yesterday from oilfields in  Southern Sudan ’s Unity
state will return to the region within 24 hours, the Sudanese
oil ministry said.  “After high-level communication, the problem was solved,”
Omer Mohamed Kheir, the Sudanese Oil Ministry secretary-general,
told reporters today in Khartoum, the capital. The government of
Southern  Sudan , which is scheduled to become independent on July
9, revoked the expulsion order by the Unity state governor, he
said.  At least one oilfield, which produces 10,000 barrels a day,
stopped operating because of the expulsions, Kheir said, and the
state’s daily output of 84,000 barrels per day may also be
affected tomorrow. Southern Sudan accounts for about 75 percent
of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels.  The Unity and nearby Heglig fields, which is in the north
and where the 150 expelled workers were sent, are operated by
the  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co.  and 40 percent owned by
state-owned  China National Petroleum Corp.   The northern workers are necessary to keep Unity state’s
oilfields operating, George Odyoro,  Malaysia ’s  Petroliam
Nasional Bhd ’s liaison officer in the southern capital of Juba,
said yesterday. The Malaysian company, known as Petronas, owns a
30 percent stake in Greater Nile.  While foreign workers were also evacuated because of safety
concerns, Kheir said, some remained to run a power station in
Unity oilfield.  Safety  Unity state’s information minister, Gideon Datpan, said by
phone today from the state capital, Bentiu, that the workers
were asked to leave for their safety because of fears of
retaliation against them due to the alleged support Sudanese
President Umar al-Bashir’s government in the north gives the
rebels in the area. The government in Khartoum denies the
accusations.  The authorities in the northern and southern regions are
still negotiating the status of citizens residing in each
other’s areas. The expulsion order was the first by either side.  “We were surprised by the decision,” Kheir said. “There
are agreements, and decisions should be taken by both sides.”  Southern Sudan ’s army clashed on April 19 with insurgents
of the South Sudan Liberation Army, which is calling for the
overthrow of the government in Juba because of alleged rampant
corruption.  Fighting Resumes  Fighting resumed today between the Southern Sudanese army
and militias in the Unity state’s Mayom County, Datpan said.  The clashes have not been near the oilfields, Kheir said.  That rebellion is one of a series of conflicts that have
overshadowed the region’s preparations for independence.
Fighting has killed at least 800 people this year and displaced
93,783 in Southern Sudan, the  United Nations  said on April 13.  Southern Sudan voted in January to secede from Khartoum in
a referendum that was the centerpiece of a  peace agreement 
signed in 2005, ending a two-decade civil war between the Muslim
north and the south, where traditional religions and
Christianity predominate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Richmond in Juba, Sudan via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 