-- 
North African and Mideast Democracy a Condition for EBRD Loans, Mirow Says

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-04-21T08:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/north-african-and-mideast-democracy-a-condition-for-ebrd-loans-mirow-says.html
North African and Middle Eastern
countries must adopt democracy before the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development will consider lending in the
region, said the bank’s President, Thomas Mirow.  The London-based lender, which has fostered the building of
market economies in former communist eastern  Europe  in the past
two decades, is considering a request from Egypt to be added to
the countries where it invests. Morocco’s government has also
expressed an interest in becoming a target country, Mirow said
in an interview in Kiev yesterday.  “Shareholders that want to look at something look at North
Africa and the Middle East as a potential region of
engagement,” Mirow said. “I underline that it would be
potential because it would depend on each and every country
following the path of democracy, a multi-party system and market
economy. Otherwise, there would be no grounds for EBRD to
engage.”  A wave of popular uprising that swept the Middle East and
North Africa this year toppled Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . The
struggle for democracy in the Middle East and North Africa
carries on as a revolt against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has
turned into a deadly conflict, sparking a UN resolution to
authorize air strikes to protect civilians.  The EBRD, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, marked the 20th anniversary of its inception last
week. It has lent 60 billion euros ($87 billion) since it was
founded. Related investments, including private funding, bring
the total to almost 180 billion euros, the bank said.  Egypt’s Request  Egypt, a founding shareholder of the London-based lender,
filed a request last May to be included in the bank’s target
region. An initial report has been prepared about the bank’s
possible role in  Egypt , which will be considered by the board of
directors, Mirow said.  A final decision will have to be made by shareholders, he
said. The bank may be able to start lending in Egypt in the
second quarter of 2012, according to Mirow. Funding may reach
about 1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) a year, focusing on the
EBRD’s traditional targets including small companies, the
financial industry, utilities and regional government, he said.  “We could be able to quickly develop a business model,”
Mirow said, adding that based on some recent political meetings
“we do think our shareholders want us to engage in Egypt.”  ‘Sufficient Money’  Shareholders approved an increase in the EBRD’s capital by
50 percent to 30 billion euros last May. That enables it to
invest about 52 billion euros until 2015, almost as much as the
total investment since the lender was founded in 1991.  “We have sufficient money for the foreseeable future,
which means for this whole decade,” Mirow said, adding that the
bank’s capital resources would cover the expansion to other
regions. There would be between 2 billion euros and 2.5 billion
euros a year available for investments in new countries, he
said.  Anti-government demonstrations have spread to Yemen,
Bahrain, Jordan,  Algeria ,  Iran , Iraq and  Syria , calling for
democracy and higher  living standards .  In Egypt, Mubarak handed power to a military leadership
when he stepped down in February. While the ruling regime is
committed to holding democratic elections later this year,
Moody’s Investors Service on April 19 revised the outlook on its
ratings for the Egyptian banking sector to negative, citing
“elevated risks involved in an orderly transition toward
democratic rule.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  