-- 
NYSE Board Rejects Nasdaq-ICE Takeover Bid, Saying Breakup Fee Not Enough

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-04-21T16:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/nyse-board-rejects-nasdaq-ice-bid-with-breakup-fee-financing.html
NYSE Euronext directors again
rebuffed an $11.3 billion takeover offer from  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , saying a proposed
breakup fee to allay antitrust concerns doesn’t change their
commitment to merging with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s pledge to pay $350 million to the New
York Stock Exchange owners should their bid be blocked by
competition authorities didn’t improve the offer enough, the
board said in a  statement  today on the company’s website.
Directors have twice deemed the Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal
inadequate, saying April 10 that “execution risk” and the
threat of rising debt and layoffs were too high.  “This proposal is substantially the same as what was
previously rejected,” NYSE Euronext chairman Jan-Michiel Hessels said in the release. “Consequently, our view has not
changed. This proposal does not provide compelling value, has
unacceptable execution risk and is therefore not in the best
interests of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  shareholders.”  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  and ICE
CEO Jeffrey Sprecher said this week that they are meeting with
NYSE Euronext shareholders as they try to head off the $9.53
billion Deutsche Boerse agreement. Their offer, valued at $42.83
per NYSE Euronext share as of 12:41 p.m. in New York, is priced
about 14 percent higher than the bid from Deutsche Boerse.  Deal Protection  “Continually refusing to engage is starting to appear as
if they are protecting their deal rather than acting in the best
interest of their shareholders,” Greifeld said in a joint
Nasdaq OMX-ICE statement after the rejection. “We will not be
deterred by the board’s attempts to protect an inferior
transaction.”  Deutsche Boerse  is “pleased” with the decision and it
plans to move forward with the merger agreement, according to an
e-mailed statement today.  NYSE Euronext shares fell 0.1 percent to $39.04 at 12:41
p.m., bringing the gain since Nasdaq OMX-ICE first announced an
offer to 11 percent. Nasdaq OMX rose 0.7 percent to $27.51,
while ICE advanced 0.4 percent to $121.19. Deutsche Boerse
increase 1.1 percent to 55.10 euros.  NYSE’s merger announcement with the Frankfurt-based company
on Feb. 15 helped propel a wave of exchange consolidation that
has seen about $20 billion of deals announced in less than six
months. NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer considers the
Deutsche Boerse proposal a merger of equals that fits the New
York-based company’s long-term strategy of increasing revenue
through expansion.  Convince Shareholders  “Nasdaq need to convince NYSE shareholders to make
management and the board come to the table,” Herbie Skeete, a
London-based managing director at exchange adviser Mondo Visione
Ltd. “Nasdaq is working on them. It will come down to whether
enough shareholders want their money now or whether they are
prepared to wait for the benefits of the NYSE-Deutsche Boerse
combination.”  Nasdaq OMX had been left out of the consolidation wave
since October, when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  offered A$8.35
billion ($8.97 billion) for Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  In addition to
the Deutsche Boerse offer in February,  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE)  said that month that it would buy Canada’s TMX Group
Inc. The ASX deal was blocked by the Australian government.  More Savings  Greifeld says his plan to purchase NYSE Euronext offers at
least 27 percent more in cost savings and revenue synergies than
Deutsche Boerse’s proposal. New York-based Nasdaq OMX, the
second-largest U.S. bourse operator, and ICE in Atlanta say they
will generate about $740 million in both expense cuts and
synergies in three years. The Deutsche Boerse deal estimates 400
million euros ($582.36 million).  NYSE Euronext will likely continue to favor Deutsche Boerse
unless Greifeld raises the termination fee and secures larger
and longer-lasting financing commitments, Patrick O’Shaughnessy,
an exchange analyst in  Chicago  for Raymond James Financial Inc.,
wrote in a note to investors yesterday. He rates NYSE Euronext a
“strong buy.”  The  Nasdaq  OMX-ICE proposal “is seriously lacking in
business logic and would represent a major step backward in the
evolution of the global exchange industry,” Deutsche Boerse
said in its statement. “The Nasdaq and ICE offer carries
significant antitrust risk with no viable remedy and as the fine
print of the proposal clearly reveals, their proposed reverse
break-up fee is illusory.”  Stock, Cash  Greifeld offered about $2.78 billion in stock and $2.12
billion in cash and said Nasdaq OMX would assume $2.07 billion
in NYSE Euronext debt in exchange for the U.S. listings, equity
and options businesses. ICE offered $4.7 billion of its stock
and $1.65 billion in cash, assuming no NYSE Euronext debt. The
companies said on April 19 that they received the $3.8 billion
needed in commitment letters from lenders.  Both groups have been meeting with NYSE Euronext
shareholders since the April 10 rejection in an effort to win
support for their offer. Antitrust approval has been “the one
thing and one thing only” that shareholders are concerned about
with the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer, Greifeld said yesterday on a
conference call. He said he has been meeting with the antitrust
division of the U.S. Justice Department to provide information
on the industry and customers to contact.  ‘Pushing Ahead’  “Nasdaq is pushing ahead with the regulators,” Daniel Fannon, a San Francisco-based analyst at Jeffries & Co., wrote
in a note to investors yesterday. “It has been informally
providing information to the Department of Justice and is
expecting to formally engage in a two-way dialogue approximately
six weeks from now.”  Nasdaq OMX owns 12 equity and options markets in the U.S.
and  Europe  including the Nasdaq Stock Market, Nasdaq Options
Market and venues in  Sweden ,  Denmark ,  Finland ,  Iceland ,  Estonia ,
Latvia and  Lithuania .  With the Liffe futures markets, ICE would move to fourth
from 14th in terms of global derivatives volume. ICE specializes
in energy and commodities trading, with its only offering in
financial products coming from currencies and equity indexes at
its New York-based ICE Futures U.S. exchange. CME Group Inc. of
Chicago is its bigger rival.  Combining NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse would create an
exchange company with operations in 11 countries generating 5.6
billion euros in sales and 869 million euros in earnings
annually. Earnings before interest and taxes for the combined
exchange would have been 1.1 billion euros for the year ending
Dec. 31.  “We have approached this proposed transaction from a
thoughtful strategic perspective with a premium offer that
reflects our strong commitment to consummating our transaction
and to create a better market structure for market
participants,” Sprecher said in the statement today. “There is
no risk in engaging with us to ensure that the best interests of
NYSE Euronext shareholders and markets are served.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 