-- 
U.S. Team to Study Whether ‘Speculators’ Driving Up Pump Prices

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-04-22T04:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/obama-says-u-s-team-to-study-whether-speculators-driving-up-pump-prices.html
The Obama administration is
exploring whether rising oil and gasoline prices are being
driven higher by illegal manipulation.  Representatives of the Justice Department, other federal
agencies and state attorneys general will monitor for fraud,
collusion or misrepresentation at the retail and wholesale
level, the department said in a statement yesterday. The group
also will examine the role of speculators and traders in oil
futures markets.  “The attorney general’s putting together a team whose job
it us to root out any cases of fraud or manipulation in the oil
markets that might affect gas prices, and that includes the role
of traders and speculators,” President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday in Reno,  Nevada . “We are going to make sure that no
one is taking advantage of American consumers for their own
short-term gain.”  With the 2012 presidential campaign looming, Obama faces
increasing political pressure over rising gasoline prices.
Previous administrations have conducted similar inquiries after
gasoline price spikes.  Gasoline climbed to a 33-month high yesterday, and crude
 oil prices  were up 23 percent this year as Middle East unrest
reduced supply and the global economic rebound bolstered fuel
demand.  The average price nationwide of regular gasoline at the
pump was $3.84 a gallon on April 20, the highest since Sept. 16,
2008, national motoring organization AAA said on its website.  ‘A Political Action’  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) 
in Washington, said the Obama administration’s announcement
“seems like a political action.”  “They are going to investigate whether any fraud and
manipulation has occurred, not that there was any evidence that
it had taken place,” he said in an interview. “I suspect they
won’t find any sign of major fraud or manipulation.”  The Justice Department created a working group of its
financial fraud enforcement  task force  to examine the
possibility of wrongdoing in energy markets.  Attorney General  Eric Holder  wrote in a memo to the task
force that Obama asked him to work with federal agencies and
state attorneys general to ensure laws weren’t being violated on
oil and gas prices.  Holder also wrote that it is “clear that there are lawful
reasons for increases in gas prices, given supply and demand.”
In cases in which there is illegal conduct, state and federal
officials should take “swift action,” he wrote.  Pinching Pockets  “Rapidly rising gasoline prices are pinching the pockets
of consumers across the country,” Holder said in the  Justice
Department   statement . “We will be vigilant in monitoring the
oil and gas markets for any wrongdoing so that consumers can be
confident they are not paying higher prices as a result of
illegal activity.”  Obama’s job approval rating, which started rising after he
reached a deal on tax cuts with congressional Republicans in
December, reversed course in late January as
turmoil in the Middle East began driving up gasoline prices.  A Washington Post-ABC News poll released April 19 found
that 47 percent of Americans approve of Obama’s job performance,
down seven percentage points since January. Even with signs of
improvement in economic indicators, 44 percent of Americans said
they believed that the economy is deteriorating, the worst
reading in the poll in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  