-- 
Lockheed Martin F-35 Operating Costs May Reach $1 Trillion

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-21T21:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/lockheed-martin-f-35-operating-costs-may-reach-1-trillion.html
It may cost as much as $1 trillion
to operate the military’s fleet of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35
aircraft for several decades, according to a preliminary
Pentagon estimate sent to Congress.  The figure is 9.3 percent more than the $915 billion
estimate by the Defense Department in its 2009 Selected
Acquisition Report to Congress.  The long-term cost estimate, which includes inflation, was
submitted to Congress on April 15 in a report obtained by
Bloomberg News. It assumes 8,000 hours of flying time for each
of the 2,443 aircraft over a 30-year period. The Air Force, Navy
and Marine Corps have their own variations of the aircraft, with
the last in the fleet to be produced in 2035.  The estimate was calculated by the Pentagon’s independent
cost analysis group based on models using historical data from
other fighters, David Van Buren, Air Force service acquisition
executive, said in an interview today.  “We are taking the challenge” posed by the $1 trillion
estimate and “saying we’ve got to drive this down fast,” said
Van Buren, who oversees F-35 management. “Do we drive down it
down based on reliability projections? Do we drive it down based
on technologies that we developed for the F-35” that reflect
lessons learned from the F-22, he said?  Older Aircraft  For example, the latest estimate assumes that F-35
components will break more frequently than older aircraft, he
said. The Pentagon is trying to develop “a more refined
number,” he said.  The $1 trillion estimate is in addition to an estimated
$382 billion in development and production costs.  The long-term maintenance estimates were projected based on
costs incurred to support the military’s fleet of F-16s, F/A-
18s, and AV-8B Harrier jets, the Pentagon said in its report  Almost all government, analyst and media attention on the
Pentagon’s biggest program has focused on cost growth and
technical issues in the $54 billion systems-engineering phase.  The Pentagon’s top weapons official, without citing
figures, said yesterday that the military must start focusing on
controlling the long-range costs.  Sustaining the Fighter  “It’s not too early to think of sustainment for the Joint
Strike Fighter,” Undersecretary for Acquisition Ashton Carter
said yesterday. “Most of the cost of our programs is in
‘having’ them, not in ‘acquiring them,” he said at the  Heritage
Foundation  in Washington.  “We are at the point with the Joint Strike Fighter where
we have wrestled with the development issues,” Carter said.
“We are trying to manage down some of the cost associated with
the production, and it’s not too early to look at sustainment,
because the projected bills also have increased.”  The Pentagon’s Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation group
is updating its $1 trillion figure for a major F-35 review next
month intended to revise all of the program’s costs, including
overrun estimates on the first three low-rate aircraft
production and engine contracts, according to the report to
Congress.  Operations and support costs, when calculated in base-year
2002 dollars, were estimated at $420 billion, according to the
document.  Baseline Review  “This is the year to focus on sustainment costs,” Vice
Admiral David Venlet, the F-35 program executive officer, told
reporters today. The estimates thus far “have all been
predictions without any actual” data to back up the figures, he
said.  The program office will begin a so-called baseline review
of the sustainment cost, similar to the F-35 design and
production review conducted last year, Venlet said.  The review will examine “all aspects of sustainment, from
repair to transportation and illuminate the consequences” for
the U.S. and the international partners, he said.  The Pentagon will look for ways to maintain the F-35 fleet
with work split between military depots and performance-based
logistics contracts with Lockheed, Venlet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at +1-
   acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  