-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Slide 5.7% as Distressed Properties Weigh Down Values

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-21T14:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/home-prices-in-u-s-slide-5-7-as-distressed-properties-weigh-down-values.html
U.S.  home prices  fell 5.7 percent
in February from a year earlier as distressed properties weighed
down values, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency.  The decline was led by a 12 percent slump in the region
that includes Colorado and Nevada, followed by an 8.7 percent
retreat in the area that includes California and Oregon, the
agency said today from Washington. Nationally, prices slid 1.6
percent from January, more than the 0.3 percent drop that was
the average estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Home values are dropping as foreclosures undermine real
estate prices. The share of homes sold in March that were
distressed properties, meaning foreclosures or short sales, rose
to 40 percent from 39 percent in February, the National
Association of Realtors reported yesterday. There were 2.2
million homes in foreclosure in March, up 1.4 percent from a
month earlier, Lender Processing Services Inc. in Jacksonville,
 Florida , said in a statement this week.  “The increasing share of distressed sales will continue to
exert downward pressure on home prices because they sell at a
discount,”  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Research in  New York , said
yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom
Line” with Mark Crumpton.  Fannie, Freddie Mortgages  The FHFA measures transactions of homes financed with
mortgages backed by  Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac . The data are
based on repeat-sales transactions that compare prices of the
same properties over time. The report measures changes in values
without providing a specific sales price.  The median U.S. price for a previously owned home sold in
February was $156,100, a nine-year low, according to the
National Association of Realtors. It rose in March to $159,600,
the Chicago-based group reported yesterday. The March median
price was 5.9 percent below a year earlier, the biggest year-
over-year decline since October 2009.  Sales of U.S. previously owned homes rose 3.7 percent in
March to a 5.1 million annual rate, according to the National
Association of Realtors’ report. That’s down 21 percent from
November 2009’s pace of 6.42 million, when purchases were fueled
by a federal homebuyer tax credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 