-- 
London Exceeds Europe’s Annual Pollution Goal Four Months Into Year

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-04-21T13:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/london-exceeds-europe-s-annual-pollution-goal-four-months-into-year.html
London , which hosts the Olympic
Games in 2012, today exceeded annual limits set by the European
Union for air pollution less than four months into the year.  At London’s Marylebone Road monitoring station, the number
of “days in exceedance,” when particle pollution levels breach
permitted limits, reached 36 today, according to the London Air
Quality Network  website . That’s more than the 35 failures
permitted for the entire year under EU rules. The so-called PM10
particles measured derive mainly from vehicles, factories and
construction.  The U.K. risks a 300-million pound ($500 million) EU fine
for London’s repeated breaches of air pollution targets, said
Murad Qureshi, spokesman on environment in the London Assembly
for the opposition  Labour Party . The European commission  last
month  gave Britain until June 11 to meet the standards.  “It doesn’t bode well if, at the beginning of the year,
we’ve already exceeded our annual allowance,” Qureshi said
today in a telephone interview. “Air pollution was a big issue
at the last two Olympics in  Athens  and in Beijing. We don’t want
it to be a problem here in London.”  London has the nation’s worst air quality and the highest
levels in  Europe  of PM10 particles, Parliament’s Environmental
Audit Committee, a multi-party panel of lawmakers, said last
year. Air pollution from traffic and industry kills as many as
50,000 people in the U.K. a year, it said.  Mayor’s Problem  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  should fight pollution by
improving public transport, raising standards for taxis and
replacing more buses with hybrid and hydrogen-fueled versions,
Qureshi said.  “The mayor is already taking action to improve London’s
air quality with cleaner buses, tougher standards for the Low
Emission Zone and the first ever age limit for taxis,”
Johnson’s office said in an e-mailed statement. “Since the
beginning of 2011, we estimate that more than 75 per cent of air
pollution episodes have occurred when pollutants have been blown
in from Europe.”  Johnson should also erect signs in polluted areas to warn
people when daily recommended amounts are breached, Qureshi
said. That task should fall to the central government, Johnson’s
office said.  While the  Olympic Games  will be mainly sited in east
London, where there are fewer breaches of pollution standards,
events including archery and beach volleyball competitions will
be held in the center and west, and many Olympic visitors will
be staying in downtown hotels, Qureshi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  