-- 
London V&A Names Dresden Museums’ Martin Roth as Director

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-21T12:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/london-s-victoria-albert-museum-names-dresden-s-martin-roth-as-director.html
London ’s  Victoria and Albert Museum 
today named Martin Roth as director starting Sept. 1, choosing a
culture manager with 10 years’ experience of running Dresden’s
extensive art collections and organizing international shows.  Roth, who is 56, takes over from Mark Jones, who has led
the V&A since 2001 and is leaving to be master of  St. Cross
College  at Oxford University. Roth is currently director general
of Dresden’s  State Art Collections , among the oldest and most
important collections in the world.  The V&A describes itself as the “world’s greatest museum
of art and design,” with a collection spanning 3,000 years. It
encompasses architecture, ceramics, glass, fashion, jewelry,
metalwork, painting, photography and more. The museum last month
chose architect Amanda Levete to lead a 35 million pound ($58
million) redevelopment that will create new exhibition rooms, a
public courtyard, and a new side entrance.  Roth has “a strong record of leading and managing complex
arts organizations,” Paul Ruddock, chairman of the V&A board of
trustees, said in an e-mailed statement. “He is the ideal
person to build on the recent successes of the V&A.”  As Dresden’s museum chief, Roth has overseen the reopening
of the World War II-bombed Historic Green Vault treasure
chamber, the rebuilding of the ruined royal palace (due for
completion in 2013) and the renovation after flood damage of the
16th-century Albertinum.  Old Masters  The Dresden art collections were assembled by the electors
of Saxony including August the Strong, a passionate collector of
art and treasures. The 15 separate collections, housed in seven
museum buildings, include old masters, jewels, porcelain,
weaponry, modern art, sculpture, graphics and folk art.  Roth has also overseen the settlement of restitution claims
including a 4.2 million-euro ($6.1 million) payout to the heirs
of the royal family for porcelain expropriated by the East
German communist regime after World War II.  He was the initiator of Beijing exhibition called “The Art
of the Enlightenment,” a collaboration by the Dresden, Munich
and Berlin art collections, which is showing for a year at the
newly built National Museum of  China .  China Arrest  German artists, journalists and curators called for the
exhibition's closure after the arrest in China of the artist Ai Weiwei on April 3. In an article in the Frankfurter Allgemeine 
Zeitung on April 12, Roth and his Dresden and Munich colleagues
defended the exhibition, saying the calls “made no sense.”  “How can we get to know and understand the culture and
values of a country and its population if we refuse to cooperate
with it?” they asked. “Cultural projects do not just transcend
borders, they transcend systems too.”  The Green Vault will present a selection of its treasures
at the Museum of Islamic Art in Doha, Qatar, in October.  Before taking the post as director of Dresden’s museums,
Roth was curator at the German Historical Museum in Berlin and
director of the Hygiene Museum in Dresden.  The V&A is comprised of the main museum at South
Kensington, the V&A Museum of Childhood at Bethnal Green, and
the archives and stores at Blythe House, Kensington Olympia.  It is also creating a V&A museum on the Dundee waterfront.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 