-- 
Hong Kong Developers Seek Homebuyers Over Easter Weekend as Prices Waver

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-21T04:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/hong-kong-developers-seek-homebuyers-over-easter-weekend-as-prices-waver.html
Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  and
 Henderson Land  Development Co. are among Hong Kong developers
seeking Easter weekend buyers amid rising  mortgage rates  and
concerns a two-year price surge may be ending.  Cheung Kong , controlled by Hong Kong’s richest man, Li Ka-
shing, has sold about 40 percent of the units at its Uptown
project in the Yuen Long district since sales began April 15,
company spokeswoman Anita Tsui said. The HK$5,000 ($643) per
square foot average prices at those units is almost 30 percent
lower than that of a project in the same area sold by rival  Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  since January, according to Wong Leung-
sing, research director at Centaline Property Agency Ltd,  Hong
Kong ’s biggest closely-held realtor.  Home prices  may fall as much as 30 percent between 2012 and
2013 on rising mortgage rates, Barclays Capital analyst Andrew
Lawrence said in an April 4 report. A more than 65 percent surge
in home prices since early 2009, fuelled by record low interest
rates and an influx of mainland Chinese buyers, has prompted the
government to impose additional taxes and pledge more land
supply to curb real estate value.  “Buyer sentiment has taken another turn for the worse,”
said Lee Wee Liat, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung
Securities Ltd. “We remain cautious on primary launches that
are aggressively priced and expect a decline in overall
transaction volume.”  Cheung Kong will release about 90 percent of the units at
the  Uptown project  for sale over the Easter holiday weekend that
begins tomorrow, Tsui said.  Land Sale  Henderson Land, the developer controlled by billionaire Lee
Shau-kee, is selling apartments at its  Hill Paramount  project
near the Sha Tin district at average prices close to the level
when the project first began selling a year ago, Centaline’s
Wong said.  Other projects that are releasing new apartments for sale
during the holiday include the 18 Upper East on the Island East
by  Emperor International Holdings (163)  Ltd. and Kowloon Development
Co.’s Mount East in the North Point district.  “We’re seeing much less aggressive pricing of new
projects,” said Centaline’s Wong. “Developers are clearly
trying to unload their stocks as they need to haul in more cash
to get ready for sites the government will put up for auction
later this year.”  Hong Kong may auction as many as 52 plots of land that can
yield 16,000 units this year, almost 80 percent more than from
land sold last year, Financial Secretary John Tsang said in his
Feb. 23 budget speech.  Tightened Lending  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers including Sun Hung Kai and Cheung Kong, has
declined 3.5 percent since the government announced the
additional property tax in November. The  Hang Seng Index  has
risen 2.2 percent over that period.  “For investors that don’t need to be in the Hong Kong
property developer sector, we recommend avoiding the sector,”
wrote Barclay’s Lawrence.  Hong Kong banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and  Bank of
East Asia Ltd. (23)  have been raising mortgage rates since the last
quarter of 2010. Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de
facto central bank, tightened rules on mortgage lending three
times since October 2009 on concerns “rapid” credit growth
will curb liquidity and reduce loan quality.  Mortgage rates offered by HSBC and BOC Hong Kong (Holdings)
Ltd., the city’s two largest banks by customers, have since
November increased by as much as 70 basis points to 1.5 percent
above the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate this month.  Home prices in the city declined for a third straight week
in the week ended April 10, according to an index compiled by
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately-
held realtor.  The number of home transactions in Hong Kong fell from a
year earlier for a third month in March, according to Land 
Registry figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  