-- 
Moody’s Affirms Iceland Credit Rating at Lowest Investment Grade

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/moody-s-affirms-iceland-credit-rating-at-lowest-investment-grade.html
Iceland’s credit rating was kept at
one level above junk by Moody’s Investors Service even after
voters rejected a depositor claims accord with the U.K. and
 Netherlands , threatening to prolong the dispute by a year.  Moody’s affirmed Iceland’s Baa3 local and foreign currency
government bond ratings and their negative outlook, it said in a
statement yesterday.  The “announcement comes despite the recent majority ‘no’
vote in the country’s referendum on the revised Icesave
agreement, which Moody’s had previously said would most likely
result in a negative rating action,” the company said in the
statement. The rating was affirmed because of “Moody’s
recognition that the size and importance of the government’s
liability related to the Icesave dispute will likely decline
substantially in the coming months.”  The 2008 failure of Landsbanki Islands hf, which offered
the high-yielding Icesave accounts, threatened the savings of
about 350,000 British and Dutch depositors. They were repaid by
their governments, which have turned to Iceland for compensation
of about 3.98 billion euros ($5.8 billion). Iceland this month
said the liquidation of Landsbanki assets might cover at least
90 percent of the claims, and even be enough to repay all the
debt. The government aims to start repayment in the summer.  Almost 60 percent of voters rejected the Icesave accord in
the April 9 referendum and the dispute will now be settled at
the European Free Trade Association court in  Luxembourg , where
proceedings may take about a year, Finance Minister Steingrimur
J. Sigfusson said on April 10.  ‘Important Pre-Requisite’  “Given the substantial cash reserves that the estate has
accumulated, the potential liability to the government -- if
found liable -- might well have declined to less than half by
the time the legal process has run its course,” Moody’s said.
Still, it “continues to view the full resolution of the Icesave
issue -- most likely through further legal proceedings -- to be
an important pre-requisite for normalizing Iceland’s relations
with the international investor community,” it said.  The government had hoped an accord would restore investor
and diplomatic relations and end the financial isolation after
Iceland’s 2008 banking collapse. The latest bill, which set
terms for covering losses, was vetoed by President Olafur R. Grimsson in February after it was passed by parliament following
an accord between the three governments in December.  Moody’s on Feb. 23 warned that failure to resolve the
dispute would trigger a downgrade. Fitch Ratings Ltd. has ranked
Iceland non-investment grade since Grimsson’s January 2010 veto
of an earlier accord and  Standard & Poor’s  on April 13 put its
BBB- rating on CreditWatch negative.  Bond Buybacks  Iceland had hoped to sell bonds this year as 713 million
euros in debt comes due, Sigfusson said in January. The
government will now review its plans after the Icesave rejection
and is adopting a “wait-and-see” stance on the economic
fallout, he said on April 10.  The country last week offered to repurchase 800 million
euros in bonds to cut foreign debt, in part to show investors
that it can meet its obligations. “Given the current size of
its foreign reserves, the Republic of Iceland is well placed to
cover its external maturities resulting from contractual
obligations in coming years,” the government said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  