-- 
More Than Half of U.S. States Have Comprehensive Smoking Bans, CDC Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-04-26T12:50:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/more-than-half-of-u-s-states-have-comprehensive-smoking-bans-cdc-says.html
(Corrects number of states in first paragraph in story from
April 21.)  Twenty-five U.S. states and the
 District of Columbia  banned smoking in workplaces, restaurants,
and bars, while regional disparities persist, a study said.  Another 10 states had enacted laws that prohibit smoking in
one or two of those places as of December 2010, according to a
report today in the journal  Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report , published by the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. No southern state has a comprehensive
law that bans smoking in all three venues, the CDC said.  The CDC’s  objective  had been to have smoking eliminated in
public places and worksites by all 50 states and the District of
Columbia by 2010. The goal is now for 2020. Smoke-free laws
improve indoor  air quality , help smokers quit and reduce heart
attack and asthma hospitalizations, according to the report.  “The progress made during the past decade in enacting
comprehensive state smoke-free laws is an extraordinary public
health achievement,” the authors wrote. “All states that have
not done so already could protect the health of their residents
by adopting laws that prohibit smoking in workplaces,
restaurants, and bars.”  Delaware passed the first comprehensive smoke-free laws in
2002, according to the report. While California’s restrictions
took effect in 1994, the law allows an exemption for ventilated
employee smoking rooms.  Tobacco States  Kentucky and North Carolina are the biggest tobacco
producers among 21 states that grow the crop,  according to the
CDC.   Kentucky  has no smoking restrictions; North Carolina
requires that restaurants and bars be smoke free.  Other states besides Kentucky that have no restrictions in
place for workplaces, bars, and restaurants are  Indiana ,
Mississippi,  South Carolina ,  Texas ,  West Virginia , and Wyoming.  New York City’s adoption of a comprehensive smoke-free law
in 2002 helped influence policy makers, the study authors wrote.
Concerns about second-hand smoke also spurred lawmakers to act,
the report said.  About 88 million nonsmoking Americans aged 3 and older are
exposed to second-hand smoke each year even with state and local
bans in effect, according to the CDC. That number includes more
than half of all children over 3.  Exposure to second-hand smoke results in an estimated
46,000 deaths a year from heart disease and 3,400 from lung
cancer, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 