-- 
Morgan Stanley Reaches Preferreds Deal With Mitsubishi UFJ

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-22T03:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/morgan-stanley-reaches-deal-with-mitsubishi-on-preferred-stake.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  agreed to convert
most of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ’s preferred stock in
the company, paying a premium of about $2 billion to eliminate
annual dividend payments of $784 million.  Mitsubishi UFJ will exchange the $7.8 billion of
convertible preferred stock, which had a 10 percent dividend,
for 385 million shares of Morgan Stanley common stock, the banks
said in a statement yesterday. The move increases Morgan
Stanley’s Tier 1 common ratio by about 2.7 percentage points to
14.5 percent, according to the statement.  Without a deal, Morgan Stanley could have only forced a
conversion if its share price climbed to more than $37.875, 45
percent higher than the April 20 closing price, and traded above
that level for 20 out of 30 consecutive trading days. Mitsubishi
UFJ acquired the stake when it invested $9 billion in Morgan
Stanley in October 2008, as the New York-based firm’s stock
price tumbled after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “What we have spent the last couple of years doing is
clearing up a number of uncertainties that impact our future,”
Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said on a
conference call with analysts. “This was frankly No. 1 on my
list for this year. And we had a window of opportunity here to
get this off the list and obviously we had to pay a premium.”  Shares Rise  Morgan Stanley rose 44 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $26.48 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday after
posting first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Net
income was $968 million, or 50 cents a share, and adjusted
earnings of 46 cents topped the average projection of 40 cents.  Mitsubishi UFJ,  Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank, rose
0.5 percent to 376 yen at 12:49 p.m. today in  Tokyo .  The agreement provides Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ with a 22
percent ownership interest in the U.S. investment bank, making
it the biggest common shareholder. It was also given a second
seat on Morgan Stanley’s board.  “Mitsubishi UFJ seems to be betting more on Morgan
Stanley’s business performance given that Morgan Stanley’s
earnings have improved in the last few years,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd.
“For Morgan Stanley, this will clearly help to boost its core
Tier 1 capital ratio.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Deputy President Nobuyuki Hirano said the
companies will expand their alliance in Asian markets as well as
further strengthen their respective areas of expertise.  Ties for ‘Decades’  “MUFG’s core area for overseas business is commercial
banking while Morgan Stanley is competitive in areas such as
mergers and acquisitions and retail brokerage services,” Hirano
said at a press briefing in Tokyo today. When asked whether
Mitsubishi UFJ would consider selling its stake in Morgan
Stanley, he said the banks will maintain ties for “decades.”  Morgan Stanley increased the number of common shares
Mitsubishi UFJ would receive by 75 million to reach the
agreement. That represents a premium of about $2 billion,
leading to a charge in the third quarter when the conversion is
expected to be completed, Morgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer
Ruth Porat said on yesterday’s call.  “Given the fact that it accelerates the cleanup of this
issue, I think it’s a fair price to pay,” said Shannon Stemm,
an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis  who rates the
stock “buy.” “We definitely view this as a positive.”  ‘Ancillary Benefits’  The increase in shares outweighs the reduction in preferred
dividends, diluting “normalized” earnings per share by 4
percent, Mike Mayo, an analyst with Credit Agricole Securities
USA in New York, said in a note to investors. Mayo wrote that
he’s not yet reducing his estimates because of potential
“ancillary benefits,” including lower funding costs and a
stronger balance sheet.  The conversion would reduce book value to $29.36 a share,
from $31.45 and tangible book value to $25.78 from $26.97,
including the impact of the premium, Porat said on the call. The
firm is “very comfortable” with its goal of return on equity
in the “mid-teens” even with the higher equity base, Porat
said. Morgan Stanley had ROE of 6.2 percent in the first quarter.  “That’s higher than we are predicting,” Stemm said. “The
mid-teens ROE target might be a little bit lofty, but certainly
moving higher from here is reasonable.”  Mitsubishi UFJ still holds about $500 million of non-
convertible preferred stock with a 10 percent dividend. Morgan
Stanley can buy back that stake for about $572 million beginning
on Oct. 15, 2011, according to the firm’s annual 10-K filing.  Joint Venture Loss  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., one of two
Japanese joint ventures between the two banks and the one MUFG
controls, yesterday posted a loss of 145 billion yen ($1.8
billion) in the year ended March 31 that was fueled by wrong-way
bets on fixed-income products.  The tie-up is 40 percent owned by Morgan Stanley. MUFG will
contribute about $370 million of capital this month to the
venture. That contribution won’t dilute Morgan Stanley’s
ownership and is expected to reduce the U.S. bank’s loss by
about $145 million, which will be reflected in second-quarter
earnings, Porat said on the call.  Fumiyuki Akikusa, president of the joint venture, plans to
resign after the investment bank’s loss, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public. A portion of the fixed-
income portfolio that drove the losses will be transferred to
the joint venture controlled by Morgan Stanley, Porat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  