-- 
Morgan Stanley Shares Rise as Earnings Beat Estimates, MUFJ Converts Stake

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-21T20:16:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/morgan-stanley-profit-beats-estimates-as-trading-revenue-more-than-doubles.html
Morgan Stanley, operator of the
world’s largest brokerage, rose in  New York  trading after
reporting profit that beat analysts’ estimates and saying a
Japanese bank agreed to convert a preferred stake in the firm.  First-quarter net income was $968 million, or 50 cents a
share, and adjusted earnings of 46 cents topped analysts’
average estimate of 40 cents. Net income included a 26-cent loss
tied to a joint venture with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., which agreed to convert $7.8 billion of preferred stock
and eliminate $784 million in annual dividend payments for
Morgan Stanley.  Trading revenue almost tripled from the fourth quarter,
bolstering Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman ’s efforts to
rejuvenate the New York-based firm’s fixed-income business,
which generated less than a third of the revenue Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. produced in the past two years. MUFG’s conversion
will add about 2.7 percentage points to  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Tier 1
common ratio and eliminates what Gorman, 52, called the “No.
1” uncertainty for the firm.  “There’s evidence of improvement in their trading
operations, especially with equity trading, which was very
strong,” said Shannon Stemm, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co.
in  St. Louis  who rates the stock “buy.” “The conversion
improves their capital position, and it removes those preferred
dividend payments. So while the share count will go up, it adds
some flexibility.”  Share Performance  Morgan Stanley rose 44 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $26.48 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It
earlier jumped as much as 5.2 percent, the biggest intraday
climb since January. The stock was down 4.3 percent this year
through yesterday, after falling 8.1 percent in 2010.  Earnings fell 45 percent from the $1.78 billion the firm
reported in last year’s first three months, when  Wall Street 
posted the best fixed-income trading quarter since the financial
crisis. Earnings from continuing operations, excluding the 26-
cent joint venture loss and a 30-cent tax gain, beat the average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., which is 40
percent owned by Morgan Stanley, said today it will cut jobs and
raise capital after posting a loss of 145 billion yen ($1.8
billion) last year that was fueled by wrong-way bets on fixed-
income products.  ‘Committed’ to Japan  “While the loss at our joint venture with MUFG is
disappointing, we remain strongly committed to the Japanese
market and our strategic partners at MUFG,” Gorman said in the
statement. “This loss does not impact the progress we are
making in pursuing our own strategic priorities.”  Mitsubishi UFJ will exchange the convertible preferred
stake, which had a 10 percent dividend, for 385 million shares
of Morgan Stanley common stock. That included 75 million
additional shares Morgan Stanley agreed to issue in order to
reach the agreement.  The move provides Mitsubishi UFJ with a 22 percent
ownership interest in the U.S. investment bank and a second seat
on its board of directors. Mitsubishi UFJ still holds $500
million of non-convertible preferred stock with a 10 percent
dividend.  Goldman Sachs fell 1.3 percent on April 19 in New York
trading after first-quarter profit declined 21 percent and
analysts said the bank relied on unpredictable investment gains
to beat estimates.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  exceeded estimates last
week as investment-banking revenue jumped 33 percent from the
fourth quarter. Both companies are based in New York.  Book Value  Revenue at Morgan Stanley dropped to $7.64 billion from
$9.07 billion a year earlier. Book value per share fell to
$31.45 from $31.49 at the end of December. The firm’s return on
equity from continuing operations, a measure of how well it
reinvests earnings, was 6.2 percent.  In the first quarter, Morgan Stanley’s revenue from fixed-
income sales and trading was $1.77 billion, compared with
negative revenue of $29 million in the fourth quarter and $2.72
billion in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding gains or losses
from its own credit spreads, fixed-income revenue was $1.93
billion, compared with $4.3 billion at Goldman Sachs and $5.2
billion at JPMorgan.  Gorman said in February that his “No. 1” priority is
turning around the firm’s fixed-income trading unit, hoping to
capture a 2 percentage-point gain in market share this year.
Excluding gains and losses tied to their own debt, Morgan
Stanley had about a 6 percent market share in 2010 among 11 of
the largest U.S. and European banks, according to data compiled
by analysts at JPMorgan and Nomura.  DiMaio, deRegt  Gorman replaced fixed-income trading head Jack DiMaio with
Ken deRegt, and the firm hired Glenn Hadden from Goldman Sachs
as global head of  interest rates .  “This is the first time that I have felt comfortable with
the leadership across all of our fixed-income businesses,”
Gorman said on a conference call with analysts. “You’ve got to
have that ability at the top and the investment we made in
hiring people combined with the leadership at the top is what
has moved the needle.”  Morgan Stanley is looking to gain market share in rates,
where it increased staff by about 20 percent, and foreign
exchange, where it added 40 percent more people, Gorman said in
February.  The firm saw “particular strength” in those areas in the
first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in an
interview today.  MBIA Hedges  Hedges against exposure to bond insurers including MBIA
Inc. resulted in net losses of about $318 million, which were
included in fixed-income results. Porat said today that the
hedges are “not closed out” and said some of them have been
“adjusted.”  In equities trading, Morgan Stanley’s first-quarter revenue
rose to $1.7 billion, up 57 percent from the fourth quarter and
20 percent higher than a year earlier. The unit’s revenue
compares with $2.3 billion at Goldman Sachs and $1.4 billion at
JPMorgan.  “We think Morgan’s investment bank posted solid results,
with clear improvement in trading, particularly in equities,”
 Glenn Schorr , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a
note to investors. “Trading improvement is one of the clear
issues investors have been waiting for.”  Morgan Stanley generated $1.01 billion in revenue from
 investment banking  in the quarter, up 14 percent from a year
earlier. That included $385 million from financial advisory,
$285 million from equity underwriting and $338 million from debt
underwriting.  Merger Rankings  The firm was the second-ranked adviser on mergers announced
in the quarter, as well as the fourth-ranked underwriter of
stock offerings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
finished 2010 as both the top underwriter of equity offerings
and the top adviser on announced mergers and acquisitions
globally for the first time since Bloomberg began compiling data
in 1999.  Global  wealth management , which includes Morgan Stanley’s
brokerage joint venture with Citigroup Inc.’s  Smith Barney ,
posted pretax income of $348 million, up from $278 million in
the first quarter of 2010. The division’s pretax profit margin
fell to 10 percent from 12 percent in the fourth quarter. The
unit had $11.4 billion of net new assets.  Asset management reported a pretax gain of $127 million,
compared with $174 million in the previous year’s period.  Compensation and benefits decreased 2 percent from the
year-earlier quarter to $4.33 billion, or 57 percent of the
firm’s overall revenue. The ratio was higher than in the first
quarter of 2010, when the bank set aside 49 percent of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  