-- 
Mori Building Sells Five Stories of China’s Tallest Property in Shanghai

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-21T02:08:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/mori-building-sells-five-stories-of-china-s-tallest-property-in-shanghai.html
Mori Building Co., owner of  China ’s
tallest building, said it sold five floors of the property and
may offer more in the tower following demand from investors.  Japan ’s biggest privately held developer said it sold the
68th to 72nd floors of the 101-story  Shanghai World Financial
Center . The 16,248-square-meter (174,828-square-foot) space was
sold at an average price of 82,142 yuan ($12,588) per square
meter, according to information from government-run  Shanghai
Real Estate Trading Center , which tracks property transactions.  Mori’s value per square meter is the highest for China’s
 office space  after the Shanghai Port International Cruise
Terminal’s record price in the second half last year, according
to Cushman & Wakefield Inc. The property brokerage said the
city’s prime office rents rose 23 percent in the first quarter,
while Colliers International Research said this week  Shanghai ’s
37.5 million square feet of office space under construction at
the end of 2010 was the most among 50 cities worldwide.  “We have been very stubborn not to sell, but we found some
clients who wanted to buy higher floors,” Michiho Kishi,
spokesman for Mori’s unit that manages the building, said in an
interview yesterday, declining to comment on the price. “We
didn’t face financial difficulties but it may be better to
collect some fresh cash as we prepare for future businesses.”  Mori is still being approached by many buyers for more
space in the building, he said. The property is 90 percent
filled, leaving the company with “not so many” floors to sell,
Kishi said.  Hard to Control  “It is unusual for a landmark building to change hands in
portion but not in bulk, because it’ll be hard to control the
quality of small owners” said Jack Ye, director of investment
for  Cushman & Wakefield  in China. “If they are aiming for cash,
they could have chosen to sell shares of the building.”  The buyers can’t sell or lease the space without Mori’s
approval for seven years, said Kishi, who refused to identify
buyers.  Taiwan ’s Tomson Group Ltd.  announced  the purchase of the
72th floor earlier this year, saying it’s optimistic about the
“consequential potential demand for high-end office space.”  Shanghai World Financial Center, completed in 2008, is
located in the city’s Lujiazui Finance and Trade Zone. Tenants
include banks BNP Paribas Group and  Wells Fargo & Co ., and
accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP.  Mori collected at least 1.3 billion yuan from the space it
sold, based on calculations using the data from the Shanghai
Real Estate Trading Center. The company may use the capital to
expand in China and other markets including  South Korea  and
Taiwan, Kishi said.  China’s investment in real estate rose 34 percent to 885
billion yuan in the first quarter, the government reported last
week. Seven transactions took place in Shanghai in the first
quarter, totaling 4.6 billion yuan excluding land, with 50.4
percent Chinese, Taiwan and Hong Kong investors, according to a
Cushman report.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  