-- 
PBOC Adviser Says Yuan ‘One-Off’ Revaluation Comment Taken Out of Context

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-21T09:24:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/pboc-adviser-says-yuan-one-off-revaluation-comment-taken-out-of-context.html
China central bank adviser Xia Bin
said his comment about a possible one-off revaluation of the
yuan has been taken out of context and he can’t say whether the
currency will quickly strengthen.  The “entire context” was missing, Xia, a Beijing-based
economist said in a phone interview today. Asked whether the
yuan will appreciate quickly in the short term, he said: “I
don’t know. It’s not decided by me.”  A 27 percent gain by the Chinese currency against the
dollar since a fixed  exchange rate  was scrapped in 2005 has
failed to satisfy the U.S., which describes the yuan as
substantially undervalued and a factor in global economic
imbalances. Non-deliverable yuan forwards jumped this week after
Chinese officials highlighted the role that the currency may
play in cooling inflation and Xia’s comments appeared on the
website Sina.com.  Twelve-month contracts gained 0.2 percent today to 6.3450
per dollar as of 4:44 p.m. in  Hong Kong , the highest level since
April 2008.  While yuan gains will have a “certain impact” on easing
imported inflation pressures, officials can’t rely on the
exchange rate alone, said Xia, who also heads the financial
research institute of the Development Research Center of the
State Council, a government think tank.  ‘Shift in Rhetoric’  London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said this week that a
“shift in rhetoric” by Chinese officials suggests faster gains
may be imminent.  The yuan has climbed more than 4 percent against the dollar
since June last year, when the government scrapped a policy
imposed during the financial crisis of keeping the currency
pegged to the dollar. It traded at about 6.52 per dollar today.  In the April 19 online comments, Xia said that while the
yuan should appreciate gradually in the long term, and current
conditions aren’t conducive to overly fast gains, a one-off
revaluation “can’t be ruled out.”  Today, Xia also urged strategic investment of the nation’s
more than $3 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, including in
assets such as natural resources and energy.  “Our textbooks always talk about safety, liquidity, and
value preservation. I believe we should add one more principle -
strategic importance,” he said.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story: Victoria Ruan in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or  vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  