-- 
Pennsylvania’s Capital of Harrisburg Picks Firm to Aid Delayed 2009 Audit

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/pennsylvania-capital-of-harrisburg-picks-audit-preparation-firm.html
Harrisburg, the Pennsylvania
capital with a debt burden at least five times its general-fund
budget, chose Clifton Gunderson LLP to pull together the
information needed for its fiscal 2009 audit.  Mayor  Linda Thompson  selected the Lancaster firm from among
four that bid for the job, Robert Philbin, a Thompson spokesman,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. The company will also
assemble records for the city’s 2010 annual financial report.  City officials have cited a lack of staff to explain their
inability to close the books for the community of 49,500. Fiscal
stress tied to debt obligations has prompted the City Council to
weigh seeking court protection under municipal bankruptcy law.  Harrisburg exceeded the 120 days that the  Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board , the self-regulatory body for the
municipal-bond market, recommends for issuers to complete year-
end audits. The capital’s last audit, in 2008, was completed 51
weeks after the year ended.  Consultants hired under the state’s program for distressed
municipalities, known as Act 47, said they will propose a
recovery plan next month. The plan must be passed by the mayor
and City Council before it can be put into effect.  Harrisburg guaranteed $282 million in debt for an
incinerator operated by the independent Harrisburg Authority.
The incinerator hasn’t generated enough revenue to cover the
cost of servicing its bonds.  The city should negotiate with creditors and consider
selling assets and increasing fees before entering bankruptcy,
according to a report from the New York law firm Cravath, Swaine
& Moore LLP.  Harrisburg Controller Dan Miller expects a $6 million
deficit this year, based on current  cash flow , he said this
month in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Harrisburg at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 