-- 
Pfizer Falls After Four Deaths in Arthritis Drug Study

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-04-21T20:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/pfizer-falls-after-four-deaths-occur-in-study-of-arthritis-drug.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  shares fell the most
since August after a study summary published online showed four
deaths among patients taking the company’s experimental
rheumatoid arthritis pill.  Four people died and four people developed infections in
the group receiving the drug, tofacitinib, while there were no
serious adverse events in the group given a placebo, according
to the abstract of the study being presented at the  European
League Against Rheumatism  meeting in  London . Victoria Davis, a
spokeswoman for Pfizer, declined to immediately comment. It
wasn’t clear whether the deaths were related to taking the drug.  “The abstract notes that one of the deaths was due to
acute heart failure at the 10mg dose,”  Larry Biegelsen , an
analyst with  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  New York , wrote in a
research note today. “This would make the fourth known case of
heart failure with 10mg of tofacitinib.”  Pfizer shares fell 60 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $19.79 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It was the
biggest decline since August 11. Abbott Laboratories, whose
Humira injectable drug would face competition from Pfizer’s
pill, rose $1, or 2 percent, to $51.80.  “It’s a big overreaction,” said David Maris, an analyst
with CLSA in New York, in a telephone interview today. Investors
“saw four deaths and flipped out, and as they start to digest
this a little more they’ll realize it doesn’t appear to be as
bad as people thought.”  Biotech Rivals  Pfizer is competing with biotechnology companies to develop
the first pill in a decade for rheumatoid arthritis, which
destroys joints in 1.3 million Americans. By 2015, Pfizer’s drug
was expected to reach $1.18 billion in annual sales, the average
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There are no serious events in the control arm, and then
you have a bunch of adverse events; people are going to question
the safety of the drug,” said  Les Funtleyder , a New York-based
fund manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, in a telephone
interview. “Really we need to get more data. It may not be
statistically significant. But that may not even matter because
people are so sensitive about safety concerns these days.”  The study followed 792 patients with rheumatoid arthritis
who failed to improve after taking other treatments. The deaths
were attributed to acute heart failure and respiratory failure
during treatment and a traumatic brain injury following
discontinuation of treatment.  The drug is the most-advanced pill in a family of
experimental treatments targeting a protein called JAK that
leads to joint destruction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 