-- 
Pfizer Says One of Four Deaths in Study Caused by New Drug

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-04-21T23:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/pfizer-says-one-of-four-deaths-in-study-caused-by-new-drug.html
One of four deaths during a trial
of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s experimental rheumatoid arthritis pill can be
linked to the drug, the company said in a statement today.  The New York-based drugmaker’s shares fell the most since
August after a study summary published online showed four deaths
and four infections among patients taking tofacitinib. There
were no serious adverse events in the group given a placebo,
according to the abstract of the study being presented at the
 European League Against Rheumatism  meeting in  London .  “It’s a big overreaction,” said David Maris, an analyst
with CLSA in New York, in a telephone interview today. Investors
“saw four deaths and flipped out, and as they start to digest
this a little more they’ll realize it doesn’t appear to be as
bad as people thought.”  One of the four deaths was from respiratory failure related
to tofacitinib, Pfizer said in a press release.  Pfizer shares fell 60 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $19.79 at 4
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. It was the
biggest decline since August 11. Abbott Laboratories, whose
Humira injectable drug would face competition from Pfizer’s
pill, rose $1, or 2 percent, to $51.80.  Biotech Rivals  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, is competing with
biotechnology companies to develop the first pill in a decade
for rheumatoid arthritis, which destroys joints in 1.3 million
Americans. By 2015, Pfizer’s drug was expected to reach $1.18
billion in annual sales, the average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There are no serious events in the control arm, and then
you have a bunch of adverse events; people are going to question
the safety of the drug,” said  Les Funtleyder , a New York-based
fund manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Really we need to get more data. It may
not be statistically significant. But that may not even matter
because people are so sensitive about safety concerns these
days.”  The study followed 792 patients with rheumatoid arthritis
who failed to improve after taking other treatments. The other
deaths involved a case of brain injury after trauma, a case of
worsening rheumatoid arthritis after discontinuing the drug and
a case of acute heart failure, Pfizer said in the statement.  The drug is the most advanced pill in a family of
experimental treatments targeting a protein called JAK that
leads to joint destruction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 