-- 
Philadelphia-Area Manufacturing Slows More Than Estimated as Orders Drop

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-21T14:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/philadelphia-area-manufacturing-index-declines-more-than-estimated-to-18-5.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region slowed more than forecast in April as measures of orders
and sales fell.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index dropped to 18.5, the lowest level since November, from
43.4 the prior month which was the highest level since 1984.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  Rising energy prices and supply-chain disruptions at auto
producers like  Ford Motor Co. (F)  following last month’s earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan  may slow manufacturing in coming months.
Nonetheless, growing exports to emerging economies like  China 
and inventory rebuilding will continue to drive the factory
expansion that is leading the recovery.  “There’s some loss of momentum in manufacturing, partly due
to a temporary loss of production related to the shortage of
parts” coming out of Japan, said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief
economist at MF Global Inc. in New York. “The weight of
evidence still points to pretty solid growth at factories.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the index would
fall to 36.9, according to the median estimate of 56 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from 28 to 43.8.  Other Reports  Other reports today showed  consumer confidence  rose last
week for a fourth consecutive time, more Americans than
projected filed claims for jobless benefits and the index of
leading economic indicators climbed last month.  Stocks rose, propelled by better-than-estimated earnings at
Apple Inc. and Morgan Stanley. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increased 0.3 percent to 1,334.3 at 10:42 a.m. in  New York .  The Philadelphia Fed’s new orders measure decreased to 18.8
from 40.3 in March which was the highest since November 1983.
The shipments gauge fell to 29.1 from 34.9.  The employment index in the Philadelphia Fed report dropped
to 12.3 in April from 18.2 in March. A measure of the average
workweek increased to 17.7 from 13.2.  The index of prices paid decreased to 57.1 from 63.8 the
prior month, while the measure of prices received climbed to
27.5, the highest level since June 2008, from 22.6.  The Philadelphia report runs counter to figures from the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York last week showing manufacturing
in that region accelerated in April as gauges of orders, sales
and employment improved. The bank’s general economic index rose
to a one-year high of 21.7 from 17.5 in March.  Sentiment Measure  Individual measures in the Philadelphia index don’t
contribute to the headline reading, so some economists consider
it a gauge of sentiment among manufacturers.  Economists monitor the Philadelphia and New York Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management national figures on manufacturing during the month.
The ISM will release its report on May 2.  Overseas demand for American goods is helping support U.S.
manufacturing, which makes up about 11 percent of the economy.
Factories boosted payrolls by 17,000 workers in March following
a gain of 32,000 the prior month, according to Labor Department
data on April 1.  The  auto industry  is slowing output. Toyota Motor Corp.
last week told U.S. dealers that assembly disruptions triggered
by last month’s record earthquake and tsunami in Japan may thin
supplies of vehicles into the third quarter.  The world’s largest automaker will build vehicles at
“significantly reduced levels,”  Bob Carter  , group vice
president of U.S. sales, said in a memorandum to dealers.
“The potential exists that supply of new vehicles could be
significantly impacted this summer.”  Japan’s influence  Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. automaker, closed a
factory in  Kentucky  this month due to earthquake-related parts
shortages.  Other manufacturers, particularly of computer equipment,
continue to profit from foreign demand.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
yesterday issued sales and profit forecasts that reflected
demand from companies eager to upgrade computer systems left
fallow during the recession.  IBM, the largest computer-services provider, boosted its
full-year profit forecast, while Intel, the top chipmaker,
forecast second-quarter sales higher than analysts predicted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  