-- 
Piracy Syndicates Selling Shares to Finance Attacks, U.S. Navy Chief Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/piracy-syndicates-feed-off-ransom-income-u-s-navy-chief-says.html
Piracy syndicates are selling
shares in planned attacks, fueled by a surge of ransom payments
that help attract investors, the U.S. Chief of Naval Operations
Admiral Gary Roughead said.  Piracy syndicates in villages, mainly in largely ungoverned
Somalia, solicit investors who buy shares in the attack missions
and gain a corresponding share of ransoms paid by the shipping
industry, he said.  “The ransoms fuel the business; the business invests in
more capability -- either in a bigger boat, more weapons, better
electronic-detection means to determine where the ships are,”
Roughead said yesterday during an interview in Bloomberg’s
 Washington  Bureau. “So it’s a business.”  The average ransom payment rose 36-fold over five years to
$5.4 million last year, compared with $150,000 in 2005,
according to the Louisville, Colorado-based  One Earth Future
Foundation . The payments are fueling increased raids, adding at
least $2.4 billion to transport costs because vessels are being
diverted onto longer routes to avoid attacks off east  Africa ,
the nonprofit group said earlier this year.  A group of 60 nations is working to combat the threat,
which is made worse by complex national and international laws
and norms that restrict effective prosecution.  The London-based International Maritime Bureau recorded 142
attacks worldwide in the first quarter of this year, the most
for the period since monitoring began in 1991. Pirates took 344
sailors hostage and killed seven during the period.  Worse in 2011  Trends indicate that 2011 will be worse, U.S. Assistant
Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs Andrew Shapiro
told an audience in Washington on March 30.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said that on April
20 it fired in self-defense on a group of suspected pirates near
the Somali coast. The Danish warship HDMS Esbern Snare came
under attack while investigating a hijacked vessel headed toward
a known pirate town, NATO said in a  statement  yesterday.  “The government is not providing the industry with any
other alternative” to ransoms, said Graham Westgarth, president
of Teekay Marine Services, a unit of Hamilton, Bermuda-based
 Teekay Corp. (TK) , the world’s biggest oil-tanker owner. “This is a
political issue that has to be solved by the government.” About
600 mariners are being held hostage, some for as long as six
months, he said.  Result of Ransoms  “The increase in attacks over the last year is a direct
result of the enormous amounts of ransom now being paid to
pirates,” Shapiro said at a forum organized by the London-based
 International Institute for Strategic Studies .  Pirates are extending the business model to how they pay
their crew members based on skills or other assets, such as
weapons, that they can bring to the mission, Roughead said.  While shipping companies are increasingly adopting proven
practices to reduce the risk of a pirate attack, they also may
benefit from paying ransoms by avoiding higher insurance rates,
the admiral said.  Ransoms paid totaled $238 million in 2010 and total losses
were as much as $12 billion when costs such as insurance
premiums, re-routing of ships and security were taken into
account, according to  One Earth Future , which runs a project to
work with industry and affected countries to curb piracy.  “I think the shipping companies are aware of the fact the
ransoms are not helpful,” Roughead said. “My sense is that it
is a business decision on their parts.”  Crew Welfare  Shippers have to consider the welfare of their crews in
confronting the challenges of piracy, said Joseph J. Angelo, the
Arlington, Virginia-based managing director of  Intertanko , a
trade group for tanker owners. Westgarth is chairman of the
group.  “If our membership don’t demonstrate a strong concern for
the safety of the seafarer, why would any seafarer sail with our
member?” Angelo said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“There needs to be an increase in the will of governments to
eradicate piracy.”  Pirates have changed their tactics to adapt to defensive
measures taken by navies participating in the international
anti-piracy coalition. They ranged as far south as Madagascar
last year, and to within about 100 miles north of the Maldives
in the east, reports from the  International Maritime Bureau  show.  The Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast of Somalia has
expanded to 60 countries this year from 28 countries when it was
established in January 2009. A multinational  task force  conducts
naval patrols in the  Gulf of Aden  and off the coast of Somalia,
seeking to cover an area of more than 1 million square miles,
Shapiro said in his March 30 speech.  Aggressive Targeting  Further steps being considered include determining better
ways to prosecute pirates, expanding military approaches and
“aggressively targeting those who organize, lead and profit
from piracy operations,” Shapiro said.  “Over the years, 80 percent of the pirates have been
captured at some point, and 90 percent of that 80 percent have
been released,” said Westgarth, the industry executive.  The escalation in piracy has prompted the U.S. to back off
its traditional reluctance to support an international forum for
prosecuting such crimes after seeing that national courts in the
region aren’t sufficiently dealing with the problem, he said.  “The  United States  is now willing to consider pursuing
some creative and innovative ways to go beyond ordinary national
prosecutions,” Shapiro said.  The industry also can do more, Shapiro said. About 20
percent of vessels off the Horn of Africa aren’t using proven
“best practices” to increase security, such as proceeding at
full speed through high-risk areas or placing more lookouts on
watch, he said. They account for “the overwhelming number of
successfully pirated ships,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  