-- 
Poland to Convert EU Aid on Market, Seeking to Ease Interest-Rate Pressure

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-04-21T15:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/poland-to-convert-eu-aid-on-market-seeking-to-ease-interest-rate-pressure.html
The zloty gained to its strongest
in two months after the Polish government said it would buy the
currency to reduce the need for higher interest rates.  The zloty jumped as much as 0.8 percent to 3.9399 per euro,
its strongest intraday level since Feb. 22, and traded 0.5
percent firmer at 5 p.m. in Warsaw. The currency has gained 2.1
percent this month, trailing only the Colombian peso among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Poland will exchange as much as 14 billion euros ($20.4
billion) it expects to receive from the European Union this year
and as much as 18 billion euros next year, Deputy Finance
Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said today in a  statement , calling
the decision a “systematic, not one-time” move.  The sales “may ease pressure to increase interest rates,”
reduce volatility and absorb liquidity on the  interbank market ,
Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said at a news conference with
central bank Governor Marek Belka. Policy makers sought to curb
inflation and boost the zloty when they raised the benchmark
rate by a quarter-point to 4 percent on April 5, according to
minutes of the meeting released today.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives reduced bets on
borrowing-cost increases after the announcement. Forward-rate
agreements fixing three-month interest costs eight months from
now tumbled 6 basis points to 5.1255 percent. The agreements
last traded 80 basis points, or 0.8 percentage points, above the
three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, showing expectations
the main interest rate will rise to 4.75 percent by year-end.  ‘Inflationary Expectations’  On April 13, the FRA rose to 5.257 percent, its highest
close since November 2008, after  Poland  said consumer prices
rose an annual 4.3 percent in March. That was the fastest
inflation in more than two years and beat analyst estimates,
boosting speculation the benchmark rate will rise on May 11.  “Excess liquidity will rise to 110 billion zloty and that
will reduce the transmission mechanism of rates on the
economy,” Michal Dybula, chief economist at BNP Paribas SA’s
Warsaw unit, said in a report. Euro sales will bolster the zloty
and “help to contain inflationary expectations,” he wrote.  Poland won’t announce the sales in advance, Radziwill said
in the ministry statement.  “The exchange of funds on the market will help us carry
out monetary policy,” Belka said, adding that he is
“moderately optimistic” on Poland’s economic outlook.  ‘Does Not Alter’  Poland’s decision to convert funds from the EU is unlikely
to stop policy makers from raising the main rate by 25 basis
points, or a quarter-point,  Nigel Rendell , a London-based
strategist at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a report.  “The  National Bank of Poland  will tackle inflationary
pressures through a combination of higher interest rates and,
ideally in their view, a stronger zloty,” Rendell said. The
plan to sell euros “does not alter the near-term interest-rate
outlook,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net 
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  