-- 
TPSA Net Falls Below Estimates on Amortization, Cell Phones

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 
2011-04-21T07:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/poland-s-tpsa-says-first-quarter-net-income-falls-to-189-million-zloty.html
Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , Poland’s
largest phone company, said profit fell more than analysts
forecast on lower sales, higher amortization and weaker-than-
expected mobile phone earnings.  Net income dropped 34 percent in the first quarter to 189
million zloty ($69.5 million) from 285 million zloty a year
earlier, the Warsaw-based France Telecom SA unit said in a
regulatory statement today. That missed the 272.4 million-zloty
mean estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
declined 3.7 percent to 3.73 billion zloty.  The communist-era monopolist is fighting a revenue decline
as Poles abandon fixed-line calls and regulators slash mobile-
phone rates. The company known as TPSA will keep its forecast
for a full-year sales decline of 2 percent to 4.5 percent even
as regulated prices are set to fall further in July, Chief
Executive Officer Maciej Witucki said on a conference call.  “I don’t question that they can fit into this range, but
these results definitely show that they’ll be at the lower
end,”  Pawel Puchalski , an analyst at the brokerage of Bank
Zachodni WBK SA in Warsaw, said by phone.  The mobile-phone business was hurt by a decline in average
revenue per user and minutes of use, while “drastic” growth in
the number of smartphones pushed up subscriber acquisition
costs, Puchalski said.  Amortization Costs  Amortization costs rose to 978 million zloty from 941
million zloty a year earlier. The company sped up amortization
as it upgraded its cellular network, Witucki said.  Total sales fell as a 2.2 percent increase in mobile-phone
revenue failed to offset the decline in the fixed-line business.
Analysts called for sales of 3.8 billion zloty.  TPSA and its competitors are seeking a deal with regulators
under which they would invest in their networks in exchange for
shallower cuts to regulated prices for calls to mobile networks
known as MTRs.  The company predicts the rates will fall to 0.12 zloty to
0.15 zloty a minute from the current 0.17 zloty a minute,
compared with the regulator’s original plan of 0.09 zloty a
minute, Witucki said. A 50 percent cut in MTRs reduced 2009
sales by about 1 billion zloty.  TPSA plans to attract more Internet clients starting this
quarter as it offers faster lines and begins offering services
with  TVN SA (TVN) , a television broadcaster.  The number of Internet customers rose by 11,000 to almost
2.3 million, while the company gained mobile subscribers for at
least the fourth straight quarter, reaching 14.4 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net 
Nathaniel Espino in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  