-- 
PPG Shifts Paints to Chinese Pigment as Costs Increase

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-04-21T20:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ppg-shifts-paints-to-chinese-pigment-as-costs-increase-1-.html
PPG Industries Inc. (PPG) , the world’s
second biggest paint maker, said it’s using less costly pigment
from  China  to contain raw material costs that are rising faster
than prices for the company’s paint.  PPG, the maker of Olympic, Pittsburgh Paint and Sigma
Coatings brands, is reformulating products globally with lower
grades of titanium dioxide pigment, the main hiding agent in
paint, and less costly polymers, Chief Executive Officer Charles Bunch said today on a conference with analysts. The lower-cost
materials represent less than 5 percent of ingredients, he said.  “I wouldn’t say it represents any compromise in terms of
quality,” Bunch said. “This is an across-the-board initiative
on the part of PPG to expand our sourcing of supplies.”  Paint makers are raising prices and reformulating products
to preserve profit margins after the recession led some
suppliers to shut factories, limiting supply. DuPont Co.’s
first-quarter earnings, which topped analysts’ estimates on
sales of titanium dioxide, bodes well for supply additions,
 Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW)  Chairman and CEO Christopher Connor said.  “The impact of higher raw-material costs will likely get
worse before it gets better,” Connor said today on a conference
call.  Raw material costs at Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams, the
largest U.S. paint retailer, may rise about 15 percent this
year, compared with a prior forecast of 10 percent to
13 percent, he said.
      Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  plans to start selling Evoque polymer in
the third quarter to help paint makers use as much as 20 percent
less titanium dioxide.  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  is the world’s biggest paint maker.  PPG, based in Pittsburgh, rose 14 cents to $94.68 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  