-- 
Prudential Said to Request Probe of Advice It Was Given on Failed AIA Bid

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-04-21T09:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/prudential-said-to-request-probe-of-advice-on-failed-35-5-billion-aia-bid.html
Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer, was told by regulators to hire a law firm to
investigate its failed $35.5 billion bid for AIA Group Ltd., two
people briefed on the matter said.  The  Financial Services Authority  requested the probe to
review advice given to Prudential during its attempt to buy
American International Group Inc.’s Asian unit last year, said
the people, who declined to be named because the talks are
private. Credit Suisse AG,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  advised London-based Prudential on its bid.
Clifford Chance LLP is conducting the review, the people said.  The bid foundered in June after Prudential investors forced
the insurer to cut its offer, which AIG rejected. The probe is a
Skilled Person report under Section 166 of the Financial
Services Act, one of the people said. It can lead to recommended
changes in procedure or in some cases enforcement action. Last
year, 140 reports were ordered, up from 88 the previous year,
according to the FSA’s business  plan  for 2011.  Spokesmen at Prudential, Credit Suisse, JPMorgan, HSBC, the
FSA and Clifford Chance declined to comment on the probe, which
was reported earlier today by the Financial Times.  Investors including Schroders Plc called for Prudential’s
Chief Executive Officer  Tidjane Thiam  and Chairman Harvey
McGrath to resign after the AIA talks broke down, costing the
firm 284 million pounds ($470 million) in fees. Both men have
stayed in their positions.  Prudential has risen by almost a third in London trading
since the talks ended, as profit at its own Asian division
increased. The company raised its dividend 20 percent in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  