-- 
Publicis First-Quarter Revenue Climb 11% on North America, Digital Media

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-04-21T09:22:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/publicis-first-quarter-revenue-climb-11-on-north-america-digital-media.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , owner of the
Leo Burnett and Saatchi & Saatchi advertising agencies, said
first-quarter sales rose 11 percent on increased business in
 North America  and  Europe  and growth in digital operations.  Revenue increased to 1.29 billion euros ($1.9 billion) from
1.16 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today. That compared with a 1.28 billion-euro average estimate
of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Organic sales, which
exclude acquisitions and mergers, rose 8.1 percent in North
America, 6.2 percent in Europe and 1.5 percent in the Asia-
Pacific region.  Publicis, the world’s third-largest advertising company
with clients including Microsoft Corp. and Walt Disney Co.,
expects to outperform peers and improve operating margins in
2011, Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Levy  said in an interview.
The company plans to double operations in  China  by 2013 and will
continue making “targeted” acquisitions in digital and
emerging markets, Levy said.  Organic growth in  Asia  was weak the company’s performance
in the quarter was unusual for not “substantially” beating
expectations, said Michael Cunningham, a media analyst at
Whitman Howard Ltd. in London.  The company’s shares fell as much as 4 percent to 37.32
euros and traded 3.3 percent lower as of 11:17 a.m. in Paris.  Digital operations and business in emerging markets
accounted for 48.3 percent of sales in the quarter. The company
has a medium-term target of earning 65 percent of revenue from
the two segments.  Japan  Effect  “Overall, the mood is very good amongst all the various
segments of the market,” Levy said, adding there was some
concern in the automotive industry, which relies on vehicle
parts and components from Japan. Publicis’s presence in Japan is
small and the March 11 earthquake will have little effect on the
company’s business, he said.  The company will likely outperform peers such as  WPP Plc (WPP) 
and  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  this year because it has strength in
digital business and its “U.S. figures are substantial,”
Cunningham said. “People should be looking at that U.S. growth
number, which is very, very strong.”  Levy, 69, reiterated that he plans to stay on at Publicis
after his contract expires at the end of 2011, though he hasn’t
yet decided for how long. He had planned to retire at the end of
2010 until the board asked him to stay on during the economic
recession.  Succession  Though Levy hasn’t named a successor, he expanded the role
of Chief Operating Officer Jean-Yves Naouri last month to
include the title of executive chairman of Publicis Worldwide,
the biggest ad network at Publicis Groupe.  “We are preparing the future,” Levy said, declining to
confirm whether Naouri will succeed him. “Mr. Naouri is someone
with good experience and he’s been with us for 17 years now and
he knows extremely well the internal structure.”  Publicis said it won net new business of $1.9 billion in
the first quarter, from clients including Yahoo! Inc., Reckitt
Benckiser Group Plc and  Dairy Queen .  ZenithOptimedia Group Ltd., a unit of Publicis, earlier
this month cut its forecast for global ad sales growth in 2011
to 4.2 percent from 4.6 percent, citing the earthquake in Japan
and turmoil in the Middle East.  Those events cut about $2.4 billion from this year’s global
ad expenditure, ZenithOptimedia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  