-- 
Putin’s Pre-Election Manifesto Challenges Medvedev, Weafer Says

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-21T08:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/putin-s-pre-election-manifesto-challenges-medvedev-weafer-says.html
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s call to avoid liberal “experiments” challenged President
Dmitry Medvedev before the 2012 election, said Chris Weafer, the
chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp.  Putin, 58, yesterday told lawmakers that  Russia  needs
decades of economic growth without “ill-thought-out” experiments
to become one of the world’s top five economies by 2020.
Medvedev last week said he is nearing decision on running for a
second term and called for a move beyond the achievements of the
last decade, which included Putin’s eight-year rule.  “We’ve had the manifestos for something like the U.S.
primaries,” Weafer said by phone yesterday. “Both men are
setting out their case why they should be the candidate. In the
end, I would expect only one will run.”  Putin, a former KGB agent elected president in 2000 and
2004, stepped down in 2008 because of a ban on serving more than
two consecutive terms, in favor of his hand-picked successor,
Medvedev. Neither has ruled out running for president in next
year’s elections, saying they will discuss the issue together
before making a decision.  Medvedev, who made fighting corruption and diversifying
Russia’s economy away from oil dependency the core of his
program, on April 2 instructed eight senior government officials
including Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , who has worked with
Putin for 20 years, to quit their jobs at state-owned companies
giving way to independent directors.  ‘Election Manifesto’  “Two weeks ago, we got Medvedev’s election manifesto,
basically setting out the steps to be taken” Weafer said. “We
had Putin’s response today. His steps will be more careful and
considered.”  Putin’s  speech , which called for “improving the quality of
the economy” by overhauling infrastructure, lessening
dependence on energy and spurring innovation, helped ease
investor concern that the two leaders represent opposing views
of Russia’s strategic development, Weafer said.  “Perhaps we simply have different views on methods and ways
to achieve prosperity” in Russia, Medvedev told China Central
Television April 12. “My course is modernization of the economy
and political life. We shouldn’t reject all the good we have
done over the past 20 years and especially over the last 10
years, but we have to look ahead.”  While the two leaders presented different ideas that
produce an “illusion” of ideological conflict, Putin’s speech
may help bolster Medvedev’s reputation as the more liberal
candidate before national elections, said Stanislav Belkovsky,
head of the Moscow-based Institute for National Strategy.  “It is important for the Kremlin to support the illusion
that they are different, Putin being conservative and a
supporter of stability while Medvedev is a democratic
modernizer,” Belkovsky said. “In this respect Putin helped
Medvedev because now liberals will band together around Medvedev
to avoid” Putin’s return.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net . 