-- 
Rajaratnam Prosecutors Live in ‘Make-Believe’ World, Dowd Says

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-22T04:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/rajaratnam-prosecutors-inhabit-imaginary-world-defense-says-in-closing.html
The lawyer for Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam accused U.S. prosecutors of living in
a “make-believe” and “imaginary world” where publicly
available information about pending deals “didn’t exist.”  John Dowd , in the second day of closing arguments at
Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial, yesterday took jurors in
Manhattan federal court through weeks of evidence to show that
his client wasn’t guilty of conspiracy or  securities fraud . His
recurring theme was that information the government claimed was
secret was actually public knowledge.  “It was public,” Dowd said repeatedly through an almost
5 1/2-hour summation. “You must acquit.”  Dowd, for instance, said Rajaratnam traded on information
about a pending takeover of ATI Technologies Inc. by  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  because  Hector Ruiz , the chief executive
officer of AMD at the time, had told Wall Street analysts about
it. Prosecutors say Rajaratnam was tipped by Anil Kumar, a
former partner at McKinsey & Co., where Sunnyvale, California-
based AMD was a client.  “Word had gotten around,” Dowd said. “Hector was talking
about it.”  Dowd’s summation came in the seventh week of a trial that
might send Rajaratnam, 53, to prison for 20 years in the biggest
U.S. crackdown on insider trading at  hedge funds . Rajaratnam is
accused of gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate
insiders and hedge-fund traders about a dozen stocks, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Clearwire Corp. and
Akamai Technologies Inc.  ‘Free Ride’  Unlike the April 20 summation by Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Reed Brodsky , who sometimes roamed the courtroom while arguing
in an impassioned tone, Dowd was more deliberate as he stood at
a podium reading a script. He was no less zealous.  Early on, he attacked the government’s claim that wiretaps
of conversations between Kumar and Rajaratnam showed Kumar
tipping Rajaratnam about upcoming job cuts at EBay Inc. Dowd
said the news had been widely reported before that in the media.  “This is a perfect example of why you can’t listen to
wiretaps in a vacuum,” Dowd said. “If Kumar couldn’t find the
size of the layoffs, he hadn’t read the newspaper.”  Dowd assailed Kumar and ex-Galleon trader  Adam Smith  as
liars who got a “free ride” from prosecutors in return for
testimony implicating Rajaratnam.  ‘Worst Liar’  Kumar lied to conceal his tax crimes and Smith fabricated
testimony so he wouldn’t be sent to prison for 25 years, Dowd
said. Of former Intel executive Rajiv Goel, another government
witness who pleaded guilty and cooperated, Dowd said he was
“the worst liar to ever take the stand in any courtroom in this
building.”  By the end of his argument, Dowd had taken jurors through
allegations that Rajaratnam got tips on about 20 stocks from
eight insiders, traders or others. He said that information was
either public or not material, that Galleon research backed
Rajaratnam’s trades or that jurors shouldn’t convict him because
government witnesses didn’t recall what they told Rajaratnam.  That Rajaratnam lost millions of dollars trading on AMD in
2008 undermined the claim that he had inside information, Dowd
said.  “This is probably the first  insider-trading  case in
history where the government says the defendant lost $67
million,” he said.  Loyal Director  Dowd reviewed a July 2008 recording of then-Goldman Sachs
board member  Rajat Gupta  telling Rajaratnam about deliberations
of the bank’s board. Rajaratnam, who was due to meet Goldman
Sachs president  Gary Cohn  in coming days, didn’t trade on the
information. Dowd said the recording was nothing more than Gupta
helping Rajaratnam prepare for an important meeting.  “It shows Gupta being a loyal and responsible director of
Goldman Sachs,” Dowd said.  Dowd reminded jurors that prosecutors didn’t call as
witnesses Gupta or other alleged sources of inside tips,
including ex-traders Danielle Chiesi and  Roomy Khan . Rajaratnam
is alleged to have conspired with the two women, both of whom
pleaded guilty to insider trading.  Dowd repeatedly assailed the government’s case, calling it
“make-believe,” a “leap of faith” and “desperate.” He
characterized wiretapped calls that jurors heard of Rajaratnam
and Chiesi as two portfolio managers talking.  ‘Nothing Wrong’  “Nothing wrong with it,” he said. “That happens every
day on  Wall Street .”  On rebuttal, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter told
jurors that Rajaratnam was the manager of a multibillion dollar
hedge fund and a graduate of a top U.S. business school, the
Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania . “Of course”
Rajaratnam knew it was illegal to trade on advance word of a
company’s earning, Streeter said.  The judge is likely to instruct jurors on the law on April
25, and jurors will then begin deliberating.  Rajaratnam is charged with five counts of conspiracy and
nine counts of securities fraud. The conspiracy counts each
carry a maximum five-year prison sentence and the fraud counts
each carry a maximum 20-year term.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  