-- 
Rajaratnam, S&P, Foreclosure Probe, Barclays in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-04-21T11:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/rajaratnam-s-p-foreclosure-probe-gunns-barclays-bt-in-court-news.html
Raj Rajaratnam corrupted friends
and employees of his hedge fund to “conquer”  Wall Street , a
prosecutor told jurors in his summation at the  insider-trading 
trial of the Galleon Group LLC co-founder.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky told jurors in
 Manhattan  federal court yesterday that Rajaratnam was guilty of
more than just insider trading: He was a corrupter of others.  From the outset of his remarks, Brodsky said Rajaratnam
“corrupted his friends and employees” to “get secret
information.” The goal was to get money and “conquer the stock
market at the expense of the law,” the prosecutor said.  Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of gaining $63.8 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about a
dozen stocks, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Intel Corp.,
Clearwire Corp. and Akamai Technologies Inc.  “Getting information that others didn’t have was very
valuable,” the prosecutor said. “It meant the defendant knew
tomorrow’s news today, and it meant big money for the
defendant’s fund and for himself.”  As he has throughout the trial, Rajaratnam sat quietly in a
second row of defense lawyers, his hands folded, while Brodsky
told jurors that government wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s
conversations were “devastating evidence of the defendant
committing crimes in real time.”  Rajaratnam, a Sri Lankan-born money manager, denies
wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research.  John Dowd , an attorney for the Sri Lankan-born money
manager, spent the first hour of his summation urging an
acquittal, accusing the government of “smearing” his client.
He repeatedly said the U.S. case was “a fiction.”  “The government is trying to make Galleon into something
it wasn’t,” Dowd said. “Rajaratnam worked hard for Galleon
investors.”  Jurors saw that Rajaratnam was hard-working, that Galleon’s
research operation was extensive and that Rajaratnam demanded
transparency at meetings where analysts defended investment
ideas, Dowd said. The lawyer assailed government witnesses for
their “unreliable” testimony and said prosecutors gave several
who pleaded guilty a “free pass” in return for their
testimony.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  S&P Can’t Be Sued in  Frankfurt  Over Lehman Ratings, Court Says  Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, a unit of McGraw-
Hill Cos., can’t be sued in Frankfurt over its ratings of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , a German court ruled.  A German pensioner seeking compensation for 30,000 euros
($43,500) he lost investing in Lehman certificates had his suit
turned away yesterday, Frankfurt court spokesman Arne Hasse said
in an interview, because the tribunal doesn’t have jurisdiction
to decide the case. The suit claimed S&P’s A+ rating for the
securities in May 2008 was misleading.  Rating companies have come under fire for their alleged
failure to foresee the financial crisis and for granting top
rankings to mortgage bonds that fell in value after home-loan
defaults. Investors brought cases in  Germany  after a U.S. court
ruled the ratings companies can’t be held liable because their
ratings are protected speech.  A different chamber of the Frankfurt court last month sent
another case against S&P to a Munich tribunal, saying that court
may have jurisdiction because the firm owns a trademark
registered with the German trademark office based in that city.  The judges in March rejected a similar suit against  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO)  saying the New York-based company couldn’t be sued in
Frankfurt. That case is now on appeal.  Yesterday’s case is LG Frankfurt, 2-13 O 111/10.  Oklahoma Seeks Its Own Accord With Banks on Foreclosures  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a critic of
proposed settlement terms from a 50-state foreclosure
investigation, is seeking an alternative accord with banks, his
office said.  Pruitt instructed his staff to work on a settlement that is
specific to Oklahoma’s concerns “while respecting the
appropriate role of  attorneys general ,” his office said in an
e-mailed statement.  “This alternative to the current proposed term sheet could
provide other states with a model to consider,” according to
the statement.  Pruitt is among at least eight Republican attorneys general
who have criticized a federal-state settlement proposal
submitted last month to five mortgage servicers, including  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  The 27-page document was offered to start
negotiations with banks as part of an investigation into
foreclosure and mortgage-servicing practices.  Besides Pruitt, attorneys general in  Florida ,  Texas ,
 Virginia , South Carolina,  Nebraska ,  Alabama  and  Georgia  have
criticized terms that call for a loan-modification program that
would reduce principal balances for borrowers.  In a March 16 letter to Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller,
Pruitt said forcing lenders to reduce mortgage balances would
take away incentives for banks to loan money and “destroy an
already devastated housing market.” Miller is leading the
negotiations for the states.  Pruitt wrote that the nationwide investigation by states
into foreclosure and servicing practices “has morphed into an
attempt to establish an overarching regulatory scheme that
fundamentally restructures the mortgage loan industry in the
 United States .”  Diane Clay, a spokeswoman for Pruitt, didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment. Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Wal-Mart Suit May Halt Fourfold Increase in Class-Action Deals  Amy Velez, a  Novartis AG (NOVN)  sales consultant, said she got a
smaller pay raise than male colleagues who couldn’t match her
performance marketing the drugmaker’s Ritalin for hyperactivity
and its antifungal medicine Lamisil.  Velez, who worked in the  Washington  area, sued and won a
$175 million U.S. settlement last year for thousands of women
employed by Novartis, contributing to a fourfold rise in the
value of the 10 biggest settlements from 2009. Employers are
seeking ways to head off such class-action cases and reverse the
trend.  Their hopes may reside with the U.S.  Supreme Court . Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., the world’s biggest retailer, is asking the
nation’s highest court to reject certifying as many as 1.5
million women on its payrolls as possible victims of
discrimination. A lower court granted class-action status to a
job-bias lawsuit against the company.  “If the Supreme Court rules with a draconian
interpretation and raises the bar for plaintiffs, it will spell
the end of class actions,”  David Sanford , a managing partner at
 Sanford Wittels & Heisler LLP  in Washington who represents
employees in such group cases, said in an interview.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Bank of America Corp. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are
among 20 businesses backing Wal-Mart at the Supreme Court. A
decision may be issued in late June or early July, before the
court recesses for the year.  The combined value of the top 10 class-action settlements
in cases not brought by government agencies reached $346 million
last year, up from $86 million in 2009, according to a study by
 Seyfarth Shaw LLP , which represents employers in class actions.
Among such suits last year, the largest settlements involved
race, age and sex discrimination, the Chicago-based firm said.  Novartis’s settlement last year of Velez’s suit, which said
the Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker discriminated against
5,600 sales representatives on pay and promotion, was among the
biggest payouts in an employment discrimination case, according
to the study. Novartis paid $152.5 million to members of the
class and lawyers and $22.5 million to improve employment
practices, according to court records.  Rachel Zabinski, a Novartis spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The costs of fighting class-action cases often prompt
employers to settle without regard to wrongdoing, said Matthew
Webb, senior vice president for the  U.S. Chamber Institute for
Legal Reform , an affiliate of the Chamber of Commerce in
Washington, the nation’s largest business lobbying group. The
cases can lead to endless requests from lawyers for information,
which tie up attorneys and drive up legal bills, he said in an
interview.  The case is Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, 10-277.  For more, click here.  NFL, Players Break From Talks Ahead of Judge’s Lockout Ruling  The  National Football League  and its players suspended
talks on a new labor accord for almost a month while they await
a federal judge’s ruling on a request to end the lockout.  Players’ and owners’ representatives met four times over
the past two weeks in  Minneapolis  with the mediator, Chief
Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan, under orders from U.S. District
Judge Susan Richard Nelson in St. Paul,  Minnesota .  “We’re going to be back here on May 16 to continue the
mediation,” James Quinn, outside counsel for the players, said
as he left yesterday’s meeting, according to video comments
posted on NFL.com. “Everybody believes that it was helpful.”  Jeff Pash , executive vice president and general counsel for
the league, said Boylan’s contributions are moving the sides
toward a conclusion.  “This was a valuable process. I don’t think a single
minute of it was wasted time,” Pash said on NFL.com. “We’ll be
back here ready to make a deal; that’s the only way we’re going
to solve this problem.”  Before the players and owners meet again, Nelson is
expected to rule on the players’ lawsuit to end the lockout.  Quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and Drew Brees led a
group of 10 NFL players who sued the league on March 11 after
negotiations on a new labor contract ended without agreement.
The players moved to decertify their union and owners declared a
lockout. Players claim the league’s policies violate U.S.
antitrust laws.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Gunns Sued by Shareholders Over 2010 Financial Disclosure  Gunns Ltd. (GNS) ,  Australia ’s biggest woodchip exporter, failed
to warn investors of a drop in profit in the first half of
fiscal 2010 as required by law, lawyers suing on behalf of about
300 shareholders said.  The investors lost millions of dollars after shares slumped
following the company’s announcement in February 2010 that
profit fell 99 percent to A$420,000 ($445,000), the law firm
 Maurice Blackburn  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement
announcing the lawsuit.  Gunns slumped 22 percent in Sydney trading on Feb. 22,
2010, following the release of first-half financial data, which
created concern among investors that the company wouldn’t be
able to expand. The shares had a further decline of as much as
15 percent on Feb. 26, 2010, sinking to a nine-year low.  “Investors expect listed companies and their officers to
fulfill disclosure obligations,” Jason Geisker, a senior
associate at Maurice Blackburn, said in the statement.  Matthew Horan, an outside spokesman for Launceston,
Tasmania-based Gunns, said the company will defend itself in
court.  The lawsuit, filed in Federal Court in Sydney, is being
financed by IMF (Australia) Ltd., the country’s biggest
litigation funder.  The suit was filed on behalf of shareholders who bought
stock between Aug. 31, 2009, and Feb. 19, 2010, Maurice
Blackburn said.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  U.K. Banks’ Loss on PPI Challenge May Cost Them $7.4 Billion  U.K. banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  may
face costs of as much as 4.5 billion pounds ($7.4 billion) after
losing a bid to stop the nation’s finance regulator from
imposing rules on customer compensation for improperly selling
loan insurance.  The  British Bankers’ Association  lost a court review
yesterday of the Financial Services Authority’s guidelines on
how lenders should handle consumer complaints over payment-
protection insurance.  The FSA imposing the guidelines would unlawfully require
banks to make compensation payments, the industry group said.
The agency has estimated the cost of implementing the proposals
to review past sales could cost firms 3.2 billion pounds, and
another 1.3 billion pounds for handling customer complaints, the
BBA said in court papers.  “We are disappointed with today’s judgment and now need to
consider the details of it very carefully as well as next steps
including whether it would be appropriate to apply for
permission to appeal,” the BBA said in  a statement on its
website .  PPI generates as much as 5.5 billion pounds in annual
revenue for U.K. banks, with about 6.5 million policies sold in
2006, the FSA has estimated. The insurance is used to cover
payments on credit cards and mortgages in case of illness or
unemployment. Customers who bought PPI rarely compared prices
and terms or switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they
could have purchased it from other companies, the U.K.’s
Competition Commission has said.  U.K. banks would face measures that apply retroactively to
past sales, which the BBA has said would go beyond the rules and
regulatory requirements that are already in place.  “The banks are right to object,” said Ash Saluja, a
lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna LLP in  London . “We should not
have a rulebook to which back-dated rules can effectively be
added in order to justify compensation.”  The FSA issued its guidelines in August and clarified them
in November after the BBA asked for a court review. Firms reject
more than half the PPI complaints they received, and “some
rejected almost all of them,” the FSA said in a statement
yesterday.  “There is no requirement to stop selling PPI, there is no
reputational damage to all sellers, it is only those whose sales
show systemic problems on their own analysis who have to take
remedial steps,” Judge Duncan Ouseley said in yesterday’s
ruling.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  may have the highest risk from the
ruling, owing as much as 1.5 billion pounds in compensation and
costs for improper PPI sales, Morgan Stanley analysts said in a
report in October.  The ruling’s “financial impact can only be assessed once
the legal proceedings have been finally determined,” Lloyds
said in a statement yesterday. It “could be material to the
group’s financial position.”  The case is The Queen on the Application of the British
Bankers Association v. Financial Services Authority, 10/10619,
 High Court  of Justice,  Administrative Court  (London).  For more, click here.  BT Loses Court Bid to Annul Parts of U.K. Online-Piracy Law  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , Britain’s largest fixed-line phone company,
and  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc (TALK)  lost a U.K. court bid to quash
parts of a digital-piracy law intended to curb illegal file
sharing of music, film and books.  The U.K. Digital Economy Act, which passed last year,
doesn’t violate European Union law, as the companies claimed, or
place unfair enforcement costs on Internet providers, Justice
Kenneth Parker ruled yesterday in the High Court in London.  “I cannot conclude from the evidence as a whole that the
scale of the likely costs” would “render disproportionate
legislation aimed at substantially strengthening the protection
of copyright material,” Parker said in the ruling.  The law was created to prevent unlawful downloading of
copyright material by requiring Internet service providers to
block some repeat offenders. BT and TalkTalk, which sought the
so-called judicial review last year, said enforcing the law
would cost “tens of millions of pounds in new systems and
processes” to monitor Internet users.  Citing its commitment to “tackling online piracy,” the
government “will set out the next steps for implementation of
the Digital Economy Act shortly,” the Department for Culture,
Media and Sport said in a statement yesterday.  BT and TalkTalk said they were reviewing yesterday’s ruling
and considering their options. TalkTalk said it may appeal the
decision.  For more, click here.  Mead Johnson Loses Bid to Cancel $13.5 Million Jury Verdict  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the baby-formula maker that
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  took public in February 2009, lost a
bid to overturn a $13.5 million jury verdict in a false-
advertising case over its product Enfamil.  A federal appeals court in Richmond, Virginia, yesterday
affirmed a 2009 finding that the Glenview, Illinois-based
company engaged in false advertising in a mailing to more than
1.5 million people that said “store brand” infant formula was
inferior to its  Enfamil LIPIL .  The suit was filed by PBM Products Inc., a unit of  Perrigo
Co. (PRGO)  that makes store brand infant formula. PBM, based in
Gordonsville, Virginia, sued Mead Johnson twice before over
advertising campaigns.  “As the litigation history of the parties demonstrates,
despite having twice been restrained from disseminating
misleading advertising, Mead Johnson continued to do so,”
Circuit Judge Andre Davis wrote. “PBM cannot fairly compete
with Mead Johnson unless and until Mead Johnson stops infecting
the marketplace with misleading advertising.”  Art Shannon, a spokesman for Perrigo, said, “We are very
pleased” with the ruling.  Christopher Perille, a Mead Johnson spokesman, said in an
e-mail that the company will comply with the court’s ruling.  “The case focused on a single direct mail piece, and the
statements that the district judge decided should be
discontinued have not been used for over a year,” Perille said.  The case is PBM Products LLC v. Mead Johnson & Co., 10-
1421,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 