-- 
Travelers Leads Dow Gainers as Profit Climbs 30%, Tops Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-21T14:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/travelers-profit-climbs-30-to-839-million-dividend-raised.html
Travelers Cos. climbed the most in
almost three months, posting the biggest gain in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , after reporting that first-quarter profit
rose 30 percent, exceeding analysts’ estimates.  The insurer advanced $1.82, or 3.1 percent, to $60.95 at
10:35 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Net
income climbed to $839 million, or $1.92 a share, from $647
million, or $1.25, a year earlier, the New York-based insurer
said today in a statement. Operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, was $1.89 a share, beating the $1.49 average
estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Travelers, led by Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, is
benefiting as commercial customers look to buy more insurance
after a decline tied to job cuts and plant closings. Policy
sales climbed 3.5 percent to $5.44 billion from $5.25 billion a
year earlier.  “Retention was up, we achieved pricing gains,” in the
insurer’s business segment, Fishman said in a conference call
today. “We are increasingly optimistic about our ability to
succeed in this regard, given the signs we see of a more
receptive environment.”  The insurer has climbed 9.4 percent this year in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, compared with the 7.6 percent
rise in the 30-company Dow Jones index.  Using data to gauge risk help Travelers pass along price
increases to some clients, while overall industry trends show a
decline in rates, Fishman said. About two-thirds of commercial
customers renewing in the quarter had rate increases, according
to a  presentation  on the insurer’s website.  Commercial Rates  The improving results in the business insurance segment are
“the result of active management and not the result of a rising
tide lifting all boats,” Fishman said on the call.  U.S. commercial insurance rates fell 5.4 percent in the
fourth quarter industrywide, the Council of Insurance Agents &
Brokers said in a January statement. The group has yet to
release first-quarter data.  Travelers benefits from its “product mix, heavy in small
commercial and personal lines,” rather than large national
accounts, Larry Greenberg, an analyst with Janney Capital
Markets, said in a note to clients today. He has a “buy”
recommendation on the company’s shares.  Catastrophes cost the company $186 million before taxes in
the three months ended March 31, compared with $471 million a
year earlier, when the insurer booked losses on a Chilean
earthquake. Travelers earned 5.3 cents per each premium dollar
in the quarter, compared with 3.6 cents a year earlier.  The insurer’s book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, rose 2.5 percent to $59.91 per share from $58.47 at
the end of last year.  Dividend Increased  Travelers, which maintained its dividend through the
financial crisis, increased its quarterly payout to 41 cents a
share from 36 cents. That compares with a forecast of 38 cents a
share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Quarterly results included a gain of about $100 million on
the resolution of a prior-year tax matter. Pulling funds from
reserves contributed $155 million to earnings, after the company
determined it set aside more than necessary for claims from
policies sold in prior years. That compares with a gain of $192
million a year earlier.  Municipal Bonds  Net investment income, including coupons on bonds, climbed
2 percent to $622 million. Gains from alternative investments,
including private-equity funds, real-estate partnerships and
 hedge funds , advanced to $92 million from $44 million. Income
from fixed-income investments declined.  Fishman, 58, helped Travelers maintain profits through the
credit crisis and recession by putting fixed-income investments
in municipal bonds and avoiding losses on mortgage-backed
securities that hobbled rivals including American International
Group Inc. The insurer held about $38.9 billion of state and
local debt as of March 31 compared with $39.5 billion at year-
end, according to regulatory filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut@bloomberg.net . 