-- 
RBA's Stevens Got $252,000 Pay Rise Amid Global Crisis, Documents Show

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-21T15:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/rba-s-stevens-received-a-234-000-pay-increase-at-height-of-global-crisis.html
A pay increase of A$234,000
($252,000) at the height of the global financial crisis made
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens one of the
world’s highly-compensated central bankers.  The raise was agreed on by the bank’s board in October 2008
following a review by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the ending of
performance bonuses, according to  correspondence  between the
central bank and Treasurer’s office obtained by Bloomberg News
under a Freedom of Information request.  Stevens’s 2010 total compensation was A$1.05 million, with
an A$805,000 base salary that was 61 percent more than European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet’s and four times that
of Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . Stevens was one of
seven central bank chiefs from around the world to receive an
‘A’ grade in a September 2009 Global Finance Magazine
 survey  for navigating their economies through the world’s worst
financial crisis since the 1930s.  “Given the national significance of the governor’s
position, the Board’s Remuneration Committee, and the board
itself, discharges its responsibilities in this area in a
disciplined manner,” Donald McGauchie, chairman of the
remuneration committee and a member of the board until last
month, wrote to Treasurer  Wayne Swan  explaining the decision.  Trichet, Shirakawa  Spokesmen in the Reserve Bank and Treasurer’s office
declined to comment on the correspondence when contacted by
Bloomberg News yesterday. Australian offices and markets are
closed for the Easter holiday today.  Trichet was paid 367,863 euros ($537,300) last year, 2
percent more than his 2009 salary, according to the ECB’s annual
accounts published in March. Bernanke earned $199,700, while
Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s salary, at 34.4
million yen ($419,410) for the year to March 31, fell 1.5
percent from a year earlier.  Remuneration for Japan’s central bank governor has declined
10.8 percent over the past 10 years as the country grappled with
deflation.  Stevens’s salary still trails that of Hong Kong Monetary
Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan , who earned HK$7.5 million
($965,000), plus HK$868,000 in benefits last year, according to
the HKMA’s annual report published yesterday.  Australia was one of the few economies to skirt the global
recession as Stevens slashed the overnight cash rate target to a
50-year low of 3 percent. As the economy rebounded, he raised
rates in seven quarter-percentage-point steps from October 2009
to November last year to 4.75 percent, the highest in the
developed world.  Surpassing Gillard  The Reserve Bank forecasts Australia’s economy will expand
4.25 percent this year, driven by a mining investment boom and
record job growth that helped spur the nation’s currency to the
highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  “The Australian economy overall has performed very well,”
said Edwin Truman, a former director of the Fed’s international-
finance division. “It was only mildly affected by the crisis.”
The central bank “moved quite aggressively quite early in terms
of liquidity support,” he said.  While central bank salaries “can be a political issue like
everybody else’s in the financial sector,” the pay increase may
be difficult to roll back for Stevens’ successors, said Truman,
who’s now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington . “It’s hard for someone
to say ‘I’m not worth that much,’” Truman said.  Stevens’s salary is more than double that of Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s base pay of A$355,264. In correspondence with
McGauchie, Swan suggested the governor’s remuneration was too
high.  In a letter dated Sept. 15, 2010, Swan said that in the
future the Reserve Bank’s Remuneration Committee should
“discharge its powers with an emphasis on ensuring that
salaries are adjusted to be in line with community expectations
of senior officials’ remuneration.”  Swan, in the letter, also said he was advised of the
October 2008 decision to increase the governor’s salary in
September 2009, “nearly one year after” the move.  Correspondence  The correspondence also included a letter to Swan from
Jillian Broadbent, a central bank board member on the
remuneration committee, expressing “serious concerns about the
possibility that responsibility for the remuneration of senior
officers of the Reserve Bank be moved away from the bank’s
board.”  She said the current practice, adopted to address the acute
staffing difficulties that the bank experienced in the 1980s as
personnel were lured by higher-paying jobs in the finance
industry, worked “very well” since it was established by then-
Treasurer Paul Keating.  Under that framework, it recognized that the relevant
comparisons for Reserve Bank remuneration aren’t mainstream
government agencies but government business enterprises and
other financial institutions.  “Attracting and retaining top financial talent into
government in Sydney is a challenge,” she wrote in the letter
dated Sept. 17, 2010. “Salary levels and the quality of the
bank’s officers are interdependent.”  Swan, in a press conference earlier this month, said he
understood community concern related to the governor’s salary,
describing the issue as a “matter that’s before the
government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  