-- 
Treasuries Pare Advance After $14 Billion U.S. Auction of Five-Year TIPS

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-04-21T15:49:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/treasuries-pare-advance-after-14-billion-u-s-auction-of-five-year-tips.html
Treasuries pared gains after a
record sale of $14 billion of five-year inflation-indexed
securities drew a negative yield for a second straight offering.  The auction of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities drew
a yield of negative 0.180 percent, compared with the forecast of
negative 0.1825 percent in a survey of 6 primary dealers. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing the amount
bid with the amount offered, was 2.57, versus 2.84 at the last
offering and 3.15 at the one before that. The U.S. said it will
sell $99 billion next week of two-, five- and seven-year notes.  “The auction didn’t go as well as many expected, as the
bid-to-cover is on the low side compared to recent history,”
said Sergey Bondarchuk, an interest-rate strategist in  New York 
at BNP Paribas SA, one of 20 primary dealers are obligated to
bid at Treasury debt sales. “Data surprised to the downside,
which is keeping the market bid, but it’s a short day with low
liquidity.”  Ten-year note yields fell three basis points to 3.38
percent at 11:48 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. Five-year note yields slipped one basis point to
2.10 percent.  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 39.5 percent of the securities of
the sale, compared with the average for the past 10 auctions of
34.2 percent. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that
place their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 2.70
percent of the securities, versus an average of 2.72 percent at
the past 10 offerings.  Negative Yield  That last sale of the notes, on Oct. 25, drew a negative
yield for the first time at a U.S. debt auction as investors bet
the  Federal Reserve  stimulus efforts would be successful in
sparking demand. The yield was negative 0.55 percent.  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the  consumer
price index , in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.
The difference between is known as the break-even rate.  Treasuries rose earlier as a gauge of manufacturing in the
Philadelphia area dropped more than forecast and initial claims
for jobless benefits fell less than predicted, bolstering
speculation the recovery is faltering.  The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index tumbled to
18.5 in April, the lowest since November, from 43.4 the prior
month, which was the highest level since 1984.  ‘High Hurdle’  “The Philadelphia Fed is another indication that that  U.S.
economy  is succumbing to some of the high hurdles it faces going
forward,” said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12 billion as
head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private
Wealth Management unit in New York. “Bonds are reacting
positively.”  Jobless claims decreased by 13,000 to 403,000 in the week
ended April 16, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists projected a decline to 390,000, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The number of
people on unemployment benefit rolls and those receiving
extended payments declined.  The government will sell $35 billion in two-year notes, $35
billion in five-year debt and $29 billion in seven-year
securities at auctions next week. The sizes of the trio of
offerings have been unchanged since October, and matched the
average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of nine of the
Federal Reserve’s 20 primary dealers.  Trading  of U.S. government bonds will close at 2 p.m. in
New York and stay shut tomorrow for the Good Friday holiday,
under a Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommendation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  