-- 
Treasury Five-Year Yields Approach Week’s High Before Jobs Data

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-21T11:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/treasuries-hold-loss-on-speculation-leading-economic-indicators-increased.html
Treasury five-year note yields rose
to almost the highest level this week before a government report
forecast by economists to show initial claims for jobless
benefits dropped last week.  The yields headed for their first back-to-back gains since
April 11 as advances in stocks and company bonds sapped demand
for the relative safety of government debt. The U.S. plans to
sell $14 billion of five-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities today and is due to announce the size of three note
auctions scheduled for next week.  “The macro data looks reasonably firm, on a sustainable
path to recovery, and we’re seeing some success stories on the
corporate side as well,” said  Orlando Green , a strategist at
Credit Agricole SA in  London . “The trend for yields should
continue to be on the upside.”  Yields on five-year notes increased two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 2.13 percent at 7:21 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.25 percent note
maturing in March 2016 fell 2/32 or 63 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 17/32.  Five-year notes yields touched the week’s high of 2.14
percent on April 18. Ten-year notes yields were little changed
at 3.41 percent after rising five basis points yesterday, the
most since April 6. Two-year note yields climbed two basis
points to 0.68 percent.  Jobless Claims  Initial claims for jobless benefits fell to 390,000 last
week from 412,000 in the prior week, according to the median
forecast of 47 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The report
from the Labor Department is due at 8:30 a.m.  New York  time.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.3 percent in March after a 0.8
percent gain in the previous month, according to the median
forecast in a separate Bloomberg News survey.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose for a second day
gaining 1.2 percent. Gold climbed to a record high $1,508.88 a
barrel as investors sought an inflation hedge. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index climbed 0.4 percent, while futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.7 percent.  Apple Inc. reported yesterday profit that almost doubled as
demand for iPhones and Mac computers increased. Qualcomm Inc.
cited better-than-estimated profit and sales.  Treasury losses will likely push the 10-year note yield to
about 4 percent by year-end, according to Green. The yield will
rise to 3.90 percent by the end of December and reach 4.10
percent in the first quarter of 2012, according to the average
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, with the most
recent forecasts given the highest weightings.  Corporate Bonds  U.S. corporate bonds have returned 0.9 percent this month,
compared with 0.5 percent for Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Volatility in the Treasury market has fallen to an
eight-month low, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Move index. The gauge, measuring price swings based on over-the-
counter options due in two to 30 years, slid yesterday to 77.4,
the lowest level since Aug. 11.  Trading  of U.S. government bonds will close at 2 p.m. in
New York and stay shut tomorrow for Good Friday, according to
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.  Treasuries were headed for a monthly gain as some investors
said U.S. efforts to cut spending will hurt the economy.
 Standard & Poor’s  put on April 18 a negative outlook for its
top-level AAA ranking on the U.S., citing rising spending.  Fed Rate Outlook  The likelihood policy makers will raise borrowing costs at
their March meeting decreased to 48 percent from 55 percent a
week ago, federal funds futures contracts showed. The central
bank has kept its target rate for overnight lending in a range
of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Investors bid for 2.84 times the amount of five-year TIPS
offered on Oct. 25, versus the average of 2.50 for the past 10
auctions. Indirect bidders, the group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 39.4 percent of the debt.  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the  consumer
price index , in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.  The government sales next week will consist of $35 billion
in two-year notes, $35 billion in five-year debt and $29 billion
in seven-year securities, according to the average forecast of
nine primary dealers surveyed by Bloomberg News. The 20 primary
dealers underwrite  U.S. debt .  The difference between yields on five-year notes and TIPS,
a gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt known as the break-even rate, widened to 2.38
percentage points from 1.49 percentage points six month ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at  at
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  