-- 
Record Five-Year TIPS Sale May Draw Yield of Minus 0.1825%, Survey Shows

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-21T15:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/record-five-year-tips-sale-may-draw-yield-of-minus-0-1825-survey-shows.html
The government’s sale of $14
billion of five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities,
may draw a yield of negative 0.1825 percent, according to the
average forecast of 6 of the  Federal Reserve ’s 20 primary
dealers in a Bloomberg News survey.  The size of the auction is a record for U.S. inflation-
linked offerings. Bids for the securities, which mature in April
2016, are due by 11:30 a.m. New York time.  That last sale of the notes, on Oct. 25, drew a negative
yield for the first time at a U.S. debt auction as investors bet
the Federal Reserve would be successful in sparking demand. The
yield was negative 0.55 percent.  Holders of TIPS receive an adjustment to the principal
value of their securities equal to the change in the  consumer
price index , in addition to a fixed rate of interest that’s
smaller than the interest paid to a holder of conventional debt.
The difference between is known as the break-even rate.  The fixed payment on five-year TIPS, known as the real
yield, was pushed below zero because the rise in the CPI was
greater than the yield on regular five-year U.S. notes, which
had fallen with other Treasury yields as investors sought the
safety of  U.S. government debt .  The October auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was
2.84, versus an average of 2.5 over the past 10 offerings.  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 39.4 percent of the securities at
the last sale. The average for the past 10 offerings is 3.42
percent. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 3.2 percent of
the securities at the last sale, versus 2.72 percent at the past
10 offerings.  Primary dealers trade  government securities  with the Fed
and are obligated to participate in Treasury auctions.  The auction today is the Treasury’s only sale of notes or
bonds this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  