-- 
Reliance Misses Estimates for Fifth Quarter in Six on Drop in Gas Output

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-04-21T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/reliance-industries-misses-earnings-estimates-for-fifth-quarter-in-six.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
biggest company by market value, missed analysts’ earnings
estimates for the fifth time in six quarters after natural gas
production from the nation’s biggest deposit declined.  Net income in the three months ended March 31 rose 14
percent to 53.8 billion rupees ($1.2 billion), or 16.40 rupees a
share, from 47.1 billion rupees, or 14.40 rupees, a year earlier,
the Mumbai-based company said in a statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange yesterday. The average estimate of 18 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was 54.3 billion rupees.  Output of gas from the KG-D6 field declined because of
falling pressure, eroding higher earnings from refining driven
by a 20 percent surge in average crude prices in the quarter
from a year earlier. The slowest profit growth in six quarters
may constrain billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani ’s plans to
invest in telecommunications, power generation and hotels.  “Gas production continues to be the major overhang on
earnings,” P. Phani Sekhar, a  fund manager  at Angel Broking Ltd.
in  Mumbai , which owns Reliance shares, said before the results
were announced. “Investors are looking for clear 20 percent
growth in profit for at least four quarters and that is not
there now. The shares will continue to remain at this level.”  Reliance rose 1.4 percent to 1,040.60 rupees at close in
Mumbai yesterday, giving the company a market value of about $77
billion. The stock has declined 1.3 percent in the past year
compared with a 12 percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive
Index. The earnings were announced after the market closed.  Government Not Satisfied  Reliance is producing 50 million cubic meters a day of gas
compared with a target of 69.8 million cubic meters, S.K.
Srivastava, director general at India’s oil regulator, told
reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday. The government isn’t satisfied
with Reliance’s explanation for the decline, he said, without
elaborating.  Production fell from 60 million cubic meters a day because
of declining pressure at the reservoir, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said April 11.  Pretax profit from selling crude oil and gas declined 8
percent to 15.7 billion rupees in the three months ended March
31, Reliance said in an e-mailed statement. Ambani roped in BP
Plc as a partner to help increase gas production, which has
trailed targets and hurt profit.  BP as Partner  BP agreed in February to pay $7.2 billion for a 30 percent
interest in 23 blocks in  India  from Reliance and to form a
venture to market gas. The deal size may increase to $20 billion
with future performance payments and investment. BP’s investment
will accelerate development and production from Reliance’s
fields in India, Ambani said Feb. 22.  Reliance had outstanding debt of 674 billion rupees as of
March 31 and cash and equivalents of 423.9 billion rupees, the
company said.  Pretax profit from refining rose 26 percent to 25.1 billion
rupees in the quarter, according to the statement. The recovery
from the 2009 global recession spurred demand for fuel and
helped to increase refining margins.  Reliance’s two adjacent refineries at Jamnagar in the
western state of Gujarat, the largest such complex in the world,
earned $9.20 on every barrel of crude oil turned into fuels
compared with $7.50 barrel a year earlier, according to the
statement. The plants, which can process a combined 1.24 million
barrels a day of crude, produce gasoline, diesel and naphtha,
which are exported to the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  The refiner processed 16.7 million metric tons of crude oil
in the quarter, unchanged from a year earlier.  Heavy Grades  Reliance buys heavy grades of crude oil, which are cheaper
than lighter varieties, and turns them into high-quality
products including gasoline and diesel. A wider difference
between heavy and light grades of crude oil helps Reliance
increase its refining margins.  The difference between light Brent crude oil and heavier
Dubai oil averaged $4.9 a barrel in the three months ended March
31, more than three times the level a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread reached $7.22 a barrel on
April 11, the highest in 30 months.  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , the operator of India’s second-largest non-
state, crude-oil refinery, earned $8.15 on every barrel
processed in the quarter compared with $5.37 a year earlier,
according to an April 11 statement.  Crude oil in  New York  has climbed 22 percent this year to
$111.75 a barrel. It rose 20 percent to an average of $94.6 a
barrel in the three months ended March 31 from a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg data.  Reliance, which has interests in retail chain stores and
chemicals, has bought stakes in a broadband provider, a cargo
airline and a hotel chain to diversify the risks of investing
primarily in the oil and gas business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  