-- 
U.K. Retail Sales Unexpectedly Increased in March on Food

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-21T10:53:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/retail-sales-in-u-k-unexpectedly-advance-0-2-buoyed-by-spending-on-food.html
U.K. retail sales unexpectedly rose
in March as the biggest jump in spending on food in 10 months
outweighed a decline at other shops.  Sales climbed 0.2 percent from February, when they dropped
0.9 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.5 percent decline. From a year earlier, sales
increased by 1.3 percent.  The report suggests a surge in commodity prices and
inflation that’s double the central bank’s 2 percent target has
yet to dent shoppers’ spending at a time when they face a
government budget squeeze. The  Bank of England  kept its
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent this
month and minutes of the meeting show officials saw risks that
an increase to tame price gains could hurt confidence.  “The figures show pretty slow unexciting growth, but
growth nonetheless,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . “It’s relatively encouraging for
the Bank of  England , and they’ll take some comfort from signs
the consumer is returning to more stable though muted growth.”  The pound rose 0.5 percent against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.6562 as of 11:26 a.m. in London. The
yield on the benchmark two-year government bond was up 1 basis
point today at 1.157 percent.  Food Stores  Sales at food stores rose 0.7 percent on the month and were
down 1 percent on the year. A 12.3 percent increase from
February at small stores, which employ less than 100 people,
offset a 3.1 percent drop in non-specialized food stores such as
supermarkets.  Excluding fuel, sales rose 0.2 percent in March from the
previous month and were 0.9 percent up on the year, the
statistics office said.  Three members of the Monetary Policy Committee voted at the
April 7 meeting to raise the key interest rate. Inflation was at
4 percent in March and the bank sees a “significant risk” that
it may climb above 5 percent.  The majority of the MPC saw a risk that an increase in
borrowing costs could undermine the economic recovery. A
Nationwide Building Society index of  consumer confidence  climbed
to 44 in March from to a record low of 39 the previous month.  Confidence Concern  “An increase in  bank rate  in current circumstances could
adversely affect consumer confidence, leading to an exaggerated
impact on spending,” the minutes said. It is too soon to say
“whether the weakness in the contemporary indicators of
household spending heralded a more protracted weakness in
consumption growth.”  Economists at  Barclays Capital  including  Simon Hayes , its
chief U.K. economist, cut their forecast today for growth in
British gross domestic product in the first quarter to reflect
“both subdued retail sales data” and “more general anecdotal
evidence of weak consumer demand.”  Barclays now forecasts growth of 0.5 percent from the final
three months of 2010, down from an earlier prediction of 0.7
percent. The statistics office publishes the data on April 27.  The bank’s next decision is May 5, when policy makers will
have new quarterly inflation forecasts and a preliminary
estimate of first-quarter growth. Ten of 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey say the bank will raise the key rate a
quarter point from the record low of 0.5 percent in the second
quarter. The remainder forecast no change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  