-- 
Roche’s Genentech Unit Sues Apotex Claiming Valcyte Patent Infringement

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-05-18T01:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/roche-s-genentech-sues-novartis-unit-claiming-infringement-of-valcyte-drug.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s  Genentech  unit
sued Apotex Inc. for planning to sell a generic version of
Valcyte, which treats a virus that afflicts transplant patients
and people with AIDS, before Genentech’s patent for the drug
expires.  Apotex, based in Toronto, told Genentech on April 6 that it
had applied for approval from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to make a generic of Valcyte, according to the
complaint filed today in federal court in  San Francisco .  Genentech, based in South San Francisco,  California , said
the plan to market the generic will cause “massive
infringement” of its patent covering the drug. Genentech seeks
a court order declaring that the Apotex generic is a patent-
infringing drug, blocking the FDA from approving it until
Genentech’s patent expires in 2015 and barring Apotex from
engaging in commercial activity that would infringe the
Genentech patent.  Genentech last month filed a suit based on similar claims
against Sandoz Inc., a unit of Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis
AG. (NOVN)   Roche has sued other drug manufacturers over generic copies
of Valcyte. The company settled a lawsuit with Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. last year with Ranbaxy agreeing to sell its
generic copy of Valcyte in 2013, two years before a patent
expires, Basel-based Roche said in an August statement.  Elie Betito, an Apotex spokesman, said the company hadn’t
reviewed the complaint and had no immediate comment.  The case is Genentech Inc. v. Apotex Inc., 11-2410, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  