-- 
Roger Clemens Can’t Get Congressional Steroid Probe Documents, Judge Rules

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-21T22:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/roger-clemens-can-t-get-congressional-steroid-probe-documents-judge-rules.html
Former New York Yankees pitcher
 Roger Clemens  lost a bid to get documents from U.S. lawmakers
that he argued he needs to defend himself against perjury and
obstruction charges.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington today
dismissed a subpoena Clemens issued to a House of
Representatives panel seeking materials that formed the basis of
congressional hearings on steroid use in  Major League Baseball .  Ruling from the bench, Walton said the information Clemens
wanted from the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform was
exempt from disclosure because it fell within the sphere of
legitimate legislative actions.  “There was a legitimate purpose for conducting hearings,”
Walton said. “The use of steroids is a legitimate concern given
Major League athletes are people our youth look up to.”  Clemens asked the committee to turn over interview
summaries, notes, memorandums and all communications between
committee staff and witnesses related to the February 2008
hearing on steroids. The subpoena covered 20 people, including
former baseball players Jose Canseco, Andrew Pettitte and Chuck Knoblauch.  Walton, during a three-hour hearing, ruled that the
 Washington  law firm, DLA Piper LLP, which Major League Baseball
hired to investigate steroid use, must give him about 20
documents. Walton said he will then decide whether the
documents, including handwritten notes of witness interviews,
are protected by attorney confidentiality rules.  Mitchell Report  The steroid report, published in 2007, was written by
former U.S. Senator George Mitchell, who was a partner at
Chicago-based DLA Piper at the time.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, argued the materials
being held by DLA Piper may contain information critical to his
client’s defense. Hardin said the entire defense theory is that
government witness Brian McNamee, Clemens’s former trainer, lied
to Congress and to prosecutors.  “ Brian McNamee  is conning everybody and has been from the
beginning,” Hardin said.  Earlier in the hearing, which Clemens didn’t attend,
Hardin said he was withdrawing Clemens’s motion to dismiss the
indictment.  Hardin said he and prosecutors had agreed on how to handle
Clemens’s concerns over some of information in the indictment.
Walton said Hardin could refile the motion later if needed.  August Indictment  Clemens, 48, was indicted in August on one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury. Clemens, who
also played for the  Boston Red Sox , Toronto Blue Jays and
 Houston Astros  over a 24-year Major League Baseball career, has
pleaded not guilty.  If convicted on all charges, Clemens faces a $1.5 million
fine and as long as 30 years in prison. Jury selection is
scheduled to begin July 6.  In a Dec. 8 order, Walton gave Clemens’s lawyers the
authority to issue subpoenas to third parties, including
Congress.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  