-- 
Romania May Use Stronger Leu to Contain Prices, World Bank Official Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-04-21T09:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/romania-may-use-stronger-leu-to-contain-prices-world-bank-official-says.html
Romania’s central bank may allow
its currency strengthen to help bring the inflation rate within
its target this year, the  World Bank ’s economist to the country
said.  The bank, which is fighting accelerating inflation stemming
from higher global fuel and food costs, may use a stronger leu
to contain prices as economic growth picks up, Catalin Pauna
said in an April 19 interview.  Romania, which is trying to restart growth after two years
of recession, is also seeking to lower the European Union’s
highest inflation rate of 8 percent in March that sprang from a
government tax increase and rising prices worldwide. The Banca
Nationala a Romaniei left its benchmark rate unchanged at a
record-low 6.25 percent on March 31 for a seventh meeting in a
row and cut foreign-exchange reserve requirements by 5
percentage points to 20 percent, leaving commercial banks more
money to lend to spur the recession-hit economy.  “Bringing the inflation rate inside the central’s bank
target this year will be a challenge and will require
appropriate means of policies to deliver it,” Pauna said,
speaking in Bucharest. “The bank could resort to using
exchange-rate policy. There is a clear impact on inflation from
the appreciation of the leu, and it’s pretty rapid.”  Inflation Target  Romania ’s leu, Eastern Europe’s third-best performer this
year, after the Hungarian forint and Serbian dinar, gained 4.75
percent because of an improved economic outlook and after the
central bank signaled it may allow further gains in an attempt
to damp inflation. The leu traded down 0.15 percent to the euro
at 4.0908 as of 11:47 a.m. in Bucharest.  The central bank, which targeted an inflation rate between
2.5 percent and 4.5 percent last year and 2 percent to 4 percent
this year, may raise its outlook for this year to as much as 5
percent from the current 3.6 percent, Adrian Vasilescu, an
adviser to Governor Mugur Isarescu, said on April 12. The rate
will probably “come down substantially” in the second half of
the year, Pauna said.  “My personal expectation is that there will be pressures
toward appreciation of the currency as the economy improves,”
Pauna said.  Romania’s economy, mired in a two-year contraction, is
poised to recover this year and grow 1.5 percent, according to
 International Monetary Fund  and government forecasts. It posted
a smaller annual decline than expected in the fourth quarter and
0.1 percent quarterly growth, bolstering forecasts that growing
exports and industrial production will end the slump this year.  Foreign direct investment in the Balkan nation may exceed
last year’s volume of 3.6 billion euros ($5 billion) on improved
investor sentiment, according to Pauna. Foreign investments more
than doubled in the first two months of the year to 294 million
euros from 140 million euros in the same period of 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  