-- 
Roughead Says ‘Fragile’ Ship Base Must Be Factored in Review

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-04-21T18:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/roughead-says-fragile-ship-base-must-be-factored-in-review.html
The Pentagon’s comprehensive
review, which will include the U.S. Navy’s vessel procurement
budget,  must consider the “fragile” status of the nation’s
shipbuilding industrial base, according to the chief of naval
operations.  “The industrial base is really a strategic asset,”
Admiral  Gary Roughead  told Bloomberg TV. The Pentagon is
reviewing its future spending after President  Barack Obama  last
week announced his plan to reduce the national debt.  “That has to be part of our calculus as we make
decisions,” he said. “The industrial base today, particularly
as it applies to shipbuilding, is probably as fragile as it has
ever been.”  Roughead’s remarks on TV and separately to Bloomberg
reporters and editors foreshadow some of the arguments he will
likely make to protect his service’s interests during the review
process.  President Barack Obama on April 13 proposed cutting $400
billion from the national security budget through the 2023
fiscal year. The goal extends cuts beyond the $78 billion
through 2016 proposed in January by Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  at White House direction.  Reassessing programs is “only a piece” of what Pentagon
officials will be examining, the department’s undersecretary for
acquisitions,  Ashton Carter , said yesterday. The review will
cover the roles and missions of the U.S. military services and
the force structure and capabilities required to accomplish
those missions, he said.  Shipbuilding Budget  The Navy’s current 2011-2016 shipbuilding budget  plan  calls
for spending $74.7 billion to buy 55 vessels, including $14
billion in fiscal 2012, increasing to almost $17 billion in
2015.  The largest quantity of ships is 19 for the Littoral Combat
Ship. Two teams led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  are
designing and building respective LCS versions. The first two
vessels have been commissioned into the Navy. Six others are
under contract.  “We have a fairly lean shipbuilding plan and, as we make
our decisions, we have to make those with an eye toward what is
the health of that industry because that’s what gives us the
capabilities” the nation needs, Roughead said.  “It’s not so much the big guys, but it’s the second and
third-tier industries -- who’s making the valves, the solenoids
-- because when you go aboard one of our ships it is a
collection of things that come from all over the country,”
Roughead said.  ‘Pressures Are On Us’  Roughead, asked if he was surprised at the president’s goal
for spending cuts, said “the pressures are on us.”  “There is no question the economic issues of the country
have to be addressed but it is important we look at it from the
standpoint of what does this nation want” the Navy to do, he
said.  The role of aircraft carriers in prior defense budget
reviews has often come into question “but my sense is that,
given what we have been doing with aircraft carriers lately, I’m
not getting the same questioning attitude ‘are these ‘relevant,’
” he said.  Roughead cited the operation of two carriers in the Middle
East region providing 30 percent of the airstrikes in
 Afghanistan  as an example.  Separately, Roughead said he’s not “surprised” that
China’s naval capabilities are “progressing faster than most
would think.”  China Threat  The U.S. Navy is continually assessing and observing
Chinese naval capabilities to potentially deny the U.S. regional
access, Roughead said.  The Navy is seeking to develop directed-energy technology
to complement ballistic and cruise missile defenses.  “Warfare is going to get faster and faster and if you try
to do everything kinetically -- you know, the bullet on bullet
analogy -- we are getting up in that area of the curve where
improvements in performance are going to cost a lot of money,”
he said.  Asked about the threat posed by  China ’s anti-ship DF-21
missile to U.S. aircraft carriers, Roughead said that the ships’
maneuvers could make them harder to target.  “I can tell you today exactly what the coordinates are for
each land base anywhere in the world,” said Roughead. Aircraft
carriers “won’t be in the same place tomorrow,” he said.  The Chinese military’s non-nuclear missiles can pose a
threat to U.S. bases in the Pacific region and the U.S. needs to
focus on “hardening” those bases and employ its ballistic
missile defenses, he said.  The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission
found last year that the Chinese missiles can attack and close
down five of six major U.S. Air Force bases in  South Korea  and
 Japan .  To contact the reporters on this story: Tony Capaccio in
Washington at   acapaccio@bloomberg.net   Peter
Cook  in Washington at   pcook6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  