-- 
Saab Auto Looks for White Knight a Year After Spyker Sale

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-21T10:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/saab-auto-looks-for-white-knight-a-year-after-spyker-sale-1-.html
Drew Price, a 24-year-old mechanic
who runs the  Los Angeles Saab Club , celebrated the Swedish
carmaker’s sale to  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR)  last year by getting a tattoo.  He had an airplane with oversized propellers -- Saab’s  logo 
for its classic Sonett and 96 models made in the 1950s and 1960s
-- inked on his right arm.  Price’s enthusiasm may have been premature. A little more
than a year after  General Motors Co. (GM)  sold the brand, Saab is
again fighting for survival,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in
its April 25 issue. Starved of cash, it’s been forced to halt
production and is trying to raise funds in a transaction
involving the Swedish government, the European Union, GM and
Russian billionaire  Vladimir Antonov .  “I’d be crushed” if Saab doesn’t make it this time, said
Price, who owns seven of its cars.  Saab’s Trollhaettan factory in southwest  Sweden  has been
idle all bar a few days since March 29 after some suppliers
halted shipments and demanded payment. Saab owes at least 300
million kronor ($48.9 million) to suppliers, estimates FKG, a
trade group representing Swedish auto suppliers.  The man who says he can get Saab back in gear is Antonov, a
35-year-old Russian banker with deep pockets and a love of fast
cars. A former Spyker chairman, he was forced to sell his
roughly 30 percent share of Spyker as part of the GM agreement.  Tenaci Capital, a company controlled by Spyker Chief
Executive Officer Victor Muller, eventually bought Antonov’s
stake. The Russian banker wasn’t out of the picture for long.  Supercar Sale  In February, he agreed to pay up to 32 million euros ($46.4
million) for Spyker’s luxury sports car business, which produces
the C8 Aileron and other supercar models that sell for more than
$200,000. The Dutch company at that time said the deal would
provide it with more money to concentrate on reviving Saab.  Before he can put up at least 50 million euros for as much
as 30 percent of Saab, Antonov must win approval to invest in
the company from GM, the Swedish government, the country’s debt
office and the  European Investment Bank . All have deals, debt
agreements, guarantees or loans outstanding with Saab that give
them a say in its future. Thousands of jobs are at stake in
Sweden, including those at dozens of parts suppliers.  GM, which remains a supplier to Saab and is slated to build
the Swedish company’s upcoming 9-4X crossover at a GM plant in
 Mexico , declined comment.  Sweden’s Guarantee  For now, Antonov, whose first car was a Saab 9000, is only
buying Saab’s properties, including the Trollhaettan factory,
and plans to lease them back to the carmaker, jump-starting its
cash position.  “I think he’d be good for Saab,” Hakan Danielsson, a 31-
year veteran aerodynamics engineer at Saab who sat on its board
until last year, said of Antonov. “If we only get over this
hump, we should have a great chance.”  Sweden’s debt office today said it is backing Saab’s plan
to sell its property. The debt office said it’s prepared to
release part of the collateral, including the factory, that’s
backing Sweden’s guarantee of Saab’s loan from the EIB, the
European Union’s lending arm. The plan would cut the loan to 280
million euros from the 400 million euros agreed previously. Saab
so far has drawn 217 million euros.  The EIB has yet to give its approval, the debt office said.  Give Saab a Chance  Sales at Saab, which began building cars in 1947 and gained
a reputation for being offbeat, practical, and safe, have been
disappointing since its sale to Spyker in February 2010. Last
year Saab sold 31,696 cars, down from its original forecast of
between 50,000 and 60,000.  Spyker CEO Muller has said sales slipped because it took
longer than expected to ramp up production after GM cut Saab’s
supplier ties and emptied its factory in January 2010. The
Swedish automaker has predicted that by next year it would
produce 120,000 cars and be profitable. The hand-over delayed
the rollout of Saab’s new flagship 9-5 sedan last year, however,
slowing sales and contributing to the cash crunch.  Garel Rhys, president of the automotive industry research
center at Cardiff University in  Wales , said Saab cannot escape a
core problem: its small size.  Standalone Survival  “To be a standalone carmaker these days you really have to
have volumes well in excess of one million,” Rhys said. “There
was a period about 25, 30 years ago when people mistakenly
thought that things like lean production would allow the smaller
carmakers to survive easily against the bigger companies.
Nothing of the sort has happened.”  Muller said the last couple of weeks, filled with long
nights of fierce negotiations, have been “a horrible déjà vu”
from early 2010, when he was trying to buy Saab. “You know what
the difference is from a year ago?” he asked. “Then, I was
battling to save a company that was not mine. If I failed it
wouldn’t be my responsibility. Now I’m battling to save a
company that is mine, and that is much tougher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  