-- 
SAC’s Cohen Vying for Mets May Find Hedge-Fund Lesson in Red Sox’s Henry

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-04-21T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/sac-s-steve-cohen-vying-for-mets-may-take-lesson-from-red-sox-s-henry.html
Steve Cohen , the billionaire hedge-
fund manager bidding for a minority stake in the  New York Mets ,
might want to take note of what’s happened to rivals after they
bought pieces of professional sports teams.  John Henry, owner of the  Boston Red Sox , has seen assets in
his futures trading firm John W. Henry & Co. shrink by 90
percent from their 2005 peak. Jim Pallotta, who bought a piece
of the  Boston Celtics  in December 2002, closed his Raptor Global
hedge funds in 2009 after two years of losses. Philip Falcone
has lost almost three-quarters of assets in his Harbinger
Capital Partners since becoming a non-controlling partner of the
National Hockey League’s Minnesota Wild in 2008.  “Owning a team can be a function of ego, it is very high
profile, and it could prove to be a distraction,” said Brad Balter, 40, head of Boston-based Balter Capital Management LLC,
which invests client money in hedge funds. “As an investor I
have to consider that.”  While there are lots of reasons that hedge-fund managers
lose money, most of them related to volatile markets and
unforeseen events, investors like Balter also look at how
traders’ habits and performance change as their bank accounts
expand. So far, Cohen’s wealth -- he’s ranked 114th on the
Forbes list of the world’s richest -- hasn’t hurt returns of his
$12 billion SAC Capital Advisors LP, which has averaged  about
30 percent a year over almost two decades.  Lifelong Mets Fan  Cohen, whose firm is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
declined to comment through a spokesman. His art collection
boasts works by Vincent Van Gogh, Pablo Picasso and Andy Warhol,
and his Connecticut  mansion  has a two-hole golf course and a
basketball court.  A Mets fan since his childhood in Great Neck, New York,
Cohen, 54, is competing against at least two other groups,
including one formed by hedge-fund investor Anthony Scaramucci,
for a stake of up to 49 percent of the team. The Mets’ owners,
the Wilpon family, are seeking to maintain control of the
franchise while covering losses and fighting a $1 billion
lawsuit tied to the  Ponzi scheme  created by  Bernard Madoff .  For a billionaire fund manager, buying a stake in a sports
team might be about “fulfilling a childhood fantasy, showing
the world you’ve made it, or buying out of boredom,” says Brad
Klontz, a financial psychologist and associate research
professor in personal financial planning at Kansas State
University in  Manhattan , Kan.  Addictive Habit  Whatever the reason for buying, the practice seems to be
addictive. Last October, Henry, 61, added Liverpool FC,
 England ’s most successful soccer club, to his sports portfolio
that once included the Florida Marlins baseball team.  Henry became the principal owner of the  Red Sox  in 2002.
Two years later, the team won its first  World Series  in 86
years. Three years after that it chalked up a second
championship. While the Sox were winning, JWH’s assets were
dwindling, falling to $319 million as of April 15, from a peak
of $3.4 billion in 2005. Major clients, including Merrill Lynch
& Co., pulled money from the Boca Raton, Florida-based company
in 2007 after two years of underperformance.  Henry’s funds buy and sell based on computer models he
designed in the 1970s -- and which he hasn’t changed much since
-- meaning he doesn’t need to spend his days glued to trading
screens, said Kenneth Webster, the firm’s president. Returns
have picked up since 2007, he said.  Championship Winner  Pallotta, a Boston-based stockpicker who at his peak
managed more than $11 billion, bought a piece of the Celtics in
December 2002. Six years later, the team won the National
Basketball Association championship. His investment business
didn’t fare as well.  Pallotta, who started Raptor Global in October 1993, had
returned about 19 percent on average annually until 2007, when
he lost almost 9 percent of his client’s money, then his biggest
annual loss ever. The next year, his funds tumbled another 20
percent. He closed his Raptor Global  hedge funds  in June 2009.  In the years since he bought a piece of the Celtics,
Pallotta, 53, has also spent part of his fortune  building  a
21,000-square-foot mansion in Weston,  Massachusetts . He too has
added to his sports holdings, joining a group that bought AS
Roma, an Italian soccer club, last week.  He’s now running a new stock fund, Raptor Evolution, with
more than $200 million in assets. He also invests in private
companies.  “Every investment helps me in what we are doing. Our
network is our business,” said Pallotta, who says his
investments in the teams are passive. His minority stake in the
Celtics involves going to two board meetings a year, after
market hours. “It’s not a lack of focus,” he added. “It’s
absolutely the opposite.”  Minnesota Wild  For Falcone, the 48-year-old head of New York-based
Harbinger Capital Partners, his interest in owning a team comes
from his pre-hedge fund days. He played professional hockey in
 Sweden  for a year until a leg injury sent him to  Wall Street . He
climbed into the billionaire ranks after making a profitable bet
on the collapse of the subprime loan market in 2007 and started
spending his money immediately.  By February 2008, he had  purchased  Penthouse Publisher Bob
Guccione’s 27-room townhouse on Manhattan’s Upper East Side for
$49 million. He became a non-controlling partner of the  National
Hockey League ’s Minnesota Wild in April of that year. His fund
assets peaked two months later at $26 billion. He now manages
about $7 billion. He declined to comment through a spokesman.  ‘Full-Time’ Managers  Some managers have been able to keep up performance after
investing in teams.  David Tepper , 53, who runs the $16 billion Appaloosa
Management LP in Short Hills,  New Jersey , bought a 5 percent
stake in the NFL’s Pittsburgh Steelers in September 2009. That
year, his main fund climbed 130 percent. It returned about 30
percent last year and is up 10 percent so far this year. He
declined to comment on his sports investment.  As the value of sports franchises rises, and the number of
billionaire hedge fund managers grows, investors expect to see
more traders sitting in owners’ boxes. They’ll be watching.  “We don’t begrudge managers getting rich, but we want to
invest with people who are motivated and are concentrating full-
time on managing money,” said Brett Barth, a partner at New
York-based BBR Partners, which invests in hedge funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  