-- 
HSBC May Rise 44% on Cost Cuts, Asset Sales, Investec Says

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-04-21T15:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/hsbc-may-rise-44-on-cost-cuts-focus-on-returns-investec-says.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s shares may rise
by at least 44 percent if Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  focuses on markets that generate higher returns,
according to an analyst at Investec Securities.  HSBC could climb to about 950 pence a share if Gulliver
commits to ensuring all businesses generate a return on equity
exceeding 10 percent, Gareth Hunt, a banking analyst at Investec
Securities in London, wrote in a note to investors today. The
London-based bank needs to cut costs in the U.K., reallocate
capital at its U.S. division and sell parts of the business that
aren’t profitable enough, he wrote. Gulliver, who took over as
CEO in January, will brief analysts on his plan for the bank on
May 11.  “At the broadest level, we would like to hear HSBC
articulate the view that it interprets universal banking to mean
having scale positions in certain global markets (such as trade
finance), not that it has a flag in every country,” Hunt wrote.  Banks including Barclays Plc are reviewing their operations
as regulators enforce higher  capital requirements  to prevent
another financial crisis. HSBC has already started a 1 billion-
pound ($1.66 billion) cost-cutting program at its U.K. unit and
may exit some of the least profitable of the 87 markets in which
it operates globally, the Financial Times reported today.  About 72 percent of HSBC’s balance sheet produced returns
below 10 percent in the second half of last year, according to
Investec.  “We have a neutral recommendation on HSBC and will need to
be convinced on the speed and timing of any cost-cutting
program,”  Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.,
wrote in a note to investors today.  HSBC gained 1.2 percent to 659.6 pence a share at the close
in  London , valuing the bank at 116.8 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch at   gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 