-- 
Scene Last Night: Megan Fox, Olsens, Paul Allen, Gagosian

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-21T13:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/scene-last-night-megan-fox-olsens-paul-allen-graydon-carter-gagosian.html
The  Tribeca Film Festival  opened
last night without its traditional  Vanity Fair  power party.  Instead, the New York event started with a free outdoor
screening of “The Union,” a documentary about the musical
collaboration between Elton John and Leon Russell, attended by
actors turned designers Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, director
 Martin Scorsese  and actor Anna Kendrick, among others.  Meanwhile, Conde Nast Publications Inc.’s Vanity Fair
threw a party for  Paul Allen , the  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder
and author of the recently published memoir “Idea Man.”
Guests at the Allen fete, held at the  Monkey Bar , included New
York City Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  and art dealer
 Larry Gagosian , who, in reference to the title of Allen’s
book, told a reporter he is not an idea man.  “I have no idea why not,” he quipped.  In the Monkey Bar dining room, Graydon Carter, the editor
of the magazine, said he decided to host the event “because a
lot of New Yorkers haven’t met Paul Allen -- and I really
liked the book.” (He hasn’t given up the Tribeca Film
Festival; the Vanity Fair party has moved to next week.)  Sony’s Stringer  On the opposite side of the room from Carter, Allen
sipped Diet Coke and passed on plates filled with hamburger
sliders and pigs in a blanket. He was focusing on conversation
with guests such as Howard Stringer, chairman and chief
executive of  Sony Corp. (6758) ; Vernon Reid, guitarist for the band
Living Colour; and Jean Pigozzi, creative director of the
clothing line  LimoLand .  “I love meeting new people and getting new perspectives
on life and new ideas,” Allen said. “It’s a lot of fun.”  At around 8 p.m., waiters set down hot skillets filled
with rolls. It was time for dinner (a choice of scallops,
chicken or steak).  Leaping Cats model and actress Megan Fox of
“Transformers” fame appeared briefly at the Jaguar Cars Ltd.
party last night at the  IAC Building .  You might say she was as quick as a fox: Even Ian Callum,
Jaguar’s design director, didn’t get to meet her.  “Missing Megan Fox is the worst,” said Callum.  To console himself, he stuck to his favorite activity:
Talking about his designs. Crouching down in front of a
headlight, he pointed out a detail he said most people don’t
notice: a leaping cat etched in the corner of a lamp cover.  “It’s the equivalent of a cufflink,” Callum said.
“It’s meant to look like Lalique -- except it’s made of
plastic, not crystal.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 