-- 
Schlumberger Misses Analysts' First-Quarter Estimates on Libya Disruption

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-04-21T12:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/schlumberger-quarterly-profit-rises-amid-effort-to-expand-in-north-america.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield services provider, said first-quarter profit
missed analysts’ estimates after the company shut its Libyan
operations due to political unrest.  Excluding merger costs, net income was 71 cents a share,
missing the 75 cent average of 32 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Net income increased to $944 million, or 69 cents a
share, from $672 million, or 56 cents, a year earlier, the
Houston- and Paris-based company said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer Andrew Gould told investors on
February 22 that the company had halted its operations in  Libya .
Countries in Africa and the Middle East have been affected by
unrest this year, forcing leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  to step
down. Libya is the site of air strikes from North Atlantic
Treaty Organization forces as some countries seek to support
rebels trying to oust its leader,  Muammar Qaddafi .  “We probably underestimated the disruption in Libya,”
said James C. West, an analyst at Barclays PLC in New York.  Gould had said profit may be cut by Mideast unrest and a
seasonal drop in seismic sales.  “The fact that they were at the low end of the range
certainly may cause the stock to open up weaker,” said West,
who rates the shares at overweight and doesn’t own any.  Schlumberger reported $2.2 billion in revenue for the
region including North  Africa . Total sales were $8.72 billion,
up from $5.6 billion a year ago.  Eastern Hemisphere  “Worse than expected Eastern Hemisphere performance drove
the majority of the negative variance to our forecast,” Geoff Kieburtz, an analyst at Weeden & Co. in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
wrote today in a note to investors.  Revenue for the hemisphere, which includes North Africa,
declined almost 9 percent from the previous quarter, Kieburtz 
said.  Schlumberger’s profit was reduced by $28 million, or 2
cents a share, because of costs associated with its purchase
last year of Smith International Inc.  The earnings statement was released before the opening of
trading on U.S. markets. Schlumberger dropped 89 cents to $87.00
at 7:53 a.m. in  New York . The shares, which have 33 buy ratings
and five holds from analysts, climbed 12 percent during the
first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  