-- 
Singapore’s Lee Says Immigration Policy Benefited Citizens

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-04-21T05:40:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/singapore-premier-lee-says-influx-of-foreign-workers-has-benefited-economy.html
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, who’s seeking to extend his party’s rule in elections
next month, defended the government’s immigration policy,
saying the influx of foreign workers has boosted the economy.  Singaporeans have not been disadvantaged by the
government’s labor strategy, Lee said in a speech today at the
opening ceremony of  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Micron Technology Inc.’s $3
billion memory fabrication facility in Singapore. The country,
led by Lee’s People’s Action Party, is holding a general
election on May 7.  Foreigners make up more than a third of Singapore’s 5.1
million population as companies hire thousands from overseas to
work at hotels, shipyards and restaurants. Exxon Mobil Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp. are among companies that
are adding capacity in the island ranked by the  World Bank  as
the easiest place to do business.  “By allowing in a controlled number of foreign workers,
far from disadvantaging our own people, we have created more
good jobs for Singaporeans and more opportunities in our
economy,” Lee said.  Companies added about 116,000 jobs last year when the
economy grew a record 14.5 percent, while wages increased an
average 5.6 percent in that period. Of the new positions
created, 59,700 jobs went to foreigners, the  Ministry of
Manpower  said last month.  Singapore aims to attract as much as S$14 billion ($11.3
billion) of investments in manufacturing and services this year,
the  Economic Development Board  said in January. The country
lured fixed-asset investments of about S$12.9 billion last year.  Immigration Strategy  Immigration had also been a key component of Singapore’s
population and economic strategy, given the failure of other
incentives offered since 1987 to arrest a birth-rate decline,
such as tax breaks, subsidies and cash bonuses.  The population has increased by about 810,000 people since
2005, government figures show. Singaporeans say the immigration
policy means crowded public transportation, more competition
with newcomers for jobs, public housing and places in choice
schools for their children.  In August, Lee said the influx of foreign workers is a
“trade-off” that Singapore cannot avoid. He said at the time
that the government will slow the pace of immigration because
the country can’t increase its population by more than 100,000 a
year indefinitely.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  