-- 
S. Korea to Probe Foreign Currency Contracts as Won Surges

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-21T08:02:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/south-korean-regulators-to-probe-foreign-currency-derivatives-as-won-jumps.html
South  Korea ’s financial regulator
and central bank announced a probe into lenders’ trading of
foreign-exchange derivatives as the won’s surge to the highest
levels since September 2008 threatens to undermine an export-led
recovery.  The audit, the second of its kind, will be carried out from
April 26 till May 6, according to statements released today by
the Finance Ministry and the  Bank of Korea . The ministry will
focus on who banks are trading with and their purpose for buying
or selling non-deliverable forwards, it said.  “The government may hope that the move will help curb
short-term foreign debt and slow the won’s gain,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at  Credit Agricole  CIB in  Hong Kong .
“But it will not alter the strengthening trend of the won,
although the government will occasionally intervene if the won’s
move is too sharp.”  South Korea ’s currency has strengthened 4.3 percent against
the dollar so far this year, driven higher by overseas
investors’ demand for local equities. Emerging economies from
 South America  to  Asia  have imposed capital controls starting
last year to stem the inflows of funds seeking higher returns.  The won climbed 0.2 percent to 1,080.13 as of the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency earlier reached 1,078.30, the strongest level since
September 2008.  Managing Capital Flows  The  International Monetary Fund  announced this month a
staff proposal to endorse  capital controls  in limited
circumstances. South Korean Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun
said last week the plan may “excessively” restrain countries’
freedom to manage inflows of money.  South Korean authorities will use the outcome of the probe
to come up with regulatory policies, including adjusting limits
on banks’ maximum derivative holdings, the ministry said.
Authorities will take “appropriate” action against violators,
it said, without elaborating.  Regulators may announce the audit results as early as May
and might decide to lower the derivatives limit if needed, Doh
Bo Eun, head of foreign-exchange coordination at the Financial
Supervisory Service, said by telephone today.  The government announced last June rules to curb the amount
of trading in foreign-exchange derivatives, to reduce the won’s
volatility. Foreign bank branches were required last year to cut
currency derivatives to 250 percent of equity capital and local
banks to 50 percent. The regulations allow a maximum two years
for existing positions to be covered or capital increased.  Banks Punished  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) ’s South
Korean branches were penalized in January for breaching the
ceiling for foreign-currency derivatives contracts, after the
first probe was conducted in October.  The  Financial Supervisory Service  cut the foreign-currency
forward limit at Credit Agricole’s Seoul branch by $260 million
for two days after finding the bank’s ceiling was higher than
the authority’s requirement by $130 million in October.  United Overseas Bank’s local branch had its ceiling cut by
$7 million for two days in the same month after it exceeded the
limit by $7 million. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date.  “If short-term external borrowings rise sharply, we cannot
rule out the possibility of a further lowering the ceiling in
foreign exchange derivative contracts as a macro-prudential
measure,” said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc.  Short-Term Debt  Banks’ short-term borrowings from abroad may have risen to
$110 billion in the first quarter on demand from shipbuilders
and offshore investors as the won strengthened, after falling to
$101 billion at the end of last year following the introduction
of the derivatives limit, Kwon said. Short-term debt is often
used to cover currency forward positions.  The  Finance Ministry  also unveiled yesterday levy rates on
non-deposit foreign-currency liabilities held by domestic and
foreign banks, another step to reduce the won’s volatility and
guard against sudden capital outflows.  The ministry said it plans to impose a levy of 0.2 percent
on debt of less than a year, starting Aug. 1. The levy for debt
maturing in one year to three years will be 0.1 percent, while
that for three to five-year debt will be 0.05 percent, and debt
of more than five years will be charged at 0.02 percent.  Up to 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, of
additional taxes will be imposed for a maximum of six months in
case of a sudden surge in foreign capital inflows and increasing
volatility in international financial market, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  