-- 
S. Africa’s Rand Has Biggest Gain in Three Weeks on Record Gold

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-21T14:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/south-africa-s-rand-strengthens-for-third-day-versus-dollar-as-gold-climbs.html
The rand strengthened the most in
three weeks against the dollar after the price of gold rose to a
record, boosting demand for  South Africa ’s exports and mining
stocks.  The rand advanced as much as 1.1 percent to 6.7531 per
dollar, its biggest intraday increase since April 1. It traded
0.7 percent stronger at 6.7485 as of 4:01 p.m. in Johannesburg,
a third day of gains. It strengthened 0.5 percent to 9.8072 per
euro.  Gold advanced for a seventh day, gaining as much as 0.6
percent to $1,509 an ounce, as investors sought to protect their
wealth from further currency debasement and accelerating
inflation after governments spent $2 trillion to stimulate their
economies. The FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index of five gold
mining companies has climbed 9.4 percent in the past month, led
by Harmony Gold Mining Co., the country’s third-biggest producer
of the metal.  “With the gold price having risen as it has, the rally in
commodity currencies is to be expected,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in
a research note. “Portfolio flows into South Africa have
improved.”  Stocks and commodities rallied for a third day, with the
MSCI World Index rising 0.5 percent at 8:40 a.m. in  New York , as
better-than-estimated earnings boosted confidence in the global
economy. South Africa’s benchmark stock index advanced for a
third day.  Speculation the  Reserve Bank  will raise  interest rates  to
slow inflation, which was 4.1 percent in March, helped fuel the
rand’s gain,  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a research note.  ‘Rand Bulls’  The currency was “buoyed by rising interest rate
expectations,” he wrote.  “Rand bulls were further encouraged
by positive global sentiment and firm commodity prices.”  Higher rates would boost the allure of the rand for the
carry trade, in which investors borrow in currencies of
countries with low interest rates to buy high-yielding assets.
South Africa’s benchmark rate of 5.5 percent, at a 30 years-low,
compares with 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in  Japan .  Government bonds  gained for a third day on optimism the
rand’s strength will improve returns on South African debt and
as concern the European debt crisis will slow the recovery
prompted some investors to seek safer alternatives. Foreign
investors bought a net 5.1 billion rand ($756 million) of South
African bonds this week, according to stock exchange data.  ‘Buoyant’ Purchases  “Drivers of the present rally are buoyant foreign
purchases of local bonds” and a “firm” rand, Michael Grobler,
a trader at Afrifocus Securities in Johannesburg, said in a
research note. “Some banks have mentioned that they have seen
foreign portfolio flows in the domestic  bond market  as a result
of international bond funds shifting allocations into the local
market in response to default anxiety that is plaguing  Greece .”  The 10.5 percent notes due 2026 gained 45 cents to 115.60
rand, cutting the yield 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 8.66 rand. The 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed 28
cents to 88.46 rand, driving the yield down 5 basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 8.49 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 