-- 
Starbucks Targets Folks Who Wouldn’t Be Caught Dead at Starbucks

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-04-21T14:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/starbucks-targets-coffee-drinkers-who-wouldn-t-be-caught-dead-at-starbucks.html
As a brand manager and later as
global strategy chief at  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , Michelle Gass
championed such popular innovations as green straws, domed
frappe lids and the Frappuccino. In August of 2009, Chief
Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  handed Gass a challenge far
removed from Starbucks’s core: Remake Seattle’s Best Coffee, the
brand the coffee giant had acquired eight years earlier.  Today Seattle’s Best, which has 325 namesake cafes (vs.
more than 17,000 at its larger sibling), is sold in more than
50,000 locations in the U.S. and  Canada , 12 times as many as a
year ago. While the brand remains several years away from
Schultz’s billion-dollar sales target, Gass has made progress
repositioning it as a middle-market offering for folks who
wouldn’t be caught dead at a Starbucks, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its April 25 edition.  As president of Seattle’s Best, she’s put her coffee on
planes, into vending machines, on  cruise ships  and in more
grocery stores. This month the chain will begin opening 10 cafes
inside  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  locations in Canada. “She’s brought
a lot of energy and focus to a brand that had not been
performing to expectations,” says Starbucks board member Olden
Lee.  A chemical engineer with an MBA from the University of
 Washington , Gass managed the Crest toothpaste brand at  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  before joining Starbucks in 1996. Gass says her
background has allowed her to pioneer new menu items while
keeping a close eye on the bottom line.  She quickly won cred inside the company for data-driven
presentations, says Gerry Lopez, a former Starbucks executive
who is now CEO of theater operator AMC Entertainment Inc.  “When everybody was talking off the cuff, Michelle had the
numbers,” Lopez recalls.  Unafraid  She also was unafraid to deliver bad news during Monday
afternoon meetings with Schultz, he says. In 2008, when testing
of a new sorbetto beverage for Starbucks “didn’t quite pan
out,” Lopez says, she had the numbers to prove it. After
unraveling its higher shipping costs and how long it took
baristas to clean the stuff up, Gass says she went to Schultz
and recommended pulling the plug on sorbetto -- which he did.  At  Seattle ’s Best, Gass has tried a straightforward
approach to selling. Gone are the stereotypical coffee scenes
long featured on the bags: steaming mugs of joe, cats in
windows. Instead, Gass placed Seattle’s Best coffees into five
levels -- with numbered packaging designed to quickly explain
the differences. No. 1 (gold bag; a light roast “for those who
like to stare up at the blue sky, then drink it”) suggests a
far milder experience than No. 5 (purple bag; a dark roast
requiring “courage and confidence to add to your own”).  ‘No-Name’  The idea is to appeal to Americans who drink generic brew
and may be enticed by a premium brand minus Starbucks’s class
statement, Gass says.  “People don’t drink no-name colas, but lots of people
drink no-name coffees,” she says. “That’s because no one’s
come in and said, ‘Don’t accept a bad cup of coffee.’”  To reach Schultz’s $1 billion revenue goal, Gass wants to
put the brew in 100,000 retail locations. Prime targets: mass
retailers and convenience, drug and grocery stores, as well as
mom-and-pop businesses.  Gass persuaded Lopez to brew Seattle’s Best in 300 AMC
cinemas. In February,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  agreed to serve it on
board all flights. It’s also sold at Subway restaurants, Burger
King Corp. and  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , and is being rolled
out in vending machines in offices, hospitals and college
campuses nationwide.  Gass’s relentless push is risky, says  Jack Russo , an
analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis ,  Missouri . “When you have
company-owned stores, they’re your stores, it’s your baby,” he
says. “When you’re essentially giving control to someone who’s
paying you a monthly royalty, you lose a little bit of
control.”  Gass says she must scale up to compete with Starbucks:
“With our big sister upstairs who owns coffee, the only way we
have a chance to get a piece of that is to be disruptive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ellis at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  