-- 
Startups Cater to Startups as Funding Rebounds to 2008 Level

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/startups-cater-to-startups-as-venture-funding-rebound-fuels-internet-boom.html
Silicon Valley’s Internet boom has
gotten so big it needs startups to cater to the startups.  Stack Exchange Inc. , for instance, helps Web companies hire
Java software experts and get answers to programming questions.
 DotCloud Inc.  simplifies application development, and  New Relic
Inc. ’s engineers help make apps run better.  They’re benefiting from a resurgence in funding for
startups, giving them seed money to work with -- and plenty of
potential customers. Enticed by the success of Twitter Inc. and
Facebook Inc., investors poured $1.19 billion into U.S. Web
startups last quarter, with $254 million for first-round
financings, the most since 2008, according to the  National
Venture Capital Association .  Startups are helping fellow Internet developers distribute
applications, spruce up their software and take advantage of
soaring sales of smartphones and tablets.  “There’s an explosion of services catering to
developers,” said Solomon Hykes, who co-founded San Francisco-
based DotCloud last year with Sebastien Pahl.  Startups helping other new companies are getting an added
boost from technology that makes it easy to deliver software and
data over the Internet. The availability of cloud computing lets
businesses more swiftly deliver services unhampered by older
computer systems or bureaucracy. That means apps can be
constantly updated and customers can provide instant feedback,
so startups can improve their products before going after larger
corporate customers -- the so-called enterprise market.  Real Businesses  “For companies building these technologies, it’s more
efficient for them to start out by selling to other startups
rather than into the enterprise,” said Dan Scholnick, a general
partner at Trinity Ventures in Menlo Park,  California . He’s an
investor in DotCloud and New Relic. “Our ultimate goal is for
these companies to turn into real businesses.”  The risk of serving startups is customers can disappear
overnight, and most new businesses fail eventually. The flood of
funding also is reminiscent of the 1990s Internet bubble, which
ended with startups across the country going out of business.  Today’s startups have an advantage over the original dot-
coms: It takes less money to get off the ground. Cloud computing
has freed them from having to buy and maintain their own
servers. They also want to spend less time focused on technical
challenges in general, Hykes says, which is where companies like
DotCloud come in.  Its software automatically lets applications written in
different languages work together, saving Web developers the
trouble.  Free to Focus  “They’re free to focus 100 percent of the time on what
actually matters,” said Hykes, whose company is also backed by
Yahoo! Inc. co-founder Jerry Yang. “They want to focus on
building an application.”  Scholnick co-led a $10 million investment last month in
DotCloud along with Peter Fenton of Benchmark Capital in  Menlo
Park . They’re also both investors in New Relic, which has raised
$19.5 million since being formed three years ago, including $10
million in October.  DotCloud was first backed by Y Combinator, the  Mountain
View , California-based incubator founded by Paul Graham. Since
2005, more than 250 companies have received funding from Y
Combinator and been part of the firm’s three-month startup
school. In July 2008, Graham wrote a  blog post  on 30 ideas he’d
like to fund, the last of which was “startups for startups.”  Attracting Suitors  Some of Y Combinator’s startup-oriented startups have
already been acquired by larger companies. Heroku Inc. was
purchased in January by  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  for about $212
million, and 280 North Inc. was bought last year by Motorola
Inc. for about $20 million.  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX) , a Web hosting service that got its
start serving small technology companies, bought Y Combinator-
backed Cloudkick Inc. in December, gaining a tool that helps
manage cloud servers. Rackspace, founded in 1998, is now valued
at more than $5 billion and winning bigger customers.  And some new companies that begin by targeting their peers
graduate into serving a broader, bigger customer base. New
Relic, a three-year-old Web company in San Francisco, is now
working its way up after focusing on startups.  The company helps customers monitor the performance of
their websites and apps, letting them quickly find and solve
problems. Its software, which costs as much as $150 per server
per month, is used by more than 9,000 companies, including
online-game developer Zynga Inc., business-networking site
LinkedIn Corp., and the daily-deal sites Groupon Inc. and
LivingSocial.  ‘Unencumbered’  “Companies like Zynga, Groupon and LivingSocial are very
often new adopters of technology because they’re unencumbered by
the past,” said Lewis Cirne, New Relic’s founder and chief
executive officer, who sold his previous company, Wily
Technology Inc., to  CA Inc. (CA)  “They’re able to adopt new
systems.”  Now that it’s serving more-established companies, such as
Motorola,  CBS Interactive  and AT&T Interactive, New Relic is
better insulated against a slump in Web startups, he said.  “It’s a mistake for a company to bet their business on
only servicing startups in the long term,” Cirne said. He cited
a “graveyard of companies” that tried that strategy before
collapsing when the bubble burst.  In  New York , Joel Spolsky and Jeff Atwood have turned Stack
Exchange into the go-to site for developers to get their
programming questions answered. Founded in 2008, the company has
amassed an audience of more than 19 million users to its 48
forum sites. More than half its traffic goes to Stack Overflow,
its main site for programmers.  “It’s a highly targeted and pretty valuable demographic,”
said Neil Rimer, a partner at Index Ventures in Geneva, which
led a $12 million funding round in Stack Exchange last month.
“That’s worth something to an advertiser or recruiter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  