-- 
Sumitomo Life to Boost Yen-Denominated Bonds This Fiscal Year

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-21T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/sumitomo-life-to-boost-yen-denominated-bonds-this-fiscal-year.html
Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. plans
to boost holdings of yen-denominated bonds by “several hundreds
of billions of yen” to safeguard returns after  Japan ’s worst
postwar disaster.  The insurer, which has about 20 trillion yen ($240 billion)
in assets, aims to invest mainly in Japanese government bonds
with longer maturities, such as 20 years, in the year ending
March 31, said Haruhisa Hirata, deputy general manager at the
Osaka-based firm’s investment strategy section. He declined to
give any figures, citing company policy.  Sumitomo Life is sticking to the relative safety of debt
after increasing its investment in Japanese bonds by about 1
trillion yen last fiscal year, according to Hirata. The
insurer’s plan comes as the government prepares a spending
package this month to cope with the aftermath of last month’s
magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami.  “The post-quake market moves have been relatively
stable,” Hirata said in an interview in Tokyo on April 19. “We
will focus on super-long debt as we continue to match our
liabilities with our assets.”  Japan’s sovereign bonds earned 1.9 percent in the year
ended March 31, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch & Co. unit indexes. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slumped
12 percent.  Sumitomo Life doesn’t have a concrete plan for investments
in other asset classes including overseas bonds and equities at
home and abroad because strategies will depend on market moves,
Hirata said. The insurer will probably lean toward selling
investments in domestic equities to lock in profits, he said.  Fewer Loans  The company will probably make fewer loans, reflecting
weakening demand, while real estate investments will remain
unchanged, he said.  Sumitomo Life joins bigger rivals Meiji Yasuda Life
Insurance Co. and Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. in aiming to boost
Japanese government bond holdings this fiscal year. Meiji Yasuda
said this week that it will increase yen-denominated bonds by
about 1 trillion yen, while cutting domestic stock holdings to
seek stable returns. Dai-ichi Life today said it will buy more
 government bonds  and take a cautious stance on stocks.  Last fiscal year, Sumitomo Life increased its investments
in overseas bonds -- both hedged and unhedged -- by about 300
billion yen, while holdings in local stocks declined by about
100 billion yen, according the insurer. Loans decreased about
200 billion yen.  Following are Sumitomo Life’s market forecasts for the
current fiscal year through March 2012. The ranges refer to
where the insurer expects securities to trade during the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  