-- 
U.K. GDP May Have Risen 0.5% in First Quarter as Economy Lacked Momentum

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-21T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-k-economy-expanded-0-5-in-first-quarter-economists-say.html
Britain’s economy probably resumed
growth in the first quarter with less momentum than needed to
restore the pace of the recovery, economists say.  Gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent after contracting
the same amount in the fourth quarter, according to the median
forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Office
for National Statistics  in  London  will publish the data at 9:30
a.m. on April 27.  Minutes of this month’s Bank of England decision showed
officials were concerned that an interest-rate increase could
dent consumer confidence and that recent data had “probably
been to the downside.” Economists from at least five banks
including  Societe Generale  SA this week pushed back forecasts
for the first rate increase.  “There’s more uncertainty on how sustainable the recovery
is,” said Brian Hillard, an economist at Societe Generale and a
former central bank official. “That’s what holding back the
bank on raising rates.”  National Australia Bank economist David Tinsley yesterday
changed his forecast for the first rate increase after retail
sales data proved “disappointing.” Economists at  Barclays
Capital , Nomura International Plc and Citigroup Inc. also
revised their forecasts this week.  Minutes of policy makers’ April 7 meeting published April
20 showed they voted 6-3 for no change in the key rate.  Andrew Sentance  maintained a push for a half-point increase to tame
inflation that’s double the bank’s 2 percent target, Chief
Economist Spencer Dale and Martin Weale kept up a call for a
quarter-point increase and Adam Posen sought more stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  