-- 
U.K. Banks Expect ‘Subdued’ Mortgage Lending, Bank of England Report Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-21T08:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-k-banks-expect-subdued-mortgage-lending-bank-of-england-report-says.html
U.K. mortgage lending fell in
March, and demand may decline further in the second quarter as
the housing market weakens and consumers brace for a government
spending squeeze, the  Bank of England  said.  Gross home loans issued last month totaled 9 billion pounds
($14.9 billion), down from 9.2 billion pounds in February, the
central bank said in its monthly assessment based on data from
six banks. Net lending fell to 600 million pounds from 700
million pounds over the same period.  “In recent discussions, some lenders reported expectations
of subdued lending for house purchase in coming months,” the
Bank of England said in its quarterly Trends in Lending report.  Recent data have shown a mixed picture of the housing
market, with banks curtailing lending and the prospect of the
tightest government budget squeeze since World War II casting a
shadow over the economic outlook. While policy makers held their
key interest rate at a record low this month, three officials
have called for higher rates to tame inflation, a move that
could put further pressure on the  property market .  The number of home loans approved rose to 44,000 in March
from 43,000 the previous month, the bank said. That’s only about
half the long-term average and below the 51,000 granted in the
same month a year ago.  “Household demand for secured lending for house purchase
fell in line with expectations” in the first quarter of this
year, the central bank said. It’s “expected to fall further
over the next three months.”  House Prices  U.K. house prices fell in March as banks reported weakening
demand, research company Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property
Services Plc said on April 8.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax unit earlier this month
reported that home values slipped 0.1 percent in March and said
uncertainty over the economy is “likely to constrain housing
demand, resulting in some modest downward pressure on prices.”
It expects  home prices  to drop 2 percent this year.  The Bank of England held its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent on April 7 and its bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds as policy makers assessed signs
the economic recovery is slowing.  The mortgage-approvals data published today is based on
reports from  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , Lloyds Banking Group Plc,  Nationwide Building Society  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  