-- 
U.K. March Budget Deficit Narrows to $30.7 Billion, Within Osborne Target

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-04-21T09:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-k-march-budget-deficit-narrows-to-30-7-billion-within-osborne-target.html
Britain’s budget deficit narrowed
in March, remaining within Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s borrowing plans for the year.  Net borrowing was 18.6 billion pounds ($30.7 billion),
compared with 19.8 billion pounds a year earlier, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in London today. The median of 11
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was for a shortfall of 20
billion pounds. The annual shortfall for the fiscal year that
ended last month was 141.1 billion pounds, below a government
forecast of 145.9 billion pounds.  “March’s public-finances figures were a touch better than
expected,” said  Vicky Redwood , a U.K. economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London and a former  Bank of England  official.
Even so, “that’s still a huge number and the government will
find it much harder to meet this year’s borrowing target if the
economic recovery disappoints.”  Osborne has vowed to stick to his plans to eliminate the
bulk of the deficit, which reached a record 11 percent of gross
domestic product last year, by April 2015 as he implements the
toughest budget squeeze since World War II. The opposition
 Labour Party  says the pace of spending cuts risks derailing the
recovery.  Growth Forecast  The economy contracted by 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter
and will grow by 1.7 percent this year, according to government
forecasts issued last month, less than the 2.1 percent
previously predicted. The ONS will release its preliminary
estimate of first-quarter growth on April 27.  Labour says the government’s plans -- which chopped 6
billion pounds off the spending bill in the year to March and
will cut 310,000 jobs in the public sector -- are biting too
soon.  The government will stick to its deficit plans, said a
spokesman for the Treasury, speaking on the usual condition of
anonymity. He noted  Standard & Poor’s  announcement this week
that the U.S. risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy
makers agree on a plan to cut deficits and debt. Budget
reductions in the last fiscal year helped lower U.K. borrowing
by 10 billion pounds, the spokesman said.  Government revenue fell 1.6 percent and spending rose 0.1
percent last month, the ONS said. The deficit including
government support for banks was 16.4 billion pounds. The cash
measure was 24.8 billion pounds, compared with a median forecast
of 14 billion pounds.  The Debt Management Office, a government agency that
handles gilt sales for the Treasury, said today that it is
reducing the amount of bonds it plans to issue this year by 1.5
billion pounds to 167.5 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net 
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  