-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for April 20 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-04-21T18:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-april-20-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  Natural  gas prices  rose at most market locations during the week,
as consumption increased. The Henry Hub spot price increased 19
cents from $4.14 per million Btu (MMBtu) on Wednesday, April 13
to $4.33 per MMBtu on Wednesday, April 20.  Futures prices behaved similar to spot prices; at the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the price of the near-month natural gas
contract (May 2011) rose from $4.141 per MMBtu to $4.310 per
MMBtu.  Working natural gas in storage rose to 1,654 billion cubic feet
(Bcf) as of Friday, April 15, according to EIA’s Weekly Natural
Gas Storage Report (WNGSR).  The natural gas rotary rig count fell by 4 to 885 as of Friday,
April 15, according to data reported by Baker Hughes
Incorporated.  The West Texas Intermediate crude oil spot price rose on the
week from $106.60 per barrel last Wednesday to $110.84 per
barrel yesterday.  NYMEX Natural Gas Futures Near-Month Contract Settlement Price,
West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil Spot Price, and  Henry Hub 
Natural Gas Spot Price Graph  Prices  Natural gas prices rose at most market locations, likely the
result of relatively cool temperatures and increased consumption
from the previous week. At the Henry Hub, prices rose about 5
percent, from $4.14 per MMBtu to $4.33 per MMBtu. Price patterns
were similar throughout the rest of the lower 48 States, with
price increases ranging from 8 cents per MMBtu (at the Southern
California City Gate) to 37 cents per MMBtu (at the Chicago City
Gate). Currently, Henry Hub prices are about 10 percent higher
than their level of $3.93 per MMBtu one year ago.  Cold weather was particularly prevalent in the northern half of
the United States, as spring weather retreated in the Midwest,
the Pacific Northwest, and the Midcontinent area. At the Chicago
City Gate prices rose from $4.22 per MMBtu to $4.59 per MMBtu,
as the area received snow fall earlier this week.  Detroit  and
other areas of the Upper Northwest also saw mid-April snow
showers, and raising prices. Canadian imports to the Midwest
increased almost 20 percent from the previous week, according to
data from BENTEK Energy. In the Pacific Northwest, temperatures
also were more winter-like than spring-like but, according to
Bentek, demand was met through storage withdrawals rather than
increased inflows. Canadian pipeline imports to the West region
actually fell slightly on the week.  Overall consumption this week rose by close to 6 percent,
according to BENTEK data. The bulk of the increase came from the
residential and commercial sectors, where consumption rose 14.2
percent, no doubt a reflection of the weather. Compared to the
same week last year, total consumption was up 16.4 percent.
Supplies this week were robust, increasing about 1 percent from
the previous week and 4 percent from the same week last year,
according to BENTEK data. Production rose slightly from the
previous week, and is more than 6 percent greater than it was
during the comparable week last year.  Spot Prices  Futures prices also rose during the week. At the NYMEX, the
price of the near-month natural gas contract (May 2011) rose
from $4.141 per MMBtu last Wednesday to $4.310 per MMBtu
yesterday. The price of the 12-month strip (the average of the
12 contracts between May 2011 and April 2012) rose about 2
percent from $4.555 on Wednesday, April 13 to $4.665 yesterday.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage rose to 1,654 Bcf as of Friday,
April 15, according to EIA’s WNGSR (see:
 http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/storagefig.html ). The 47-
Bcf net injection leaves stocks slightly above the 5-year (2006-
2010) average of 1,631 Bcf, but 165 Bcf below last year’s level
of 1,819 Bcf. This is the first week to see builds in all three
regions.  Storage built in the East Region for the second week in a row.
Still, stocks in the East are 74 Bcf below the 5-year average,
and 172 Bcf below last year. A run of unusually cold weather
prolonged significant withdrawals and delayed injections to the
East Region. This contrasts with the Producing Region which now
sits 128 Bcf above the 5-year average.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending April
14 averaged 55.6 degrees, 3.9 degrees warmer than normal and 0.9
degrees warmer than last year. The  National Weather Service ’s
degree-day data show that temperatures were above average
everywhere except in the West (see Temperature Maps and Data
 http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/maps.html ). Heating
degrees were about 18 percent lower than normal for the week.
The East South Central Region saw the highest relative
temperatures at 8.3 degrees above normal. The Pacific Region was
the coldest relative to normal at 5.3 degrees below the
historical average.  Other Market Trends  DOE Office Announces Success in Water Treatment at Marcellus
Shale Production Site: The Department of Energy’s Office of
Fossil Energy (FE) announced favorable results from a
demonstration project turning wastewater from drilling sites
into clean water. With water resources a key concern in natural
gas production growth in shale formations such as the
Haynesville and Marcellus shales, FE, which is managing the
project through the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL),
said its research could have an important application in
reducing potential environmental impacts associated with future
natural gas production. In cooperation with Altela Inc., FE
tested a water desalination system at BLX, Inc.’s Sleppy well
site in Indiana County,  Pennsylvania . During nine months of
operation, the unit treated 77 percent of the water stream
onsite, providing distilled water as the product. The clean
water produced at the demonstration site was suitable for use by
well operators for additional stimulations and was also suitable
to be discharged to surface waterways. As a result of the DOE
demonstration project, numerous units of the water desalination
system have been sold and installed in Williamsport,
Pennsylvania, to treat approximately 100,000 gallons per day of
produced and flowback water from hydraulic fracturing. The
Altela demonstration was one of nine research projects on
management of wastewater. Through the nine projects, NETL is
developing environmental tools and technologies to improve
management of water resources. Several additional demonstrations
focusing on other water treatment technologies will be conducted
during the remainder of fiscal year 2011.  Energy Production Remains Abundant in  Canada . On April 19 EIA
released a Country Analysis Brief (CAB) on Canada
( http://www.eia.gov/countries/cab.cfm?fips=CA ), the  United
States ’ largest trade partner and most significant source of
energy imports. According to the CAB, Canada ranked fifth in
total energy produced in 2008, generating 19.11 quadrillion Btu
of primary energy. Oil reserves are abundant in Canada, ranking
third globally with 175.2 billion barrels of proved oil reserves.
Oil is produced primarily in the Western Canada Sedimentary
Basin,  Alberta ??  oil sands , and offshore  oil fields  in the
Atlantic. Oil production in 2010 averaged 3.46 million barrels
per day. Proved natural gas reserves totaled 61.95 trillion
cubic feet (Tcf) as of January 2011, as Canada ranks third in
production of dry natural gas. A robust natural  gas pipeline 
network links Canadian supplies to domestic markets and to the
lower 48 States. Recently, Canada’s  National Energy Board 
approved a 745-mile natural gas pipeline from Canada’s  Beaufort
Sea  to Northern Alberta, where it would be able to join other
pipelines. Conventional production of natural gas in the Western
Canada Sedimentary Basin are in decline, but unconventional
methods, such as drilling in shale formations, show promise.
While the United States has traditionally been the market for
energy exports from Canada, Asian countries also are seeking
access to Canada’s oil and natural gas supplies. More CABs are
available at:  http://www.eia.gov/countries/ 
< http://www.eia.gov/countries/   Natural Gas Transportation Update  Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) this week announced the
first in a series of hydrostatic pressure tests it will perform
on a number of gas transmission pipeline segments throughout its
pipeline system. The work is part of the company’s effort to
pressure test or replace about 150 miles of pipeline segments in
high consequence areas that have characteristics similar to the
pipeline involved in the tragic accident in San Bruno,
 California  on September 9, 2010. The first pressure tests will
take place in Mountain View and Antioch, California in May. The
company also announced that is has already begun sending
informational letters and safety brochures to 2.5 million
homeowners and businesses located within about 2,000 feet of a
natural gas transmission pipeline.  Rockies Express Pipeline Company this week announced plans for
maintenance at its compressor station in Lost Creek,  Wyoming ,
for May 10-11. During the maintenance period, the receipt
capacity at the station will be reduced to 130 million cubic
feet (MMcf) per day. Flows through the meter from production in
the Green River-Overthrust basin have occasionally reached
almost 150 MMcf per day this year. If production in the Green
River-Overthrust basin increases between now and May, Rockies
Express Pipeline (REX) eastbound flows could be reduced slightly.  With forecasts of high temperatures in the low 90s in  Florida ,
Florida Gas Transmission Company, LLC is expecting higher demand
for natural gas off its system. As a result, the pipeline
company on Tuesday, April 19, notified customers that it has set
a tolerance for negative daily imbalances at 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  