-- 
Pakistan at Impasse With U.S. on Drone Attacks After Meetings With Mullen

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-04-21T05:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-s-admiral-says-no-halt-to-pakistan-drone-strikes.html
A visit by U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s top military officer to  Pakistan  underscored
disagreements over the use of drone aircraft to target militants
in the country’s mountainous northwest.  Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said his country won’t stop the attacks in Pakistan’s
tribal areas bordering Afghanistan. He expressed concern that
Pakistani intelligence has a “longstanding relationship” with
a militant Afghan group headed by U.S.-designated terrorists.  Pakistan’s military chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani,
reiterated his nation’s stance that the U.S. missile strikes
undermine efforts to defeat guerrillas by draining support for
the army’s anti-insurgency efforts. Mullen was in Islamabad to
ease diplomatic tensions that soured after a Central
Intelligence Agency contractor, Raymond Davis, on Jan. 27 shot
and killed two armed Pakistanis he said were trying to rob him.  The Davis case, combined with the drone strikes that have
killed civilians, “was a huge setback,” Mullen said in a
televised interview yesterday, during which he accused
Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, or ISI, of
maintaining ties to militants fighting U.S.-led forces in
 Afghanistan . “I don’t think there is an immediate solution to
this. We have to work a way through that.”  Calls by Pakistani politicians to restrict drone attacks
intensified after a March 17 strike that Pakistani officials
said killed between 26 and 35 people in the district of North
Waziristan, which the U.S. says is a haven for Taliban and al-
Qaeda militants. Four more people were killed in the same
region, Geo television said last week, citing people it didn’t
identify.  ‘Global Terrorists’  Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, said April
13 that the missile raids were “creating a lot of problems”
for the government. “The U.S. will have to stop these attacks.
We are trying through our common friends to convince them,” he
said in the country’s parliament.  Pakistan has resisted U.S. pressure to attack the Taliban’s
biggest remaining stronghold, North Waziristan. That district is
the main base for guerrillas of Afghan commander Jalaluddin Haqqani, who have attacked U.S. forces operating in at least six
Afghan provinces, including the capital, Kabul.  The U.S. has labeled the leaders of the Haqqani group as
global terrorists. The U.S. has posted a $5 million reward for
information leading to the arrest of  Sirajuddin Haqqani , who is
described as the operational commander of the group established
by his father, Jalaluddin.  ‘Extremely Concerned’  “ISI has a longstanding relationship with Haqqani
network,” Mullen said yesterday. “I’m extremely concerned in
particular about that aspect.”  Kayani said he “strongly rejected negative propaganda”
that Pakistan is not doing enough to defeat insurgents in its
northwestern regions. Obama earlier this month sent Congress a
 semi-annual report  that said Pakistan has proven unable to
defeat local Taliban and other militant groups.  After almost a decade of U.S.-Pakistani cooperation on
counter-terrorism, “there remains no clear path toward
defeating the insurgency in Pakistan,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  