-- 
MBIA Credit Swaps Drop as Morgan Stanley Says It’s Still Hedged

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-21T20:37:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-s-company-swaps-fall-as-corporate-earnings-outweigh-sovereign-concerns.html
The cost to protect against a
default by the  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  unit that guaranteed toxic mortgage
debt dropped for a fifth day on speculation  Morgan Stanley (MS)  may
unwind more hedges on the insurer’s creditworthiness.  Five-year credit-default swaps on MBIA Insurance Corp. fell
1.4 percentage points to 29.9 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it
would cost $2.99 million initially and $500,000 annually to
protect against losses on $10 million of MBIA obligations for
five years. They’ve dropped from about 40.6 percent upfront on
April 14. A benchmark index of credit swaps rose from the lowest
in a month.  Swaps on so-called monoline insurers are falling after  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  said April 15 it will pay about $1.6 billion to
settle  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) ’s demands to repurchase soured
mortgages, signaling progress in untangling faulty home loans
that saddled the insurers with losses. The improved outlook
bolstered speculation that banks including Morgan Stanley were
overpaying for protection against insurer failures, encouraging
them to sell swaps they had bought and pushing prices lower.  “People were thinking that one of the reasons the CDS came
in a lot was Morgan Stanley unwinding,” said Jonathan Carmel,
founder and money manager at Carmel Asset Management in New
York. “But they just said today they still have hedges, so
people are thinking there’s more to come.”  Hedging MBIA Risk  Morgan Stanley has “adjusted” some of its hedges on bond
insurers and will provide more details in upcoming regulatory
filings, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said on a conference
call with investors today. The bank’s hedge on MBIA though is
“not closed out,” she said in an interview before the call.  The New York-based bank reported $535 million in losses in
the last half of 2010 as the perceived risk of an MBIA default
declined and the value of the hedges plummeted, and $318 million
more losses in the first quarter from items including the
hedges.  In the third quarter, MBIA has a court hearing on claims
against Bank of America that may be resolved beforehand, said
Robert Haines, an analyst at CreditSights Inc., in a note to
clients this week. “As the time until the trial date
approaches, there is more pressure to reach an agreement and
avoid a trial all together,” Haines wrote, citing comments made
by MBIA Chief Financial Officer Chuck Chaplin.  Seeking Buybacks  Chaplin said in a statement last week that Assured’s deal
bolsters its claims against banks to buy back faulty mortgages
that were pooled into bonds the company backed. MBIA said it’s
entitled to collect on $4.4 billion of losses it had incurred as
of Dec. 31.  MBIA Chief Executive Officer Jay Brown told a  New York 
state Assembly panel in February that about 60 percent of its
paid losses as of September were on bonds sponsored by Bank of
America’s Countrywide unit.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
increased as investors looked past positive earnings news to
concerns that the end of the Federal Reserve’s quantitative
easing and battles over the U.S. debt ceiling could hurt credit,
said Mikhail Foux, a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 0.7 basis point to a mid-
price of 93.3 basis points as of 1:36 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  ‘Cautious Stance’  “There are enough unknowns to be a little bit worried here
over the next say one month, two months, and that’s what we
think investors should be doing, taking a more cautious
stance,” Foux said. “Earnings for the most part have been
better than expected and the market has reacted positively.”  Of the 115 S&P 500 companies that have reported results
this quarter, 93 beat projections, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The price of Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index,
which falls as investor confidence deteriorates, declined 0.1
percentage point to 102.5 percent of face value.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  