-- 
U.S. Pressed at United Nations to Retake Lead on Middle East Peace Talks

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-21T17:35:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-s-pressed-at-united-nations-to-retake-lead-on-middle-east-peace-talks.html
European powers joined Arab
countries at the  United Nations  today in pressing the Obama
administration to retake the lead in driving negotiations to
produce an Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement by September.  “Strong U.S. leadership is required,” Peter Wittig,
 Germany ’s ambassador to the UN, said at a meeting in  New York  of
the  Security Council . “We are looking forward to the speech
President Obama will deliver on the region. With little more
than four months to go until September, this sense of urgency is
growing.”  While no speech has been announced, President Barack Obama
has set a September deadline for a peace accord, and U.S.
Ambassador Susan Rice said that with “winds of change blowing
through the Arab world, it is more urgent than ever” that
direct talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
resume.  U.S-backed negotiations fell apart just weeks after they
began last September, following Israel’s refusal to extend a
partial construction freeze in the  West Bank . Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has said he won’t resume talks
until all settlement building is halted and will seek UN
recognition of a Palestinian state in the event no progress is
made.  Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is expected
to outline a proposal for the talks in a speech next month to
the  U.S. Congress , has said Israel will cooperate with a
Palestinian state only if it is established through direct
negotiations with his government.  Negotiations  “Negotiations between the parties remain the only path to
a solution,” Rice said.  Israel’s Ambassador Meron Reuben said peace could “only be
achieved” through direct talks.  Envoys representing Britain,  France ,  Russia ,  South Africa 
and  India  said the Middle East Quartet, including the U.S., UN,
EU and Russia, should meet as soon as possible to endorse
“parameters” of an Israeli-Palestinian accord. Those include a
Palestinian nation on 1967 borders with East Jerusalem as its
capital, security assurances for Israel and agreement on the
rights of Palestinian refugees to return to the new nation.  “It is crucial, therefore, that urgent progress is made,”
Britain’s Deputy Ambassador Philip Parham said. “We are fast
approaching September, the timeframe set out by President Obama
and the Quartet to welcome Palestine as a full member of the
United Nations.”  Quartet  The Quartet has postponed meetings that were set to be held
in April and May, and no meeting is now scheduled.  “Bold and decisive steps are needed to resolve this
decades-long conflict with vision, leadership and responsibility
from all concerned,” UN Under-Secretary-General Lynn Pascoe
said.  Palestinian Authority Ambassador Riyad Mansour urged “bold
leadership, including by the United States, bearing in mind the
role is has assumed in the peace process.”  Endorsement of parameters of an accord is “long overdue
and would seriously contribute to the revival of the political
process,” Mansour said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  