-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 19 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-21T13:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-19-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
National Weather Service (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/./   A severe storm ripped through the Southeast this week.  In its
wake, at least 45 people were killed across Alabama,  Arkansas ,
 Mississippi ,  North Carolina , Oklahoma, and  Virginia , including
over 20 in North Carolina alone.  Preliminary reports indicate
that there were 230 tornadoes in the region which affected the
above states as well as  Georgia ,  Illinois , Kansas,  Kentucky ,
 Louisiana ,  Maryland , Mississippi, Missouri,  South Carolina , and
Texas.  As an example of the storm’s intensity, North Carolina,
which normally experiences 19 tornadoes a year, saw 90 tornadoes
in this outbreak, according to preliminary reports.  This system
also dumped rain up the East Coast and into New England.  The Southeast: The devastating severe storms that hammered the
region largely dumped rain in areas that were unaffected by
drought.  In central Kentucky, an estimated seven plus inches of
rain fell in an already wet area leading to more concern over
flooding than drought. The same was true throughout northern
 Alabama  and Georgia where just clipped areas of Abnormal Dryness
(D0) and Moderate Drought (D1), leading to slight alleviation
along their northern extent.  In southeast Georgia, the
accumulated precipitation did alleviate Extreme Drought (D3)
conditions.  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Ample rains fell again this week
throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast.  The severe storm
that impacted the South made its way northeastward with somewhat
less intensity. The rains led to a decrease in Abnormal Dryness
(D0) in Virginia, Moderate Drought (D1) was eradicated in
Virginia and greatly reduced in northern North Carolina.  The South:  Severe weather impacted select areas of the South.
Heavy rain accompanied tornadoes in some areas.  In  Oklahoma  and
Texas, there was a slight alleviation of Extreme (D3) and Severe
(D2) drought conditions in the south-central to southeast
Oklahoma - northeast Texas area.  Over much of the remaining
region, however, drought conditions maintained or intensified.
The Oklahoma panhandle and nearby locations in northern Texas,
southeast  Colorado , and southwest Kansas saw the introduction of
Extreme Drought (D3).  Further, conditions along the Texas Gulf
Coast and into the Louisiana Gulf Coast intensified with one
category degradation over select areas.  In north-central Texas,
while conditions did not change appreciably, strong impacts are
being felt. High temperatures combined with no precipitation and
high winds have led to widespread wildfires.  Unless
precipitation comes in to the area soon, conditions are likely
to become exceptional.  Conditions in south-central and
southwest Texas saw drought intensify as well. Another area of
Exceptional Drought (D4) was introduced in that area.  The Plains and Midwest: Heavy rains which fell across Nebraska
this week alleviated Abnormal Dryness (D0) and Moderate Drought
(D1) conditions throughout the central part of the state and
part of the Panhandle.  Moderate Drought (D1) in the south-
central part of the state was pulled southward into  Kansas .
Eastern Nebraska and Iowa saw alleviation of Abnormal Dryness
(D0).  The West: The West generally continues to benefit from above
normal snowpack and beneficial precipitation, with the exception
of the Southwest.  In  Wyoming , the northern area of Abnormal
Dryness (D0) was eliminated.  The southern area of Abnormal
Dryness was repositioned to align more closely with the
indicators for this week.  In Colorado, Severe Drought (D2)
expanded westward in the south-central part of the state.  An
area of Extreme Drought (D3) was introduced in the southeast
part of the state, coinciding with deteriorating conditions in
the Oklahoma Panhandle, northern Texas, and southwest Kansas.
 New Mexico  saw a slight expansion of Extreme Drought (D3) along
the  Texas  border.  Hawaii, Alaska and Puerto Rico: Drought conditions remained
unchanged across Alaska and Puerto Rico this week.  In Hawaii,
conditions of Extreme Drought (D3) were alleviated on Kauai.
Conditions in southeastern Puerto Rico improved slightly with
rains that fell from the April 13-16 but some Abnormal Dryness
(D0) still remains at timescales longer than a month.  Looking Ahead: During the April 21-25, 2011 time period, there
is an enhanced probability of precipitation in the northern
Plains, the Upper Midwest, and into the  Great Lakes  and Ohio
Valley.  Later in the period, this precipitation is expected to
move into the Northeast.  A second area of elevated
precipitation potential is expected along the Pacific Northwest
coast late in this period.  Temperatures are generally forecast
to be normal to below normal throughout most of the northern
tier of the country for this entire period and in the Southwest
late in the period.  Above normal temperatures are generally
expected in the southern tier of the country.  For the ensuing 5 days (April 26 - 30, 2011), the odds favor
cooler-than-normal conditions for much of the western part of
the country roughly from the Upper Midwest down through the
Plains to northern Texas and over to the Pacific Coast, with the
exception of southern  California .  Warmer-than-normal conditions
are expected across the eastern U.S. from the Great Lakes to the
Gulf Coast and over to the Atlantic Coast and along Southern
California.   The odds of above-normal precipitation are
greatest from the Upper Midwest, through the Ohio Valley, and
into the South and Southeast.  A second area of above-normal
precipitation is forecasted for the Northwest.  Odds favor
below-normal precipitation in the Southwest through southwestern
Texas.  In Alaska, the odds favor normal to below-normal
temperatures across the state. The southeastern part of the
state should expect above-normal precipitation while the
northwestern part of the state should expect below-normal
precipitation.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  