-- 
U.S. Seeks Delay of Insider-Trading Case Against FDA Chemist

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-21T14:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-s-asks-judge-to-delay-federal-insider-trading-case-against-fda-chemist.html
The U.S. asked a federal judge to
delay its insider-trading case against a Food and Drug
Administration chemist, claiming the government is trying to
work out a potential resolution with the defendant.  Prosecutors, in a filing yesterday in federal court in
Greenbelt,  Maryland , said the defendant, Cheng Yi Liang, agreed
to a 60-day delay of the case.  “The parties request additional time in order to discuss
further steps and a potential resolution of this matter,” the
government said.  Cheng Yi Liang, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research , and his son, Andrew Liang, are accused
of reaping at least $3 million from trading on nonpublic
information related to drug-approval applications.  The Liangs, who live in Gaithersburg, Maryland, were
charged last month with conspiracy,  wire fraud  and  securities
fraud . The maximum penalty for the fraud charges is 20 years in
prison.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in a related
civil suit said the elder Liang made $3.6 million by trading
shares of 19 firms before 27 FDA decisions since 2006.  An FDA employee since 1996, Liang had computer access to
the nonpublic records of the review process for each drug
examined by the office, the U.S. said.  Smaller Drug Companies  Liang traded in smaller developmental drug companies, where
a government decision would be more likely to have a significant
effect on the stock price, the SEC said. He gained more than $1
million trading stock of  Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VNDA)  a Rockville,
Maryland, firm that rose more than 600 percent a day after the
FDA cleared sales of its schizophrenia drug Fanapt in May 2009,
according to the lawsuit.  He profited from  share purchases  ahead of 19 positive
announcements and on short sales before six negative decisions,
the SEC said. He also avoided losses by selling stock before two
other negative decisions, the agency said. His average profit on
each announcement was $135,015, according to the lawsuit.  Andrew Carter, Liang’s lawyer, declined to comment.  The cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 8:11-mj-01236-WGC, and
U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 8:11-mj-01237-WGC, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  