-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for April 21 to July 2011 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-21T13:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-april-21-to-july-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The La Nina present during the
2010-11 winter led to expansive drought development across the
lower Mississippi Valley, southern Plains, and Southwest. During
the past month, drought conditions have worsened rapidly across
Oklahoma,  Texas , and southern New Mexico. According to the U.S.
Drought Monitor (USDM), parts of Texas are designated in the
exceptional drought (D4) category. Since the CPC monthly or
seasonal outlooks favor enhanced odds for below median
precipitation and above normal temperatures, persistence can be
expected in eastern  Colorado , the southern high Plains, the
Southwest, and much of Texas/Louisiana. Development in parts of
 Arizona  is related to low snow water content values and a
relatively dry climatology. Prospects for improvement increase
in eastern Oklahoma and  Arkansas . Across the Southeast, drought
reduction has occurred since the beginning of March. Some
improvement is forecast across the interior Southeast, while
odds increase for improvement across  Florida  due to a wet
climatology beginning in late May. It should be noted that
short-term worsening of drought conditions may occur in Florida
prior to the onset of the wet season. Some improvement is
forecast across the Hawaiian Islands. Outside of the drought
areas depicted on the USDM (April 21), monthly/seasonal tools
offer no strong signal for dryness. This lack of a dry signal
coupled with antecedent wetness favors little or no expected
development through the end of July.  Discussion:  During the past 30 days, periods of rainfall associated with
frontal passages have resulted in substantial drought relief
across  Virginia  and  North Carolina . Due to the recent wetness
and no signal for below median precipitation among the tools,
the drought development area over the Carolinas that was
indicated on the previous Drought Outlook (released April 7th)
has been removed. The rainfall during late March and early April
has brought soil moisture and streamflow levels to near average
in Virginia and northeast North Carolina. Across the remainder
of the Southeast, drought conditions have remained generally
steady. Soil moisture percentiles remain at or below the 20th
percentile in parts of South Carolina and  Georgia . Although no
substantial drought relief is expected during the short-term, no
signal for dryness exists among the tools at the monthly or
seasonal time scale. Since normal rainfall amounts typically
increase during June and July, some improvement is forecast in
east-central  Alabama , central Georgia, and the small areas of
drought in the Carolinas. At the end of March, heavy rain
brought major drought relief to central Florida. However,
rainfall during the past 30 days was slightly below average in
the Florida Panhandle and south Florida. As of April 21, levels
on Lake Okeechobee are running nearly 3 feet below average. The
onset of the convective rainfall season in late May and
continuing into July increases the odds for improvement later in
the outlook period. Across the Florida peninsula, 30 to 45
percent of the annual precipitation occurs from May through
July. In addition, June and July are typically two of the
wettest months of the year for the Sunshine State. With
prospects for improvement increasing significantly with the
onset of the convective rainfall season, improvement is forecast
across Florida and adjacent areas of Alabama and Georgia. It
should be noted that dry weather and hot temperatures in the
short-term are expected to persist or worsen drought conditions
across Florida. Forecast confidence for Florida is high and
moderate for Alabama, Georgia, and the Carolinas.  Since the beginning of March, drought has been eliminated in
northeast Arkansas but has worsened across the remainder of the
Arkansas and  Louisiana . Extreme (D3) to exceptional (D4) drought
is currently depicted on the U.S. Drought Monitor in southern
Arkansas and western Louisiana where soil moisture ranking
percentiles fall below the 1 percent of the historical
distribution. Since the CPC outlook for MJJ calls for enhanced
odds for below median precipitation and above normal
temperatures, persistence is forecast for most of Louisiana.
During the remainder of April, a very wet pattern is expected
across northern and central Arkansas with model guidance
indicating the potential for several inches of rainfall. The
improvement forecast for Arkansas is based largely on this
likelihood of heavy rainfall during the next week. Forecast
confidence for Arkansas and Louisiana is high.  During the past month, moderate drought (D1) briefly expanded
northeast into southern  Nebraska  with severe (D2) to extreme
(D3) drought covering southwest  Kansas  and much of  Oklahoma .
Despite this drought expansion, the development previously
forecast (April 7) in Nebraska and Kansas is removed due to:
expected rainfall in the short- to medium-range and no signal
for drier than normal conditions from May through July. A very
active pattern has become established across the Plains as an
upper-level trough persists over the region. A sharp gradient in
rainfall, oriented west to east, is expected across the central
and southern Plains during the final week of April. Several
inches of rainfall are possible across the eastern third of
Oklahoma where improvement is forecast. Odds for improvement
diminish across the high Plains of Kansas and Oklahoma where the
8-14 day outlook along with the CPC monthly outlook for May
indicate enhanced odds for below median precipitation and above
normal temperatures. Forecast confidence for Nebraska, Kansas,
and Oklahoma is moderate.  Across Texas, dry weather combined with hot temperatures, gusty
winds, and low relative humidity values has resulted in rapidly
deteriorating drought conditions. As of April 12, more than 60
percent of Texas is designated in the extreme (D3) or
exceptional (D4) drought category. This is the largest coverage
of D3-D4 drought in Texas since the inception of the U.S.
Drought Monitor in January 2000. Numerous, large wildfires are
ongoing across Texas. Precipitation forecasts during the next
two weeks favor some improvement in northeast Texas, close to
the Red River. Persistence across south and southeast Texas is
consistent with the CPC outlook for May through July indicating
enhanced odds for below median precipitation. Although
persistence is forecast for central Texas, a relatively wet
climatology during May with the potential for convective
outbreaks may offer small scale relief. Forecast confidence for
Texas is moderate.  Similar to Texas during a La Niña winter, drought has also
worsened across eastern Arizona, eastern Colorado, and  New
Mexico . Southern parts of Arizona and New Mexico are classified
as an extreme drought (D3). Basin average snow water content
values are running less than 25 percent of normal across much of
Arizona. Due to the very low snow water content values, a
relatively dry climatology during the outlook period, and
enhanced odds for below median precipitation with above normal
temperatures, persistence and development is forecast for
Arizona. Forecast confidence is lower in eastern Colorado and
New Mexico where late spring rainfall and early monsoon moisture
could bring scattered relief. Since the 6-10/8-14 day forecasts
along with the CPC monthly outlook indicate enhanced odds for
below median precipitation and above normal temperatures,
persistence is forecast for eastern Colorado and New Mexico.
Forecast confidence for Arizona is high and moderate for eastern
Colorado and New Mexico.  A relatively wet climatology favors improvement in the small
areas of drought in the northern  Great Lakes . Forecast
confidence for northeast  Minnesota  and northern  Michigan  is
moderate.  Heavy rainfall this winter ended drought on Kauai and Oahu and
diminished drought conditions across the central Hawaiian
Islands which is typical for a La Niña winter. The Big Island of
 Hawaii  remains in moderate (D1) to extreme (D3) drought. For the
May-July forecast period, it is becoming less likely that the
western sides of the Islands will see substantial improvement as
trade winds become more dominant heading toward the warm season.
Forecast confidence for Hawaii is low.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  