-- 
Obama Administration Forms Group to Probe Possible Oil Price Manipulation

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-04-21T18:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/u-s-announces-formation-of-oil-gas-price-fraud-working-group.html
The Obama administration created a
working group to explore whether oil and gasoline prices are
being driven higher by illegal manipulation, the  Justice
Department  said.  The working group, which includes representatives of
federal agencies and state attorneys general, will check for
fraud, collusion or misrepresentation at the retail and
wholesale level, the department said in a statement today. The
group also will examine investor practices and the role of
speculators and index traders in oil futures markets.  “Rapidly rising gasoline prices are pinching the pockets
of consumers across the country,” Attorney General  Eric Holder 
said in the  statement . “We will be vigilant in monitoring the
oil and gas markets for any wrongdoing so that consumers can be
confident they are not paying higher prices as a result of
illegal activity.”  With a presidential election 19 months away, President
 Barack Obama  faces increasing political pressure over rising
gasoline prices. Crude oil futures have increased 22 percent and
gasoline surged 34 percent this year as Middle East unrest
reduced supply and the global economic rebound bolstered fuel
demand. Both futures contracts touched the highest levels this
month since the records reached in 2008.  The average price nationwide of regular gasoline at the
pump was $3.84 a gallon yesterday, the highest since Sept. 16,
2008, AAA said on its website.  ‘Short-Term Gain’  Obama, in remarks prepared for delivery today at a town
hall meeting in Reno,  Nevada , said that the administration will
“make sure that no one is taking advantage of the American
people for their own short-term gain.”  The energy market working group is part of a financial
fraud enforcement  task force . In a memo to the task force,
Holder said Obama asked him to work with federal agencies and
state attorneys general to ensure laws weren’t being violated on
oil and gas prices.  Holder also wrote that it is “clear that there are lawful
reasons for increases in gas prices, given supply and demand.”
In cases in which there is illegal conduct, state and federal
officials should take “swift action,” he wrote.  The president’s job approval rating, which started rising
after he reached a deal on tax cuts with congressional
Republicans in December, reversed course in late January as
turmoil in the Middle East began driving up gasoline prices.  A Washington Post-ABC News poll released April 19 found
that 47 percent of Americans approve of Obama’s job performance,
down seven percentage points since January. Even with signs of
improvement in economic indicators, 44 percent of Americans said
they believed that the economy is deteriorating, the worst
reading for the poll in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  