-- 
UBS Hires Wannenmacher as Asia-Pacific Prime Services Head

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-04-21T03:38:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ubs-hires-wannenmacher-as-prime-services-head-for-asia-pacific.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
hired Tim Wannenmacher from Nomura Holdings Inc. as head of
prime services for the Asia-Pacific region, according to an
internal memo.  Wannenmacher will replace  David Gray , who left the Swiss
bank after 17 years, according to the memo.  Chris Cockerill , a
Hong Kong-based spokesman for UBS, confirmed the contents of the
document.  UBS was ranked by trade journal  AsiaHedge  in May last year
as the third-largest prime broker in the Asia-Pacific behind
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley in terms of the 189
mandates it received. The Zurich-based bank was in fifth place
based on the estimated $14.8 billion of  hedge funds  it
controlled, lower than Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group
AG in addition to the U.S. banks.  Wannenmacher, who was most recently global head of prime
services and delta one at Nomura, will join UBS in early May,
according to the memo. He previously ran prime services in the
region for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. based in  Tokyo  and Hong
Kong. Nomura purchased the European and Asian operations after
Lehman’s bankruptcy in 2008.  “Tim brings with him a wealth of experience and was
instrumental in building out the prime services business for
both Lehman and then Nomura in terms of revenues, product and
breadth of coverage,” according to the memo. Wannenmacher will
be responsible for “driving the development” of UBS’s prime
services business and “ensuring the delivery of a full and
integrated product offering” for clients, it said.  Prime brokers provide services such as lending stock and
cash, and trade clearing. The consulting business and capital
introduction teams help hedge funds set up offices and introduce
them to potential investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  