-- 
Uganda Authorities Arrest Opposition Leader Besigye Over Inflation Protest

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-04-21T06:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/uganda-authorities-arrest-opposition-leader-besigye-over-inflation-protest.html
Ugandan authorities arrested the
country’s main opposition leader for the third time this month
after he attempted to walk to his office in protest at the
rising cost of living, the police said.  Kizza Besigye was detained about 2 miles north of the
capital, Kampala, as he attempted to walk after alighting from
his vehicle which he had used to drive from his home, Judith
Nabakooba, a police spokeswoman, said by phone from the city.
She didn’t have details on what charges Besigye would face.  “He was arrested as he was moving with a group of people,”
Nabakooba said.  Demonstrations have been organized in  Uganda  to denounce
surging prices for staple foods and gasoline, after inflation in
the East African nation accelerated to 11.1 percent in March,
from 6.4 percent a month earlier. The government has vowed to
detain the protesters because they are acting “outside the law
and accepted norms of society,” Internal Affairs Minister
Kirunda Kivejinja said on April 19.  Protests have also been held in neighboring Kenya over
rising food and fuel costs. On April 19, about 200 people
marched through the center of the capital, Nairobi, to present a
petition to the government demanding lower prices. Kenya’s
government announced a reduction in fuel taxes a day before the
demonstration.  Budget Interference  Uganda isn’t planning to lower tariffs on fuel like  Kenya 
because this would interfere with the country’s budget,
Kivejinja said on April 19.  On April 11, Besigye was arrested for blocking traffic
while taking part in a so-called walk-to-work demonstration.
Three days later, at a similar demonstration, Besigye’s hand was
injured after police sprayed teargas and fired rubber bullets to
disperse protesters. He was detained again on April 18.  The opposition will continue with their twice-weekly
protests until the government halts the rise in food and fuel
prices, said John Ken Lukyamuzi, the chairman of a coalition of
four opposition parties.  “Our resolve is still strong to continue with protests
until government addresses the issues at hand,” he said in a
phone interview.  Besigye, who was the presidential candidate for an
opposition coalition known as the Inter-Party Coalition in a
Feb. 18 election, rejected the outcome of the vote, claiming
incumbent President Yoweri Museveni was fraudulently re-elected.
Uganda, with a population of more than 30 million, is  Africa ’s
largest producer of robusta coffee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  