-- 
Ugandan Court Orders Opposition Leader Kizza Besigye to Be Held in Custody

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-04-21T12:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/ugandan-court-orders-opposition-leader-kizza-besigye-to-be-held-in-custody.html
A Ugandan court ordered opposition
leader  Kizza Besigye  to be held in custody after he was arrested
today as he attempted to walk to his office in protest at the
rising cost of living, his party said.  Besigye, who was defeated by President Yoweri Museveni in a
Feb. 18 election, was remanded until April 27 by a magistrate’s
court in Nabweru, near the capital, Kampala, for defying a
government ban on so-called walk-to-work protests, Nandala
Mafabi, the party’s deputy treasurer, said by phone.  Police detained Besigye, leader of the Forum for Democratic
Change, about 2 miles (3 kilometers) north of Kampala as he
attempted to walk after alighting from the vehicle he used to
drive from his home, police spokeswoman Judith Nabakooba said by
phone from the city.  Demonstrations have been organized in  Uganda  to protest
surging prices for staple foods and gasoline, after inflation in
the East African nation accelerated to 11.1 percent in March,
from 6.4 percent a month earlier. The government will detain the
protesters because they are acting “outside the law and
accepted norms of society,” Internal Affairs Minister Kirunda Kivejinja said on April 19.  Teargas  Police today fired teargas at supporters of Norbert Mao,
the leader of the opposition  Democratic Party , who is being held
in prison after his April 18 arrest for participating in the
protests, Vincent Mayanja, the party’s deputy secretary-general,
said by phone.  Mao, who was also a presidential candidate in the last
elections, was transferred today to a prison in Nakasongola in
the central region from Kampala, he said.  Olara Otunnu , the leader of the opposition Uganda People’s
Congress, was escorted by the police as he walked to his office
in the capital, his party said.  Besigye was arrested on April 11 for blocking traffic while
taking part in a walk-to-work demonstration. Three days later,
at a similar protest, Besigye’s hand was injured when police
sprayed teargas and fired rubber bullets to disperse protesters.
He was detained again on April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 