-- 
United Loss Beats Estimates on Fares; Southwest Posts Profit

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-04-21T20:32:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/united-continental-posts-smaller-loss-than-estimated-on-fares.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
posted a smaller loss than analysts estimated, buoyed by higher
fares, while  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ’s earnings may make it the
only large U.S. carrier with a first-quarter profit.  The loss reported today by United, the world’s biggest
airline, was $136 million excluding some items, or 41 cents a
share, compared with the 49-cent average projection of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Southwest said adjusted profit
was $20 million, or 3 cents a share, matching the estimates.  The airlines countered a 41 percent surge in jet-fuel
prices from a year earlier with six industrywide fare increases.
Previous capacity cuts during the 2008 recession and steady
demand for travel are also filling seats at near-record levels,
improving efficiency.  ‘There’s an improving economy,” Jim Compton, chief revenue
officer at Chicago-based United, told analysts and investors on
a conference call. “The demand picture is an improving demand
picture versus declining in 2008. There is better corporate
revenue.” Yields on corporate tickets rose more than 17 percent
in the quarter, he said.  United, formed by the October combination of UAL Corp.
and Continental Airlines Inc., said its adjusted loss excluded
$77 million of costs, chiefly for merger integration.  Including those items, United posted a net loss of
$213 million, or 65 cents a share. Revenue increased 11 percent
to $8.2 billion on higher fares, the company said.  “United and Continental are much better positioned to
manage through the current high-cost fuel environment as a
combined carrier than either would have been as stand-alone
carriers,” Jeff Smisek, the Chicago-based company’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement.  Southwest  Southwest, the fourth-largest U.S. carrier, managed a
first-quarter profit by participating in what Chief Executive
Officer  Gary Kelly  called an unprecedented number of fare
increases.  Southwest is the only airline among the five largest in the
U.S. that will be profitable in the quarter, according to
analysts’ estimates.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  report results on April 26, and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines yesterday posted an adjusted loss of $405 million.  Six fare increases of as much as $10 round trip each were
successful in the quarter because all carriers matched them,
according to FareCompare.com, a ticket-price research firm.  Southwest’s revenue rose 18 percent to $3.1 billion. That
helped overcome a fuel bill of $1.04 billion, the first time the
carrier has paid more than $1 billion in a single quarter, Kelly
said today in an interview.  The Dallas-based carrier expects its fuel bill for all of
2011 to climb more than $1.5 billion from 2010, he said.  ‘Pretty Cautious’  That increase “can’t be ignored,” Kelly said. “We’re
thinking that in 2012, we need to be pretty cautious” about
capacity growth.  Demand remains strong among both business and leisure
travelers, Kelly said. Southwest boosted fares again April 19,
for the seventh increase this year.  Southwest said it expects to complete its acquisition of
 AirTran Holdings Inc. (AAI)  on May 2, once regulators approve the
deal. The purchase will give Southwest a hub in Atlanta, which
is the world’s busiest airport and is dominated by Delta.
Southwest, which now flies only Boeing Co. 737s, also will take
on a second aircraft type with AirTran’s smaller Boeing 717s.  JetBlue, Alaska  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  posted net income of $3 million, or
1 cent a share. That fell short of the 3-cent average on that
basis of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 16 percent to $1.01 billion, the New York-based airline
said today.  JetBlue trimmed its plan for 2011 capacity growth by
1 percentage point to between 6 percent and 8 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Dave Barger said. The airline also opted out
of deliveries of two Embraer SA E190 aircraft that had been set
for 2013.  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  reported profit excluding some items
of $29.5 million, or 80 cents a share. That exceeded the 70-cent
estimate of 13 analysts’ estimates. The Seattle-based company’s
revenue rose 16 percent to $965.2 million.  Virgin America  Virgin America Inc., the low-fare carrier partly owned by
U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson , reported that its fourth-
quarter net loss widened to $25.1 million from $18.8 million a
year earlier, mostly because of fuel expenses and higher
aircraft rents, wages and landing fees as it adds flights to new
cities such as  Orlando ,  Florida , and Dallas.  Virgin America was able to recover about 75 percent of fuel
costs through higher fares in the fourth quarter, and ticket-
price increases in the first quarter were “at the point where
we’re starting to destroy leisure demand,” Chief Executive
Officer David Cush said in a telephone interview.  The closely held airline, based in Burlingame,  California ,
gets about two-thirds of its revenue from leisure travelers and
the rest from business passengers.  “We’re seeing a lot of shopping, people planning a little
in advance so they don’t have to pay close-in fares,” Cush
said. “This is a one-story industry right now, and it’s all
about fuel.”  United fell 19 cents to $20.84 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, and the shares have declined
13 percent this year. Southwest slid 32 cents to $11.31 and has
dropped 13 percent.  JetBlue fell 11 cents to $5.39, and Alaska Air slid
26 cents to $60.58.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  