-- 
US Airways Follows AMR in Suing Sabre as Data Dispute Widens

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-04-21T20:32:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/us-airways-files-antitrust-suit-against-reservation-service-sabre-holdings.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  sued Sabre
Holdings Corp. to block alleged anticompetitive actions,
broadening a battle between airlines and companies that
distribute fare and flight data to travel agents.  US Airways  follows  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  in suing
Sabre as the carriers seek more control over the dissemination
and sale of their products. More than 35 percent of US Airways’
annual revenue is booked through Sabre or Sabre-affiliated
travel agents, the airline said today in a statement, or about
$3.5 billion.  Sabre “engaged in a pattern of exclusionary conduct to
shut out competition, protect its monopoly pricing power and
maintain its technologically-obsolete business model,” Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways said in the statement. Sabre collects
and shares flight data, and owns travel  website  Travelocity.com.  The lawsuit, filed in federal court in  New York , seeks
unspecified damages that could be tripled if US Airways
prevails.  “We are aware of US Airways’ actions today and are
reviewing the details of their legal claims,” Nancy St. Pierre,
a spokeswoman for Southlake, Texas-based Sabre, said in an e-
mail. “We will have further comment when appropriate.”  US Airways “would not be able to survive” the loss of
revenue should Sabre exclude the airline from offerings to
travel agents, the carrier said.  New Agreement  Sabre on March 1 said it had signed a new multiyear
agreement with US Airways. The carrier agreed to the deal to
prevent Sabre from removing its fare information or placing the
fares after those of other carriers in displays to travel
agents. The contract ensures Sabre will distribute US Airways
fares in an unbiased manner, said Scott Kirby, US Airways’
president.  Industry tensions first boiled over on Dec. 21 when  Fort
Worth , Texas-based American pulled fares from travel agent
Orbitz.com as the carrier pushed to use a proprietary computer
system to share data, bypassing distributors such as Sabre.  American, which is in talks with Sabre to settle the
lawsuit it filed on Jan. 10, last week sued Travelport Ltd.,
another global distribution company, and its  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  affiliate to stop what it called anticompetitive behavior
and retaliation. American is seeking unspecified actual and
punitive damages.  The case is US Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-cv-
2725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 