-- 
Van Hollen Asks Federal Court, FEC to Require Donor Disclosure

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-04-21T19:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/van-hollen-asks-federal-court-fec-to-require-donor-disclosure.html
Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  filed a federal court suit in  Washington  aimed at forcing
groups that fund political ads to reveal their donors.  The  lawsuit  seeks to throw out  Federal Election Commission 
regulations adopted in 2007 that let the groups keep secret the
names of donors who pay for pre-election ads.  Van Hollen  is also
the author of proposed legislation to accomplish the same goal.
A 2002 campaign finance law named for Senate sponsors  John McCain  and Russell Feingold required that groups report their ad
spending to the commission.  “The disclosure of campaign-donor information is essential
to our democracy,” Van Hollen of  Maryland , a former chairman of
the  Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee , said. “The
requirements in existing law have been significantly loosened by
the FEC’s interpretation.”  Judith Ingram, an FEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The commission’s rule required outside groups to disclose
only those donors who gave money specifically for political ads.  Former FEC Chairman Trevor Potter, a Republican who helped
draft the McCain-Feingold law, said in an interview that the
commissioners “have incorrectly rewritten” the law when they
adopted the 2007 regulations. Potter is president of the
 Campaign Legal Center , which is part of the legal team that
brought  today’s lawsuit .  Probe Blocked  After the 2008 election, the FEC’s counsel suggested that
the commission authorize an investigation into whether the
independent Republican-leaning group Freedom’s Watch should have
disclosed its donors. The three Republican commissioners blocked
the probe, saying disclosure was required only if the donations
went for specific ad.  Van Hollen’s lawsuit and a  related petition  asking the FEC
to require groups funding independent political expenditures to
disclose their donors as well come a day after White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said that President  Barack Obama  was
considering an executive order requiring government contractors
to disclose contributions made to political groups.  The actions are a response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s
Citizens United decision in January 2010 that reversed decades
of precedent and legislation and gave corporations and unions
the ability to use their treasuries to run political ads through
Election Day.  Van Hollen’s legislation to require groups to disclose
their donors was twice blocked by Senate Republicans last year.  In the 2010 elections, in which Republicans won a House
majority and narrowed the Democrats’ Senate edge, Republican-
leaning outside groups spent $184 million, about $100 million
more than Democratic-leaning organizations, according to the
 Campaign Finance Institute , a Washington-based research group.  Of the five Republican groups that spent the most money,
four kept their donors hidden, led by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, an
organization founded by former White House aide  Karl Rove .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 