-- 
Vekselberg Says Putin Told Bank Rossii to Weigh Weaker Ruble

-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-04-21T16:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/vekselberg-says-putin-told-bank-rossii-to-weigh-weaker-ruble-1-.html
Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  said Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  ordered the
Finance Ministry and the central bank to consider measures aimed
at weakening the ruble.  Putin was responding to a request from the Russian Union of
Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, known as the RSPP, Vekselberg,
board  member  at the lobby group, told reporters in Moscow today.  The ruble is the best-performing major emerging market
currency against the dollar this year and closed at a 28-month
high, the strongest since December 2008, in trading today. Bank
Rossii buys and sells foreign currency to keep the ruble within
a so-called “floating corridor” currently set at 32.45 to
37.45 against its target currency basket.  The premier ordered the  Finance Ministry  and the central
bank to meet the lobby group to discuss “those mechanisms” of
currency control at the government’s disposal “that are
applicable but very limited in their effect,”  Dmitry Peskov ,
Putin’s spokesman, said in a phone interview in Moscow today.  “The appreciation undoubtedly has consequences, especially
for export-oriented industries,” he said, adding Putin is
paying “close attention” to the ruble’s movements. “Excessive
fluctuations undoubtedly cause discomfort for the country’s
economy.”  Russian business leaders will meet with the central bank
and the finance and economy ministries to discuss the ruble
between May 5 and May 8, RIA Novosti reported, citing RSPP head
Alexander Shokhin. The report was published after the close of
official trading on  Russia ’s Micex exchange.  Putin said Dec. 29 that his government and the country’s
central bank are in agreement on ruble policy and that a free-
floating of the currency is “desirable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 