-- 
Verizon Profit More Than Triples as IPhone Helps Win Users

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-21T20:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/verizon-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-as-iphone-helps-attract-customers.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, reported earnings that more
than tripled as taxes decreased and the carrier attracted new
customers after introducing  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Net income rose to $1.44 billion, or 51 cents a share, New
York-based Verizon said today in a statement. Analysts predicted
50 cents, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
were little changed at $27 billion.  Verizon is banking on the popularity of wireless-data plans
to increase sales as the pool of people who don’t already own
mobile phones shrinks and revenue from voice calls slows. The
company sold 2.2 million iPhones since the device, which lets
users surf the Web, download games and send e-mail, went on sale
in February.  “They are outperforming the overall industry and Verizon
does have a significant opportunity in front of them to sell
additional smartphones,” said  Michael Nelson , an analyst at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York, who rates the stock
“outperform” and doesn’t own it. “They certainly increased
market share during the quarter.”  Verizon won 906,000 wireless contract customers in the
quarter. Analysts on average projected 998,000, according to
 Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst at Credit Suisse AG in New York.
Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone company,
yesterday said it added 62,000 such users last quarter.  Wireline  Verizon gaining the iPhone ended AT&T’s four-year U.S.
exclusivity for the device. The next Apple phone for Verizon’s
network will work worldwide, Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo
said in a conference call today.  Verizon fell 88 cents to $36.91 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4 p.m. It has added 3.2 percent this year.
Investors may have used the earnings report as an opportunity to
sell the shares after recent gains, Nelson said.  “The stock has had a very strong runup. The stock has
outpaced both AT&T and the broader market over the last several
months,” Nelson said. “The report itself wasn’t a blowout.”  Outside the wireless business, Verizon is combating the
industrywide drop in demand for older, wired phone connections
by offering new products on its FiOS fiber-optic Internet and TV
service. The company added programming from ESPN and MTV during
the quarter and is working on ways to integrate mobile devices
with wired services.  FiOS added 207,000 Web subscribers and 192,000 video users
in the quarter. Sales from the wireline business, which includes
FiOS and the declining home-phone line business, fell 2.2
percent to $10.1 billion. That missed the $10.3 billion estimate
by Wells Fargo Securities LLC analyst  Jennifer Fritzsche .  Faster Network  A year ago, Verizon reported earnings, excluding some
costs, of 48 cents a share. Net income a year earlier was
$443 million, or 16 cents a share. The amount of money the
company set aside for income taxes last quarter fell by more
than $1 billion to $617 million.  Average monthly bills for wireless contract customers
increased 2.2 percent from a year earlier to $53.52, “a hair
light” compared with analysts’ average estimate, Chaplin said
in a note today. The data portion rose 17 percent to $20.51,
Verizon said. Bills in the fourth quarter averaged $53.50.
Verizon is investing in a so-called fourth-generation network
technology called long-term evolution to make its wireless
service, which accounts for more than half of revenue, more
appealing. LTE gives users wireless Internet speeds more like a
home broadband connection, allowing more advanced video and data
sharing features.  ThunderBolt  The company put the service on sale in some markets in
December and released its first smartphone for the network -- an
HTC Corp. device running on the Android operating system, called
the ThunderBolt -- in March. Verizon said it sold more than
500,000 4G devices in less than a month last quarter, including
260,000 ThunderBolts.  Verizon co-owns its wireless business with  Vodafone Group
Plc. (VOD)  Shammo said that the wireless unit is still expected to
begin paying a dividend to its parent companies in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  