-- 
White House Said to Nominate Daniel Gallagher as Casey’s Successor at SEC

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-04-21T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/white-house-said-to-pick-gallagher-as-casey-s-successor-at-sec.html
President  Barack Obama  may nominate
Daniel M. Gallagher, a former Securities and Exchange Commission
official, as one of the watchdog’s five commissioners, said two
people familiar with the appointment.  Gallagher, a former SEC deputy director who left the agency
last year, would replace Kathleen L. Casey after her five-year
term expires in June, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the White House hasn’t announced the
selection.  Gallagher, 38, oversaw the agency’s response to the 2008
bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and worked on the
Credit Rating Agency Reform Act. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
named Gallagher and James Brigagliano co-acting directors of the
agency’s trading and markets division after Erik Sirri stepped
down in April 2009.  When Gallagher left the SEC in January 2010 to become a law
partner in the  Washington  office of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale
& Dorr LLP, Schapiro said he had “served this agency well
during a very difficult time in the markets.”  Before joining the SEC, Gallagher was general counsel and
senior vice president of Fiserv Securities Inc., a unit of
Brookfield, Wisconsin-based  Fiserv Inc. (FISV)   Obama “will nominate someone to fill that role as quickly
as possible, but we won’t speculate or comment on possible
candidates before the president makes his decision,” said Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment. A call
to Gallagher yesterday wasn’t immediately returned.  Dodd-Frank  Casey, the Republican former staff director at the Senate
Banking Committee, spent 13 years on  Capitol Hill  before joining
the SEC. She would be leaving the agency as it works through the
rulemaking schedule required by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.  The SEC has so far adopted just seven of more than 100
rules called for in the act.  No more than three members of a political party can serve
on the five-member commission, and each must be confirmed by the
U.S. Senate. The panel also includes two Democrats -- Luis Aguilar and Elisse Walter -- and Republican Troy Paredes.
Schapiro is a political independent.  Aguilar, whose term expired in June, has continued serving
in the position, as permitted by the agency’s rules.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, endorsed
Aguilar’s re-nomination in September, writing in a letter to
Obama that “he has proven to be one of the strongest and most
knowledgeable advocates that we have ever seen at the SEC.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 