-- 
Whole Foods Lawsuit Over Chinese Frozen Vegetables Can Proceed in Florida

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-04-21T19:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/whole-foods-lawsuit-over-chinese-frozen-vegetables-can-proceed-in-florida.html
A  Florida  judge allowed a lawsuit
to proceed that claims  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFMI)  violated the
state’s deceptive trade-practices law by selling frozen
vegetables from China grown in a polluted region by prisoners
and certified as organic.  Miami-Dade County Circuit Judge Amy Steele Donner yesterday
denied the grocery chain’s motion to dismiss the suit filed on
behalf of the Southeast Consumer Alliance Inc., a non-profit
organization based in  Boca Raton , Florida.  The suit claims that Whole Foods knew that its Silver River
supplier, based in the Chinese province of Zhejiang, was
actually a front company for a network of farms where Chinese
prisoners are forced to work and that the farms are irrigated
from a highly polluted river.  The suit also claims that Austin, Texas-based Whole Foods
knew that the company providing the initial organic
certification is owned by the Chinese government, which also
owns the farms, creating a conflict of interest.  “They’re doing everything they can to conceal this bogus
or shaky certification,” Bruce Baldwin, the group’s attorney,
said. “Whole Foods brags about its social accountability audits
of all of its foreign suppliers. So either they knew about these
forced labor camps, or they didn’t actually check.”  A spokeswoman for the grocery store chain didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment. Whole Foods
attorney Christopher Wayne Wadsworth said he wasn’t authorized
to comment on the case.  In court filings, Wadsworth argued that the suit “amounts
to little more than an unsupported slur against  China ’s farming
industry and a meritless attack on Whole Foods stated corporate
values and goals.”  Baldwin said Whole Foods pulled many of its Chinese frozen
vegetables off the shelves after he filed the suit but that the
company continues to sell Chinese soy beans. The case, which is
seeking class-action, or group, certification, was originally
filed in 2009 and amended last year to include the deceptive
trade practices claim.  To back up his claims, Baldwin filed exhibits of news
reports about forced labor and pollution in China.  The case is Southern Consumer Alliance Inc. v. Whole Foods
Market Inc., 09-cv-92727CA, Miami-Dade County Circuit Court
(Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha@bloomberg.net . 