-- 
Whoopi Goldberg’s Singing Nuns Rock ‘Sister Act’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-21T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/whoopi-goldberg-s-swinging-nuns-rock-rousing-sister-act-jeremy-gerard.html
Whoopi Goldberg , who carried the
“Sister Act” film franchise in the early 1990s, returns as a
lead producer of the Broadway version of the comedy. And just as
the films confirmed Goldberg’s box office appeal, so the show is
likely to sprinkle stardust on a roof-raising singer named
Patina Miller.  Miller plays that supreme wannabe Deloris Van Cartier, who
witnesses her married boyfriend (Kingsley Leggs) killing a
colleague of dubious loyalty.  This instantly makes her the next target. She’s turned over
to shy cop Eddie Souther, who’s had a crush on her since high
school. Sweaty Eddie places her for protection in the care of
Mother Superior (Victoria Clark, playing a top nun who seems,
happily, on loan from “The Sound of Music”).  Miller’s big, brassy voice and unwholesome swagger inject
just the right amount of sizzle into the proceedings. In short
order, she transforms a group of mousy nuns from meek choir
singers to foot-stomping, palm-waving, ear-splitting
cheerleaders for Jesus.  Praise the Lord, or Jerry Zaks, the enterprising director
who has turned a chancy enterprise, which debuted in  London ,
into a ripping goodtime hit.  Menken’s Songs  When the sisters sing, “Yes, the world’s an oyster, when
you’re locked inside a cloister,” Patina, renamed Sister
Clarence, mutters, “Kill me now.”  Soon she has the sisters summoning the rafters with one
gospel belter after another. Crowds return to the faltering
church, the donation baskets overflow and the Pope wants to
check them out.  Zaks (who became a star himself directing another Catholic
Church satire, “Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All for You”)
brought in jokesmith Douglas Carter Beane to liven up the script
by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner. But the strong
points are the songs by Alan Menken and Glenn Slater. The score
sure isn’t Rodgers and Hammerstein, but works like crazy to win
you over.  Inevitably it does, despite a hokey story that brings
Deloris together with Eddie (Chester Gregory, a goofy but
endearing foil to the top banana).  Gleeful  The sisters sing in a hilariously over-the-top cathedral
setting by Klara Zieglerova. There are dazzling costumes by Lez
Brotherston, aptly revelatory lighting by Natasha Katz and
spirited dancing by Anthony Van Laast.  Nothing unexpected happens in “Sister Act,” a fairy tale
we already know. But it’s delivered with exceptional glee and
polish.  At the Broadway Theatre, 1861 Broadway at 53rd Street.
Information: +1-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com 
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 