-- 
Winklevosses Ask Court to Look Into Possible Facebook Evidence on Messages

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-21T19:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/winklevosses-ask-court-to-look-into-possible-facebook-evidence-on-messages.html
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and
Divya Narendra said they will ask a federal court in  Boston  to
look into the possibility that Facebook Inc. hid instant
messages during a lawsuit claiming company founder  Mark Zuckerberg  stole their idea for the social network.  The Winklevosses and Narendra told the court yesterday in
court papers that they will ask it to conduct an inquiry,
prompted by reports on the Internet and in the New Yorker
magazine they say suggest that  Facebook  improperly withheld
“critical evidence,” including instant messages allegedly sent
by Zuckerberg in 2003.  “If that is true, we need to know why these documents were
not produced then,” Tyler Meade, a lawyer for Narendra and the
Winklevoss twins, said in an e-mail message today.  The three sued Zuckerberg in 2004 claiming he stole the
idea for Facebook and delayed their project, ConnectU, while
they were all Harvard University students. The dispute is
dramatized in the Academy Award-winning 2010 film “The  Social
Network .”  The filing is the latest move by the Winklevosses to reopen
their litigation challenging the origins of the world’s most
popular social networking site.  A federal appeals court in  San Francisco  on April 11 upheld
the Winklevosses’ $65 million settlement with Facebook in 2008,
rejecting their claim it should be thrown out because Facebook
misled them about the company’s value at the time. They have
asked for review by an expanded panel of the appeals court.  Facebook Response  “We consider the matter concluded,” Andrew Noyes, a
Facebook spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  The papers filed in Boston yesterday cite instant messages
allegedly written by Zuckerberg in 2003, including one in which
he directs a friend and business partner to look at the ConnectU
site, writing: “But they made a mistake haha. They asked me to
make it for them. So I’m like delaying it so it won’t be ready
until after the facebook thing comes out.”  The Winklevosses and Narendra told the court that The New
Yorker article suggested Facebook and its lawyers discussed the
communications in January 2006. Instead of turning the evidence
over as required, Facebook apparently kept it under wraps for
more than two years before reaching the settlement, they
claimed.  Yesterday’s papers also quote a complaint filed by  Paul Ceglia , a western  New York  man who claims a 2003 contract
entitles him to half of Zuckerberg’s Facebook holdings.  2003 E-Mail  According to the Ceglia complaint, filed in Buffalo, New
York, federal court April 11, Zuckerberg e-mailed him on Nov.
22, 2003:  “I have recently met with a couple of upperclassmen here
at Harvard that are planning to launch a site very similar to
ours. If we don’t make a move soon, I think we will lose the
advantage we would have if we release before them. I’ve stalled
them for the time being.”  If the Ceglia e-mail is genuine, Facebook should have
produced it to the Winklevosses and Narendra in their suit, they
said in the court filing.  Orin Snyder, a lawyer for Facebook, has called Ceglia’s
ownership claim “ridiculous” and an amended complaint citing
e-mails by Zuckerberg “no better.”  The case is: ConnectU Inc. v. Facebook Inc., 07-cv-10593,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 