-- 
Wisconsin Supreme Court Election Foes Reach Recount Accord

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-04-21T23:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/wisconsin-supreme-court-election-foes-reach-recount-accord-1-.html
Wisconsin  Supreme Court Justice
David T. Prosser Jr. and challenger JoAnne Kloppenburg agreed to
the recounting of some ballots by hand and others electronically
to resolve who won the April 5 election.  Lawyers for Prosser and Kloppenburg reached the accord in
court today, representatives for both sides said, after the
state agency responsible for counting votes sued for permission
to do so by mining, and potentially erasing, electronic ballot
data.  Kloppenburg yesterday asked the  Wisconsin Government
Accountability Board , for a statewide recount after a review of
the election results showed the incumbent Prosser had won by
7,316 votes out of almost 1.5 million ballots cast.  “The quicker we get started, the sooner we will have the
election results reaffirmed,” Brian Nemoir, a spokesman for
Prosser, said in a telephone interview.  The recount comes while the state’s top court addresses two
separate filings addressing challenges to the legality of
Republican Governor  Scott Walker ’s legislation limiting public
employees’ ability to engage in collective bargaining.  While the Supreme Court contest is nonpartisan, Prosser
previously served as Republican speaker of Wisconsin’s lower
legislative house, the state Assembly.  ‘Destruction of Evidence’  “We are pleased that we were able to resolve this matter
so quickly,” said Kloppenburg’s campaign manager, Melissa
Mulliken. “The hand recount will be done in the portions of the
state where any other method would have required the destruction
of evidence and data.”  Ballots will be recounted by hand in all or part of 31
Wisconsin counties, Nemoir said. Wisconsin has 72 counties.  The accountability board lawsuit created a forum for the
compromise, Steve Means, the assistant attorney general
overseeing the case, said in a telephone interview.  “JoAnne Kloppenburg gave up her right to have a hand
recount throughout the state,” Means said. “Justice Prosser
gave up his right to contest the partial hand count.”  The case is In the Matter of the Recount of Votes for
Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice, 11cv1863,  Dane County ,
Wisconsin Circuit Court (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  