-- 
Wisconsin Agency Sues Over State Supreme Court Election Recount Methods

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-21T19:49:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/wisconsin-agency-sues-over-state-supreme-court-election-recount-methods.html
The  Wisconsin Government
Accountability Board  asked a judge to allow the use of
electronic voting memory cartridges to speed the recount in a
contested Supreme Court election, even if that use might erase
the voting data.  The nonpartisan agency filed the lawsuit today in state
court in Madison, naming as defendants incumbent Supreme Court
Justice David T. Prosser Jr. and his challenger, JoAnne Kloppenburg.  Kloppenburg yesterday asked election officials for a
statewide recount after a review of the April 5 election results
showed Prosser had won by 7,316 votes out of almost 1.5 million
ballots cast.  The recount comes while the state’s top court addresses two
separate filings asking it to overturn a temporary injunction
and dismiss a lawsuit challenging the legality of Republican
Governor  Scott Walker ’s legislation limiting public employees’
ability to engage in collective bargaining.  While the Supreme Court contest is nonpartisan, Prosser
previously served a Republican speaker of  Wisconsin ’s lower
legislative house, the state Assembly.  Allowing counties to re-tabulate votes using the erasable
memory cartridges “will allow for a timely and accurate recount
that will give effect to the will of the electors,” according
to the complaint filed by the office of State Attorney General
J.B. Van Hollen.  Lisa Weiner, the Milwaukee County Elections Board
administrator, said it would take at least a week to conduct a
recount using the machines and twice as long for a hand count.
The cost of a mechanical recount would exceed $500,000, she
said. The candidates have until the end of today to request a
hand count, she said.  The case is In the Matter of the Recount of Votes for
Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice, 11cv1863,  Dane County ,
Wisconsin Circuit Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  