-- 
Xerox Reports First-Quarter Profit on Cost Cutting, Service Revenue Gain

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-04-21T17:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/xerox-beats-first-quarter-profit-revenue-estimates-on-gains-from-acs-deal.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the provider of
printers and business services, posted a first-quarter profit as
revenue climbed and the company cuts costs from its acquisition
of Affiliated Computer Services Inc.  Net income was $281 million, or 19 cents a share, from a
loss of $42 million, or 4 cents, a year earlier, Norwalk,
Connecticut-based Xerox said in a statement today. Excluding
some costs, per-share profit was 23 cents. Analysts estimated 21
cents on average, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Sales climbed 16 percent to $5.47 billion, led by services,
which gained almost 30 percent. Sales from equipment and
supplies was little changed, which may have disappointed some
investors, said Keith Bachman, an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets.  “It’s uninspiring,” said New York-based Bachman, who
rates the shares “market perform” and doesn’t own them. “It’s
a reasonable report, but it doesn’t give anybody a reason to go
out and buy the stock.”  Xerox fell 43 cents, or 4 percent, to $10.42 at 1:04 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had
fallen 5.8 percent this year before today.  The company has been slashing costs, including 5,000 job
cuts last year, as it integrates ACS. The company may save more
than $375 million in three years as a result of the takeover,
Xerox has said.  Forecasts,  Japan   Xerox said per-share profit this quarter, excluding some
costs, will be 23 cents to 26 cents, a larger range than the
company typically gives for its quarterly forecasts as it
assesses its business in Japan. That compares with analysts’
average estimate of 25 cents.  The company, whose Fuji Xerox joint-venture manufactures
and distributes copiers and printers to Japan,  China  and other
countries in the Asia-Pacific region, said it anticipates last
month’s earthquake in Japan to affect its equity income this
quarter and the third quarter.  While Fuji Xerox factories weren’t damaged, several of its
suppliers were affected by the earthquake, Chief Executive
Officer Ursula Burns said. The company is making alternate plans
for supplies, and expects to have increased supply chain costs,
she said.  “Considering there is still much uncertainty, we’re
providing a broader range than usual for our earnings
expectation,” Burns said today on a conference call. She added
that the company remains “fully committed” to its full-year
forecasts.  Services, Equipment Sales  Services sales climbed 27 percent to $3.63 billion last
quarter, while revenue from equipment and supplies was little
changed at $1.67 billion. Analysts estimated first-quarter sales
of $5.42 billion, on average, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The company reiterated its full-year profit forecast of
$1.05 to $1.10 a share, also on an adjusted basis.  Xerox completed the $6 billion ACS acquisition, its largest
deal, in February 2010, as it aimed to triple its services
revenue. Since then, Burns has cut jobs and has been using
various ACS services to automate administrative tasks to trim
costs.  Xerox plans to repurchase shares starting in the second
half of the year, Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri said
today on the conference call, reiterating a goal set last year.
The company will spend about 70 percent of its cash, which
should total about $1 billion to $1.2 billion, on the buybacks,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 