-- 
Yale-Bound Hess Seeks U.S. Chess Title as Wall Street Beckons

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-21T04:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/yale-bound-hess-seeks-to-capture-u-s-chess-title-as-wall-street-beckons.html
Robert Hess, who interned at a
hedge fund in 2008 and will attend  Yale University  in August,
will try to see the future over the next seven days -- on a
chessboard.  The 19-year-old grandmaster is alone atop his group in the
first phase of the 2011 U.S. Championship in  St. Louis , and has
clinched a spot in the semifinals. In five months, he plans to
use his chess skills to help study finance at Yale in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , and join the likes of Harvard University economics
professor Ken Rogoff as grandmasters to attend the university.  “These are the kinds of things that I like doing,
strategizing and finding patterns,” Hess said in a telephone
interview from St. Louis.  Hess, who deferred from Yale for a year to play chess full
time, worked a 2008 summer internship at  Fortress Investment
Group LLC , a New York hedge fund. At Fortress, Hess analyzed
entertainment stocks and developed an interest in finance.  “It is something that I want to study in college, and this
internship really opened my mind to it,” said Hess, who is from
 Manhattan  and was captain of the Stuyvesant High School football
team as a sophomore.  He said finance is similar to chess, in that success
depends on the ability to see the effective move out of a wide
range of possibilities.  Grandmaster Capital  Patrick Wolff, a former Yale student and Harvard graduate
who won the U.S. Championship in 1992 and shared the honor in
1995, worked at  Peter Thiel ’s  Clarium Capital Management LLC 
before launching  Grandmaster Capital Management LLC  on Jan. 1.
Wolff says his chess background helped him make the transition
into business.  “There is a quality of mind that comes from chess, in
terms of thinking analytically and conceptually,” Wolff, 43,
said in a telephone interview.  Grandmaster Capital is a five-person hedge fund with about
$50 million in assets under management. Wolff, who plays six
simultaneous blindfolded games each year at  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. annual shareholders meetings in Omaha,
 Nebraska , says chess has also helped him network in the business
world.  “Throughout my career there have been many moments where
my chess experience has gotten me noticed or helped me make
connections,” Wolff said.  Hess, like Wolff, started playing chess at age 5, and can
remember losing in four moves in his first competitive
tournament. In 2001, at age 9, Hess won the K-3 SuperNational
title, and eight years later placed second at the U.S.
Championship. He became a grandmaster, the highest permanent
title that can be earned from the World Chess Federation, in
2009.  ‘Stormed Field’  “Robert was ranked 17th in a field of 24 players that
year, and wasn’t even a grandmaster,” Tony Rich, director of
the Chess Club and Scholastic Center of Saint Louis, said in a
telephone interview. “He came in as a dark horse and just
stormed the field.”  Hess graduated from high school last year and planned to go
directly to Yale until he won the Samford Chess Fellowship, a
$42,000 grant that’s helped pay for coaching and trips to
tournaments in  Russia ,  Spain ,  Greece  and Iceland.  “Technically, chess is a job for this year,” Hess said.
“If it becomes a chore, then it’s no longer fun, but I still
love every game I play.”  The 2011 U.S. Championship, which has competitors ranging
in age from 15 to 54, started on April 15 and runs through April
28. Hess has four wins and two draws against his first six
opponents, and will advance to the two-day semifinals, which
start on April 23. Hess has won his last four games, all against
higher-ranked opponents with a combined eight U.S. Championship
titles.  "He Plays Calmly"  “Robert plays much more maturely than you expect from
someone his age,” Rich, 29, said. “He plays calmly, he doesn’t
try to crush his opponent at the opening and he is able to out-
play them from there.”  The tournament has a $250,000 purse, with the champion
taking $40,000. Rich said the prize fund has grown from $50,000
in 2008.  Last fall, Hess was invited to play exhibitions outside New
Meadowlands Stadium during New York Jets home games. Hess played
25 simultaneous games against all comers, with new players
sitting each time a game ended. He never lost.  Hess says chess has taught him lessons about independence
and responsibility.  “In chess you learn from your mistakes, and if you don’t
learn, you’ll lose again in a similar fashion,” Hess said.
“That’s true of pretty much everything in life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 