-- 
Yemen’s President, GCC Chief Meet in Effort to Resolve Crisis

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-04-21T11:46:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/yemen-s-president-gcc-chief-meet-in-effort-to-resolve-crisis.html
The head of the Gulf Cooperation
Council held talks with Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh, the
bloc’s third meeting this week with the country’s political
leaders aimed at ending a crisis sparked by anti-government
demonstrations.  GCC Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani met with Saleh
today in the capital, Sana’a, the state-run Saba news agency
said today. The council, which includes  Saudi Arabia , the  United
Arab Emirates , Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and  Kuwait , held separate
meetings this week with representatives of Yemen’s ruling
General People’s Congress and the opposition.  The GCC on April 10 proposed that Saleh hand power over to
Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi. A week earlier, the group
called for Saleh’s departure and the formation of a national
unity government.  Demonstrators in Yemen, inspired by popular movements that
forced the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia  from power this year,
are calling for an end to Saleh’s rule. Tensions in the Arabian
Peninsula country escalated last month when police and snipers
killed 46 demonstrators in Sana’a, prompting several military
and government officials to resign.  Saleh said change in  Yemen ’s leadership “should be made
via ballot boxes and based on the constitutional legitimacy,”
the state-run Saba news agency reported yesterday. “Those who
want the chair of power have to get it through ballot boxes.”  The country’s opposition has vowed to continue protests
until Saleh steps down, saying the government’s proposals for
changing the constitution don’t go far enough.  Tens of thousands of protesters gathered today in the
governorate of Al-Baidah to condemn what they called “Saleh’s
massacres,” according to Mohammed al-Amari, a witness.
Protesters plan to mobilize tomorrow in cities across Yemen for
what they are calling “last-chance Friday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 