-- 
Neil Young, Zola Jesus, Valkyries, Easter, Serra: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-21/zola-jesus-neil-young-good-friday-valkyries-cloisters-n-y-weekend.html
Before fleeing to Paris in 1933,
Paul Dessau worked in German theater, film and music, and his
lively choral piece, “Haggadah shel Pesach,” contains
references to Jewish folksongs and cantorial singing.  The always interesting Leon Botstein conducts the U.S.
premiere tonight at  Carnegie Hall  in a program called “Passover
in Exile.”  8 p.m. at 7th Ave. and 57th St. Information: +1-212-247-
7800;  http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Friday Noon  Holy Trinity Church offers the Liturgy of Good Friday at
noon. The choir will sing the Passion according to John, as well
as other seasonal music.  Then a procession of clergy and parishioners will carry a
big cross through local streets, with stops for prayer and
meditation at the New York Stock Exchange, the  World Trade
Center site  and St. Paul’s Chapel.  74 Trinity Place. Information: +1-212-602-0800;
 http://www.trinitywallstreet.org .  Friday Night  The 45-ton machine first seen in “Das Rheingold” lumbers
back into view along with star soprano Deborah Voigt, divo Jonas
Kaufmann, bass-baritone Bryn Terfel, plus assorted Valkyries and
gods. Conducted by James Levine, directed by Robert Lepage and
costing untold millions, “Die Walkure” is the hottest ticket
in town.  Carb up -- the performance lasts just over five hours,
assuming the machine is feeling well.  At the  Metropolitan Opera ,  Lincoln Center , until May 14.
Information: +1-212-362-6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Saturday  The cherry trees are in bloom and the daffodils are in full
flower. Time to visit the Cloisters, the  Metropolitan Museum ’s
architectural tribute to medieval  Europe .  Don’t miss the 14th-century Italian crucifixion created in
tempera and gold leaf on a wood panel by the Master of the Codex
of Saint George, or the 10th-century ivory carving of “Three
Holy Women at the Holy Sepulcher.”  On Saturday, you can also hear a capella group Pomerium
sing Passiontide motets by Lassus, Monteverdi, Gesualdo and
Byrd.  Fort Tryon Park, 99 Margaret Corbin Drive; Information: +1-
212-650-2290;  http://www.metmuseum.org/cloisters .  Head over to nearby New Leaf for a bloody Mary and Eggs
Florentine on the patio.  One Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park. Information:
+1-212-568-5323.  Saturday Night  Nika Danilova, the leading lady of darkwave band Zola
Jesus, sings with an urgency bordering on hysteria.  The combination of Goth seriousness with new wave synths
leaves a darkly optimistic impression.  Appearing with Zola Jesus at  Bowery Ballroom  is Naked on
the Vague, an Australian pop-apocalypse band with hummable tunes
about the end of the world.  6 Delancey St. Information: +1-212-260-4700;
 http://www.boweryballroom.com/   Sunday  Go to the Met after a walk through Central Park and see how
Richard Serra pushed drawing into the realm of the monumental.  In the early 1970s, Serra worked on paper with ink,
charcoal and lithographic crayon. Then he adopted black
paintstick to create texture, and began making big installation
drawings.  Attached directly to the walls, these giant voids suck out
light and alter space perception.  “Richard Serra Drawing: A Retrospective” runs through
Aug. 28 at the  Metropolitan Museum of Art .  Fifth Ave. at 82nd St. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  Sunday Night  Neil Young rolls into  Avery Fisher Hall  in support of his
new, heartfelt album, “Le Noise.”  The night will be a mix of older songs spiked with new
material with Young on acoustic and electric guitars. His
special guest is Bert Jansch.  You’ll likely hear “Peaceful Valley Boulevard,”
“Hitchhiker” and the flamenco-inflected “Love and “War.”  Given that Young has been inducted into the  Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame  not once, but twice, he clearly does precisely as
he pleases, so who knows where the night will go?  Lincoln Center, Broadway & 65th St. Information: +1-212-
721-6500;  http://new.lincolncenter.org .  (With assistance from Katya Kazakina and Lili Rosboch.
Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 