-- 
Republican Candidates Differ on Waterboarding of Terror Suspects

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-11-14T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-13/cain-romney-demand-stronger-action-on-iran-nukes.html
Republican presidential candidates
differed on whether waterboarding should be used as an
interrogation technique in fighting terrorism as they debated
national security ahead of the early nominating contests.  “I want to save American lives and that’s why I want the
CIA to have every interrogation tool available to them so that
we can win the war on terror,” Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  Four of the candidates split evenly when asked about
waterboarding during a debate Nov. 12 at Wofford College in
Spartanburg, South Carolina. Hosted by CBS News and the National
Journal, it was the Republicans’ 10th debate and the first
focused on national security.  Bachmann and businessman  Herman Cain  said they favored
waterboarding as an effective interrogation technique. Cain said
that he doesn’t see waterboarding as torture, and doesn’t
“agree with torture. Period.”  “However, I would trust the judgment of our military
leaders to determine what is torture and what is not torture,”
Cain said. “That is the critical consideration.”  Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  and former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman Jr. said they opposed waterboarding, in which water
is poured into a cloth placed over a detainee’s mouth to
simulate drowning.  Illegal and Immoral  “It’s illegal under international law and under our law,”
Paul said during the debate. “It’s also immoral.”  “Waterboarding is torture,” Huntsman said in the debate.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  said in the
debate that he supported the order by President  Barack Obama 
that authorized the killing overseas of an American citizen
suspected of terrorist activity. Romney said it “absolutely”
is appropriate for the president to issue such an order.  A nationwide Gallup poll released Nov. 9 found that with 45
percent of Republicans believe Romney will be the party’s
presidential nominee, with 13 percent naming Cain and 9 percent
predicting Texas Governor  Rick Perry .  Romney has been leading or second in polls of the
Republican presidential race conducted this year, yet his
backing has never risen beyond 25 percent to 30 percent.  “There is not really a frontrunner,” Mississippi Governor
Haley Barbour, former head of the Republican National Committee,
said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “Mitt
Romney is the best known of our candidates, not a true front
runner.”  “We’re kind of going through Cinderella trying on a
slipper,” Barbour said.  Pakistani Aid  The candidates also differed during the debate on how tough
they would get in dealing with Pakistan as president.  Perry said he didn’t trust Pakistan’s political and
military leadership, and proposed looking anew at U.S. foreign
aid to countries each year instead of awarding a set amount year
after year. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia  agreed
with Perry.  Bachmann and former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum
opposed cutting off aid or threatening  Pakistan  because the
country has a nuclear arsenal. If the Pakistani state were
weakened, terrorists might get access to those weapons, said
Bachmann, a member of the U.S. House’s intelligence committee.  Cain said he wasn’t sure if Pakistan was a friend or foe,
and called for more military commitment from the South Asian
nation to combat terrorists.  Huntsman said he would condition American aid to Pakistan
on movement in that country toward political overhaul and
expansion of the free market. “We’ve got have an ongoing
relationship with Pakistan that allows them to move in the
direction of stability,” Huntsman said yesterday on CBS.  Anti-Christian Countries  Gingrich in the debate said he would cut foreign aid to
countries that adopt anti-Christian policies. He said the so-
called Arab Spring, the democratic uprising in the Mideast,
risks becoming “anti-Christian spring” in Muslim nations such
as  Egypt , where Coptic Christians have been attacked.  Asked during the debate how he would counter  China ’s
attacks on U.S. computer networks that lead to theft of
intellectual property, Perry said “fighting this cyber-war” is
“one of the great issues that will face the next president of
the  United States , and we must win it.”  Romney said he would get China’s attention to stop the
attacks by taking the country to the  World Trade Organization 
for manipulating its currency in order to artificially lower
prices and run a  trade surplus .  “And that allows us to apply selectively tariffs where we
believe they are stealing our intellectual property, hacking
into our computers or artificially lowering their prices and
killing American jobs,” Romney said during the debate.  China ‘Trade War’  Huntsman, Obama’s former ambassador to China, countered
Romney and Perry by saying that a confrontation with the world’s
second largest economy may hurt the U.S. too.  “I don’t know that this country needs a trade war with
China. Who does it hurt?” Huntsman said. “Small businesses in
 South Carolina , our exporters, our agriculture producers” would
be hurt by such a move, he said. “We don’t need that at a time
when China is about to embark on a generational transition.”  Across the country in  Hawaii , Obama called for more
cooperation and a constructive relationship with China, before
heading into a meeting with Chinese President Hu Jintao in
Honolulu. Obama is in Hawaii hosting the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum and will visit  Indonesia  on Nov. 17-19 as the
first U.S. president to participate in the East Asia Summit.  Iranian Nuclear Program  Obama said he and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , also
attending the forum, agreed that the two nations must be part of
a “common response” to keep up pressure on  Iran  over its
nuclear program. Concern about Iran’s actions has increased
following a report this week from the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  that presented evidence Iran has been working to
develop the capability to produce nuclear weapons.  The Republican candidates in their debate agreed on the
importance of stopping Iran from getting a nuclear weapon,
through tougher sanctions, aid to opposition parties, covert
action against the country’s nuclear scientists, and a military
attack as a last resort.  As president, Cain said he would “assist the opposition
movement in Iran that is trying to overthrow the regime” --
short of providing weapons.  Romney said that not preventing Iran from making progress
toward nuclear weapons is Obama’s “greatest failing” as
president. He said he too would work covertly to “encourage”
Iranian dissidents. Romney said it would be “unacceptable” for
Iran to have nuclear weapons, and that he’d order a military
strike as a last resort.  Perry called for sanctions on Iran’s central bank, while
Gingrich called for secret operations and elimination of Iranian
scientists to stop the nuclear developments.  Gingrich said he would back “maximum covert operations to
block and disrupt the Iranian program, including taking out
their scientists, including breaking up their systems, all of it
covertly, all of it deniable.” He also pressed for “maximum
coordination” with  Israel .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  