-- La Dolce Vita Eludes Italian Students Found Unemployable
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-06-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/la-dolce-vita-eludes-italian-students-found-unemployable.html
Alessandro Ortenzi, 26, entered the
 University of Bologna  in 2006 to study pharmacy. When he finally
graduates next year, he still won’t qualify for hospital work.  “I’ve spent a lot of time here studying,” Ortenzi said,
taking a cigarette break outside the library. “I wish I could
have finished earlier.”  Like many Italian students, Ortenzi is enrolled in a
plodding higher-education system that lets undergraduates linger
on campus for years and retake final exams six times. While top
U.S. universities embrace innovations such as online learning
and strive to produce more scientists and engineers, schools in
Italy are disconnected from the economy and only recently opened
campus career offices. The country’s neglect of its colleges
damages industry, fuels record-high youth unemployment, and is
destabilizing politics, business executives and economists say.  “It’s an incredible destruction of human capital,” said
Francesco Pastore, a labor economist at the  Second University of
Naples  who studies education. “It’s a steeplechase with no
winners. Everyone is losing.”  Young college graduates in  Italy  have among the highest
unemployment rates in Europe, and those with jobs make only 9
percent more on average than those with high-school diplomas,
compared with 37 percent in other industrialized countries.
Italians also spend more time earning degrees and drop out at
greater rates than their international peers.  Ill-Prepared  Once they finally graduate, students are ill-prepared for
working life, Pastore said. Course work often lacks a practical
component, internships are rare and career-oriented summer jobs
non-existent. Until recently, nothing connected them to the
world of commerce, said Giorgio Bellettini, a Bologna economics
professor.  “There used to be no link whatsoever between the
university and the placement of jobs,” Bellettini said. “It
would have been considered vulgar.”  At Piazza Giuseppe Verdi, the heart of the University of
Bologna, students sprawl across the flagstones in the sun,
eating lunch, playing guitars and handing out fliers for class
elections. They’re in no hurry to leave college because there
are no jobs waiting for them, said Christopher Ceresi, 22, a
second-year student from  Senigallia , on the Adriatic coast.  “The feeling is that after university, no one will find
work,” said Ceresi, who studies political science. “That it
doesn’t matter what we do, because a diploma doesn’t mean
anything.”  ‘Real Nightmare’  Italy’s economy has been in recession for almost two years
and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
forecasts gross domestic product will fall 1.8 percent this
year. The  jobless rate  overall was 12 percent for April, the
highest in at least 36 years, and 41 percent for those ages 15
to 24, according to Eurostat, the statistics service of the
European Union. In the 27 EU countries, only Spain, Portugal and
 Greece  had higher youth unemployment rates.  In a May 2 news conference in Brussels, Italian Prime
Minister Enrico Letta called youth unemployment “the real
nightmare of my country” and “the crucial point of our
political and economic fate.”  The unemployment rate for Italians ages 25 to 39 with a
college degree was 10.6 percent in 2012, just below the 11.1
percent for those with only a high-school diploma, according to
Eurostat. By contrast, the jobless rate of German college
graduates was 2.6 percent, half that of people with only high-school degrees.  In the U.S., 8.3 percent of those from 25 to 34 were
unemployed in 2012, according to the  Bureau of Labor Statistics .
The unemployment rate for all U.S. college graduates 25 and
older was 3.9 percent in April.  Parental Support  Italians in their 20s, either in college or out, have
traditionally been supported by their parents, making youth
employment less critical, said Bellettini, the Bologna economics
professor. As the older generations now face job losses and cuts
in pensions, there’s less money for their children, he said.  “For Italy, it’s really a shock,” Bellettini said.
“Children are looking for work earlier, and they’re showing up
in unemployment figures.”  Italian employers have exploited the willingness of parents
to support their children by offering low starting salaries, he
said. That’s why there’s little premium for college graduates,
Bellettini said.  Fleeing Italy  For many young Italians, the solution is to leave. There
are 338,000 Italians working in  Germany , more than from any
other country except  Turkey . Another 82,000 are in Spain and
77,000 are in the U.K., according to Eurostat data.  Frustration among young college graduates and other young
people played out in February’s elections, helping boost the
anti-establishment party of comedian Beppe Grillo. His Five Star
Movement captured the youth vote and threatens to upend the
political structure, said Erik Jones, the director of European
studies at Johns Hopkins University’s Bologna Center.  In a field with six major parties, the Five Star Movement
received 26 percent of the votes. It garnered 35 percent of
ballots cast by Italians from 30 to 44, and 38 percent by those
under 30, according to polling by  LUISS University  in  Rome .  “If you’re in your early 30s right now, it’s not that you
don’t have a job, but your prospects of getting a job are
basically zero,” Jones said. “The whole system seems to be
rigged against you, and that is consistent with support of Beppe
Grillo.”  Unemployment Office  On a rainy spring day in Rome, Eleonora Vinci visited an
unemployment office to update her resume. Vinci received two
degrees in art history from Rome’s  La Sapienza University  and a
certificate in gallery and event management. She has been
looking for a job since January and occasionally working as a
secretary in a music school  While she once hoped to teach or curate in a museum, she
said she’ll settle for working as a gallery manager’s assistant.  “I’m 30, and I’m too old to do an internship for free,”
Vinci said. “I’m afraid. Maybe I’ll have to wait a year for a
job.”  Vinci lives with roommates in an apartment owned by her
father, while her boyfriend, who works part time, lives with his
parents. They talk about children “but it’s impossible now,”
she said.  “We have no money, we can’t get married,” she said. “The
situation ruins relationships but we try to be strong.”  Oldest University  The University of Bologna dates its founding to 1088,
making it the  oldest university  in the western world. In 1158,
Frederick I, the Holy Roman Emperor, granted the first rights of
academic freedom to Bologna scholars. In the Middle Ages and
Renaissance, the university drew students from across Europe,
including astronomer Nicholas Copernicus.  Bologna, which has about 87,000 students on five campuses,
is one of 55 public universities Italy. No Italian schools,
public or private, are in the top 200 in the Times Higher
Education’s rankings of global universities, and Bologna is
grouped in a tier ranked between 276 and 300.  Spending on public higher education in Italy declined 11
percent to 7.9 billion euros ($10.4 billion) in 2011 from 8.9
billion euros in 2009, according to government data compiled by
Bloomberg. Additional cuts will reduce funding to 7.5 billion
euros next year.  Italy spent 1 percent of its GDP on higher education in
2009, according to the Paris-based OECD, compared with 1.3
percent for the U.K. and 2.6 percent for the U.S. Italy also
trails in spending on total research and development.  ‘Completely Wrecked’  Italy doesn’t have a culture that supports innovation and
entrepreneurship, especially compared with competitors in the
U.S.,  China ,  Korea  and Germany, said Nerio Alessandri, founder
and chairman of Technogym SpA, a Cesena-based maker of exercise
equipment.  “The current situation in Italy is the result of a process
lasting for some 20 years of a country completely wrecked in
terms of culture, discipline, rigor, ethics,” Alessandri said
in a phone interview.  “What we urgently need is a change in policies and
incentives focusing on youth, startups, creativity, innovation,
research, universities,” he said.  Historically, Italian universities were reserved for the
wealthy, said Dario Braga, a chemistry professor and Bologna’s
deputy rector for research. That changed in the early 1970s,
when access was expanded to the masses, with low fees and few,
if any, entry requirements, he said.  ‘Bad Word’  “Merit became a bad word,” he said from his office in a
16th century baroque palace. “You shouldn’t speak of
meritocracy, and now we’re seeing the result of that.”  Compensation at Italian universities is based on seniority
and the schools are barred from paying their most talented
scholars more to retain them, Braga said. As a result, they flee
for higher paying jobs in the U.S. and U.K.  “We spend a lot of taxpayer money to train the best people
and then we give them to the rest of the world,” Braga said.
“Italians are very generous.”  Public universities still cost little to attend -- Ortenzi,
the pharmacy student, will spend 1,900 euros in fees this year
-- and many programs are open to all high-school graduates,
regardless of ability.  Studies drag on in part because professors are required to
offer  exams  multiple times for six months after the end of the
course, and it’s customary for students to retake tests if they
don’t like the results.  Studies Drag  Ortenzi said he took the organic chemistry final six times.
He said that while he’d like to work in a hospital, it would
require more studying and passing a certification test from the
state. Instead, he said he hopes to get a job in a pharmacy,
probably by relying on family or university connections.  The University of Bologna has been trying to reduce the
time it takes to graduate and has created a job center to match
students and employers, said Gianluca Fiorentini, deputy rector
for teaching activities.  Some schools now require entry exams, and departments can
receive additional funds as an incentive for graduating students
on time and to help them find jobs, he said.  The university has also started talking to employers about
what courses it should offer, and making sure its programs are
tailored for the job market, he said. Still, the school won’t
divert from its mission in order to chase fads, he said.  “We are not a recruiting office,” Fiorentini said. “We
are not an executive university. We are a very large university
with a tradition of general education.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  