-- Hague Denies Britain Acts Unlawfully Over Spy Links With U.S.
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-10T16:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/hague-says-u-k-spies-don-t-use-u-s-agencies-to-dodge-rules-1-.html
Foreign Secretary William Hague
dismissed as “baseless” accusations that British intelligence
services tried to circumvent the law by accessing information
about U.K. citizens obtained from a U.S. surveillance program.  “Our agencies practice and uphold U.K. law at all times,”
Hague said in a statement to the House of Commons in  London 
today. Intelligence supplied by the U.S. is subject to the
“full range” of U.K. laws, he said.  Hague was responding to a report in the Guardian newspaper
on June 8 that the U.S. program to gather telephone and Internet
data, codenamed Prism, may have supplied information about
British citizens to the GCHQ security agency. Prime Minister
David Cameron earlier today defended the intelligence services,
saying he was satisfied they “operate within the law.”  The source of the disclosures about the U.S. program is
Edward Snowden, who is now in Hong Kong, according to the
Guardian and the Washington Post. The 29-year-old American, a
former technical assistant for the Central Intelligence Agency,
provided the information to journalists and revealed his
identity voluntarily, according to a video interview posted on
the website of the Guardian.  It may be up to  China  to decide if Snowden could be sent to
the U.S. Under an extradition treaty signed in 1996, Hong Kong
and the U.S. agreed to surrender those wanted for prosecution or
for imposition of a sentence. China, which has sovereignty over
Hong Kong, can refuse the transfer if it relates to its defense
and foreign affairs.  Alex Carlile, a Liberal Democrat lawmaker who used to have
the job of reviewing the behaviour of intelligence agencies,
told Sky News he thought they had “entirely obeyed the law”
with the U.S. data.  ‘Completely Irresponsible’  “If a potentially critical attack was warned by the U.S.
using their powers, surely we would expect them to pass on that
information,” he said. “It would be completely irresponsible
of the U.K. authorities not to act on it.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  defended the existence of
classified programs on June 7, the day after the Guardian and
the Washington Post newspapers reported, citing classified
documents, that the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
National Security Agency had accessed the central servers of
nine U.S. Internet companies, extracting audio and video chats,
photographs, e-mails, documents and connection logs to collect
data on U.S. residents’ telephone calls and foreign nationals’
Internet activity.  The opposition Labour Party had requested Hague make a
statement. Foreign affairs spokesman Douglas Alexander told the
BBC today that information-sharing was essential between
intelligence agencies. “The people who are trying to harm
Britain work internationally,” he said.  Ministerial Authority  Malcolm Rifkind, the former Conservative Foreign Secretary
who chairs Parliament’s Intelligence and Security Committee,
said he was confident British spies had behaved within the law.
He told the  BBC  that for any activity, “if it’s to do with
someone in the U.K., they’ve got to get ministerial authority,”
he said.  The Liberal Democrat Party had concerns about invasions of
privacy, Business Secretary Vince Cable said. “The whole point
about surveillance is, you have got to have it, whether you are
dealing with terrorism or economic crimes,” he told Sky News.
“But it has got to be proportionate. You can’t generalize
snooping of individuals. And you have got to have some
oversight, legal, political. And those are the questions which
will obviously want to be probed.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  