-- Malone Seen Stalking Time Warner Cable Merger: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-06-10T20:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/malone-seen-stalking-time-warner-cable-merger-real-m-a.html
Liberty Media Corp.’s investment in
 Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  may be billionaire  John Malone ’s
first move in a multi-year chess game to consolidate the U.S.
cable industry.  Higher programming costs and fewer new customers have
crimped video profit margins, making mergers appealing,  Liberty
Media (LMCA)  Chairman Malone said at his annual shareholder meeting
last week. More than 100 million U.S. households already
subscribe to pay-TV, and major cable providers have lost TV
customers for at least five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malone said Charter -- the fourth-largest U.S. cable
operator, in which Liberty Media bought a 27 percent stake --
can be “a horizontal acquisition machine.”  Charter’s 49 percent  stock gain  this year has outpaced all
peers, giving it a stronger currency for deals. While media
industry forecaster SQAD Inc. said the $11.5 billion company may
target smaller operators such as closely-held Mediacom
Communications Corp. or Cable One Inc., Malone’s ultimate goal
may be to challenge  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  for U.S. cable supremacy, said
 Craig Moffett , an analyst at Moffett Research LLC. That would
require buying  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-biggest U.S.
cable provider, he said.  “If you’re John Malone, you’re thinking: we’ve got to get
bigger,” Jim Boyle, managing director of SQAD and formerly a
cable equity analyst for more than 19 years, said in a telephone
interview. “The bigger Charter can get, the more economies of
scale discounts it can get,” he said. “If everyone else is
playing checkers, Malone is playing three-dimensional chess.”  Cable Show  Today, Time Warner Cable shares rose 0.9 percent to $95.74,
the biggest gain among media stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Shares of Charter fell 1.2 percent to $112.53.  With the  National Cable & Telecommunications Association ’s
annual  cable show  kicking off today in  Washington , Malone’s re-entry into the U.S. industry will be the most talked about new
development,  Chris Marangi , a  money manager  at Gamco Investors
Inc., said in a phone interview. Rye, New York-based Gamco
manages about $40 billion.  “The big news at the cable show this year is that the king
is back,” Marangi said. Liberty Media, based in Englewood,
 Colorado , paid $2.6 billion for its stake in Charter last month.  The hype stems from Malone’s history of rolling up cable
companies. He built Tele-Communications Inc. in the 1970s and
1980s into one of the biggest pay-TV companies before selling it
in 1999.  Malone’s Acquisitions  In  Europe , Malone’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  purchased Virgin
Media Inc. for about $24 billion to expand in the U.K. Liberty
Global also has acquired a stake in Dutch cable operator Ziggo
NV and is considering a takeover bid for Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG, Germany’s largest cable provider, two people
familiar with the matter said in April. Liberty Global already
controls Germany’s second-largest cable company.  The 72-year-old said recently that he intends to pursue
both small and large acquisitions as an investor with “strong
influence” at Stamford, Connecticut-based Charter.  “You do the smaller roll-up stuff to continue the momentum
and the return on capital, and you look for opportunities to do
something bigger,” Malone said at last week’s Liberty Media
investor meeting.  Alex Dudley , a Charter spokesman, and Justin Venech, a
spokesman for Time Warner Cable, declined to comment on deal
speculation. Liberty Media spokeswoman Courtnee Ulrich didn’t
respond to an e-mail or phone call seeking comment.  ‘Transformational Deal’  Charter, which serves about  4 million  video customers
across  25 states , is dwarfed by Comcast’s 22 million TV
subscribers and Time Warner Cable’s  12 million . Among
residences, Charter added 99,000 Internet and 59,000 telephone
subscribers in the first quarter, while losing 24,000 TV
customers. Combining with New York-based Time Warner Cable would
boost its video customers to about 16 million and total
subscriber base to almost 20 million.  “If you’re going to do a transformational deal, your
choices are Time Warner Cable, Time Warner Cable and Time Warner
Cable,” Moffett, who is based in  New York , said in a phone
interview. “You can roll up all the little guys if you want to,
but even if you did, you haven’t built something that’s truly
large scale.”  Charter’s stock has  risen  79 percent in the last year, the
 biggest gain  in the Bloomberg Industries Cable & Satellite Media
Index. The cable operator may post net income of  $21 million 
this year, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, its first annual profit since emerging from
bankruptcy in 2009.  Debt Limitations  Charter carries $12.8 billion of  debt , more than its market
value. That may make it difficult to raise enough debt to
acquire the larger Time Warner Cable, which has a market value
of $27.6 billion, Marangi said. Malone may need to use debt from
Charter and pair it with debt from Liberty Media to make a large
enough bid, he said. Liberty Media has $2.4 billion of debt and
a market capitalization of $15.4 billion.  “Time Warner Cable is gone,” Marangi said. “I think
Charter will buy them eventually, whether it’s Liberty
facilitating that or Charter doing it directly or the two
companies doing it in partnership.”  Malone’s plans to use Charter as a vehicle to acquire Time
Warner Cable may be delayed until he gains de facto control of
the company, Moffett said. Liberty Media agreed not to increase
its beneficial ownership in Charter above 35 percent until
January 2016 and 39.99 percent thereafter.  Liberty Media also holds a stake in Time Warner Cable, the
size of which it doesn’t disclose, according to the annual
report of Malone’s company.  Pay-TV Penetration  About 86 percent of U.S. TV households already pay for
their video services, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That has limited growth to new household formation, “which has
been pretty weak during the last five years,” Time Warner Cable
CEO Glenn Britt said at a conference last week.  Time Warner Cable has lost video customers for 16
consecutive quarters as customers defect for competitive
services from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS, AT&T Inc.’s U-verse and satellite TV. Charter has added TV customers in just
one quarter since emerging from bankruptcy.  Programming costs are rising more than 10 percent a year,
about twice as much as pay-TV companies have increased
customers’ bills. Larger cable companies are able to bargain for
smaller price increases by threatening to drop programming for
all of their customers, which would hurt channels’ advertising
and affiliate-fee revenue.  Mediacom Deal  Shrinking profit margins for video services and
consistently growing demand for broadband means the time is
right to pursue acquisitions again, Malone said.  “The whole name of the game in the cable business is
scale,” he said. “It seems there’s an opportunity there.”  Charter may first opt to bulk up with smaller purchases
before it takes a run at Time Warner Cable, said Boyle of
Tarrytown, New York-based SQAD. The company could target
Middletown, New York-based  Mediacom , which is the eighth-largest
U.S. cable company with about  1 million  video subscribers, he
said.  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s Cable One, the 10th-largest provider
with about  720,000 customers , may also be a takeover candidate
for Charter, Boyle said.  “What we’re talking about is an industry that is becoming
more capital intensive,”  Todd Mitchell , an analyst at Brean
Capital LLC in New York, said in a phone interview. “What
happens to mature, capital-intensive companies -- they
consolidate. So, yes, I think the cable industry is ripe for
consolidation.”  Targeting Cablevision  Tom Larsen, a Mediacom spokesman, and Rima Calderon, a
spokeswoman for Washington Post Co., declined to comment.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  may also be an eventual target
for Charter, said Marangi, whose firm owns about 9 percent of
Cablevision’s Class A  shares . Charter’s potential to acquire
Time Warner Cable, another possible bidder for Cablevision, may
convince the controlling Dolan family to sell while there are
still multiple interested buyers, he said.  Kelly McAndrew, a spokeswoman for Cablevision, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Cablevision is the fifth-largest U.S. cable company and has
a market value of $3.88 billion. Still, Moffett said Cablevision
won’t enable Charter to compete with Comcast and DirecTV for
pay-TV domination as much as a deal with Time Warner Cable
would, and that may be Malone’s end goal.  “John Malone is an M&A addict,” Boyle said. “Dr. Malone
in cable has traditionally been  Warren Buffett . He doesn’t do
small deals anymore. He gets out the  elephant gun . In some
cases, they’re really big elephants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  