-- Alzheimer Research Cuts Show Folly of Sequestration
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-06-09T15:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/alzheimer-research-cuts-show-folly-of-sequestration-albert-hunt.html
Many Republicans, and Democrats,
never thought the automatic across-the-board spending cuts known
as sequestration would take effect. After all, they might
produce dangerous, if unintended, consequences such as
potentially bankrupting the U.S. health-care system, along with
millions of families.  Typical Washington hyperbole, right? It actually is
happening under sequestration, which kicked in three months ago,
a product of America’s political dysfunction.  Because the cuts only affect the margins of a wide array of
defense and domestic discretionary programs, there mostly hasn’t
been an immediate  pinch ; the public backlash has been minimal.
The long-term consequences, in more than a few cases, are
ominous.  There’s no better case study than  Alzheimer’s disease . With
the sequestration-enforced cuts at the  National Institutes of
Health , research to find a cure or better treatment is slowing.  Alzheimer’s, the most common form of dementia, is the sixth
leading cause of death in the U.S. Five million Americans are
afflicted with the disease. It costs about $200 billion a year,
creating a severe strain for public health care and many
families. Then there’s the emotional toll: The  Alzheimer’s
Association  estimates that caregivers had an additional $9
billion of health-care costs last year.  ‘Defining Disease’  “As the population lives longer, Alzheimer’s is the
defining disease of this generation,” says Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, who’s trying to fight the
sequestration restraints and sharply increase spending for
research.  The latest annual report on health statistics from the
 Centers for Disease Control  underscores her point. There’s been
a lot of progress, in large part because of earlier NIH efforts:
The number of deaths from strokes and heart disease is down more
than 30 percent over the past decade, and cancer deaths have
declined almost 15 percent. The reverse has occurred with
Alzheimer’s. Over a decade, deaths have risen sharply, up 38
percent for males and 41 percent for women.  It’s expected to get worse. A report this spring by the
nonpartisan  RAND Corp . estimates that by 2040, the number of
Americans afflicted will have doubled, as will the costs. Other
experts say that as grave as those projections are, they may be
underestimated. The  Alzheimer’s Association  says that under
current trends the cost will exceed $1 trillion annually by
2050. That either would bankrupt Medicare and Medicaid or force
huge tax increases.  Much critical health research in the U.S. generally
emanates from the NIH, which has compiled a record of success
with many diseases that has been the envy of the world.  The  NIH’s funding  is cut by 5 percent, or $1.55 billion
this year, across the board. That means 700 fewer research
grants are approved and 750 fewer patients will be admitted to
its clinical center. The longer the automatic cuts go on, the
worse it will get; medical breakthroughs rarely are
instantaneous. They take years and build on previous studies and
experiments.  Alzheimer’s research, pre-sequestration, was slated for a
healthy increase this year. By moving a few discretionary funds,
the NIH has avoided cutbacks.  Still, the funding falls dramatically short of the promise.  “In recent years, there have been some extraordinary
advances, from genetics to molecular biology, that have given us
insights into Alzheimer’s that we didn’t have before,” says
Richard Hodes, a physician who heads the NIH’s National
Institute on Aging.  Cutting Grants  About five in six grant applications currently aren’t
funded. Hodes says money for some of those grants and increasing
some of the clinical trials, also being cut by sequestration,
would capitalize on these advances.  Senator Collins says that aside from the human dimension,
this is a simple cost/benefit analysis.  “We spend only $500 million annually on Alzheimer’s
research and it costs Medicare and Medicaid $142 billion,” she
says. “It’s going to bankrupt our health-care system and we’re
spending only a pittance on prevention.”  She wants to double the  Alzheimer’s research  budget
immediately and then double it again -- to $2 billion annually -
- within five years. For most federal programs, huge increases
in spending would cause reckless waste and inefficiency. NIH is
an exception. Fifteen years ago, its budget doubled in five
years and the results were better than ever.  For NIH, there are other critical advances -- in areas such
as Parkinson’s or diabetes and some forms of cancer -- that are
slowed by the budget cuts. And the mindless sequestration, which
doesn’t touch entitlement spending or the tax benefits enjoyed
by the wealthy, forces reductions in programs such as Head Start
for low-income kids, the nutritional program for women, infants
and children, or the meals on wheels initiatives for lower-income senior citizens.  Congress did act once to reverse the damage wrought by
sequestration: It undid some cuts affecting aviation.  There was an emergency; members couldn’t be inconvenienced
by flight delays or cancellations when getting back to their
districts. They don’t seem as motivated to help prevent or slow
the spread of a wrenching affliction that costs a fortune.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 