-- Mandela Hospitalized Second Day With Lung Infection
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d ,   M i k e   H a r r i s o n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-06-09T14:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/mandela-hospitalized-in-serious-but-stable-condition.html
Former South African President  Nelson Mandela  remained in hospital for a second day for treatment of a
lung infection after being admitted yesterday for a fourth time
since December.  There was “no update” on Mandela’s condition,  Mac Maharaj , a spokesman for President  Jacob Zuma , said in a text
message in response to questions from  Bloomberg News  today. He
didn’t return calls or respond to text messages after telling
the  BBC  later that doctors would report on Mandela’s condition
after examining him at midday.  Mandela, 94, was admitted to a Pretoria hospital in a
“serious but stable” condition after suffering a recurrence of
a lung infection, Maharaj said yesterday. He was treated in the
hospital in April for pneumonia and had to have fluid drained
from around his lungs. He also had gallstones removed this year.  Mandela served for five years as  South Africa ’s first black
president after his African National Congress party won all-race
elections that ended apartheid in 1994. He spent 27 years in
prison, most of it on Robben Island off the coast of Cape Town,
where he contracted tuberculosis. Also known by his clan name,
Madiba, Mandela won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993.  Andrew Mlangeni, a friend of Mandela who spent time with
him in prison on Robben Island, called on his family to
“release” him, the Sunday Times reported today. Mlangeni said
Mandela was “quite clearly” not well and may not recover, the
Johannesburg-based newspaper reported.  Condition Treatable  The infection “affects his breathing,” Maharaj said by
telephone yesterday. “The doctors are saying it’s serious but
he’s stable. He’s able to breathe on his own.”  The condition is “treatable on its own,” Maharaj told
eNCA television yesterday. He was conscious and communicating
with his family, the spokesman told  Sky News . His wife, Graca Machel, was at his bedside,  Agence France-Presse  said, citing
Maharaj.  The  ANC  and its political allies, the Congress of South
African Trade Unions and the South African Communist Party, as
well as the opposition  Democratic Alliance  were among those
wishing Mandela a speedy recovery.  “We will keep President Mandela and his family in our
thoughts and prayers at this time and call upon South Africans
and the peoples of the globe to do the same,” Jackson Mthembu,
an ANC spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Appearance Canceled  Machel canceled an appearance at a London summit on hunger
yesterday to return to South Africa, the Press Association
reported, citing the event’s organizers. She accompanied Mandela
to the hospital yesterday and stayed at his bedside, Maharaj
told AFP.  In an April interview, Zuma said Mandela had been
“sprightly” when he’d seen him in the hospital that month.  “He is a good fighter. He is actually demonstrating this
in his old age,” Zuma said on April 24. “We just accept the
fact that he is no longer young. We are happy that we are still
with him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Harrison  in London at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  