-- Australia Ministers to Lose If Gillard Remains, New Poll Shows
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-09T02:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/australia-ministers-to-lose-if-gillard-remains-new-poll-shows.html
Three members of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s cabinet are forecast to lose their parliamentary seats
in September elections unless the  Labor party  switches leaders,
an opinion poll said.  Education Minister Peter Garrett, Trade Minister Craig Emerson and Home Affairs Minister Jason Clare would avoid defeat
if former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  is restored as leader,
according to a Fairfax/ReachTel survey of six strategic
constituencies published by the Sun Herald newspaper today.  Rudd, toppled by Gillard in a party coup three years ago,
has this week sought to rally Labor, which trails  Tony Abbott ’s
Liberal National coalition in opinion polls. Rudd failed in a
challenge to unseat Gillard in February 2012 and has said he
stands by a commitment to not to seek the leadership again.  Clare’s share of the two-party preferred vote would rise to
56.2 percent with Rudd as Labor leader from 47.8 percent under
Gillard and Garrett’s would rise to 53.4 percent from 48.9, the
survey showed. Emerson would enjoy an 11.8 percentage point
swing.  The survey ahead of elections set to take place Sept. 14
polled 600 people in six federal electorates across New South
Wales, Queensland and Victoria, and had a margin of error of
about 4 percent.  The labor party’s rating fell 2 percentage points to 42
percent on a two-party preferred basis, while the opposition
gained 2 points to 58 percent, according to a Newspoll published
in the Australian newspaper on June 4. Gillard’s satisfaction
rating dropped 3 points to 28 percent.  Gillard’s bid to woo voters disaffected by party infighting
and policy reversals has failed to boost Labor’s ratings. Signs
of an economic slowdown have given momentum to Abbott’s
conservative coalition, which hasn’t ruled since 2007.  Somewhat Subdued  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  predicts the labor market
will “remain somewhat subdued” and the government, in its May
budget, projected unemployment would rise to 5.75 percent by
June 30, 2014, from the current 5.5 percent.  The  economy expanded at 2.5 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest annual pace in almost two
years.  A third of respondents rate Gillard’s performance as “very
poor” with 14 percent saying she has done a “very good” job,
according to today’s survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  