-- Ayotte Says She’ll Back Bipartisan Immigration Law Rewrite
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-09T17:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/ayotte-says-she-ll-back-bipartisan-immigration-law-rewrite-1-.html
Republican Senator Kelly Ayotte said
she’ll back a bipartisan rewrite of immigration law pending in
the U.S. Senate.  The bill offers a “tough but fair” process for allowing
undocumented immigrants to have a pathway to citizenship, Ayotte
said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. It also
improves border security and verification of immigrant worker
status, while increasing visas for skilled workers, she said.  “This is a good bipartisan solution, and I look forward to
supporting it,” said Ayotte, who was elected from New Hampshire
in 2010 with support from the Tea Party movement.  Ayotte’s backing puts the legislation, which would be the
most sweeping changes in the nation’s immigration law in a
generation, closer to the 60-vote threshold needed for Senate
consideration. The chamber is scheduled to continue debate on
the measure this week and Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, has said he wants the legislation completed before the
July 4 congressional recess.  The legislation would try to balance a path to citizenship
for an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants, sought by
Democrats, with enough border-security improvements to satisfy
Republicans.  Four Republicans are part of a group of eight senators that
authored the measure, though one of them, Republican Senator
Marco Rubio of  Florida , has said it should have stronger border-security provisions. Rubio, a prospective 2016 presidential
candidate, has said it can’t pass as written and that even he
would have to vote against it.  Republican Support  A fifth Republican, Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, voted for
the bill during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing May 22. If
all of the Senate’s Democratic members of the chamber vote for
the bill, it will probably have enough votes to overcome a
filibuster, with Ayotte’s support.  Senator Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican, described the
bill as “amnesty first and the promise of enforcement later,”
when the Senate began debate on the measure June 7. Senator Mike Lee, a  Utah  Republican, has said Congress should approach
immigration reform “incrementally.”  A cloture motion to bring Senate debate to a close is
scheduled for June 11.  The legislation is S. 744.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  