-- Barloworld CEO Sees Caterpillar Unit Sales Growth in Africa
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-06-10T15:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/barloworld-ceo-sees-caterpillar-equipment-sales-growth-in-africa.html
Barloworld Ltd. (BAW) , a South African
distributor of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  equipment, expects spending by
mining companies and governments on infrastructure to boost
 Africa  sales of the machinery by more than 10 percent a year.  “We are still in the infancy of growth of Caterpillar
products in Africa,” Barloworld Chief Executive Officer Clive Thomson, 47, said in an interview in Johannesburg on June 6.
“Anything that is going to require infrastructure build --
roads, dams, bridges, ports, harbors, airports, railway
networks, new power grids -- all requires in one way or another
our construction equipment.”  Sales of the machinery will probably grow by a percentage
in the “strong double digits” over the next five years,
Thomson said.  Barloworld sales of Caterpillar equipment rose 30 percent
to 25.3 billion rand ($2.5 billion) in the year through
September compared with an 18 percent increase in total revenue,
according to the company’s annual report. Barloworld has
exclusive distribution rights with the Peoria, Illinois-based
manufacturer of heavy machinery in Russia and eight African
countries including Zambia and Mozambique.  Barloworld, which also operates  car dealerships  and a
logistics unit, seeks to take advantage of new mining projects
in commodity-rich African countries to sell equipment. The
company has won a 1.1 billion-rand deal from Vancouver-based
 First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  for its Zambia copper projects and a
1.2 billion-rand contract from Swakop Uranium to supply drilling
and loading equipment in  Namibia .  Stock Declined  Sales of Caterpillar machinery, including spare parts and
services, have a profit margin of 7.2 percent, higher than 4.5
percent for Barloworld’s automotive and logistics division,
according to Thomson.  Net income for the six months through March rose 50 percent
to 643 million rand, the company said in a statement on May 20.
Revenue increased 11 percent to 31.3 billion rand, driven partly
by the contribution of sales from local distribution units of
Bucyrus, bought from Caterpillar in 2012.  Barloworld is countering the impact of a weaker rand as its
international operations trade in U.S. dollars, Thomson said at
the time of the first-half earnings announcement. The rand has
fallen 17 percent against the dollar this year, making it the
worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It
traded 2 percent lower at 10.1589 by 5:31 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Barloworld shares have declined 4.6 percent this year,
compared with a 4.3 percent gain on the FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index. The stock fell 1.1 percent to 83.50 rand by the
market close.  Barloworld’s automotive division manages 45 car dealerships
in  South Africa , selling vehicles from manufacturers such as
Mercedes-Benz Automobil AG,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , Audi,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Toyota Motor Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  