-- Bolshoi to End 20-Year Relationship With Ballet Star Tsiskaridze
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-06-09T11:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/bolshoi-to-end-20-year-relationship-with-ballet-star-tsiskaridze.html
The Bolshoi Theater is breaking with
Nikolai Tsiskaridze, a principal dancer and choreographer who
has been locked in a battle with the ballet company since an
acid attack on its artistic director in January.  The Moscow-based Bolshoi won’t renew Tsiskaridze’s contract
when it ends on June 30, Katerina Novikova, the theater’s
spokeswoman, said by text message.  “Everything is really confusing,” Georgian-born
Tsiskaridze, who has danced at the Bolshoi for more than 20
years, told  NTV television  channel. “I’m a full-time member of
the staff as a ballet dancer. And I didn’t write a note asking
to let me go.”  The fight for control of Russia’s most famous theater,
founded in 1776 by Catherine the Great, become public after the
assault that scarred artistic director Sergei Filin’s face and
damaged his eyes. Investigators in February cited rivalries at
the Bolshoi as probable motives for the crime.  Tsiskaridze told the  BBC  in February that the theater’s
management should be fired. In March, he said he was ready to
replace Anatoly Iksanov, the Bolshoi’s general director, who
then called on Tsiskaridze to resign because he couldn’t fire
the dancer.  Iksanov in February told billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s
Snob magazine that he believed Tsiskaridze was behind the
Internet release of explicit gay photos that led to the
resignation of Filin’s predecessor, Gennady Yanin, in 2011.
Iksanov blamed Tsiskaridze for fostering animosity within the
theater by openly seeking Filin’s job, though he didn’t accuse
the star of ordering the attack.  Challenging Reprimands  Tsiskaridze received two reprimands from the theater for
making unauthorized statements to the media following the
attack. The dancer sued to have them expunged, saying they put
him at danger of being fired. One of the disciplinary warnings
was overturned by the Tverskoi District Court in April.  In March, police detained Pavel Dmitrichenko, a lead dancer
at the Bolshoi, after he confessed to organizing an assault on
Filin. Dmitrichenko denied that he had asked the attackers to
use acid.  Tsiskaridze  joined the Bolshoi  in 1992 as a dancer and in
2004 became a choreographer. In 2001, he became one of the
youngest to be named a People’s Artist of  Russia  and has won
national and international awards for performances in the Queen
of Spades, Raymonda and Giselle.  For Related News and Information:
Putin Opens $700 Million New Mariinsky With Domingo-Led Gala  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  