-- Severn Trent Bid to Be Dropped as Water Utility Won’t Talk
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-06-10T16:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/borealis-led-consortium-said-ready-to-abandon-severn-trent-bid.html
Borealis Infrastructure Management
Inc. and its partners in the LongRiver group will abandon a 5.3
billion-pound ($8.2 billion) offer for  Severn Trent Plc (SVT)  because
the U.K. water utility declined to negotiate with the group.  “The Severn Trent board has shown no interest in
discussing our pre-conditional offer with us,” Borealis Chief
Executive Officer Michael Rolland said today in a statement.
“In the absence of any such engagement, there will be no
further proposal from the consortium.”  Severn Trent, the U.K.’s second-largest publicly traded
water company, on June 7 rejected the group’s bid of 2,200 pence
a share, its third takeover approach since May 14. The bidding
group comprises the Canadian infrastructure investor Borealis,
the Kuwait Investment Office and Britain’s Universities
Superannuation Scheme.  Severn Trent fell 6 percent to 1,946 pence today in  London ,
the most in almost a year, on eight times the average three-month daily volume. Under U.K. takeover rules, LongRiver has
until tomorrow to announce a formal intention to bid.  “We see the potential takeover of SVT as very much in the
balance,” Edmund Reid, a U.K. utilities analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said today in an e-mailed note. “There seems to be
growing acrimony between SVT’s board and the LongRiver
consortium.”  If no agreement or extension can be made before the
deadline, Reid expects Severn Trent’s  share price  to move toward
the 1,800 pence it traded at before LongRiver’s first approach
almost a month ago.  River Origins  Severn Trent, named for two of Britain’s biggest rivers, is
the latest U.K. utility to face potential foreign ownership
after buyouts including Thames Water Utilities Ltd. and
Yorkshire Water Services Ltd.  British water utilities, regulated by watchdog Ofwat
through price controls, offer steady profit that have lured
buyers including Macquarie Group Ltd. and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  Seven of the
10 largest U.K. water companies are privately owned.  LongRiver first made a takeover approach May 14, which
Severn Trent rejected a day later. It returned with a higher
offer on May 31 that it said valued Severn Trent, which supplies
drinking water to 7.7 million people and sewer services to 8.7
million clients in the Midlands and  Wales , at about 5.2 billion
pounds.  Too Low?  The utility spurned as too low the bid it said valued the
stock at 2,079.49 pence a share because stockholders wouldn’t
receive a 45.51 pence dividend. The bidders said they were
“surprised and disappointed” at the rejection. The dividend is
included in the latest offer at 2,200 pence, 3.5 percent higher
than the May 31 approach.  Borealis’sRolland urged Severn Trent’s board on June 7 to
engage with the bidders, which he said was needed to make a
formal offer. The group’s third takeover approach is 34 percent
above Severn Trent’s average closing price for the six months to
May 13, the group said.  Severn Trent said in its June 7 statement the approach
failed to reflect its value. The company held “private
conversations” with LongRiver and had no objections to fuller
discussions “in the event that LongRiver puts forward a
proposal which properly reflects the long term value and future
potential of Severn Trent,” Chairman Andrew Duff said.  Borealis Infrastructure co-owns the U.K.’s largest ports
operator, Associated British Ports. It’s the infrastructure unit
of Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System, or Omers.
Based in Toronto, Omers is  Canada ’s sixth-biggest pension-fund
manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  