-- China Ex-Rail Chief Charged With Taking Millions in Bribes
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-06-09T11:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/china-ex-rail-chief-charged-with-taking-10-5-million-in-bribes.html
Former Chinese Railway Minister  Liu Zhijun  stood trial today on bribery charges, in a case
highlighting the graft that accompanied the roll-out of the
world’s biggest high-speed rail network.  Liu, 60, allegedly accepted 64.6 million  yuan  ($10.5
million) in bribes between 1986 and 2011 and helped 11 people
win project contracts and promotions, the official Xinhua News
Agency said, citing the prosecutors’ indictment. Among the
beneficiaries was a woman named Ding Yuxin, who reaped “huge
profits” thanks to Liu, Xinhua said.  “Liu’s malpractice led to huge losses of public assets and
damage to the interests of the state and people,” the
indictment said, according to Xinhua. The verdict against Liu
will be announced at a later date, it said.  Liu admitted his guilt and expressed remorse in today’s
hearing, weeping as he read a personal statement, the  Associated
Press  said, citing Liu’s lawyer, Qian Lieyang.  The former minister was among the highest ranked Chinese
officials to face corruption-related charges until the downfall
of Politburo member Bo Xilai amid a government clampdown on
graft last year. Removed from his post in 2011, Liu championed
what he called leapfrog development of a rail network that
accumulated more than 2.84 trillion yuan of debt. He was
expelled from the Communist Party last year.  The allegations of corruption surrounding the rail
construction, along with a July 2011 bullet-train crash that
killed 40 people, have come to symbolize broader concern over
the quality of  China ’s infrastructure expansion.  Stolen Money  Liu presided over the ministry at a time when millions of
yuan were wasted or stolen. In one case, at least 187 million
yuan was misappropriated by individuals or companies involved in
building the high-speed rail line from Beijing to  Shanghai , the
National Audit Office reported in March 2011.  Acknowledging the threat posed by corruption, President  Xi
Jinping  called it one of the “severe challenges” faced by the
party and has started a campaign to reduce extravagant spending
by officials and state-owned companies since he became the
party’s chief in November.  The Ministry of Railways was also dismantled earlier this
year as the government seeks to rein in graft and red tape.
Authorities split the ministry into two entities in March with
China Railway Corp taking over commercial services and a
Ministry of Transport unit having some regulatory functions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  