-- David Koch’s Chilling Effect on Public Television
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-06-09T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/david-koch-s-chilling-effect-on-public-television.html
(Corrects reference to Americans for Prosperity as an
advocacy group in sixth paragraph.)  We seem to have entered an era of
government snooping and censorship unsurpassed even by the
dismal standard set four decades ago by President  Richard Nixon .  In recent days, we have discovered that the  Internal
Revenue Service  targeted conservative groups, the  Justice
Department  went after journalists at the Associated Press and
Fox News, and the National Security Agency has been aggregating
records of our phone calls and online activities. Taken
together, this behavior has all the hallmarks of a paranoid,
totalitarian regime, regardless of whether President  Barack Obama ’s administration takes legal comfort by claiming cover
under the overreaching Patriot Act.  There have also been some less headline-grabbing incidents
of unchecked power that seem almost quaint (but are no less
appalling): Billionaires who use their money and power to
influence what gets shown, or not, on public television.  Consider the sorry saga of “Citizen Koch,” an independent
documentary film that traces the effect of the tidal wave of
corporate money that has flooded the political system since the
 Supreme Court ’s 2010 Citizens United decision. In April 2012,
the two filmmakers behind “Citizen Koch” -- Tia Lessin and
Carl Deal -- received $150,000 from Independent Television
Service, a San Francisco-based outpost of public television that
gets funding from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting to
support and distribute independent films.  Wisconsin Recall  Using the 2012 Wisconsin recall election as a tableau,
“Citizen Koch” fairly and accurately portrays the way big
money, much of it from out of state, was used to help the
Republican governor,  Scott Walker , retain his office.  The title of the film is partly a play on “Citizen Kane,”
 Orson Welles ’ thinly veiled portrait of William Randolph Hearst.
It also refers to the documentary’s description of the role
played in the recall election by Americans for Prosperity, an
advocacy group funded by David and Charles Koch, the
ultraconservative billionaire owners of  Koch Industries  Inc. The
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index  pegs the brothers as being worth
$43.7 billion each, making them the sixth and seventh richest
people in the world.  “Citizen Koch” features a number of brief interviews with
 Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity, and
allows him to explain his thinking about why the Kochs were
focused on the Wisconsin recall election. This has the effect of
hoisting him on his own petard, at least from the perspective of
a jaded  New Yorker . Neither Koch brother appears in the film,
despite a number of e-mailed invitations from Lessin and Deal.  It turns out that  David Koch , for whatever reason, is a fan
of public television. Over the years, he has donated $23 million
for shows and independent films that have -- how shall we say? -
- a more liberal-leaning view of the world. In 1997, Koch became
a trustee of WGBH, the public television station in  Boston , and
in 2006, he joined the board of WNET, in  New York City .  In 2012, all seemed well between the filmmakers and ITVS,
which had seen a rough cut and enthusiastically supported the
film. Then, by coincidence, another documentary film -- “Park
Avenue: Money, Power and the American Dream” -- by Academy
Award-winning filmmaker  Alex Gibney  was scheduled to debut Nov.
12 on PBS. In his film -- as in  Michael Gross ’s earlier book
“740 Park: The Story of the World’s Richest Apartment
Building” -- Gibney used 740 Park Avenue as a metaphor for the
wealth and power that is concentrated in  Manhattan . The
building’s wealthiest resident is David Koch, and, in the film,
Gibney referred to him as a “right-wing oil tycoon,” explained
that Koch Industries paid what was then “the largest civil
penalty” in the history of the Environmental Protection Agency,
and, perhaps most damning, revealed that the billionaire had
tipped a doorman a mere $50 at Christmas, writing a check.  Donation Drive  According to Jane Mayer, who broke this story last month in
the New Yorker, David Koch wasn’t happy about his portrayal and
let Neil Shapiro, the president of WNET, know about it.
Complicating matters, according to Mayer, was WNET’s expectation
that David Koch would donate at least $1 million to its capital
campaign.  Mayer  wrote that Shapiro attempted to “mollify” Koch by
giving him a heads-up about the film, organizing a roundtable
debate, and adding a voice-over introduction warning that it was
“controversial” and “provocative.” Gibney’s film aired as
scheduled but, according to Mayer, Koch canceled whatever plans
he had to make a large donation to WNET. (He resigned from the
WNET board on May 16; he remains on the board of WGBH.)  That’s how “Citizen Koch” became caught in the crossfire
between David Koch and WNET and ITVS. A public-relations
official told Mayer that airing “Citizen Koch” on public
television “was a real problem, because of ‘Park Avenue.’
Because of the whole thing with the Koch brothers, ITVS knew
WNET would never air it. Never.”  ITVS, for its part, couldn’t risk alienating WNET, which
has the largest public television audience. On April 15, ITVS
told Lessin and Deal that it was pulling the plug on its support
for “Citizen Koch.”  “We were stunned,” Lessin told me in a recent interview.
“It’s not outright control. They’re just fostering a kind of
self-censorship that happens when the public television
executives and programmers are guided by what they believe will
please or anger the very donors that they rely on.”  Lessin and Deal lost a major portion of their funding and
are now paying for the film out of pocket. Some of their vendors
haven’t been paid but have been understanding, so far. They also
lost their distribution network and a chance for a wider
audience to see the film. “ Citizen Koch ” has been shown at
film festivals, but that’s it.  “Look, we’ve suffered,” Lessin said. “The film has
suffered. The public television audience doesn’t get to see the
film. Now, looming on the horizon, David Koch and  Charles Koch 
seem to be interested in purchasing the Tribune Company
newspapers. If they can have the influence over our film -- just
by David Koch being on the board of trustees and being a donor -
- imagine the influence that they would have if they actually
owned these really important papers.”  And, just like that, in this insidious way -- a film
censored here, some phone records seized there -- the freedoms
that we once took for granted and thought were guaranteed by our
Constitution are slowly but surely eroded. This can’t be a good
thing.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 