-- Dollar Index Rises on Fed Bets; Aussie, Kiwi Fall on China Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-06-09T23:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/dollar-index-rises-on-fed-bets-aussie-kiwi-fall-on-china-data.html
The Dollar Index rose for a second
day before  Federal Reserve  of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
speaks today amid speculation the central bank will slow
monetary stimulus as the economy improves.  The greenback gained against the yen, rallying from the
lowest in two months, after better-than-estimated U.S. jobs data
last week and before the  Bank of Japan  starts a two-day meeting.
The Australian and New Zealand dollars declined after Chinese
data showed imports unexpectedly fell in Asia’s biggest economy.  “I expect the dollar to be resilient because of lingering
expectations that the Fed will taper monetary easing,” said
 Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-exchange and fixed-income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “In  Japan , there’s a sense that the BOJ will introduce
additional easing at some point.”  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, climbed 0.2 percent to 81.857 as of 8:34 a.m. in Tokyo
from June 7, when it added 0.2 percent.  The dollar rose 0.7 percent to 98.27 yen from June 7, when
it touched 94.99, the lowest since April 4. The greenback added
0.1 percent to $1.3202 from the end of last week, when it
strengthened 0.2 percent. The euro rose 0.7 percent to 129.90
yen.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.7 percent to 94.31 U.S.
cents. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar weakened 0.5 percent to 78.54
U.S. cents.  Fed Watch  U.S. Labor Department figures showed on June 7 that
payrolls rose by 175,000 in May after a revised 149,000 increase
in April that was smaller than first estimated. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 163,000.  Fed Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will trim
their so-called quantitative easing program to $65 billion a
month at the Oct. 29-30 meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , from the current level of $85 billion, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars dropped after
Chinese imports fell, dimming the demand outlook for the South
Pacific nations’ exports. Shipments into  China  fell 0.3 percent
in May from a year earlier, down from a 16.8 percent expansion
in April, National Bureau of Statistics data showed on June 8.  “The China train is hardly derailing, but it does seem to
be running out of puff somewhat for the moment,” Sharon Zollner, a senior economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington, wrote in a note to clients today. “Weaker Chinese
trade and money aggregates data should ensure the AUD and NZD
remain under pressure.”  Aussie Shorts  Futures traders increased bets that the Australian dollar
will decline against the  U.S. dollar  to a record, figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Aussie compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 58,550 on June 4,
the most bearish in data going back to January 1993.  The BOJ starts a two-day meeting today. The central bank’s
board is divided over whether to quell market volatility by
doubling to two years the maturity of 0.1 percent loans it
extends to banks, according to people familiar with the
discussions.  Fifteen of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey either
forecast that the BOJ will approve two-year operations or say
that such a move is possible.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  