-- Dubai Property Revival Gathers Pace as Emaar Starts New Projects
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-06-09T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/dubai-property-revival-gathers-pace-as-emaar-starts-new-projects.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  started two
new projects and began expansion of its flagship shopping mall
as the developer of the world’s tallest tower leads companies
seeking to benefit from a rebound in Dubai’s real-estate market.  Emaar is partnering with Meraas Holding to build the 11
million square-meter Dubai Hills Estate, a mixed-use project
featuring an 18-hole golf course. It’s also in the final stages
of talks with Dubai Holding LLC, owned by ruler Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, to develop the 6.5 million square-meter
Dubai Creek Harbor project, according to a company  statement .  “When Emaar focuses on Dubai, and it works on this kind of
project at the higher end of the market, it has competitive
advantage,” Montasser Khelifi, a senior manager of global
markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd. in Dubai, said by phone
yesterday. “This is positive” for Emaar, he said.  The projects are the latest in a series of announcements as
Dubai recovers from one of the steepest real-estate crashes
after the 2008 global financial crisis. At the center of recent
plans is Mohammed Bin Rashid City, a new district named after
Dubai’s ruler that will feature the world’s largest shopping
mall and gardens bigger than  London ’s Hyde Park. Other projects
include the world’s largest Ferris wheel and five theme parks
costing 10 billion dirhams ($2.7 billion).  Prices Surge  Home prices in Dubai are climbing, with the average sale
price of mid-range villas soaring 47 percent in the year to May
and mid-range apartment prices advancing 32 percent, according
to data compiled by Cluttons LLC. Emaar, with the heaviest
weight on Dubai’s benchmark index, has  surged 53 percent  this
year compared with a 48 percent increase for the measure.  Emaar’s projects come as companies such as Tecom
Investments LLC, a unit of Dubai Holding, and Nakheel PJSC, the
builder of palm tree-shaped artificial islands off Dubai’s
coast, started new developments. Tecom said yesterday it will
invest 4 billion dirhams in the first phase of Dubai Design
District for fashion, design and luxury industries, while
Nakheel this year announced plans to build hundreds of villas.  Emaar has also started work on a “massive” expansion of
the Dubai Mall, the world’s biggest by area, state-run Emirates
News Agency reported on June 8. The expansion is part of efforts
to attract 100 million visitors a year to the shopping facility
compared with 65 million last year.  Worrying Signs  Property prices in Dubai, the second-biggest of seven
states that make up the United Arab Emirates, fell more than 65
percent from a peak in 2008 as the credit crisis forced banks to
cut mortgage lending and speculators left the market. The crisis
also forced many companies including Dubai World Corp., one of
the sheikhdom’s three main holding companies, to restructure
payments on billions of dollars of debt.  “We need to be a bit cautious,” Craig Plumb, head of
Middle East research for Jones Lang LaSalle, said by phone
yesterday. “There are some worrying signs of over-exuberance
coming back into the market.”  Dubai’s property boom started after the emirate opened its
market to foreign buyers in 2002, and at its height was driven
by speculators seeking to profit from purchasing and selling
contracts for yet-to-be-built houses and apartments. The central
bank of United Arab Emirates, which comprises seven sheikhdoms
including Dubai and Abu Dhabi, is in the process of forming
regulations to restrict mortgages to curb default risk.  New regulations, tightened credit and over-supply may help
cool growth, Plumb said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  