-- Templeton Buys in Longest Sovereign Gain Since ’02
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   K a r e n   Y e u n g
-- 2013-06-09T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/templeton-buys-in-longest-sovereign-gain-since-02.html
Franklin Templeton Asset Management
( India ) Pvt. and Nomura Asset Management Co. predict rupee bonds
will extend the longest run of gains in more than a decade as
inflation below 5 percent adds room for interest-rate cuts.  Templeton raised holdings of local sovereign debt in its
Income Builder Fund as the  10-year (GIND10YR)  yield slid 72 basis points
since March 31 to 7.24 percent, set for a sixth quarterly drop.
Similar rates in  China  fell 13 basis points. Nomura Asset, which
handed yen-based investors a 36 percent gain from its  India Bond
Fund (0131611B)  in the year through April, says easing price pressures will 
allow India to add to the most aggressive monetary easing since 
2009.  “There is a need for lower borrowing costs, given the
overall weak macro environment,” Santosh Kamath, Mumbai-based
chief investment officer for fixed income at Franklin Templeton
Asset, which manages 429 billion rupees ($7.5 billion) in local
assets, said in an e-mail on June 6. “Positive news flow on
inflation will be good for bonds.”  Rupee-denominated government bonds have outperformed those
in the four biggest  emerging markets  this year as the  Reserve
Bank  of India lowered borrowing costs to arrest the worst
economic slowdown in a decade, while policy makers in  Brazil ,
China and  Russia  are focused on restraining inflation. The
benchmark wholesale-price index probably gained 4.86 percent in
May from a year earlier, the least since November 2009, compared
with 4.89 percent in April, a Bloomberg  survey  showed.  Rising Demand  Investors in India put 201.6 billion rupees into fixed-income funds in April, the most in six months, while they pulled
800 million rupees from equity plans, according to the most
recent  figures  on the Association of  Mutual Funds  in India’s
website. Banks, the biggest buyers of government bonds in India,
boosted  ownership  by 1.1 trillion rupees since Dec. 31 to 20.5
trillion rupees as of May 15, central bank data show.  “There could be scope for the 10-year government bond to
rally below 7 percent should the RBI cut policy rates by more
than current market expectation,” Simon Tan, a Singapore-based
 fund manager  at Nomura Asset, which manages $280 billion
globally, said in an e-mailed response to questions on June 7.
“We view a 25 basis point to 50 basis point cut to be priced
into current Indian bond levels. We are comfortable to increase
exposure onshore.”  ICICI Bank Ltd., India’s largest private lender, sees the
10-year yield falling below 7 percent for the first time in four
years as the RBI adds to this year’s three rate cuts, Shilpa Kumar, Mumbai-based head of treasury at the lender, said in a
June 3 interview. The yield on the benchmark 7.16 percent note
due May 2023 rose three basis points on June 7.  Beating BRICs  Local-currency sovereign debt returned 7.7 percent this
year in India, compared with 1.8 percent in China and 1.2
percent in Russia, according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Brazilian notes lost 15 percent.  RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao reduced the  repurchase  rate
by 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, since Dec. 31 to
7.25 percent to revive  Asia ’s third-largest economy. Gross
domestic product  increased  5 percent in the fiscal year ended
March 31, the least since 2002-2003, according to official
figures released on May 31.  The central bank will next review policy on June 17.
Cooling price pressures give the RBI larger room for policy
decisions, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s economic advisory council, said in a May 17
interview with Bloomberg TV India.  Foreigners’ Pullout  While domestic demand for debt has increased, global money
managers have reduced  holdings  of rupee-denominated government
and corporate notes by $2.5 billion from a record $38.5 billion
reached on May 21, exchange data show. Outflows amid concern U.S.
policy makers will scale back  policies  that have boosted dollar
supply fueled a 4.9 percent drop in the rupee this quarter, the
worst performer among Asian currencies.  The rupee dropped 0.4 percent to 57.0650 per dollar on June
7, falling past the 57 level for the first time in almost a year.
International investors pulled a record $12.5 billion from bond
funds globally in the week ended June 5, Citigroup Inc. said in
a June 7 report citing EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company that tracks fund flows and  asset allocation .  Currency declines threaten to make imported goods costlier,
stoke inflation and reduce scope for monetary easing, and that
would deter some investors from buying bonds, according to SBI
Funds Management Pvt. and Quantum Asset Management.  ‘External Imbalances’  India’s current-account  deficit  widened to a record $32.6
billion in the final quarter of 2012 as exchange-rate losses
boosted the value of inward shipments.  “The central bank seems to be focused on the current
account deficit and external imbalances and there isn’t much
room for  interest rates  to come down,” Rajeev Radhakrishnan,
head of fixed income in Mumbai at SBI Funds, said in a June 4
interview. “There has been a significant rally in bonds and
that will also deter investors from adding to their holdings.”  Foreign investment in India’s bond market is relatively low
and that makes local debt less vulnerable to capital outflows
triggered by bets favoring U.S. assets, according to Nomura.
Combined international holdings of rupee-denominated government
and company notes were at $36 billion on June 5, compared with
the equivalent of $557 billion in  outstanding  sovereign
securities, according to central bank data.  ‘Increasing Appeal’  India’s decision to ease rules on overseas ownership of
local bonds also will spur gains in the market, according to
Nomura. The government increased this year a limit on foreign
holdings, cut a tax on such investments and simplified rules on
such purchases.  Templeton’s  Income Builder (KOTINBA)  Fund gained 7.6 percent this
year, beating 92 percent of peers. The fund ranked fifth among
99 domestic fixed-income funds in 2012 with a 12 percent return,
according to data compiled by Mumbai-based Value Research Ltd.
It had 49 percent of its assets in government bonds and 34
percent in corporate debt.  Nomura’s India Bond Fund had 19 percent of its assets in
 government securities  at the end of April, according to data
provided by the company. Dollar-denominated bonds sold by local
firms made up 59 percent.  Bond risk in India has slid this year. The cost of insuring
the debt of  State Bank  of India, considered a proxy for the
sovereign, using five-year credit-default swaps fell 23 basis
points since Dec. 31 to 202, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in privately negotiated markets.  “Foreigner participation in the rupee bond market is still
low and the Indian government has been increasing its appeal,”
Nomura’s Tan said. “We believe Indian bonds will be less
affected by effects of  U.S. Treasury  moves compared to other
regional countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Yeung in Shanghai at 
 kyeung29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  