-- Erdogan’s Crackdown Could Drive Away Economy’s Saviors
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-09T22:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/erdogan-s-crackdown-could-drive-away-economy-s-saviors.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
returned to Turkey last week little chastened by the protesters
occupying the central squares of cities around the country.
Judging by his demand that the “vandalism and utter lawlessness”
end immediately, he may yet choose to crush them.  He can if he tries. In the process, though, he would badly
damage the country’s economic prospects. We’re not just talking
about the recent sharp fall on the Istanbul stock market and a
bump of more than a percentage point in the yield on 10-year
 government bonds . These problems will pass.  We’re talking instead about the economy’s medium-term
health, which depends more on the success of the middle-class
Twitter generation now squatting in Taksim Square than on the
construction boom that triggered the protests. In that respect,
sending back in the riot police would be a big mistake.  For all of Erdogan’s success in boosting growth,  Turkey 
needs a new business model. Otherwise, it won’t escape the so-called middle income  trap  that stalls many emerging economies
when they reach per capita gross domestic product of about
$10,000. True, Turkey’s per capita GDP has almost tripled since
Erdogan came to power in 2003, to $10,500 at the end of last
 year . Yet that figure has barely increased since 2008, and
growth itself fell to 2.2 percent last year, from a spectacular
8.8 percent in 2011.  To change that picture, Turkey needs young, educated,
technology-savvy Turks to produce high value-added companies. In
other words, Erdogan should be helping the 20-somethings in
Taksim Square to start software businesses, not tear-gassing
them into leaving the country for better prospects elsewhere.  At the moment, Turkey is a highly efficient assembly
economy with few natural resources. Whenever exports of Turkish-made Renault cars or Bosch washing machines grow, imports
balloon as factories devour more energy, raw materials and semi-finished goods from abroad. The main way to finance the
resulting current account deficit is with large and inherently
volatile inflows of short-term investment from abroad.  The  IMF  and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
 Development  say the way to cure this perennial problem is for
Turkey to make the economy more competitive and boost domestic
savings. That means removing obstacles to business, making the
labor market more flexible, investing heavily in a better
targeted education system and broadening the tax base. We agree.  The government, however, has a different plan -- one that
involves supporting demand with low-interest rates, while
pouring investment into construction. Government inspired
projects include oil and gas pipelines, two nuclear  power
plants , a $29 billion airport for Istanbul, a third bridge
across the Bosporus, a shipping canal that will cost at least
$12 billion, an entirely new city, a $6.5 billion east-west
highway, and numerous urban redevelopment projects such as the
one that triggered anger in Taksim’s Gezi Park. Oh, and an all-Turkish-made car.  Some of these projects are good, cost-effective investments
(for instance, the government needs to provide only a $6.3
billion guarantee for the build-and-operate airport tender).
Nuclear power can replace energy imports and help to reduce the
current account deficit. Construction, however, is by definition
nontradable; most of it won’t rebalance an economy that’s
already too dependent on the sector. Nor will it change the
nation’s business model.  Instead, the government’s priority should be investing in
research and development and in education, with construction
focused on projects that can develop a higher value-added
economy. Erdogan’s grand projects take government funding and
focus away from these priorities and, as we are seeing, can also
anger parts of the population, who think that they’re getting
cemented over.  Never mind the irony that it was Erdogan and his ruling
 Justice and Development Party  who made possible the high
expectations now bringing Turkey’s relatively affluent youth out
into the streets. His increasingly authoritarian ways have made
him their enemy. Erdogan appears genuinely baffled by this
reaction, attributing it to the knee-jerk hostility of the
secular establishment that he spent most of his life fighting.  Turkey’s prime minister should understand that these
protesters are not the generals that he confronted, and in many
cases jailed. They are not “terrorists,” “vandals” or “bums.”
They are Turkey’s Twitter generation, and he needs them.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 