-- Merkel: Euro Nations Must Follow Germany’s Lead on Growth
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-06-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/merkel-says-euro-nations-must-follow-germany-s-lead-on-growth.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro
nations must follow Germany’s lead in tightening budgets and
reshaping labor markets to return to growth as she seeks to
stave off any crisis eruptions before elections in September.  As European leaders struggle to stanch recession and
unemployment, Merkel lauded Germany’s efforts to keep its
economy stable through the crisis and said the euro area’s 17
member states must stick to a recipe of budget discipline and
improving competitiveness so that growth can take hold.  “It’s greatly in Germany’s interest to do everything so
that structural reforms and budget discipline can take place in
other countries,” Merkel said in her  weekly podcast .  Even as French President  Francois Hollande  restated his
declaration that the three-year-old crisis is over, a looming
risk of Greek debt writedowns and a scourge of joblessness among
 Europe ’s youth could compound the turmoil as EU leaders prepare
for a June 27 summit. Merkel is easing into an election campaign
to seek a third term as chancellor in a Sept. 22 vote.  Hollande, on a two-day trip to Japan, reiterated that the
acute phase of the crisis is over and that the euro leaders’
primary task consists of growth and employment.  “Europe has become more stable, but it must now be more
oriented toward growth,” Hollande  told a conference  June 8 in
 Tokyo . “What’s important for you here in Japan is to fully
understand that the crisis of the euro zone is over.”  Jobless Discussions  Finance and labor ministers from  Spain , Germany,  Italy  and
 France  are scheduled to meet on June 14 in  Rome  to hammer out a
European plan to directly address the 24 percent youth-unemployment rate. Merkel and Hollande met at the end of last
month to discuss the issue, announcing an initial 6 billion
euros ($7.9 billion) to fight joblessness.  European leaders won more potential reprieve after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last week said the euro
economy will return to growth by the end of the year. The single
currency climbed 1.7 percent last week against the dollar,
rising to its highest level since February.  Still, prospects for growth could be offset by new concern
over Greek debt. The  International Monetary Fund  is pressuring
Europe to agree on an additional debt writedown this year to
address a 4.6 billion-euro debt shortfall for 2014,  Der Spiegel 
reported, without saying where it obtained the information.  Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  has said the IMF won’t
participate in funding unless it’s secured for the next 12
months, the German magazine reported.  ‘Perfidious’ Expropriation  Merkel told members of her  Christian Democratic Union  last
month that she would oppose any further Greek writedowns, which
she called a “perfidious form of expropriation.” The
chancellor in December had signaled she might be open to such a
scenario only when Greece generates a  budget surplus .  The IMF last week said that public debt in Greece, where
the crisis began in October 2009, remains a risk to recovery and
could require further relief. The IMF report, which criticized
the fund’s own handling of Greece’s rescue, said debt levels
“hang over the program” even as the country makes progress.  European bailout policy will come under scrutiny this week
as Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court holds a hearing from
tomorrow on the country’s participation in Europe’s main rescue
fund as well as the ECB’s bond-purchasing program, whose
establishment last year was credited with easing market turmoil.  Report Dismissed  The ECB dismissed a report in the  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung  that a limit had been set to the bond-buying
program, known as Outright Monetary Transactions. FAS reported
that the central bank had communicated a limit of 524 billion
euros in a court brief ahead of this week’s hearing as a way of
making the program less vulnerable to a legal challenge.  That amount is the total sum of Spanish, Italian, Irish and
Portuguese debt with one- to three-year maturities, FAS reported
yesterday, citing unidentified central bank officials.  “There are no ex-ante limits on the amount” of OMT
borrowing, ECB spokesman Wiktor Krzyzanowski said yesterday in
 Frankfurt  in reaction to the report. “Their size would be
adequate to meet their objective.”  The program, which Draghi unveiled last September, was
“economically necessary, legally admissible and efficient in
terms of its effect,” ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen
told  Bild  newspaper in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  