-- Teva Widens Premium to Tel Aviv on FDA: Israel Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-06-09T13:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/teva-widens-premium-to-tel-aviv-on-fda-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, advanced the most in
three weeks on prospects the drugmaker will begin selling its
generic diabetes pill in the U.S.  Shares of the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company gained 2.2
percent, the most since May 16, to 142.2 shekels, or $39.41, at
the close in Tel Aviv, narrowing the gap with its more actively
traded American depositary receipts. Teva rose 3.4 percent last
week in New York to $39.49 compared with a drop of 1.7 percent
in  Israel .  Teva stands to benefit after a U.S. Food and Drug
Administration advisory panel said June 6 that the perceived
heart risks of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s best-selling diabetes pill,
Avandia, may have been overstated and restrictions should be
eased, according to Timothy Chiang, an analyst at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut who rates Teva buy. The FDA
approved a generic version from Teva in January. Sales of the
former $3 billion-a-year drug fell to $9.5 million last year
after London-based Glaxo’s patent expired in 2011.  “Teva could benefit from it and generate even more
revenue,” Chiang said in a telephone interview. “They are the
biggest maker of generic drugs in the world and yet their
valuations do not fully reflect all that.”  While Teva will post the smallest increase in annual sales
in its history,  revenue  will rise to a record $20.4 billion in
2013, according to the average of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The shares currently trade 7.6 times estimated
earnings, or 27 percent below the five-year average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Teva’s New York premium to  Tel Aviv  was the widest among
dually listed shares before the Israeli market opened today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  