-- Islamic School Fire Near London Prompts Police Call for Unity
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-06-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/fire-at-islamic-school-in-u-k-treated-as-suspicious-police-say.html
London ’s police commissioner called
for residents of the U.K. capital to stay unified after a
suspicious fire at an Islamic boarding school added to attacks
against the Muslim community following the murder of a soldier.  “These are difficult times for London’s communities,”
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. His force is now investigating
suspicious blazes at two locations within the Islamic community
that have occurred in recent days, he said.  In the latest incident, 128 pupils and staff at the Darul
Uloom School, in Chislehurst, southeast of London, were
evacuated late on Saturday, June 8. Two boys were treated at the
scene for smoke inhalation, school adviser Saiyed Mahmood said
in a televised statement yesterday. The fire had been started by
“intruders,” he said.  The U.K. has experienced an jump in incidents targeting
Muslims following the murder of Lee Rigby, a 25-year-old
military drummer, on a busy street in Woolwich, southeast
London, on May 22. Since the killing, anti-Muslim incidents have
averaged more than 26 a day in Britain, compared with a previous
average of four to six, according to Faith Matters, a non-profit
group that seeks to improve interfaith relations.  According to Tell MAMA, a U.K. government-funded monitoring
project that records anti-Muslim attacks, about 12 mosques have
been targeted since Rigby’s murder. They include an incident in
Grimsby in which three petrol bombs were thrown, while police
are investigating whether an arson attack last week on a Somali
community center in Muswell Hill, north London, was in response
to Rigby’s death.  ‘Unified Response’  “We should not allow the murder of Lee Rigby to come
between Londoners,” Hogan-Howe said. “The unified response we
have seen since his death across all communities will triumph
over whose who seek to divide us.”  The police are using a “full range” of tactics to protect
sites that might be vulnerable, Hogan-Howe said. “There is an
increased police presence around locations that might be at
risk,” he said, including round-the-clock staffing at sites
regarded as being at greatest risk.  The Darul Uloom school, which was established in 1988, said
yesterday it was dealing with concerned parents, and spokesman
Mahmood asked for the local community to “stay firm and
united.”  “We are part of the British community and saddened” by
the fire, Mahmood said.  The school’s website says it “helps children to explore
and develop their Islamic identity as a natural part of their
mental, emotional and personal development.”  The 10-acre site comprises 130 boarding rooms as well as
classrooms, a dining hall, an assembly hall, a prayer hall, gym,
playing fields and car parking, according to the website.  “We would ask members of the public to remain calm and not
to speculate as to the cause of the fire,” Detective Chief
Superintendent Steph Roberts, the local borough police
commander, said yesterday. “A full police investigation is
ongoing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Harrison  in London at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  