-- French Soccer Stadiums Target Qatar to Offset Home Losses
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-06-10T08:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/french-soccer-stadiums-target-qatar-to-offset-home-losses.html
Eiffage SA (FGR)  lost money on building
the state-of-the-art soccer stadium in Lille for the 2016
European championships. It’s banking on a return coming from
outside of  France .  Eiffage and its French rivals in the  construction industry ,
 Vinci SA (DG)  and  Bouygues SA (EN) , are building and renovating six
stadiums across the country for the event, anticipating that
features like retractable roofs will lure orders from the more
deep-pocketed governments of Qatar and  Russia .  Those two countries will host the soccer World Cup in 2018
and 2022 and have earmarked $85 billion for arenas and
infrastructure such as railways and hotels. Picking up a slice
of that spending is more important than ever as France’s economy
fell into recession in the first quarter after stagnating last
year, leaving little room for the government to boost investment
as it seeks to lower the  budget deficit .  “This is a showcase stadium for us,” said Bertrand d’Herouville, Eiffage’s project head for the 324 million-euro
($427 million) Lille stadium, the only one in France with a
retractable roof and a built-in arena under a sliding  pitch .
“It’s a reference for us. If we can replicate it, we’ll do
it.”  Hosting the World Cup, the world’s most-watched sporting
event, will be a first for both Qatar and Russia and they plan
to construct and renovate 24 stadiums to highlight their
economic ascent. Sales to emerging markets driven by soccer’s
rising global popularity should help the French companies
overshadow losses at home.  Nice, Bordeaux  “We will be able to capitalize and show our Qatari friends
what we’re doing in Nice and in Bordeaux,” said Vinci Chief
Executive Officer Xavier Huillard said on April 15 after he
poured concrete on the first stone of Bordeaux’s new soccer
stadium. “This is very decisive to make our case.”  Qatar Rail today awarded a 1.5 billion-euro contract for a
local Doha underground line to a consortium including Vinci and
other partners. The contract covers design and construction of a
dual-tube line with a length of 13.8 kilometers between the Doha
airport and the Msheireb neighbourhood. The order will take five
years to complete and involve as many as 3,000 people  In France, Vinci’s  stadium  in  Le Mans  was completed in 2011
for a total cost of 104 million euros and the near-bankrupt home
soccer club initially agreed to pay an annual rent of about 2
million euros. Vinci then agreed to cut the fee for the club to
600,000 euros, said Damien Rajot, head of Vinci’s stadium
management unit.  Stopped Subsidies  In Saint-Denis near Paris, a venture between Vinci and
Bouygues running the 16-year-old Stade de France flagship
stadium was  told  by the French government in October that it
will stop subsidizing the consortium this year, depriving it of
12 million euros in annual revenue.  In Lille, Eiffage lost an undisclosed amount when changes
in anti-earthquake rules combined with pressure to quicken the
completion of the stadium in 2012. At the same time, the arena
has been visited several times by members of the Qatar  World Cup 
organizing committee and received “marks of interest” from
Russian and African investors, according tod’Herouville.  The Eiffage executive said he’s also confident to get the
15 non-soccer events a year needed to balance the operation in
two years. He’s signed contracts to host four events this year,
including concerts of artists Depeche Mode and Rihanna, which
sold out in two hours.  $65 Billion Investment  Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest natural-gas
reserves, agreed to spend as much as $65 billion to host the
World Cup. The plan includes stadiums equipped with solar-powered air conditioning and constructing a $25 billion rail and
metro network. Qatar, which  plans  to construct nine new stadiums
and renovate three, will probably start the tendering process
for the main construction contracts next year.  Russia in September doubled its forecast for spending on
the World Cup to almost $20 billion. The country is already
 spending  almost $50 billion on the Winter Olympics in the Black
Sea resort of Sochi next year.  In  Europe , the builders often face additional costs as they
have to agree to run a stadium’s business operations after
construction is completed and they often struggle to fill the
arenas with additional events. In  emerging markets , fewer arenas
compete for these events and the facilities also benefit from
rising local spending.  ‘Not Simple’  The business of stadium management “is a model which is
seeking its balance; it’s not necessarily simple,” Vinci’s
Huillard said at the ground-breaking ceremony for Bordeaux’s
stadium which will also feature in the 2016 tournament.  In Lyon, Vinci didn’t take a stake in the company that will
operate the local stadium amid diverging views on forecast
revenue, Huillard said.  In a December 2011  report , PwC predicted that global gate
revenues of sports events would rise by 2.5 percent per year
through 2015 to $44.7 billion euros, slower than merchandising,
sponsorship and media rights that are largely out of reach of
stadium managers.  Vinci gained 10 percent and Eiffage rose 7 percent in Paris
trading since the start of this year. Bouygues shares dropped 12
percent, hurt by falling revenue at its phone division. The
Stoxx 600 Construction & Materials index gained 5.1 percent in
that period.  Marseille Revamp  A Bouygues-led group is currently investing 267 million
euros to revamp the Marseille arena while Vinci is due to build
a new 400 million-euro stadium in Lyon and a facility in Dunkirk
in addition to the projects in Nice and Bordeaux. The stadiums
in Toulouse, Lens and Saint-Etienne are also being renovated for
the 2016 European soccer  tournament .  The push to expand the stadium business abroad has already
paid off for Bouygues, which won a 770 million-euro contract in
2010 to build and operate the  Singapore Sports Hub , and a 111
million-euro contract in 2012 for sports facilities in  Canada .
In Russia, Vinci has submitted a bid for an arena in Moscow.  French rivalry with its neighbor  Germany  extends beyond the
soccer field too. The French construction companies face
competition from European rivals such as Germany’s  Hochtief AG (HOT) ,
which refurbished and managed three stadiums for the 2006 soccer
World Cup.  “As each stadium is unique, the key to success is to have
time and to spend a lot of money on studies,” the Vinci CEO
said. “When you’re caught in a tighter process, works are
tougher financially and quality-wise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  