-- Gazprom’s Demise Could Topple Putin
-- B y   A n d e r s   A s l u n d
-- 2013-06-09T22:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/gazprom-s-demise-could-topple-putin.html
No large company in the world has
been so spectacularly mismanaged as Russia’s state-dominated
natural-gas corporation  Gazprom OAO. (GAZP)  In the last decade, its
management has made every conceivable mistake.  Even so, Russian President Vladimir Putin denies the very
existence of a crisis and maintains his support for Alexei Miller, the chief executive officer since 2001. Gazprom’s
situation is serious not only because it is Russia’s biggest
company by market value, but because Putin is its real chairman.
Where Gazprom goes, so does Russia and the Putin government.  In May 2008, Gazprom was one of the world’s most valuable
companies with a  market capitalization  of $369 billion. Miller
boasted that it would be the first global company to reach $1
trillion. Today, its market value has plummeted to $83 billion
and the decline continues. Although it claimed the largest net
income of any global company in 2011 at $44.5 billion and still
at $38 billion in 2012, its price-earnings ratio has  dropped  to
a fatally low 2.4 for 2013. It has no credibility with
shareholders.  At the heart of Gazprom’s mismanagement lies extreme
inertia; reluctance to absorb new information; corruption and
outlandish arrogance. Its managers are used to exercising
Soviet-style monopoly over consumers, not having realized that
the market has taken over. The company has traditionally varied
prices by countries for opaque reasons. For example,  Lithuania 
pays 15 percent more for Gazprom gas than neighboring  Latvia .  Supply Cutoffs  When consumers behave inappropriately in its eyes, Gazprom
cuts off supplies, as it did to Ukraine and much of eastern
Europe in January 2006 and 2009. As a result, these dismayed
customers have reduced their dependence on Gazprom, by cutting
consumption, building converters and storage, and developing
alternative supplies.  The Gazprom business model is as simple as old: to produce
conventional gas from giant fields in West Siberia and pump it
through pipelines to Europe. In the last decade, the company has
missed three big revolutions in the industry: the shale-gas
expansion in the U.S., the global liquefied-natural-gas boom,
and the rise of Chinese demand.  In a call-in program in April, Putin  dismissed  shale gas,
claiming implausibly that it was more expensive than
conventional gas -- of which  Russia  has one quarter of global
reserves -- and not environmentally sustainable. (He didn’t
mention that Russia burns billions of cubic meters of surplus
gas because private producers aren’t allowed to use Gazprom’s
pipelines.) Miller has gone so far as to  call  shale gas “a
bubble that will burst soon.” Yet LNG designed for the U.S.
market is now flooding Europe, depressing prices there below
Gazprom’s oil-linked prices.  Nor has the Gazprom management understood the importance of
the European Union. Last September, the European Commission
launched a case against Gazprom,  accusing  it of dividing the
continental markets by hindering the free flow of gas across
member states, preventing the diversification of gas supply and
imposing unfair prices on its customers by linking the price of
gas to oil prices.  It may take years for a verdict, yet Gazprom will probably
be fined billions of euros for these long-lasting malpractices.
Its whole business model is at risk. Its main clients, the large
European gas-distribution companies, have already lost lesser
cases against the European Commission.  Oil-linked gas prices are likely to be deemed anti-competitive. Last year, Gazprom had to pay $4.3 billion in
retroactive price discounts to  Germany ’s  EON AG (EOAN) ,  Italy ’s  Eni
SpA (ENI) ,  Poland ’s Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA and the
Czech Republic’s RWE Transgas. Prohibitions on reselling natural
gas are clearly anti-competitive.  Putin’s Incomprehension  Putin has  revealed  his incomprehension at the case,
objecting that the EU subsidizes the eastern European economies.
“Now it seems that someone in the EU has decided to shift part
of the burden, some of the subsidies, to us,” he said.  On a parallel track, the EU has adopted its third energy
package, which prohibits one company from both distributing gas
and owning the pipelines. The Kremlin has called this ordinary
antitrust policy “confiscation,” but in Europe Gazprom has to
obey EU law and will probably be forced to divest.  Gazprom is losing out on the European market. Its  share  of
the 27 EU countries’ natural-gas imports has fallen from a peak
of 47 percent in 2003 to 34 percent in 2011. The two main
beneficiaries are  Norway ’s Statoil ASA and Qatar, which adjust
their prices to market conditions and increasingly sell at lower
spot prices.  Gazprom’s market share has fallen in Russia, too, from a
traditional 85 percent to 65 percent in 2012. The beneficiaries
are the privately owned  NovaTek OAO (NVTK)  and state-controlled
 Rosneft OAO (ROSN) , companies more favored by the Kremlin.  Gazprom’s sales are falling most in other ex-Soviet states
-- by 19 percent in 2012 alone -- because its methods there are
particularly rough and politicized. Ukraine used to be its
biggest customer, but since the company’s apparent objective has
been to force Ukraine into the protectionist Customs Union of
Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, Ukraine has minimized its
purchases from Gazprom.  Thus, Gazprom is left with far more gas than it can sell.
Russia’s gas production has been almost stagnant for two
decades, but Gazprom’s production has fallen steadily. In 2012,
its total sales fell to 482 billion cubic meters from 519
billion cubic  meters  in 2011. In the first five months of 2013,
Gazprom’s production dropped 4.3 percent, while NovaTek’s rose
4.6 percent. Now  NovaTek (NVTK)  is lobbying to break Gazprom’s export
monopoly and start exporting LNG.  Until 2009, Gazprom benefited from plentiful captive gas
from Central Asia, mainly  Turkmenistan . But the pipeline
exploded in April of that year, after Gazprom suddenly closed
the flow from Turkmenistan during a supply surplus caused by the
global financial crisis.  Alternative Pipeline  Turkmenistan gave up on Gazprom and opted for the swift
construction of a pipeline to  China . With its large reserves,
Turkmenistan can supply much of the Chinese market, while
Gazprom has lost both cheap supplies from Central Asia and
access to China.  All this speaks of incompetence, but what really irritates
shareholders is the company’s enormous waste and corruption.
This takes various forms, such as asset stripping. The most
egregious form is excessive capital spending.  Analysts at the state-controlled  Sberbank (SBER)  assess that
Gazprom would need $11 billion a year for its gas production,
but in 2011 its capital expenditure soared from an originally
planned level of $27 billion to $53 billion. It stopped at $43.2
billion last year.  The analysts call this excess expenditure “value
destruction,” which is their euphemism for waste and corruption,
amounting to $30 billion to $40 billion a year. Investment
analysts in Moscow suggest privately that two-thirds of this
might be sheer corruption, while the rest is wasteful
overinvestment. Corruption at that level may explain the poor
management of the company’s official business.  Rather than reducing capital investment, however, Putin
comes up with ever more expensive projects. Last October, he
decided that Gazprom should develop the giant virgin  Chayadinsk 
field in Yakutia in eastern Siberia, building a pipeline to
Vladivostok on the Pacific Coast and an LNG plant there for
export to China.  Officially, this project is supposed to be completed by
2017 and cost $40 billion, but Sberbank analysts assessed it at
$65 billion. This production would be too expensive for it ever
to be profitable, and Russia has no supply contract with China.
This is as white an elephant as there ever was.  Last December, Gazprom went ahead with its South Stream
pipeline through the Black Sea to the Balkans. It was supposed
to cost $21 billion, but in February Gazprom announced it would
cost $39 billion. In April, Putin and Miller decided to build a
second pipeline from the Yamal field in northwestern Siberia to
Europe. (The project, which was supposed to go through Poland,
was immediately repudiated by Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk.)  Superfluous Projects  In addition, Gazprom has plans to build two more
superfluous Nord Stream pipes through the Baltic Sea at a cost
of probably $20 billion. They have the single purpose of
replacing the existing pipeline through Ukraine that Putin wants
to abandon. None adds any value.  Altogether, Gazprom plans capital expenditures of $40-45
billion a year for the next five years, equaling its 2011 peak
profit. This isn’t sustainable even in the short term, let alone
in a market changed by competition from shale and liquefied
natural gas.  Since 1997, Russia’s reformers have called for the breakup
of Gazprom into a pipeline company and several production
entities. Recently, this proposal has re-emerged as a real
threat because NovaTek and Rosneft have designs on expansion at
Gazprom’s expense.  Where Gazprom goes, so does the Russian stock market.
Investors don’t buy Gazprom shares expecting to enjoy ownership,
but as a bond, only looking at the yield. Worse, the new
national oil champion, Rosneft, has swiftly adopted several of
Gazprom’s flaws, notably uneconomical overinvestment and cold
disregard of dividends and minority shareholders, aggravating
the drag on the stock market.  For Putin, the greatest concern might be the negative
impact on state revenue. In recent years, Gazprom has paid 7
percent to 11 percent of total state revenue, and the oil sector
has contributed about 40 percent. Both these shares are likely
to fall fast in the next few years. That may force the Kremlin
to reconsider its economic policies.  The silver lining of the Gazprom crisis is that by becoming
too corrupt to work, it has caused its own demise. It will no
longer be able to dominate Russian politics, and the country
will become less of a petro state. This must be greeted with
relief by all true friends of Russia.  (Anders Aslund is a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Anders Aslund at  Aaslund@piie.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 