-- German Top Court Likely to Say ‘Yes, But’ to ECB Policy
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-10T16:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/german-top-court-likely-to-say-yes-but-to-ecb-policy.html
Germany ’s top court probably won’t
block the  European Central Bank ’s plan to buy bonds of crisis-torn countries, in line with previous cases involving European
Union integration.  The ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions program and the
European Stability Mechanism will be reviewed by the Federal
Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe at hearings this week. While
the judges may voice serious doubts about the central bank’s
plans and attach some conditions, the court won’t stop it, said
Christoph Ohler, a law professor at Jena University.  “It’s tough to say exactly how the court will handle this,
but we can expect something close to the ’yes, but’ approach the
judges have used before in European integration and euro-rescue
operation cases,” said Ohler. “The court has never blocked
anything on the European level, but in the ’strings-attached’
part unusual and surprising details can always pop up.”  The dispute will pit the ECB against Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann, who voted against the OMT, in a case that could
underline the limitations the ECB faces in its crisis policy.
The court last year allowed Germany to ratify the 500 billion-euro ($660 billion) ESM bailout facility and the EU fiscal pact
while ruling the measures must include provisions that the
country won’t be forced to assume higher liabilities without its
consent.  September Ruling  The September ESM ruling was preliminary and didn’t cover
the bond program. In one paragraph of the  written opinion 
dealing with securities issued by the ESM, the court did mention
rules for the ECB, saying the central bank may not buy bonds on
the secondary market with the aim of financing euro member
states independently of the  capital markets .  The plaintiffs, including an opposition political party and
a lawmaker from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s CSU Bavarian sister
party, can address the central bank and some remaining ESM
issues at a two-day hearing that starts tomorrow.  Shortly before the September decision, ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced the central bank’s program would be unlimited
and focus on short-term  government bonds  of nations signed up to
rescues from the ESM or European Financial Stability Facility.
The plaintiffs have added challenges to the OMT.  Conceived as yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds
neared 7 percent, OMT hasn’t yet been used. The cost of
borrowing for debt-strapped nations across the euro-area’s
periphery has since fallen to levels not seen in more than two
years.  Draghi said on June 6 that the OMT had brought stability to
markets worldwide, “and has been the most successful monetary
policy measure undertaken in recent times.”  Schaeuble, Asmussen  Two members of the ECB Governing Council and German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will all address the court during
the hearings. Joerg Asmussen, an ECB executive board member,
will represent the central bank, while Weidmann, who is also an
ECB council member, will represent the Bundesbank at the court
hearing. Schaeuble will defend the government’s policies.  “The ECB acts within its madante, handles it properly and
has success,” Schaeuble said at a book presentation in Berlin
today. “The government is of the opinion that the decision by
the ECB is covered by its mandate and because of the
independence of the central bank, no others can judge that.”  The Bundesbank submitted a brief critical of the ECB,
saying unlimited bond purchases may worsen the crisis instead of
solving it.  Monetary Policies  The ECB argued they are a legitimate part of the central
bank’s monetary policies. Since they help stabilize the
financial system, they also serve the ECB’s primary goal,  price
stability .  Asmussen told Bild-Zeitung in an interview there would be
serious consequences should the bond-buying program be
withdrawn, according to the paper.  Neither the Bundesbank nor the ECB are parties to the case
and submitted comments at the court’s request.  The case emphasizes “the fact that the ECB does have to
operate within an institutional framework, which does make it
difficult for the ECB to act,” said  Nick Matthews , senior
European economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “It
has to be careful when it tailors its policy actions.”  OMT Predecessor  While the hearing will touch on some aspects of the ESM
treaty, the proceedings will center on bond purchasing programs,
including the Securities Markets Program. The predecessor to the
OMT ended last year after purchasing more than 200 billion euros
of European government bonds. The program was started as an
emergency measure in May 2010 when  Greece  received its first
bailout. Governments had to make no binding commitments in
return for purchases under the SMP.  The plaintiffs  argue  the ECB is acting outside the powers
granted by European laws which ban government financing by the
central bank. The German government must attempt to cancel the
programs, even if it means the country must sue the ECB at the
 European Court  of Justice, they said.  Since the constitutional court only has jurisdiction over
German institutions, the plaintiffs face high hurdles, said
Christoph Herrmann, a law professor at Passau University. They
would have to show that the ECB action is such a grave violation
of EU treaties, or an “ultra vires act,” that it violates the
principle of democracy, because it makes Germany liable for
debts it didn’t agree to and potentially overburdens its budget,
said Herrmann.  ‘Difficult Case’  “That’s an extremely difficult case to make,” said
Herrmann. “I can’t really see that you could argue the OMT
entails risks endangering our system of democracy.”  The court didn’t even consider the merits of a bid against
the SMP in a 2011 case over the EFSF, saying plaintiffs couldn’t
attempt to block the ECB measure in the national court.  “It will be difficult for the judges to make a U-turn from
that ruling, which they would have to do were they to
intervene,” Herrmann said.  From a legal perspective, both stances about the ECB’s
action are viable, Ohler said.  “There are good arguments saying it transgresses its
powers and there are good arguments saying it’s still covered by
EU laws,” said Ohler. “It’s a gray area, and that’s why it
doesn’t seem to amount to an ultra vires act. For that you’d
need more than a grey area -- you’d need the blazing light.”  The judges could send the case to the  European Court of
Justice  for guidance on EU rules governing the ECB. The German
top court so far has avoided such a step. Even if the judges
sent the suit to the Luxembourg-based tribunal, the issue would
return to Karlsruhe afterwards and the court would have to
determine how to interpret the EU-level ruling under German
constitutional principles.  Strings Attached  The German judges will meticulously examine what the ECB
can and can’t do under EU rules and in the “strings-attached”
part they may work out a time limit for the program, said Ohler.
They won’t try to settle what the best economic policy is, he
said.  His colleague Herrmann agrees.  “In the ECB Governing Council, 22 of 23 members, all
experts, voted for the measures,” Herrmann said. “Only
Weidmann was against it. Now eight judges, who are pretty much
lay people when it comes to monetary policy, should know it
better? That would be absurd.”  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 1390/12 et al.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 