-- German Towns on Elbe Fight Floods as Water Rolls North
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-09T20:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/german-towns-along-elbe-battle-flooding-as-water-rolls-north.html
(Corrects currency conversion in fifth paragraph.)  German cities and towns along the
Elbe river called in emergency workers, volunteers and soldiers
to reinforce dikes against record volumes of water rolling
north.  “At this point there isn’t much more we can do but pray,”
Magdeburg Mayor Lutz Truemper said today in a televised speech
after the city was put on disaster alert.  Officials in Magdeburg, a city of 230,000, anticipate the
Elbe will crest at a record, fed by the Saale river just
upstream. The rising water led authorities to evacuate areas
east of the Elbe, according to the website of Magdeburg, a
1,200-year-old medieval city and capital of the state of Saxony-Anhalt.  Emergency workers and volunteers joined more than 19,000
soldiers who have been trying for a week to limit damage from
the flooding in the country, securing dikes, dropping supplies
from helicopters, evacuating residents and providing food and
shelter for rescue teams. The flood is the worst on record in
some parts of  Germany .  The losses insurers face from the flooding, at 2.5 billion
euros ($3.3 billion), may top the amount paid out following 2002
floods because more insurance has been purchased since then,
according to estimates by consultants Meyerthole Siems Kohlruss
cited in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung.  Damage Estimates  Economic damage incurred since the floods began on June 5
may total 6 billion euros, the newspaper reported, citing
Cologne-based economic institute IDW.  While dikes in Magdeburg were still holding today, two
outside of the city broke earlier. In other places authorities
have opened flood gates in an effort to smooth the Elbe peak as
it rolls toward Hamburg on the  North Sea .  Wittenberge, 117 kilometers (73 miles) north of Magdeburg,
was partially evacuated yesterday as the Elbe is expected to
crest there on June 12, according to estimates by  Elwis , the
country’s waterways information portal.  In Magdeburg, the Elbe reached a peak of 7.45 meters (24
feet) at 6 a.m., compared with 6.80 meters in 2002, the previous
record. Dessau, 62 kilometers upstream, saw the Elbe peak late
yesterday, the state’s  flood protection office  said. Further
north, the city of Lauenburg in the state of Schleswig-Holstein,
where the peak is expected to hit June 13, has been partially
closed to traffic.  The Danube river in  Hungary  was expected to crest in the
capital Budapest late today as workers built defenses in the
city to guard against the rising water, the  Associated Press 
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  