-- Gold Bull Bets Reach Seven-Week High Before Retreat: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-06-10T19:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/gold-bull-bets-reach-seven-week-high-before-retreat-commodities.html
Hedge funds  increased wagers on a
gold rally to the highest in seven weeks before a report showing
the U.S. added more jobs than forecast spurred the biggest
retreat in prices since April.  Speculators raised their net-long position by 19 percent to
57,113  futures and options  by June 4, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. The holdings surged 60 percent in
two weeks, the most since March, as short bets contracted. Net-bullish  wagers  across 18 U.S.-traded commodities slid 3.3
percent as investors became more bearish on sugar and coffee.  U.S. payrolls rose 175,000 in May, signaling companies are
optimistic about the outlook for demand, the government said
June 7. The report increased speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will taper its bond buying. Gold holdings in exchange-traded
products dropped 19 percent to a two-year low since the start of
January as some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of
value and as equities rose and inflation failed to accelerate.  “We saw some short-term bullish sentiment build up, then
the jobs data dashed all hopes of gold rising,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets at
BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama. “Any good news
for the economy is not so good for gold. The debate about when
the Fed will taper or end stimulus continues to pressure.”  Biggest Loss  Gold futures dropped 2.3 percent on June 7, the most since
April 15, when the metal capped a two-day, 13 percent loss that
was the biggest in three decades and sent prices into a  bear
market . Bullion rose 1.6 percent in the four days prior to the
jobs report, before ending the week down 0.7 percent at $1,383
an ounce. Gold futures for August delivery rose 0.2 percent to
settle at $1,386 an ounce in  New York  today, 28 percent below
the record reached in September 2011.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
rose 2.5 percent last week, while the UBS Bloomberg CMCI gauge
of 27 raw materials advanced 1 percent. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities slid 0.4 percent and the dollar weakened
2 percent against six major trading partners. Treasuries lost
0.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Bullion fell 17 percent since the end of December, the
worst start to a year in three decades. Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said June 4 the central bank
should reduce its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases amid
signs of a recovery in the housing market. Fed Bank of Kansas
City President Esther George urged a slowdown of the stimulus
program in a speech the same day, and  Alan Greenspan , who led
the central bank from 1987 to 2006, said on CNBC television June
7 the Fed should move toward ending the asset purchases.  Hedge Funds  The number of hedge funds investing in bullion dropped to
the lowest since 2010 and assets slumped 31 percent this year to
$22.2 billion on losses and redemptions, according to Farhan Mumtaz, an analyst at EurekaHedge Pte Ltd., the Singapore-based
fund-research company. Taurus Funds Management Pty Ltd. shut its
precious-metals fund because of investor redemptions after
prices fell, Gordon Galt, a principal at the Sydney-based  fund
manager , said June 5. Withdrawals from global gold ETPs helped
erase $46.7 billion from the value of the  assets  in 2013, wiping
out the gains of the previous two years.  Last month’s gains in employment may not be sufficient
proof of improvement for Fed  policy makers , who have pledged to
hold the benchmark  interest rate  near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent. The jobless rate was 7.6
percent in May.  200,000 Jobs  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  needs to see four months of
 job growth  averaging at least 200,000 to justify reducing the
pace of asset purchases, according to  Vincent Reinhart , a former
director of the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  Bill Gross ,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said June 7 the
central bank is unlikely to reduce its asset purchases. Bullion
surged 57 percent since the end of 2008 as central banks printed
money on an unprecedented scale to boost growth.  Gold traders are the most bullish since before the bear
market began two months ago with 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg expecting prices to rise this week. Eight were bearish
and six neutral. That’s the largest proportion of bulls since
March 22. This year’s price slump has spurred a surge in demand
for coins and jewelry, with the  U.S. Mint  saying June 5 that its
sales may be a record this year.  ‘Numeric Obsession’  “The  unemployment rate  has been the single-most
significant number that the Fed has been looking at, and that
went up, so there is really no reason for the market to be
worried,” said Jeff Sica, who helps oversee more than $1
billion as the president of Sica Wealth Management. “The Fed’s
numeric obsession makes gold attractive as the bond-buying
program and monetary debasement will continue.”  Commodity assets under management fell to $385 billion in
April from $412 billion in March, Barclays Plc said June 7. The
decline was paced by outflows from precious metals, the bank
said. Gold may fall toward $1,000 by 2015,  Nouriel Roubini ,
professor of economics and international business at  New York
University , said June 1.  Investors pulled $1.23 billion from gold funds in the week
ended June 5, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows. Total outflows from commodity funds were
$1.68 billion, according to EPFR.  Crude Oil  Wagers on a rally in  crude oil  dropped 2.5 percent to
212,127 contracts, a second straight reduction, the CFTC data
show. Investors trimmed their bets on a decline for copper to
6,626 from 8,872 a week earlier. The funds have been bearish on
the metal since February and also have short positions in
coffee, sugar,  soybean oil , wheat and ultra-low-sulfur diesel.  The funds boosted their bearish position in coffee to
22,842 contracts from 20,991 a week earlier. Prices dropped for
four straight weeks, the longest slump since February. Supplies
of unroasted beans from Brazil, the top shipper, rose 22 percent
in May from a year earlier.  The S&P GSCI lagged behind the MSCI All-Country World Index
for six months, the longest stretch since 1998. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. are predicting the end of the
decade-long  bull market  as prices that more than doubled spurred
expansions at mines, farms and oil fields.  A measure of net-long  positions  across 11 agricultural
products climbed 3.4 percent to 303,672 futures and options. The
S&P Agriculture Index of eight commodities declined 7.3 percent
this year.  “There’s a lot of excess capacity, so commodity prices are
reflecting that,” said  Donald Selkin , who helps manage about $3
billion of assets as chief market strategist at National
Securities Corp. in New York. “Inflation is very, very low, and
commodities represent inflationary expectations to a great
extent. For sure, the bull run is over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  