-- IRS Official Says White House Wasn’t Involved in Review
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-06-09T19:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/irs-official-says-white-house-wasn-t-involved-in-groups-review.html
An Internal Revenue Service
supervisor in Cincinnati has told lawmakers that the White House
wasn’t involved in the agency’s scrutiny of small-government
groups, said Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland .  Cummings, the top Democrat on a panel probing the IRS over
its tougher review of Tea Party groups’ tax-exempt status, said
today on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” program that it’s time to
“wrap up this case and move on” by ending congressional
investigations.  Cummings said he would make public a transcript of the
closed-door interview lawmakers had with the IRS official, and
other witnesses, by the end of this week if the chairman of the
House Oversight and Investigations Committee, Darrell Issa of
 California , doesn’t. He didn’t name the official.  Issa rejected the call to end the panel’s probe.  “I strongly disagree with Ranking Member Cummings’s
assertion that we know everything we need to know about
inappropriate targeting of Tea Party groups by the IRS and the
case is, in his word, ’solved,’” Issa said in a statement.
“His extreme and reckless assertions are a signal that his true
motivation is stopping needed Congressional oversight and he has
no genuine interest in working, on a bipartisan basis, to expose
the full truth.”  Tight Focus  Bloomberg News and other media organizations had access to
some transcripts of the panel’s interviews last week. They
showed that the IRS’s closer scrutiny of the groups began with a
tight focus on Tea Party groups in early 2010.  The effort was so concentrated on Tea Party groups that in
addition to putting Democratic-leaning organizations’
applications back in the general pile, the IRS didn’t even give
extra scrutiny to groups identified as conservative.  “It was more narrow than that,” said Elizabeth Hofacre,
an IRS employee who handled the first batch of cases. “It was
Tea Party.”  The transcripts don’t show why IRS employees focused on Tea
Party groups in 2010 and who made that decision. Employees said
some IRS lawyers in  Washington  were involved in processing and
managing the cases.  The effort eventually became a wider search for politically
oriented nonprofits that caused significant delays for the
groups and became a national scandal last month. IRS employees
struggled to get guidance from their supervisors on which cases
to analyze and how to assess them.  Congressional Probes  The episode has led to inquiries from six congressional
committees and a Department of Justice criminal probe. Steven Miller, the acting IRS commissioner, was forced out. Lois Lerner, who headed the oversight of tax-exempt organizations,
was placed on administrative leave. On June 7, the IRS announced
a replacement for Holly Paz, who worked for Lerner.  Cummings indicated today that the earlier transcripts
didn’t include testimony from a 21-year IRS veteran who was the
manager of the Cincinnati screening group reviewing the cases,
and who said he’s a conservative Republican.  The official testified that he didn’t believe the screening
was designed to target President  Barack Obama ’s political
opponents, according to excerpts Cummings provided to CNN. The
official also testified that he had “no reason to believe” the
White House was involved, according to the transcript excerpt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  