-- Treasuries Retreat With U.S. Stocks as Commodities Drop
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-06-10T20:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/japanese-stock-futures-rise-after-u-s-rally-yen-falls.html
Treasuries fell, with 30-year yields
touching the highest level in more than a year, as investors bet
the decision by  Standard & Poor’s  to lift the U.S. credit
outlook gives the  Federal Reserve  more leeway to reduce
stimulus. Commodities and U.S. stocks retreated.  Thirty-year Treasury bond yields increased three basis
points to 3.37 percent and reached 3.38 percent, the highest
since April 2012, while the  S&P 500  slipped less than 0.1
percent after swinging between gains and losses during the
session. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials lost 0.7 percent
as corn and wheat tumbled at least 0.9 percent and industrial
metals fell.  Japan ’s Topix surged 5.2 percent and the yen slid
1.1 percent to 98.69 per dollar.  S&P cited receding fiscal risks as it lifted the outlook on
the AA+ American ranking from negative. The world’s largest
credit rater cut the U.S. ranking from AAA in August 2011,
contributing to a global stock-market rout and sending yields on
Treasury bonds to record lows. U.S. stocks rose last week as
government data showed employers added more jobs in May than
economists forecast.  “It was a quite shocking event for the markets when the
U.S. was downgraded to negative, so to have that rating repaired
is meaningful,”  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based
fund manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees $377
billion, said by phone. “Economic data has been improving
gradually and S&P’s upgrade is a recognition of that.”  Bonds, Inflation  Ten-year Treasuries also retreated, sending yields up three
basis points to 2.21 percent, approaching a 14-month high.  For the first time since 2009, U.S. bond yields are rising
at the same time inflation is slowing, providing a cushion for
investors in Treasuries whether or not the Federal Reserve slows
the pace of its debt purchases.  While 10-year yields reached 2.23 percent May 29, the
highest since April 2012, the personal consumption expenditure
deflator, the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, rose 0.7
percent in April from a year earlier, the smallest increase
since 2009. The yield gap between Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, or TIPS, and non-indexed bonds show investors have
cut their expectations for consumer price increases to the
lowest level since July.  After losing 2 percent last month, the most since December
2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch bond indexes,
Treasuries are offering the highest real yields in more than two
years amid 7.6 percent unemployment.  U.S. Outlook  Gauges of industrial, energy, utility and consumer
companies led declines among the  10 main industry groups  in the
S&P 500 today, while telephone and commodity shares advanced.
Hewlett-Packard Co., Walt Disney Co. and Home Depot Inc. lost at
least 1.3 percent for the biggest declines in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU) , while  Intel Corp . and UnitedHealth Group
Inc. rose more than 1.7 percent to lead gains.  McDonald’s Corp. climbed 1.3 percent on better-than-estimated sales growth in May as the Dollar Menu and breakfast
items helped drive the U.S. business. Monsanto Co. jumped 4.5
percent after Macquarie Group Ltd. raised its rating on the
world’s largest seed company to outperform. An S&P gauge of 11
homebuilders slumped 2.3 percent as bond yields increased and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its rating on Lennar Corp.  Commodities fell for the first time in six days. Brent
declined 0.8 percent and West Texas Intermediate oil retreated
0.3 percent to $95.77 a barrel. Corn dropped 2.2 percent to
$5.46 a bushel and wheat sank 0.9 percent on speculation dry
weather may help planting in the U.S. Zinc, nickel, aluminum and
copper lost at least 0.8 percent, while gold increased 0.2
percent to $1,386 an ounce, rebounding from a two-week low, and
silver added 0.8 percent.  China Data  China ’s industrial production rose a less-than-forecast 9.2
percent last month, while export gains were at a 10-month low
and imports dropped, data over the weekend showed. China is the
biggest buyer of industrial metals and energy.  Japan’s economy expanded an annualized 4.1 percent in the
first quarter, compared with a preliminary calculation of 3.5
percent, the Cabinet Office said today.  The Stoxx 600 slipped 0.1 percent after sinking 1.8 percent
last week, its third consecutive weekly decline.  Severn Trent
Plc (SVT)  sank 6 percent today, the biggest drop in almost a year, as
Borealis Infrastructure Management Inc. and its partners in the
LongRiver group abandon a 5.3 billion-pound ($8.2 billion)
takeover offer after the U.K. water utility declined to
negotiate.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.8 percent, declining
for a fourth day and trading at a six-month low. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies listed in  Hong
Kong  dropped for a ninth day, the longest losing streak in more
than a year, slipping 0.6 percent.  Warning Protesters  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index sank
2.5 percent and the lira slid 1.2 percent against the dollar.
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  warned demonstrators
if they remain in the streets, “we’ll have to answer them in
the language they understand,” speaking to supporters over the
weekend as anti-government protesters rallied in Istanbul’s
Taksim Square. The benchmark equity gauge has lost 11 percent
this month after demonstrations erupted May 31.  The dollar strengthened against nine of its 16 major peers,
while falling 0.3 percent to $1.3258 per euro. The yen
depreciated against all 16 peers but the rand.  Currencies of commodity-producing nations slid, with  South
Africa ’s rand sinking 2 percent against the dollar and the
Aussie losing 0.4 percent to 94.64 U.S. cents and touching the
weakest level since Oct. 4, 2011.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, dropped 0.5
percent to 116.35, the lowest level since September.  India ’s
rupee slumped 1.7 percent against the dollar, the Malaysian
ringgit sank 1.3 percent and  South Korea ’s won weakened 1.1
percent.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds with credit-default
swaps increased, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
contracts linked to 125 investment-grade companies rising 2.5
basis points to 106.3. The gauge dropped 8.9 basis points on
June 7, the biggest daily decline since Jan. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  