-- Japan Stock Futures Jump, Signal Support After $600 Billion Rout
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-06-09T15:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/japan-stock-futures-jump-signal-support-after-600-billion-rout.html
Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures
surged on June 7, signaling Japanese shares may arrest a three-week,  $600 billion  slump, according to Baring Asset Management
Ltd., AMP Ltd. and Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute Inc.  Nikkei 225 contracts traded in Singapore,  Chicago  and Osaka
jumped more than 4 percent following the biggest gain for
American equities in seven weeks. Japan’s public pension fund
said June 7 it would buy more shares. The Nikkei 225 has lost 18
percent since May 22 amid concern that the largest Japanese
share rally in a quarter century had advanced too far, too fast.
The broader Topix index retreated 17 percent.  Stocks may find support after the Government Pension
Investment Fund, the world’s biggest manager of retirement
savings, said it will sell bonds to buy equities. Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe reiterated plans to reopen nuclear power plants,
boost research and development spending and cut corporate taxes
if he wins upper house elections next month.  The Nikkei 225 “will be up 2 to 3 percent and it will go
from there,” Khiem Do, head of Asian multi-asset strategy at
Baring Asset Management, which oversees about $51 billion, said
in a phone interview from Hong Kong. “The yen weakened, the
U.S. market is strong and there’s lot of newsflow from Abe-san,
which are quite positive for the stock market. All that combined
should be quite positive for the Nikkei.”  American Rally  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.3 percent, the
most since April 16, on June 7, following a report that showed
more American workers were hired in May than economists forecast
even as the unemployment rate climbed. The yen retreated after
its biggest one-day gain against the U.S. dollar since 2010 left
it trading at the highest level in two months.  The Topix index lost 6.9 percent in the  week  through June
7, the most since March 18, 2011, when the country was dealing
with the immediate effects of a record earthquake and multiple
meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant.  Almost $600 billion has been wiped from the value of
Japanese equities in the last three weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the first time since at least 2000
that the Topix has lost more than 4 percent across three
 consecutive weeks .  Japan’s broadest equity measure has swung an average of 3.8
percent daily since May 22, when it closed at its highest level
since August 2008.  Historic volatility  is at levels not seen
since the 2011 earthquake and nuclear disaster.  Shares pared losses on June 7 after the Health, Labour and
Welfare Ministry said it would hold a press conference after
markets closed about the asset allocations of the GPIF, as
 Japan ’s public pension fund is known.  Selling Bonds  The GPIF, which had 112 trillion yen ($1.15 trillion) at
Dec. 31,  will cut its local bond holdings to 60 percent from 67
percent of assets while boosting holdings of local and foreign
shares to 12 percent each from 11 percent and 9 percent
respectively.  Nikkei 225 futures traded in Osaka and Singapore fell
immediately after the press briefing to announce the changes.  The fund’s president, Takahiro Mitani, said in February
that the allocation to Japanese government bonds was too great
should interest rates rise as economic growth spurs inflation.  “I think there will be a big rally in the stock market on
Monday,”  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in  Tokyo , said in a phone interview
yesterday. While the biggest boost will come from the reduced
concern of U.S. tapering of stimulus, “GPIF’s increase on the
stock holdings seems a little small, but it’s better than
nothing,” he said. “It’s definitely a plus for stock that
Prime Minister Abe commented on tax cuts on investment in their
new strategy.”  Entered Correction  Data released by the National Bureau of Statistics in
Beijing yesterday showed Chinese industrial production rose a
less-than-forecast 9.2 percent from a year earlier and factory-gate prices fell for a 15th month. Export gains were at a 10-month low and imports dropped after a crackdown on fake trade
invoices while fixed-asset investment growth slowed and new  yuan 
loans declined.  The data add pressure on President Xi Jinping and Premier
Li Keqiang to shore up growth less than three months into their
tenure, after first-quarter expansion unexpectedly slowed. While
the figures boost the case for easing monetary policy or
approving more spending, the leaders’ room is limited by rising
home prices, financial risks and overcapacity.  Share Retreat  After rallying about 50 percent this year through their
high on May 22, Japan’s main equity gauges plunged and entered
corrections on May 30.  The Topix traded for 13.44 times  estimated earnings  on June
7, down from 16.62 times on May 22. The gauge is priced about 8
percent below its three-year average valuation, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P 500 trades for 14.93 times
estimated earnings, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index costs
12.74 times.  Even after the correction, the Topix and Nikkei 225 have
climbed nearly 24 percent this year, making the country the
world’s best-performing major market, on optimism Abe and the
BOJ can lift the country out of 15 years of deflation.  Investors plunged into Japanese shares as Abe’s government
passed a 13.1 trillion yen supplementary budget to pay for his
so-called “three arrows” policy of monetary easing, government
spending on reconstruction and infrastructure, and structural
reforms including tax relief, freer trade and more flexible
markets. The Bank of Japan, led by Haruhiko Kuroda, said April 4
that it will double the country’s monetary base by the end of
2014.  The Topix surged 77 percent through May 22 from Nov. 14,
when elections were announced that brought Abe to power.  “There’s been skepticism about the lack of detail
regarding the the third arrow reforms,” Shane Oliver, Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which has about $126 billion under management, said yesterday.
“But this is a fairly concrete move which allows the Japanese
pension fund to have a higher allocation toward shares. And even
though it’s just a marginal move, it still means an increase in
demand for shares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  