-- JBS Said to Agree to Buy Seara Food Assets From Marfrig
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-06-10T04:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/jbs-said-to-agree-to-buy-seara-food-assets-from-marfrig.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer and  controller  of U.S. chicken producer  Pilgrim’s Pride
Corp. (PPC) , agreed to buy some food assets from  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ,
two people with knowledge of the deal said.  The agreement involves assets from Marfrig’s Seara Foods
unit, according to the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the deal will be announced today. They
declined to provide details or say which Seara assets are part
of the deal. JBS will buy the Brazilian poultry unit of Seara
for $2.5 billion to $3 billion, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people close to the deal.  For Marfrig, the most indebted meatpacker in the Western
Hemisphere, the deal means a cut in net debt that jumped
sevenfold in the past five years to about 10 billion reais ($4.7
billion) as of March 31. The acquisition of Seara’s local assets
would turn JBS into the world’s largest poultry producer,
surpassing Springdale, Arkansas-based  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)   “Historically food has usually been a neglected sector for
investment, but that’s changing,” said Victor Lean, Singapore-based managing partner of Caudex Asia, a food and agriculture
private equity firm. “We’ve started a cycle where the food
price trend, after decades going down, is actually heading up
due to structural deficiencies in the supply chain.”  Spokesmen for Marfrig and JBS, both Sao Paulo-based
companies, who can’t be named because of internal policy,
declined to comment on the deal when contacted by  Bloomberg News 
yesterday.  Acquisition DNA  Acquisitions are part of JBS’s DNA, Chief Executive Officer
Wesley Batista said May 15 in an interview in which he added
that the company wasn’t in active talks. Still, any deal would
come a week after Batista said in an interview that JBS didn’t
bid for  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  because the price was too high.  Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.,  China ’s biggest pork
producer, agreed to buy Smithfield, Virginia-based Smithfield
for $4.7 billion in cash, or $34 a share, the companies said May
29. Smithfield is the world’s biggest hog producer.  JBS entered the chicken processing business in 2009 with
the acquisition of a controlling stake in Greely, Colorado-based
Pilgrim’s Pride. The company last year leased Brazil poultry
plants from  France ’s Doux SA and Agroveneto.  Beef accounted for 64 percent of JBS’s  revenue  in the year
ended Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JBS,
which has gained 19 percent since Jan. 1, generates 22 percent
of its sales from chicken meat, its second-biggest revenue
source, according to the data.  Marfrig Debt  Marfrig’s purchase of Seara from Cargill Inc. for $706.2
million in cash and $193.8 million in debt was completed in
January 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Marfrig owns three food-processing units under the Seara
Foods umbrella: Seara Brasil, which supplies chicken nuggets,
sausages and hot dogs to the Brazilian market; Keystone Foods,
supplier of hamburger patties to McDonald’s Corp.; and Moy Park,
in  Europe , maker of ready-to-eat chicken meals endorsed by
celebrity chef  Jamie Oliver .  Seara Brasil’s 32 plants slaughter about 1.7 million
chickens daily, according to the company’s website.  Marfrig’s net debt equals 4.4 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Marfrig aims to
cut gross debt by as much as 2 billion reais, Sergio Rial, head
of the food-processing unit Seara Foods, said May 14.  JBS and Marfrig officials will hold a press conference at
8:30 a.m. in  Sao Paulo , according to a statement from both
companies yesterday.  The JBS-Marfrig agreement was reported June 8 by O Estado
de S.Paulo newspaper columnist Sonia Racy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Madelene Pearson at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  