-- Kingfisher CEO Plans for Succession After Three More Years
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-06-10T08:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/kingfisher-ceo-planning-for-succession-after-three-more-years.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  Chief Executive
Officer Ian Cheshire named two of his main deputies as potential
successors when he relinquishes leadership of the largest U.K.
home-improvement retailer in as little as three years.  Kevin O’Byrne, CEO of the B&Q chain, and Finance Director
Karen Witts are Cheshire’s preferred internal candidates for a
role that he expects to remain in until at least 2016, he said
in an interview in  London . Euan Sutherland, Kingfisher’s former
chief operating officer who left this year to run Co-Operative
Group Ltd., is a possible external contender, he also said.  “I know I won’t be running the business in 10 years, but I
will be running it in two years,” said 53-year-old Cheshire,
who became CEO in 2008 after spending a decade in executive
roles at B&Q and the retailer’s international division.  Before handing over the reins, Cheshire has to steer the
London-based company through a period of turbulent conditions in
its main French and U.K. markets that contributed to a 28
percent decline in first-quarter earnings. His plans may include
acquisitions along the lines of last month’s purchase of
Bricostore,  Romania ’s third-largest do-it-yourself chain.  Like all Kingfisher team managers, Cheshire said he must
identify at least two internal candidates to succeed him.  O’Byrne, 48, was appointed in October to a new role
overseeing B&Q in the U.K. and the Turkish businesses Koctas.
The former finance director of  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  took up his
current position at Kingfisher in February 2012 after four years
as chief financial officer.  Possible Wildcards  Witts, 50, joined the home-improvement retailer in October,
having spent a little more than two years at Vodafone Group Plc
as CFO for Africa, Middle East, Asia and Asia-Pacific. Prior to
that, she worked for 11 years at BT Group Plc.  The CEO said there are also “a couple of wildcard”
possibilities from a younger generation, without naming them.  Cheshire said he’s committed to three more years running
the business to complete a strategic plan dubbed “Creating the
Leader.” Started in March 2012, the program involves lowering
prices, educating shoppers on do-it-yourself projects, adding
more own brands and cross-chain ranges and opening stores in new
and developing markets such as Russia and  China .  “From my point of view, I’m cheerfully turning things down
because I want to be here,” said Cheshire, who is also chairman
of the British Retail Consortium.  Kingfisher  rose  1.5 percent to 351.8 pence at 9:37 a.m. in
London trading, the second-biggest gain in the FTSE 100 Index.  Praktiker Stores  The CEO said he is still looking “quite hard” for
acquisition opportunities, noting that there are two or three
“fault lines developing which means there will some form of
exit or consolidation” in coming years.  Praktiker AG (PRA) , the German home-improvement retailer that
underwent a restructuring last year and is exiting  Turkey , will
be the “big European story,” with private-equity firms likely
to be casting an eye over the business, Cheshire predicted.  Kingfisher would be interested in buying about 15 Praktiker
stores in  Poland  should they become available, he said.  Praktiker’s Turkish business is in “orderly insolvency
proceedings” and several parties are interested in individual
stores, Harald Guenter, a spokesman for the Kirkel, Germany-based company, said by phone today, declining to comment further
on the interested parties. The company is also in advanced talks
to sell its Luxembourg stores, though not to Kingfisher, and is
exiting Ukraine, the spokesman said. He declined to comment on
any other country that Praktiker might exit.  More Opportunities?  Opportunities may also arise to buy stores in Turkey and
Romania owned by the Austrian-based bauMax chain, Cheshire said.
Calls to a bauMax spokeswoman weren’t immediately returned.  Cheshire said stores may also become available for purchase
in  France , where Kingfisher’s Castorama chain leads the market
and smaller franchise-based players are struggling with slowing
consumer demand and shorter supplier payment terms.  “I think at some point in two years you’ll begin to see
bolt-on deals,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  