-- Nadal Will Relax After Record Eighth French Open Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-10T10:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/nadal-will-relax-after-record-eighth-french-open-title.html
Injuries and championships have made
 Rafael Nadal  a more reflective and relaxed man.  The 27-year-old won a record eighth French Open men’s
tennis title yesterday, beating fellow Spaniard  David Ferrer  in
straight sets in Paris.  In the past, Nadal immediately would have started training
on grass to prepare for Wimbledon. This time, after continued
discomfort during a four-month comeback following knee injuries
that caused him to miss the  U.S. Open , the London Olympics and
the Australian Open, he’ll rest.  “I’m in a position that I can take everything a little bit
more relaxed,” he said in a news conference. “Everything went
much better than I thought.”  Nadal defeated his friend and Davis Cup teammate 6-3, 6-2,
6-3 at  Roland Garros  with a blistering forehand to become the
first man in tennis history to win the same Grand Slam event
eight times.  “He has everything, no?” Ferrer said in a news
conference. “He can play aggressive, he has good hands at the
net and physically he is unbelievable.”  Nadal’s 12th Grand Slam title came a day after  Serena
Williams  of the U.S. won her 16th major singles championship
with a 6-4, 6-4 victory against  Russia ’s  Maria Sharapova  in the
women’s final.  Nadal, who was sidelined for seven months with injuries,
called the French Open title “a big personal satisfaction for
me.” His only career defeat at Roland Garros came in 2009 when
he lost to  Sweden ’s  Robin Soderling  in the fourth round.  ‘Important Step’  “Five months ago, no one in my team dreamt of a comeback
like this,” Nadal told reporters, his hand resting on the Coupe
Des Mousquetaires trophy he’d received from Olympic sprint
champion Usain Bolt. “It’s fantastic and incredible. It’s an
important step.”  Yesterday’s final was interrupted by protesters, including
one who rushed the court holding a flare who was tackled by
security before he could get to Nadal. Ten people were arrested.  After a shocking second-round loss at Wimbledon last June,
the left-hander retreated to his native Mallorca to recover from
a partially torn patella tendon and inflammation in his left
knee.  Many Bad Moments  “We had many, many bad moments,”  Toni Nadal , Rafael’s
long-time coach and uncle said in an interview in the players’
lounge at Roland Garros yesterday. His nephew struggled with
terrible pain during his first two tournaments back, in Chile
and  Brazil .  In  Sao Paulo , where he won the title, Rafael had been
“very, very down,” Toni Nadal said. “I talked with him for
half an hour, because he was really bad. Really sad,” he added.  Things improved during his third event in Acapulco,  Mexico ,
when “the knee got better, he could run and play.”  Rafael Nadal, who said he had to overcome doubts and felt
at times “a little bit sad” during his absence, said his
injury has forced him to adapt his practice and tournament
schedule.  Unlike previous years, when he would rush to a grass-court
tournament the day after the French Open final to prepare for
Wimbledon, Nadal has decided to go easy on himself. He pulled
out of a grass-court event in Halle,  Germany , starting today so
he can go home to rest and have a doctor examine him.  “I won’t play a tournament before Wimbledon, so that’s not
the ideal situation before a Grand Slam that is on grass and the
conditions are very different,” said Nadal, the champion at the
All England Club in 2008 and 2010.  Reduced Practice  He’s also reduced his time on court.  “Before I wanted to practice every day a lot to be 100
percent sure that I am ready, but that’s not possible anymore,”
he said. “When you get more experience on tour when you get
older, probably you don’t need to practice as much as you need
when you were a junior or when you are 19 or 20 years old.”  His love of competing has kept him going during his most
difficult moments.  “My motivation comes from my love, my passion for this
sport,” he said. “I really need to have fun in what I do. I
really love that. There are more important things than sport,
but sport is a big part of my life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at  celser@bloomberg.net  