-- Nadal Beats Ferrer to Win Historic Eighth French Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-09T20:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/nadal-beats-ferrer-to-win-historic-eighth-french-title.html
Rafael Nadal  beat  David Ferrer  in the
French Open final, overcoming poor weather and disruptions by
protesters today to become the first man to win the same tennis
Grand Slam eight times.  Nadal fell onto his back and covered his face with his
hands after defeating his friend and fellow Spaniard 6-3, 6-2,
6-3 on a cold, rainy day on the main Court Philippe Chatrier at
Roland Garros in Paris.  “This year is something very special for me,” Nadal, who
missed the U.S. Open and the Olympics last year because of a
knee injury, told reporters. Winning after his recovery had made
the title run “very emotional,” he said.  Nadal’s 12th Grand Slam championship comes only four months
after he returned to the men’s tour following a long injury
break. After a shock second-round loss at Wimbledon, the 27-year-old left-hander was sidelined with a partially torn patella
tendon and inflammation in his left knee that forced him to miss
the London Olympics,  U.S. Open  and Australian Open.  Today’s second set was interrupted twice by protesters
opposed to  France ’s legalization of same-sex marriage. The
players stopped when people seated high in the stands started
chanting after holding up a banner saying in English “Help.
France tramples on children’s rights.”  Shortly afterwards, a man with a mask and holding a flare
attempted to get on court and was tackled by security before he
could reach Nadal. At the same time, there were protests by the
Court Suzanne Lenglen, where protesters held a banner calling
for the resignation of French President  Francois Hollande .  Arrests Made  Ten people were arrested, French Open tournament director
Gilbert Ysern said in an interview in the players’ lounge after
the final. He went on to praise security staff for “controlling
the situation,” and said the event would not be reviewing its
security procedures.  The men’s final had also been disrupted in 2009, when a man
managed to get on court and tried to put a hat on  Roger
Federer ’s head.  No other man has claimed eight singles titles at the same
Grand Slam. Only seven men have won seven major championships at
one event. These include Federer and  Pete Sampras  at Wimbledon
in the last two decades, Bill Tilden at what was then called the
U.S. Championships in the 1920s and  William Renshaw  at Wimbledon
in the 1880s. Before today, Nadal and  Chris Evert  had been the
only players to hold seven Roland Garros championships.  Usain Bolt  “I never dreamt about his kind of thing,” Nadal said.
It’s been “a lot of work since I was a kid.”  Watched from the presidential box by Olympic sprint
champion  Usain Bolt  -- who was handed a blanket shortly before
the start of play -- Ferrer held to love in the opening game.
After breaking for a 2-1 lead on three errors by Ferrer, Nadal
then dropped his own serve as he dumped a backhand in the net
following a long baseline rally. Putting Ferrer under pressure
with his forehand, Nadal broke for the second time to go up 4-3.
Having been handed two set points with a double fault, Nadal
took the first set 6-3 on Ferrer’s 12th unforced error.  Nadal took the first three games of the second set as his
forehand found its range. As rain started to fall and umbrellas
went up, the crowd shouted “Ole” after Nadal won a point in
the fourth game with a backhand drop shot.  Longest Rally  Serving at 3-1, Nadal fended off four breakpoints, one with
a backhand winner after the longest rally of the match. The
match was briefly stopped at 4-1 by the protesters, with Ferrer
losing his serve.  The man wearing holding the flare was grabbed by security
guards as he tried to get onto the court right behind Nadal’s
bench as the Spaniard was about to serve for the second set at
5-1. Nadal, who jumped away as guards took hold of the man,
seemed shaken as he promptly lost his serve. Ferrer then dropped
his serve and the set on three double faults in a row.  “I felt a little bit scared,” Nadal said. “One of these
things that nobody can prevent.”  In the third set, Nadal held in the opening game before
both dropped serve again. Struggling to regain his composure,
Ferrer handed Nadal another break for 5-3. Serving for the
title, Nadal won his 12th major with a forehand, his 35th winner
of the match. Ferrer had 22 winners. Nadal made 25 unforced
errors, 10 fewer than his Davis Cup teammate.  Ferrer Goes to No. 4  The 31-year-old Ferrer has now lost 20 of 24 matches
against Nadal. He did beat him on clay once, in their first
match in Stuttgart in 2004. Ferrer, who had reached the final
without dropping a set, will climb one spot in the  ATP World
Tour  rankings tomorrow to No. 4 while Nadal drops one place to
No. 5.  “I enjoy a lot these two weeks,” said Ferrer. “I will
try to do my best to have another chance to win a Grand Slam. I
know it’s going to be difficult, but I will fight to be here in
another final again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at  celser@bloomberg.net  