-- Nadal Wins Second Set Against Ferrer in French Open Tennis Final
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-06-09T14:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/nadal-wins-second-set-against-ferrer-in-french-open-tennis-final.html
Defending champion Rafael Nadal took
a two-set lead in the French Open final with fellow Spaniard
David Ferrer.  Nadal is leading 6-3, 6-2. The second set was interrupted
twice by protestors at the main court. The players stopped when
protesters high in the stands started chanting, and then a man
with a flare attempted to get onto court. Security was able to
tackle him and drag him off the court before he could reach
Nadal.  Watched by Olympic sprint champion Usain Bolt from the
presidential box -- who was handed a blanket shortly before the
start of play -- Ferrer held to love in the opening game. After
breaking for a 2-1 lead on three errors by Ferrer, Nadal then
dropped his own serve as he dumped a backhand in the net
following a long baseline rally. Putting Ferrer under pressure
with his forehand, Nadal broke for the second time to go up 4-3.
Having been handed two set points with a double fault, Nadal
took the first set 6-3 on Ferrer’s 12th unforced error.  Nadal took the first three games of the second set as his
forehand found its range. As rain started to fall and umbrellas
went up, the crowd shouted ‘Ole’ after Nadal won a point in the
fourth game with a backhand drop shot.  Serving at 3-1, Nadal fended off a four breakpoints, one
with a backhand winner after the longest rally of the match.
The match briefly stopped at 4-1 by the protestors, with Ferrer
losing his serve.  Protests  Another man wearing a mask holding a flare was grabbed by
security guards as he tried to get onto the court right behind
Nadal’s bench as he was about to serve for the second set at
5-1. Nadal, who jumped away as guards took hold of the man,
seemed shaken as he promptly lost his serve. Ferrer then dropped
his serve and the set on three double faults in a row.  Nadal is going for his 12th Grand Slam championship. He is
four months into a comeback to the men’s tour following a long
injury break. After a shock second round loss at Wimbledon, the
27- year-old left-hander was sidelined with a partially torn
patella tendon and inflammation in his left knee that forced him
to miss the London Olympics, the U.S. Open and the Australian
Open.  Should he win, Nadal will have eight singles titles in
Paris, surpassing seven other men who have won seven major
championships at one event. These include Roger Federer and Pete
Sampras at Wimbledon in the last two decades, Bill Tilden at
what was then called the U.S. Championships in the 1920s and
William Renshaw at Wimbledon in in the 1880s. Retired American
Chris Evert and Nadal are the only players to hold seven Roland
Garros championships.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  