-- Netanyahu Says Israel Won’t Intervene in Syria Unless Fired Upon
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-06-09T11:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/netanyahu-says-israel-won-t-intervene-in-syria-unless-fired-upon.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said his country won’t get involved in Syria’s civil
war unless it comes under fire, after fighting last week spread
to their shared frontier.  Syria’s civil war grew closer to Israeli-held territory on
June 7 when rebels and forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad
battled near the section of the Golan Heights plateau Israel
seized from Syria in 1967. The escalation in fighting led
 Austria  to announce it would withdraw its contingent of United
Nations peacekeepers from the Golan.  “Israel won’t intervene in the Syrian civil war as long as
the fire is not directed at us,” Netanyahu said at the weekly
Cabinet meeting in  Jerusalem , according to an e-mailed
statement. “The disintegration of the UN force on the Golan
highlights the fact that Israel can’t rely on international
security forces.”  Netanyahu said he discussed Syria over the weekend with
Russian President  Vladimir Putin , who has offered to supply
troops to replace the Austrians on the UN Disengagement Observer
Force formed a year after the 1973 Arab-Israeli war.  Permanent members of the UN Security Council aren’t allowed
to participate in UNDOF, according to  Martin Nesirky , a
spokesman for UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Russia, one of
the five permanent members, has proposed revising the rules
governing the UN force to allow its troops to join.  Israel will coordinate with the U.S. and support its
position on the Russia offer, an Israeli official said today. He
was not authorized to speak on the record.  Palestinian State  Netanyahu told his Cabinet he would discuss the fighting in
Syria, as well as efforts to revive peace talks with the
Palestinians, with U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  when he
arrives in Jerusalem this week. The Israeli leader said he would
work toward a peace agreement that includes security
arrangements for Israel and a demilitarized Palestinian state.  His remark appeared to contradict Deputy Defense Minister
 Danny Danon ’s comment last week to the Times of Israel news
 website  that Israel would not support a peace deal that
establishes a Palestinian state.  “So that we can meet these challenges and many others
facing us, the government must function as a single entity,”
Netanyahu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  