-- Next Debt-Ceiling Histrionics Could Do Real Harm
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-06-09T22:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/next-debt-ceiling-histrionics-could-do-real-harm.html
At this stage in the U.S. recovery,
there isn’t much that fiscal policy can do to accelerate growth.
Some argue that we need another tax cut, while others would
prefer increased spending.  Neither is going to happen on a significant scale. Radical
austerity is unlikely and tax reform remains elusive. New
spending on worthy targets, such as decrepit infrastructure and
early-childhood education, isn’t in the cards, either.  Nonetheless, significant decisions must be made: For one,
there is a big gap between the budget proposals of the Senate
and the House. These blueprints have major implications for some
members of society. And the automatic spending reductions
imposed under sequestration are proving, as expected, to be very
blunt. No sensible country runs its government with across-the-board cuts.  The real worry, however, is that fiscal policy has the
potential to derail the economy -- if the political debate
becomes focused on whether to increase the federal  debt ceiling 
later this year.  Most economists are deeply skeptical that the U.S. would
ever default on its  debt  or even mess around with the priority
in which creditors are paid. The consequences would be highly
disruptive to the economy and greatly undermine the borrowing
capacity not just of the government but of the private sector,
too. Public finances at every level of government would be in
disarray.  Credit Markets  If the market for Treasury debt is damaged, no one in the
private sector should expect to find it easier to borrow.
Countries without credible sovereign borrowers don’t have strong
private credit markets.  Unfortunately, it isn’t the opinion of experts that matters
most, but rather how business people and consumers see the
situation in  Washington . In the summer of 2011, these observers
witnessed a scary confrontation over the debt ceiling that
greatly increased perceived uncertainty and undermined
investment of all kinds. (See the work of  Scott Baker , Nick Bloom and Steven Davis, which develops an  index  of economic
policy uncertainty and shows a surge in anxiety during the
previous debt-ceiling showdown.)  If  leading politicians  say the federal government should
default, uncertainty will increase. And Congress could make it
difficult for the Treasury Department to make all its obligated
payments on time. Even 10 minutes of default would be a
disaster.  We have lost our grip on what is appropriate and
inappropriate in discussing fiscal-policy choices.  A shock that plunges the economy of any industrialized
country into a  recession  will be met by automatic fiscal
responses that seek to counteract the effect. These include
spending increases (on unemployment benefits and other forms of
social support) and tax cuts (as gross domestic product falls).
In the U.S., where the central government is relatively small
(compared with other industrialized countries), there are also
important discretionary fiscal-policy choices that must be made
in a deep recession.  For example, in 2008, the Heritage Foundation consistently
argued for large tax cuts, specifically by making permanent
those enacted under President George W. Bush (see these
documents from  January 2008  and  October 2008 ). Under a
Republican president and just before the presidential election,
the conservative research organization’s advice was to use big
tax cuts to boost the economy.  Crisis Recognition  I also testified before several congressional committees,
beginning in late 2008, and before that I served as chief
economist of the International Monetary Fund. Regardless of
party affiliation, the discussion in public and in private in
late 2008 was about the appropriate form and scale of support
for the economy: how much to cut taxes and how much to increase
spending. There was no serious resistance to the notion that we
were confronting the biggest crisis since World War II.  In industrialized countries, debt rose to 110.7 percent of
GDP in 2012, from 77.2 percent in 2006 (this is general
government gross debt as a percentage of GDP, calculated by the
IMF as an unweighted average across countries; the data are from
the IMF’s fiscal monitor). Most of this increase was caused by
automatic stabilizers, as well as the higher spending (on
programs such as unemployment benefits) and decrease in tax
revenue that occur in a recession.  Seen in that context, the increase in the U.S. general
government gross debt -- to 106.5 percent of GDP at the end of
2012, from 98.2 percent at the end of 2010 and 66.1 percent in
2006 -- was very much in line with the experiences of other
countries. (Net debt, which excludes government debt held by
other parts of the official sector, is a better measure but it
is also harder to compare this across countries in a reliable
manner.)  In terms of net general government debt held by the private
sector, at the end of 2012, the U.S. was at about 89 percent of
GDP, from 48.4 percent in 2007. This number will reach 87.6
percent in 2016 and 86.6 percent in 2018, according to the IMF
(see the April 2013 Fiscal Monitor for the latest projections).
Even so, this is unlikely to cause any kind of serious immediate
fiscal crisis.  We must remain unhappy that we had a huge financial crisis.
And we can complain that the form or scale of fiscal stimulus
wasn’t to our liking (too small or too big).  We should have a reasonable discussion about the pace and
method of deficit reduction now. I offered my views in testimony
to the  Senate Budget Committee  last week. The hearing was
cordial and productive. And we should also talk much more about
what government should do and how we want to finance those
activities in a sustainable manner.  The real danger is that the political process will produce
another scary, needless confrontation over the debt ceiling that
will significantly slow the recovery. The debt ceiling should be
taken completely off the table.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management and a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House Burning:
The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to
You.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  