-- No Inflation as Yields Jump Belies Point of No Return View
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-06-10T16:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/no-inflation-as-u-s-yields-rise-belies-point-of-no-return-view.html
For the first time since 2009, U.S.
bond yields are rising at the same time inflation is slowing,
providing a cushion for investors in Treasuries whether or not
the Federal Reserve slows the pace of its debt purchases.  While  10-year (USGG10YR)  yields reached 2.23 percent May 29, the
highest since April 2012, the personal consumption expenditure
deflator, the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, rose 0.7
percent in April from a year earlier, the smallest increase
since 2009. The yield gap between Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, or TIPS, and non-indexed bonds show investors have
cut their expectations for consumer price increases to the
lowest level since July.  After losing 2 percent last month, the most since December
2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch bond indexes,
Treasuries are offering the highest real yields in more than two
years amid 7.6 percent unemployment. The last time yields rose
while inflation slowed was four years ago, following President
 Barack Obama ’s $787 billion stimulus plan. Yields later fell.  “We don’t think inflation is a big threat,” Andrew Wickham, head of U.K. and global fixed-income at Insight
Investment Management Ltd., which oversees about $134 billion in
bonds and currencies, said in a June 5 presentation in  London .
“It is very unlikely that we will see any major rise in
interest rates for Treasuries from here.”  Bonds Rally  Wickham said he’s buying Treasuries maturing in 30 years,
which would typically suffer the biggest losses if inflation
accelerates, while selling those due in 10 years.  Treasury 10-year yields rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.17 last week, as the government reported
that the unemployment rate and hourly wages remained steady in
May. Yields on  30-year (USGG30YR)  bonds increased five basis points to 3.34
percent. The price of the benchmark 1.75 percent note due May
2023 dropped 12/32, or $3.75 per $1,000 face value, to 96 7/32.
Yields rose five basis points to 2.22 percent at 12:36 p.m. New
York time.  The 10-year Treasury yield reached as high as 2.23 percent
on May 29, up from 1.67 percent at the end of April amid growing
expectations that the Fed will begin to reduce, or taper, its
$85 billion monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s  biggest  fixed-income
fund for Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a May 10
Twitter message that the 30-year bull market for bonds had
“likely ended” as yields reached a low.  ‘Feel Sorry’  “I feel sorry for people that have clung to fixed-dollar
investments,”  Warren Buffett , chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/A) 
Inc., said at the company’s May 4 shareholders meeting in Omaha,
 Nebraska . Savers depending on bond payments are “victims” of
policies to lower borrowing costs, he said.  Fed officials led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will trim
bond purchases to $65 billion a month at the Oct. 29-30 meeting
of the Federal Open Market Committee, from the current level of
$85 billion, according to the median estimate in a survey of 59
economists last week. In a similar survey before the central
bank’s April 30-May 1 meeting, economists expected it to cut
buying to $50 billion in the fourth quarter.  Policy makers remain divided over the next steps for
stimulating the world’s biggest economy. Philadelphia Fed
President Charles Plosser has called for tapering the bond
purchases that have pumped more than $2.8 trillion into the
financial system as soon as the central bank’s next meeting on
June 18-19.  Fiscal Drag  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said in an
interview with Bloomberg News in May he would like to wait three
or four months to see “how the tug-of-war between the fiscal
drag and the improving economy are going to sort of work their
way out.”  Inflation across developed economies rose 1.3 percent in
April, the least since 2009, the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said June 4. Consumer price
rises in May were less than forecast in eight of 10 countries
tracked by the Citigroup Inflation Surprise indexes.  Arguing that yields should be higher “would be easier if
there were some inflation,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said
in a June 3 telephone interview.  Consumer prices are being held down in part by the slowest
velocity of money in March since at least 1959, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge measures the rate at which
cash  changes hands , dividing GDP by the Fed’s  M2 measure  of
money supply.  Break-Even Rate  The gap in yields between TIPS and U.S. government debt not
indexed for inflation, known as the break-even rate that shows
investor expectations for the consumer price index over the life
of the bonds, narrowed last week to 2.15 percentage points, the
lowest on a closing basis since July, from 2.59 percentage
points on March 14.  Real yields on 10-year Treasuries after subtracting the PCE
deflator index, was 1.43 percent last week, about the highest
since April 2011, and up from 0.18 percentage point less than
inflation in November.  That’s still too low, according to Donald Ellenberger, who
oversees about $10 billion as co-head of government and
mortgage-backed securities at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh.  “There’s not enough value yet in Treasury yields to make
them a good buy relative to other fixed-income asset classes,”
Ellenberger said in a June 5 telephone interview. “Inflation is
a lagging indicator” and tends to rise two years after the
start of a “normal” recovery.  Corporate Yields  Federated is buying investment grade and high-yield company
debt as well as commercial mortgage-backed securities, he said.
Company debt yields about 2.23 percentage points more than
Treasuries, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate & High Yield Index.  Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 7.6 percent in May as the
economy created 175,000 jobs, more than the forecast of 163,000
in a Bloomberg survey. While the jobless rate is down from 7.9
percent in October, it’s above the Fed’s goal of 6.5 percent
before the central bank would consider raising the record-low
benchmark interest rate of zero to 0.25 percent it has
maintained since December 2008.  Average hourly earnings were flat in May, the Labor
Department said. Total U.S. wages amount to 43.8 percent of U.S.
economic output, the lowest since at least 1947, data from the
Fed Bank of St. Louis show.  Stock Gains  The Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 0.8 percent last week.
The 16 percent gain for the year helped push household wealth up
4.5 percent in the first quarter, the central bank reported June
6.  Consumer confidence  increased to the highest since 2008.  “If the Fed pulls back from purchases too quickly the
equity market is going to take a big hit and that is going to
have a depressive effect on  consumer confidence  and could slow
growth even further,” Thomas Simons, a government-debt
economist in New York at Jefferies LLC, one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the central bank, said in a June 3
telephone interview.  Yields rose amid declining consumer prices from September
2005 through June 2007 as Fed interest-rate increases and
surging leveraged buyouts and rising  real estate  activity pushed
Treasury yields to a five-year high of 5.29 percent from 4.01
percent even as the PCE deflator dropped to 2.5 percent from 3.9
percent.  Asset Purchases  Treasuries rallied after the Fed ended its two previous
asset  purchase programs  in March 2010 and June 2011. The 10-year
yield fell 1.36 percentage points to 2.47 percent in the five
months through August 2010 on concern the economy faced the
rising risk of deflation, or persistent price decreases.  Yields declined 1.09 percentage points to 2.07 percent over
the five months ended Nov. 30, 2011, as investors sought the
safety of Treasuries after S&P cut the credit rating of the U.S.
to AA+ from AAA and as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis worsened.  “We’ve seen this before,”  James Kochan , chief fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management LLC in
Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , said in a June 4 telephone
interview. Calls for the Fed to announce it will scale back bond
purchases after its June 18-19 meeting are “bordering on the
silly” with the economy struggling to grow at a 2 percent pace,
he said.  While Kochan said 10-year yields will remain in a range
between 1.75 percent and 2.25 percent, he recommends investment
grade and high-yield corporate debt and bonds of U.S. state and
local governments.  Growth Forecasts  The U.S. economy is forecast to grow 1.9 percent this year
and 2.7 percent in 2014, according to the median estimate of 82
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Treasuries are attractive based on the market’s “too
optimistic reading,” of economic growth rather than the current
low rate of inflation, Robert Tipp, the chief investment
strategist in  Newark , New Jersey, at Prudential Financial’s
fixed-income division, which oversees $395 billion in bonds.  A decision by the Fed to reduce bond purchases prematurely
risks “jeopardizing the positive  wealth effect  they have
working for them and the momentum the economy has,” Tipp said
in a June 5 telephone interview.  “Normally when yields rise, inflation expectations tend to
rise at the same time,” Anton Heese, global head of inflation
research in London at Morgan Stanley, said in a June 4 telephone
interview. “The difference this time is that the market seems
to suggest through the price action that we might get a recovery
with moderate or no real increase in inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  