-- Modi to Manage Election Campaign of India’s Main Opposition BJP
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-09T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/modi-to-lead-election-campaign-of-india-s-main-opposition-party.html
Narendra Modi  will manage the
 Bharatiya Janata Party ’s campaign for Indian general elections
due in less than a year, bolstering his chances of becoming the
prime ministerial candidate of nation’s main opposition group.  Modi, 62 and the chief minister of the western state of
Gujarat, was appointed the BJP’s election panel chief “keeping
in mind the challenge of the 2014 elections and to achieve
victory in the polls,” party President Rajnath Singh told
reporters yesterday after a two-day meeting of the group’s
national executive committee in Goa.  Singh put Modi on the party’s highest decision-making body
in March after his third consecutive election victory in Gujarat
had made him a favorite among BJP workers. Celebrations
yesterday were scaled down as key party leaders, including
former Deputy Prime Minister Lal Krishna Advani, stayed away
from the meeting citing ill health.  “The way he is being elevated and party cadres are
rallying around him, it is now clear that Modi will be the prime
ministerial candidate of the BJP,” said N. Bhaskara Rao,
chairman of the New Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies.
“Still, he needs to keep leaders of his party and allies
together.”  The decision sets up Modi for an electoral showdown with
Rahul Gandhi, scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family, who will lead
the Indian National Congress into the elections, due by May
2014. Gandhi, 42 and son of the Congress President  Sonia Gandhi 
and assassinated Prime Minister  Rajiv Gandhi , was appointed as
his party’s vice president in January. Neither party has yet to
formally select its prime ministerial candidate.  Gujarat Growth  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s second term from 2009 has
been marred by corruption scandals, including over awards of
mobile-phone licenses in 2008 and coal assets that have
triggered street protests. Gridlock in parliament as opposition
parties led attacks on the government have stalled policies to
further open  Asia ’s third-largest economy to foreign investment
amid the slowest growth in a decade.  In contrast, Modi’s government in Gujarat has been hailed
by investors including  Tata Group ’s former chairman  Ratan Tata ,
and billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , chairman of  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL)  Gujarat’s economy has grown an annual 10.2 percent on
average over the last decade compared with 7.8 percent for the
national economy. Under Modi, Gujarat has raised power
generation capacity more than fivefold, while his government
says it is the only state in  India  to have surplus electricity.
Its success in improving health and education indicators has
lagged behind other states.  ‘Further Divide’  About 56 percent of city-dwelling Indians are against the
Congress-led coalition getting another chance in power,  CNN-IBN
television  channel reported last month, citing its survey in age
group of 18 years or more. While 38 percent want Modi as the
country’s next prime minister, only 14 percent favor  Rahul
Gandhi , according to the poll.  Still, some of the BJP’s allies are opposed to Modi being
the party’s prime ministerial candidate. The leaders of the
socialist  Janata Dal (United) , including Bihar chief minister
Nitish Kumar, have expressed concern that the nomination of Modi
may anger Muslims who accuse him of failing to stop riots that
targeted their community in 2002. More than 1,000 people died in
the violence, most of them Muslims.  The carnage, which left Modi barred from the U.S. and some
European nations, followed the killing of Hindu activists in a
train fire, a blaze for which Muslims were later found guilty.  Maya Kodnani, a former Modi aide, was jailed in August for
her role in the murder of 97 people in a suburb of Ahmedabad,
the biggest city in Gujarat.  The appointment of Modi will “further divide” the BJP as
some leaders including Advani are opposed to his elevation, said
B.G. Verghese, an analyst with the Center for Policy Research in
 New Delhi . It would also “weaken” the National Democratic
Alliance, the opposition grouping, as leaders like Kumar are
opposed to Modi’s prime ministerial candidature, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  