-- On the IMF’s Big Fat Greek Woulda-Shoulda-Coulda
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-06-09T22:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/on-the-imf-s-big-fat-greek-woulda-shoulda-coulda.html
It takes a big person to acknowledge
he was wrong, and the  International Monetary Fund  has now
repeatedly admitted to the failure of its euro-area rescue
policies.  In its latest  mea culpa  last week, the Washington-based
lender released a 50-page  critique  of the Greek bailout program
it devised in 2010, together with the European Commission and
the  European Central Bank . The IMF’s report highlights how the
so-called troika got that bailout wrong.  These admissions should surprise no one who has spoken with
IMF officials over the past year -- in private they have
expressed deep frustration with the euro-area bailout programs.
Those regrets were merely made public last week, and the
interesting question is: Why now?  The IMF report admits to three major failings of the Greek
program. First, that Greek sovereign debt wasn’t restructured
immediately and a haircut on  government bonds  held by private
investors was delayed until March 2012. This gave investors
almost two years to reduce their exposure, dumping it on the
official sector instead.  Second, the IMF admitted that the underlying macroeconomic
assumptions it used in its debt sustainability analyses were
wildly optimistic. As the IMF has previously  conceded , it
underestimated the fiscal multiplier and therefore the impact of
austerity and budget cuts on economic growth. With growth
estimates way off, deficit and debt-to-gross domestic product
ratios were wrong as well. The much sharper than forecast
contraction meant that unemployment also soared beyond the IMF’s
expectations. We’ve all seen the results.  Disparate Interests  Third, the IMF said that the troika might not work like a
well-oiled machine. The report highlights the difficulty of
working with so many disparate interests in the euro area,
including the European Commission, the ECB and individual
creditors such as  Germany .  The report criticizes the commission for failing to do
enough to devise the structural reforms Greece needed to
recover. It also takes the ECB to task for purchasing sovereign
bonds, which made restructuring privately held debt less
effective, and for failing to lead on bank supervision in the
euro area.  I think we can assume that the next meeting of the troika
will be awkward. That may be precisely what the IMF was aiming
for -- to provoke the European Commission and ECB into kicking
it out of the club. After all, apart from being such a mess, the
Greek program is also the largest (relative to the size of the
economy) in which the IMF has ever participated. After the IMF’s
 experience  in  Argentina , employees are not pleased to be funding
another unsustainable debt trap.  I’m not sure, though, that the IMF is looking for a way out
of the troika. If it were, it could easily have exited during
deliberations to bailout Cyprus. It chose to participate.  Another possibility is that the IMF is simply trying to
claw back some of the credibility it lost during the Greek
bailout. Privately some IMF officials have questioned the
sustainability of Greece’s debt burden, both pre- and post-debt
restructuring. This report allowed the fund to confess to these
uncertainties and push some of the blame onto its troika
partners.  If that is the goal, though, highlighting the errors that
the IMF made four years ago seems an odd way to restore
credibility, given that the troika made the same mistakes again
this year in Cyprus. The assumptions underpinning that bailout
are as questionable as those the troika originally used for
 Greece , making it likely that Cyprus will need to write down
some of its debt in a few years.  Shifting Response  The best explanation for the IMF’s decision to publish its
report was  floated  by Mark Dow, a former IMF economist and now a
private investor. He thinks the IMF is trying to change policy,
using lessons about debt restructuring, productivity gains and
austerity from existing bailouts to apply to the next
bailout(wherever that may be).  Of the troika members, the IMF provides the least cash for
the euro-area bailouts -- about one-third of the funds for the
Greek, Portuguese and Irish programs, and less for Cyprus. As a
result, the IMF has taken a backseat in determining policy
responses. Like any backseat driver, however, the IMF has
methodically registered its concerns for the past year about
front-loaded austerity and its negative effect on growth. The
fund has been playing a long game here, chipping away at the
euro area’s prevailing wisdom on fiscal adjustment and
productivity gains, and waiting for the evidence to mount in
favor of its position.  The Cyprus bailout is halfway between how the Greek bailout
was set up and how the IMF would like to see things done in the
future. There was private-sector participation upfront, with
bank bail-ins reducing the size of the bailout. At the same
time, it wasn’t enough. The IMF was essentially given the figure
for the size of the bailout program and forced to reverse
engineer a debt sustainability analysis that could justify that
figure.  With the Cypriot bailout a done deal and euro-area markets
relatively sanguine, this was the time for the IMF to try to
take advantage of the slowly turning tide, pushing euro-area
crisis-fighting policies toward upfront debt restructuring and
away from front-loaded austerity.  The bigger question is whether the other troika members
will take the IMF’s cue. There are signs that the European
Commission accepts that front-loaded austerity has been self-defeating -- it relaxed fiscal targets for six euro-area
countries on May 29. Still, it looks as though the commission
and ECB are unlikely to move much further. Both have responded
to the IMF report by defending their roles in the Greek bailout
program. The European Commission  dismissed  the claim that it
failed to identify growth-enhancing reforms for Greece as “wrong
and unfounded.” When asked whether the ECB thought it had made
mistakes in the Greek bailout, President  Mario Draghi   said :
“It’s very hard to pass ex-post judgement about things that
happened four years ago.”  I doubt the IMF’s call to action for a substantially
different policy approach in  Europe  will work. We won’t know for
sure, though, until another euro-area country asks the troika
for help.  ( Megan Greene  is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. She is also a senior fellow
at the Atlantic Council in  Washington .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 