-- Toyota Airbag Cuts Create Opening for Overseas Suppliers
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-06-10T08:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/toyota-airbag-cuts-create-opening-for-overseas-suppliers.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  has decided it no
longer needs 50 kinds of airbags to protect drivers’ knees. Ten,
the company says, ought to suffice.  In one of President Akio Toyoda’s biggest initiatives since
taking over in 2009, the carmaker is winnowing the number of
parts it uses and increasing common components across models.
The plan will cut both the time and cost for creating new models
by as much as 30 percent, according to estimates from Toyota.
The automaker  had  about $9.6 billion in auto research and
development expenses in fiscal year 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  International component makers such as  Johnson Controls
Inc. (JCI) ,  Robert Bosch GmbH  and  TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. (TRW) , as
well as Denso Corp., 31 percent owned by Toyota and the
carmaker’s largest supplier, are betting Toyoda’s campaign will
help them win contracts currently held by smaller Japanese
companies.  “This should mean more opportunities for global mega-suppliers” with worldwide capacity and design expertise, said
Masahiro Akita, an analyst with Credit Suisse in  Tokyo .  Johnson Controls, the world’s biggest maker of seats and
batteries for cars, says it’s opening a 3.5 billion yen ($35
million) testing center in Yokohama, outside Tokyo, in October
as it expects growing sales. Toyota doesn’t rank among Johnson’s
three biggest customers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hip Height  In the past, Toyota focused on developing custom parts. It
needed 50 types of knee-level airbags because seats for various
models had different profiles. By standardizing “hip heights,”
as the automaker calls it, across models, Toyota says it can
reduce knee airbag variants by 80 percent.  As of last year, the automaker had slashed radiators to 21
models from about 100, according to Shinichi Sasaki, Toyota’s
global purchasing chief. And the company is reducing the number
of cylinder sizes in its engines to six from more than 18 by
2016, the Nikkan Kogyo newspaper reported June 4. Toyota
declined to comment on the report.  “From now on, Toyota will seek the compatibility of
certain parts it uses with standard parts used by many
automakers globally,” the company said in a statement outlining
its Toyota New Global Architecture, or TNGA, in March.  Toyoda’s goal should make the company less vulnerable to
supply disruptions by using parts from the largest manufacturers
that can be substituted globally. The March 11, 2011, earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan  forced Toyoda to confront the complexity
and risks of relying on thousands of suppliers, sub-contractors
and sub-subcontractors making customized parts.  The earthquake “really made us to look into our supply
chain in great detail and see certain weaknesses there and look
into things that needed to be fixed,” said Toyota spokesman
Dion Corbett.  Continental Growth  In part because of Toyota’s initiative, the automotive unit
of Continental AG aims to almost double the share of revenue it
gets from Asia to 30 percent by 2015. The company says it plans
to hire 100 workers in Japan, bringing its total in the country
to more than 1,000.  “Toyota, like other carmakers, wants companies that are
capable of providing the same product across very different
manufacturing environments,” said Christoph Hagedorn, president
of Continental Automotive Corp.’s Japan unit. “This is a very
positive trend for us.”  Japanese carmakers’ shift toward the largest global
suppliers will probably hurt smaller parts makers and sub-contractors in the carmaker’s network, said Dean Enjo, auto
parts analyst at CLSA  Asia  Pacific Markets.  Slovenian Supplier  “You can’t expect a family-run supplier solely depending
on a single automaker group to compete with mega-suppliers like
Bosch or Denso under these new standardization programs,” Enjo
said.  The world’s largest listed autoparts makers are already
outperforming their smaller peers this year. Shares of the
biggest 10 percent by sales had a median gain of 17 percent,
versus the median 4.3 percent loss for the smallest 10 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg on 680 partsmakers worldwide show.  Toyota climbed by the most in two years today, jumping 8.6
percent as of the close in Tokyo trading.  Cimos D.D., a Slovenian parts supplier with annual revenue
of about $600 million, says smaller companies can compete with
the global giants by working together. Cimos has partnerships
with companies that manufacture in  India ,  China ,  Korea  and  South
America , which complements the Slovenian group’s factories in
Europe and  Russia .  “The way for us to fight back is to form alliances with
companies with similar knowledge and portfolio of products,”
said Vedran Mocibob, manager of Cimos’s chassis and car body
business.  Unintended Acceleration  Mocibob spoke in Tokyo at a reception for the Japan Auto
Parts Industries Association. He was in Japan to seek
opportunities to boost business ties with Japanese carmakers
including Toyota, which now contribute less than 1 percent of
his company’s revenue.  For Toyota, the shift increases the risk of multimillion-vehicle recalls, said Hiroshi Ataka, an analyst at researcher
IHS Automotive in Tokyo. Faulty brakes used in multiple models,
for instance, would require a recall of far more vehicles than a
problem with brakes found simply in, say, the Corolla or Prius.
Toyota recalled more than 10 million vehicles in 2009 and 2010
after reports of unintended acceleration.  Toyota, which overtook  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
as the world’s biggest carmaker by volume, has said the change
is needed to maintain competitiveness as it aims to become the
first company to make 10 million cars a year.  Global Growth  TNGA also allows Toyota engineers around the world to
collaborate even when working on separate vehicles. By creating
more components such as entire window assemblies that can be
used on various models, the company says engineers and designers
can spend more time on things most consumers are more interested
in, such as the body and interior.  Toyota has said its first cars built using TNGA will come
in 2015, but hasn’t specified which models. Credit Suisse says
it will be a revamped Prius hybrid. Toyota declined to confirm
that.  TRW, the world’s biggest vehicle-safety equipment maker,
says it expects to see gains from Toyota’s initiative. TRW,
based in Livonia,  Michigan , says it’s hiring engineers and
technicians in Japan as orders there increase.  Overseas suppliers “have strong research and development
capabilities and are good at making product proposals to
customers from a long-term view,” said Satoshi Nagashima,
senior partner at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. “For
foreign mega-suppliers, this is a good opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  