-- Privacy Protection Urged After U.S. Surveillance Leaked
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-09T19:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/privacy-protection-urged-by-lawmakers-after-u-s-internet-spying.html
Lawmakers in both political parties
called for swift action to protect civil liberties of U.S.
citizens after disclosures about secret government programs that
collect phone and Internet data to help thwart terrorists.  Senator Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat and member of the
Senate’s intelligence panel, said he’ll push to change the
Patriot Act that allows roving wiretapping and other expanded
government surveillance tools. He said he wants to better ensure
individual rights aren’t trampled in the process, particularly
where phone records of U.S. citizens are involved.  “The scale of it is what concerns me, and the American
public doesn’t know about it,” Udall said today on CNN’s
“ State of the Union .”  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican who is exploring a
2016 presidential bid, said he wants to see a class-action
lawsuit challenge the government’s surveillance program of phone
records at the  Supreme Court . Paul spoke on “Fox News Sunday”
after revelations last week that the U.S. National Security
Agency is collecting data on U.S. residents’ telephone calls and
foreign nationals’ Internet activity.  “We’re talking about trolling through billions of phone
records,” Paul, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, said on the Fox broadcast. “That is
unconstitutional. It invades our privacy.”  Presidential Pressure  While some U.S. lawmakers from both parties acknowledged
last week that they were aware of the programs and backed them
to combat terrorism, the disclosure is putting pressure on
President  Barack Obama  to explain their scope.  Yesterday, James R. Clapper, director of national
intelligence, defended the programs, calling them lawful efforts
that were disclosed to lawmakers and accusing the news media of
being “reckless” by distorting them in reports.  The activities are “conducted under authorities widely
known and discussed, and fully debated and authorized by
Congress,” Clapper said in a statement yesterday. “Their
purpose is to obtain foreign intelligence information, including
information necessary to thwart terrorist and cyber-attacks
against the  United States  and its allies.”  In a declassified fact sheet, Clapper provided some details
about the PRISM electronic surveillance program he said was
created by Congress in 2008. He described it as an internal
government computer system that aids the government’s collection
of data authorized by law and under court supervision.  Source Revealed  The Guardian, a British newspaper, today reported that the
source of the information provided to journalists about the
surveillance programs is Edward Snowden, a 29-year-old American
who worked for the Central Intelligence agency and as an
employee of contractors doing work for the NSA.  The NSA has filed a “crimes report” to determine the
source of the leaked classified information, Clapper said in an
interview scheduled to air tonight on “NBC Nightly News.”  He said he is hopeful the government is able to track down
whoever is responsible because it is “extremely damaging” to
U.S. security, according to a transcript of the interview.  Both the PRISM online data program and a program that
gathers “metadata” on phone communications such as the numbers
called and duration of communications -- and not conversation
content -- are coming under fire.  Michael Hayden , former director of the CIA, said today it’s
“simply not true” that the government is trolling through
billions of phone records.  Increased Volume  Hayden, who also led the NSA under Democratic President
 Bill Clinton  and Republican President  George W. Bush , said on
“Fox News Sunday” that, while Democrat Obama has expanded the
surveillance program “in volume,” he and his predecessor acted
within the law.  The number of records the U.S. has been able to compile has
expanded over time and the NSA has more authority after a 2008
amendment to the intelligence surveillance law, according to
Hayden.  “We had two presidents doing the same thing with regard to
electronic surveillance,” he said. “There are no records of
abuse under President Bush, under President Obama.”  The Obama administration confirmed the existence of the
programs on June 6 after  reports  emerged of a secret court order
compelling  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to provide the NSA with
data on all its customers’ telephone use. Citing classified
documents, the  Washington Post (WPO)  and the Guardian reported that
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and the NSA had also
accessed the central servers of nine U.S. Internet companies,
extracting audio and video chats, photographs, e-mails,
documents and connection logs.  Microsoft, Google  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Yahoo! Inc., Google Inc.,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
and Apple Inc. were among the technology providers involved, the
newspapers reported. The companies have issued statements either
denying that they had granted the government access to their
servers or saying that they were unaware of the program.  The leaders of the Senate and House intelligence committees
today defended the programs. Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat who chairs the Senate’s panel, said on ABC’s
“This Week” that she is “open” to having a public hearing
into U.S. surveillance.  Representative Mike Rogers of  Michigan , the Republican
chairman of the House committee, said that the information being
gathered is limited in nature.  “The National Security Agency does not listen to
Americans’ phone calls and it is not reading Americans’ e-mails,” Rogers said on the ABC program. “None of these
programs allow that.”  Growing Threat  On the CNN program today, Republican Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona  said that, while there may be some overreach occurring,
the system allows the U.S. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court to review requests to delve deeply into the content of
actual phone calls and that’s enough protection. He said
Americans shouldn’t forget that attempts to recruit terrorists
at home and abroad continue.  “The threat is growing, not diminishing in my view,”
McCain said.  Other lawmakers said action in needed to rein in the
spying.  “We have gone too far,” Representative  Elijah Cummings  of
Maryland said of the government’s surveillance program on CBS’
“Face the Nation” broadcast today. “If this becomes the
normal now, what’s going to be the normal tomorrow?”  Obama’s Defense  Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, said he voted against the Patriot
Act because he was “afraid of unintended consequences.”  Obama dismissed some of the coverage as “hype” on June 7,
saying the telephone program only collects billing data such as
the telephone numbers making and receiving calls and the
duration of calls. Any monitoring of telephone conversations
involving U.S. residents requires a separate court order, he
said.  “Nobody is listening to your telephone calls. That’s not
what this program’s about,” Obama said. The monitoring of
Internet communication, which the Post reported includes e-mails
and audio and video chats, “does not apply to U.S. citizens and
it does not apply to people living in the United States.”  The surveillance programs “make a difference to anticipate
and prevent possible terrorist activity,” the president said.  Criminal Probe  A criminal investigation of leaks about the programs is
mandatory and inevitable, given the magnitude and severity, as
well as inquiries into less damaging breaches, said a U.S.
official briefed on the issue, who requested anonymity to
discuss intelligence issues. The  Department of Justice  declines
to comment on any specific referral, spokesman Andrew Ames said
in an e-mail.  Yesterday, Deputy National Security Advisor  Ben Rhodes  told
reporters that the administration is undergoing an “assessment
of the damage” caused by disclosures about the programs.  “Currently there’s a review under way, of course, to
understand what potential damage may be done,” Rhodes said at a
news briefing. “As it relates to any potential investigations,
we’re still in the early stages of this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  