-- Rand Chaos Opens Window for Eurobond Sale: South Africa Credit
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-06-10T10:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/rand-chaos-opens-window-for-eurobond-sale-south-africa-credit.html
South Africa  plans to sell its first
foreign-currency bond in 18 months, with analysts forecasting
the rand will rebound from a four-year low, reducing the
government’s repayment costs.  The rand has declined about 17 percent against the dollar
and euro this year, the worst performer of 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg. The premium investors demand to hold
South Africa’s $1.5 billion dollars of bonds due January 2024
rather than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries widened 54 basis
points in the same period to 245, the highest in a year. The
spread climbed from a record low of 154 in August.  Near-zero benchmark lending rates in developed markets make
it cheaper to borrow offshore than in South  Africa , where the
rate is currently 5 percent, assuming the currency doesn’t
weaken further. Foreign debt amounts to 8.7 percent of total
borrowing, according to the National Treasury, below the 25
percent margin it regards as too risky.  “In this kind of environment, borrowing offshore is not
too bad an idea,” Rian le Roux, chief economist of Old Mutual
Investment Group, South Africa’s largest private money manager
with about $48 billion under management, said by phone from Cape
Town on June 7. “The rand is already weak and South Africa has
very little foreign debt.”  Decline Overdone  The currency may advance almost 12 percent to 9 per dollar
by the end of 2014, according to the median estimate of 28
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. It weakened 1.9 percent to
10.1529 per dollar as of 12:10 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The rand has been battered by mining strikes, which curbed
output from the industry and growth in Africa’s largest economy.
Both Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  and central bank Governor
Gill Marcus said this month that the currency’s declines may be
overdone.  Standard Bank Group Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, Rand Merchant
Bank and Investec Ltd. have been appointed to arrange the bond
sale, the National Treasury said in a statement on June 4. It
didn’t specify the size or currency of the sale.  South Africa’s Feb. 27 budget provides for $1.5 billion to
be raised in foreign markets to fill a budget deficit of 5.2
percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year through
March 2013. The government repaid a 1.25 billion euro-denominated ($1.65 billion) bond last month, according to the
Treasury.  Monale Ratsoma, the Treasury’s chief director of liability
management and Tshepiso Moahloli, the director of foreign debt
management, weren’t available to comment on June 7.  Rates Up  “The sentiment globally is that markets expect  interest
rates  to move up, with the yield curve shifting up, especially
at the long end,” Asief Mohamed, who oversees about $112
million in assets as chief investment officer of Aeon Investment
in Cape Town, said by phone on June 7. “It is going to be
difficult to attract a lot of interest. It could cost them more
than they expect.”  The cost of protecting South African dollar-denominated
sovereign debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 197 on June 7. The contracts, which pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
if the government fails to adhere to its debt agreements,
climbed to the highest in a year on June 6.  Yields on government rand bonds due September 2026 rose 23
basis points to 8.18 percent today, after reaching a record low
of 6.60 percent on May 9.  “Our spreads have widened and the currency has fallen out
of bed so it’s a brilliant time to be issuing abroad,” Malcolm Charles, who helps manage about $3 billion in fixed-income
securities at Investec Asset Management, said by phone from  Cape
Town  on June 7. “It will be absolutely gobbled up. South Africa
has got very little foreign debt and people like the
diversification.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  