-- Retail Sales Probably Increased in May: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-06-09T04:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/retail-sales-probably-increased-in-may-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose
in May as an improving job market gave consumers the confidence
to shop for automobiles, home furnishings and clothing,
economists said before reports this week.  The projected 0.4 percent increase would be the biggest in
three months and follows a 0.1 percent gain in April, according
to the  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 61 economists
before June 13 figures from the Commerce Department. Another
report this week may show  factory production  climbed for the
first time in three months.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Gap Inc. are among companies
prospering as a pickup in hiring, pared with higher home and
stock prices, helps Americans cope with this year’s payroll-tax
increase. Nonetheless, even bigger employment and wage gains
will be needed to shore up household finances as cuts in federal
spending cause the world’s largest economy to slow this quarter.  “Consumers are not feeling the need to pare back their
spending to offset the impact of the tax increases, with
confidence in the labor market rising and balance sheets
improving,” said Ted Wieseman, an economist at Morgan Stanley
in  New York .  Same-store sales rose last month for nine of the 10
companies tracked by Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail
Metrics.  L Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s sales climbed 3 percent, beating the
2.9 percent estimate. Purchases at the company’s Victoria’s
Secret brand were up 4 percent, while the Bath & Body Works
brand gained 3 percent.  Clothing Sales  San Francisco-based Gap, the largest U.S. specialty apparel
retailer, last week reported a 7 percent increase in May sales
compared with the same month last year, almost double the 3.7
percent gain projected by analysts on average.  “We are pleased with the positive customer response to
summer product across our brands and the continued momentum in
the business,”  Glenn Murphy , the retailer’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  American employers took on more workers than forecast in
May as the economy weathered the impact of higher taxes and
federal spending cuts, Labor Department figures showed last
week.  Payrolls rose by 175,000 workers after a 149,000 increase
in April. The  unemployment rate  climbed for the first time in
four months, rising to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent, as a surge
in the number of people entering the  labor force  exceeded the
number of positions available.  Auto Demand  Automakers also are seeing a boost in orders as consumers
find the wherewithal to spend. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a
15.2 million annualized rate in May, making it the sixth month
out of the last seven to exceed the 15-million mark -- a level
that previously hadn’t been reached since February 2008.  “Although fiscal constraints are a headwind, net-net, we
like what we’re seeing on the economic front,” Kurt McNeil,
GM’s vice president of U.S.  sales (RSTAMOM)  operations, said on a June 3
sales conference call. “Positive factors at work in the economy
include May’s rebound in consumer sentiment, lower unemployment,
and the 14th consecutive month of higher housing prices. If we
use our own sales as a barometer, it appears that the recovery
is becoming even more broad based.”  Climbing home and stock prices are boosting household
wealth, leading to gains in confidence that have helped underpin
spending.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 15.2 percent so
far this year, closing on May 21 at its highest level on record.
The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 10.9
percent in March from the same period in 2012, the biggest 12-month gain since April 2006, a report showed May 28.  Record Wealth  Household wealth jumped to a record in the first quarter,
exceeding its pre-recession peak for the first time, the  Federal
Reserve  reported last week.  That is giving confidence a boost. The Thomson Reuters/
University of Michigan consumer sentiment index held at a six-year high of 84.5 percent this month, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a
preliminary report due June 14.  Growing car sales may have helped  manufacturing (IPMGCHNG)  output
improve last month, economist project data from the Fed will
show the same day.  Industrial production, which measures output at mines and
utilities in addition to factories, climbed 0.2 percent in May
after a 0.5 percent drop the previous month, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. Manufacturing, which makes up 75
percent of total production, is projected to advance 0.2 percent
in May after falling in the previous two months.  Inventories Lean  While the payroll tax increase and federal spending cuts
have been “primarily felt” in the manufacturing sector, those
businesses have used that weak period to “trim their inventory
levels a little bit, so that’s going to give them leverage on
the other side as demand gains its momentum,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
 Detroit .  Other reports this week may show there is little inflation,
according to economists surveyed.  Import prices  were little changed in May, economists
project ahead of June 13 data from the Labor Department. A
report released the following day may show wholesale prices rose
0.1 percent last month after two straight declines.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  