-- Rohani Picks Purple to Lure Iran’s Disillusioned Voters
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-06-10T08:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/rohani-picks-purple-to-lure-iran-s-disillusioned-voters.html
Addressing a packed Tehran stadium,
presidential candidate Hassan Rohani urged young supporters to
overcome their frustration over the lack of jobs and  Iran ’s
pariah status and back him in the June 14 election.  “If you want Iranian officials to stop presenting
inaccurate economic data, if you want the rial to regain its
value, if you want the Iranian passport to be respected again,
come to the ballot boxes,” Rohani, one of eight candidates in
the June 14 election, told about 9,000 people at a June 8 rally
in Tehran.  After the re-election of  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in 2009,
activists accused authorities of using ballot fraud to deny a
reformist candidate victory. Having witnessed the subsequent
crackdown on protesters, some young Iranians said they had no
plans to vote this time, and Rohani is seeking to persuade them
to overcome their disillusion.  Supporters entering the stadium June 8 were handed purple
wrist ribbons, the color he’s using on campaign posters. The
move may be inspired by  Mir Hossein Mousavi ’s 2009 campaign,
which became so associated with the color green that the
opposition wave born out of post-vote protests became known as
the Green Movement.  Centrifuges Spin  “If we look at Rohani’s rhetoric, his appearance and his
campaign, he’s the closest among candidates in this race to a
reformist,” said Mahjoob Zweiri, a professor of Middle East
politics at Qatar University. “He could attract some of the
young voters.”  While all candidates say they back Iran’s right to have a
civilian nuclear program, Rohani, who was Iran’s chief nuclear
negotiator under former President Mohammad Khatami, and some
others say technological progress shouldn’t come at the expense
of the economy and the well-being of the population.  “It’s fine for centrifuges to spin if people are also
getting by,” he said in last week’s debate.  He has also attacked Ahmadinejad’s handling of an economy
that’s set to shrink 1.3 percent this year, a second straight
contraction, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
Sanctions imposed to halt  Iran’s nuclear program  have caused the
currency to plunge and inflation to surge.  Most people at Rohani’s rally were middle-class Iranians in
their early 20s, and some also wore purple headscarves,
headbands or T-shirts. A spillover crowd lined the street
outside. Hundreds of policemen and dozens of police vans were
stationed outside the stadium to prevent the possibility of
spontaneous protests.  Mousavi Release  As many as seven people were detained after a rally a week
earlier in northern Tehran at which Rohani’s supporters chanted
slogans calling for the release of Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi,
the reformist candidates in 2009, who are under house arrest. At
the June 8 meeting, when a group of girls began similar chants,
Rohani’s organizers urged them to stop, and at the end of the
rally the candidate told people to leave quietly to avoid
confrontations.  The state-run  Mehr  news agency said Iran’s Guardian
Council, which screened presidential candidates to ensure their
loyalty to the Islamic Republic and eliminated more than 600,
may reconsider Rohani’s candidacy, citing those pro-opposition
chants as one reason. In a later report on  Asre-Iran  news
website, an official at watchdog body denied that, saying the
council will meet today and Rohani isn’t on its agenda.  Easing Restrictions  Rohani is the only cleric among the candidates. His careful
grooming contrasts with Ahmadinejad, whose unkempt appearance
and casual dress initially connected him with some voters.  Rohani has spoken in favor of increased freedom for the
press and non-governmental organizations. He has also called for
the easing of social restrictions on the population, criticizing
the government’s “unwarranted interventions” during a June 7
debate.  “I didn’t want to vote, but after the political debate on
Friday night, I decided to vote for Rohani,” said Shaghayegh, a
20-year-old university student who attended his rally and
declined to give her surname. “Our country’s image in the world
has been destroyed. I want a president who I can be proud of and
who can help us be proud of our country.”  Different Viewpoints  Marzieh, a 23-year-old law student said she would vote for
Rohani because of his message of political tolerance.
“Hopefully, he will allow different points of view to coexist
in the country, unlike under Ahmadinejad,” she said.  Since 2005, when Ahmadinejad was first elected, Iran has
been battered by sanctions that have restricted financial
transactions, cut oil exports and weakened the rial. Inflation
in April was 32 percent, and a quarter of all Iranians aged 15
to 29 were unemployed in the last Iranian year ending March 20,
according to official figures.  “Some want the path of the previous eight years to
continue, some are still proud of domestic poverty and foreign-imposed humiliation,” Rohani told his supporters. “I will seek
to bring back stability to the country through prudence,
planning and hope.”  Azar, whose 54 years of age put her among the oldest at
Rohani’s rally, said she came to accompany her three daughters.  “After the events of 2009, I’m not so hopeful about the
outcome of this election,” Azar said. “But these kids want
freedom, and they believe we are long overdue for a change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  