-- Rupee Plunge to Boost Steel Exports to Record: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-06-09T18:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/rupee-plunge-to-boost-steel-exports-to-record-corporate-india.html
Steelmakers (TATA)  in India, Asia’s second-largest user of the alloy, are poised to boost exports to a
record as demand slows at home and a plunge in the rupee near an
all-time low increases the value of sales overseas.  Exports will climb 30 percent to 6.8 million metric tons in
the year ending March 31, according to the average estimate of
10 analysts, government officials and company executives in a
Bloomberg survey. The fall of the rupee and demand in  Africa  is
prompting producers to ship more steel after Indian sales in the
last fiscal year gained at the slowest pace in four years.  The worst performing Asian currency since April 1 will spur
India’s largest producers including  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  and  Jindal
Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  to boost overseas sales and utilize 24
million tons of new capacity that will added by March. Exports
to  Africa , where the World Steel Association forecasts demand
will rise at a faster pace than in India, will help turn the
South Asian nation into a net exporter of the alloy for the
first time in seven year, three analysts said.  “Our overseas sales are bound to rise as we are producing
more after our expansion and Indian demand is below what we had
expected,” JSW Deputy Managing Director Vinod Nowal said in an
interview. “We’re targeting all markets and will sell to anyone
ready to pay benchmark prices.”  Net Exporter  The rupee has dropped 4.9 percent since April 1 to 57.065
to a dollar making it the worst performing among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies. It may depreciate further to 60 rupees to a
dollar this fiscal year, according to Mumbai-based India Forex
Advisors Ltd.  Exports may help JSW, India’s third-largest producer, boost
revenue that analysts estimate will grow at the slowest pace
since at least 2007. The company, which expanded its main plant
in Karnataka to 10 million tons in July 2011, had to operate at
lower capacity due to an iron ore mining ban by India’s top
court in the southern state. The company expects to raise output
by 9 percent this year after mining resumed in the province.  Jindal Steel, India’s second-biggest producer by market
value, is raising overseas sales as it more than doubles
capacity to 7 million tons this year, Deputy Managing Director
Sushil Maroo said in April.  “We are consciously making an effort to develop our export
market,” Maroo told analysts in an earnings call on April 26.
“Currently the export realization is also better.”  Jindal Steel, which has dropped 37 percent in the past
year, fell 2 percent to 279.2 rupees in Mumbai on June 7. JSW
Steel declined 2 percent to 721.8 rupees.  Small Difference  Steel shipments from  India  will rise to 8 million tons this
year, according to Rahul Jain, an analyst with CIMB Securities
India Pvt. in Mumbai. The 10 percent decline in Indian prices
since October has narrowed the difference in earnings per ton
between the domestic and the overseas markets, he said.  “India’s demand outlook is grim and producers here will
continue to ship more,” Jain said. “With the gain coming from
exports, they will be able to keep their factories running at
higher capacities.”  Still, Tata Steel Ltd., India’s biggest producer, is
looking at local sales this year, after more than tripling
exports of flat steel products to 244,000 tons in the year ended
March 31.  “Our focus is on the domestic market,” Managing Director
Hemant Madhusudan Nerurkar said in an interview in Mumbai. “We
haven’t faced much pressure in marketing our products. One has
to do well in working with customers and the supply chain to
ensure realizations.”  Steel Glut  India, which expanded 5 percent in the year ended March,
the slowest pace in a decade, is not alone in facing a glut.
European nations and  China  too are witnessing higher production
and lower consumption. The rupee’s decline has allowed Indian
steelmakers to price products competitively, without offering
many discounts on the benchmark prices, said Giriraj Daga, an
analyst at Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai.  The rupee fell for a fifth straight week on concerns the
U.S. Federal Reserve may scale back debt purchases that have
fueled fund flows to  emerging markets . Prices of benchmark world
hot-rolled steel coil, used automobiles and buildings fell to
its lowest in six months at $546 a ton on May 27, according to
data from  Metal Bulletin .  Europe , which has a capacity to churn out about 200 million
tons of steel a year, needs to close plants capable of producing
about 40 million to 50 million tons, Eurofer President Wolfgang
Eder said on June 6. Steel demand in China, the world’s biggest
producer, will increase less than 5 percent over the next few
years,  Xu Lejiang , chairman of China’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., said June 4.  “India will have to export more considering slowing local
demand,” JSW’s Nowal said. “Our own shipments will rise to a
quarter of the total output this fiscal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  