-- SAP Looks for Acquisitions in China to Pick Up Software Talent
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/sap-looks-for-acquisitions-in-china-to-pick-up-software-talent.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, is seeking acquisitions in  China 
to tap into the nation’s growing pool of programmers, Co-Chief
Executive Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said in an interview.  “We are investing in China not just in terms of sales
capacity, but innovation in China for China and the rest of the
world,” Snabe told Bloomberg Television in Beijing. “We are
also looking here for possible targets of acquisitions.”  The Asia-Pacific region is growing in importance for SAP,
accounting for 16 percent of  sales  in 2012, with the
contribution rising every year since at least 2004, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The region has been the fastest
growing for Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, and will continue to be
the case for “many years,”  Snabe said.  SAP unveiled plans late 2011 to invest invest $2 billion in
China by 2015. The company said at the time it would hire 2,000
people. That plan is on schedule as SAP has added about 1,000
people in China in the past 15 months, bringing the workforce to
around 4,000, Snabe said.  The software maker is looking to buy “innovative
companies,” Snabe said, without elaborating.  SAP in April reported a slowdown in Chinese purchasing
patterns as the nation’s economic growth eased during the first
quarter and a change in government delayed contract awards.
Sales in the Asia-Pacific region would be “back on track” in
the current period, co-CEO  Bill McDermott  said at that time.  Order Pipeline  “I look at the pipeline in Asia Pacific and I feel very
very good,” Snabe said in the June 7 interview. “The market is
really picking up. We have lots of opportunities.”  SAP said last month it plans to offer even its largest
programs through the Web, reducing the time and cost for
deployment compared with software installed on customers’
machines.  The company is also investing in its Hana database
software, which aims at the core market of SAP’s archrival
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Applications of the software, which reduces the
time needed to analyze data and carry out transactions, can
range from predicting track conditions for Formula One racing
teams to planning cancer treatments.  SAP shares rose 1.5 percent to 58.02 euros in Frankfurt
trading June 7. The stock has gained 28 percent in the past 12
months. Twenty-five of the 43  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg
recommend buying the stock, and three suggest selling.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Hah in Beijing at 
 chah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  