-- Shadowy Bank in Basel Funded Nazis, Pushed Euro: Books
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2013-06-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/shadowy-bank-in-basel-funded-nazis-pushed-euro-books.html
If you think the  Bank for
International Settlements  is just a colorless intermediary,  Adam
LeBor ’s new book will disabuse you of that notion.  “ Tower of Basel: The Shadowy History of the Secret Bank
That Runs the World ” is a full-blown attack on the institution,
which is based in Switzerland but answers, in the author’s view,
to practically no one.  LeBor details the appalling role of the BIS in funding the
predations of  Nazi Germany , a well-known blot on its record.
Then he indicts the bank for its part in the rise of
technocratic postwar  Europe , in particular as midwife to the
disastrous euro. LeBor wants the place shut down, or at least
opened up.  He makes a decent case, but only decent. Founded in 1930 by
two legendary central bankers -- Britain’s Montagu Norman and
 Germany ’s Hjalmar Schacht -- the BIS was supposed to administer
World War I reparations from Germany. But as Keynes and others
had argued, the imposition of such crushing reparations was a
terrible idea, and not long after the bank was established
Germany wriggled out of them.  Yet the BIS lived on, sustained by a founding agreement
that gives it an extraordinary degree of autonomy, a safe haven
in  Switzerland  and a revenue stream from transaction fees.
Besides, it was useful -- as a facilitator of international
transactions and a locus of cooperation among central bankers.
It was especially useful to the Nazis.  Nazi Gold  Though headed by an American during World War II, the BIS
adhered to a priestly neutrality, interpreting its mandate in
the most technical possible fashion in order to continue dealing
with all sides in the conflict. Unfortunately, this put the
institution squarely in the position of abetting Nazi terror.  The BIS accepted plundered gold and made it possible for
Germany to acquire desperately needed war materiel. It even
permitted Germany, once it had invaded  Czechoslovakia , to
confiscate that nation’s gold reserves.  Tarred by its scandalous role in the war, the BIS was
targeted afterward for dissolution by enemies in  Washington  and
elsewhere. But it managed to beat back these efforts and eke out
a role for itself in the postwar world -- first as the financial
mechanism for American efforts to rebuild Europe, and then for
the accelerating project of European unification.  Modern Europe  The latter, culminating in the euro, is cause for further
damnation by the author, for whom the trans-national vision of a
modern Europe ruled by mandarins in Brussels and Basel isn’t so
different from the Nazi vision of a unified continent equally
unruffled by obstreperous voters.  Owned and operated by the world’s central banks, the BIS
today is both their banker and their refuge, a place where
central bankers meet every other month to dine really well and
schmooze in confidence that no one will learn what was said. The
BIS also performs valuable research on international finance.  Is this really so bad? LeBor thinks so, complaining that
“BIS is an opaque, elitist and anti-democratic institution, out
of step with the 21st century.”  Maybe. But his case against the BIS, whose role is wildly
exaggerated in the book’s subtitle, would be a lot stronger if
he spent any time at all explaining what it does. That would
make it easier to judge whether these tasks are important, or
could be taken on easily by others.  Unfortunately LeBor describes the bank’s functions in only
the most cursory terms. The BIS is secretive, no argument there.
But surely the general nature of its lending can be described,
as well as the source of its capital and profits. The latter
amounted to more than $1 billion tax-free in 2011-12 alone.  Resistant to eradication, the BIS can perhaps be reformed,
and here the author has some sensible suggestions, including
greater transparency and directing a significant chunk of
profits toward philanthropy. After all that’s come before, you’d
think the occupants of the tower of Basel (the bank’s groovy
round headquarters) would be on their best behavior.  “Tower of Basel” is published by PublicAffairs (336
pages, $28.99). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Philip
Boroff  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in  New York  at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 