-- Singapore Bloggers Protest Licensing Rules for News Websites
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-06-09T03:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/singapore-bloggers-protest-licensing-rules-for-news-websites.html
More than 2,000 Singaporeans gathered
at a downtown park to protest a regulation requiring websites
that regularly publish news on the city state to be licensed.  The demonstration organized by representatives of social
and political websites was held yesterday at Speakers’ Corner at
Hong Lim Park, at the edge of the financial district. About
2,500 people turned up in  Singapore ’s biggest blogger-led
protest, Howard Lee, deputy chief editor of the Online Citizen,
a Singapore social and political blog, said by e-mail. Some
waved placards calling on the government not to “tell me what
to read,” while another said “our silence is not for sale.”  The Southeast Asian nation has seen at least two protests
against government policies this year. The regulation introduced
June 1 requiring news sites get a license has drawn criticism
from opposition groups, while the government has said the rule
doesn’t limit individuals’ freedom of expression online.  “Our purpose is simply to ask the government to withdraw
the Internet regulation they announced 11 days ago,” Andrew Loh,
editor of publichouse.sg, the first speaker at the event, said
yesterday. “Citizen journalism has a place in Singapore.”  More than 150 Singapore websites and blogs blacked out
their content in protest the licensing rules, the  Straits Times 
reported on June 7. Some sites replaced their home pages with a
black screen saying “Free My Internet;” others included
information about the protest.  The new rules undercut Singapore’s status as a financial
hub,  Human Rights Watch  said, urging the city to withdraw
regulations it says discourage independent comment.  Independent Media  The regulations cast a chill over the city’s “robust and
free-wheeling” online communities and limit Singaporeans’
access to independent media, Cynthia Wong, senior Internet
researcher at the New York-based HRW, said in an e-mailed
statement on June 7.  Singapore dropped 14 places in a 2013 press-freedom index
published by Reporters Without Borders, ranking 149th out of 179
countries. It’s ranked one spot behind  Russia , and just ahead of
Iraq and Myanmar.  Yesterday’s demonstration was the third incident where
Singaporeans expressed unhappiness against government policies
this year. Thousands of Singaporeans demonstrated in February
and May against a government plan to increase the island’s
population through immigration.  “The key to this is to make our voices heard to scrap this
ruling, which goes against the right to information,” Lee said.
“Through this gathering, we also want to let people know how
these regulations are going to affect them.”  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Singapore’s Media Development Authority said last month
certain websites must get a license and pay a S$50,000 ($40,035)
bond to be forfeited upon publication of “prohibited content”
such as that which “undermines racial or religious harmony.”
Yahoo! Inc.’s Singapore news website is among an initial list of
10 that will be subject to the rules.  “Further regulation is redundant,” Alan Soon, Yahoo’s
Singapore country manager and managing editor for  Southeast Asia ,
 said  on the company’s news site for the city. “And as the past
few days have shown, it creates confusion and unsettles both
users as well as the  media industry  that Singapore has tried so
hard to cultivate.”  News sites must have individual licenses if they post an
average of at least one weekly article on the island’s news and
current affairs over a period of two months, and have at least
50,000 unique visitors from Singapore each month over that
period, according to the MDA.  The authority said operators of news sites are expected to
comply within 24 hours with the government agency’s directions
to remove content that is found to be in breach of standards.  Other sites on the list include those run by  Singapore
Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH)  and MediaCorp Pte, the country’s two biggest
media companies. Singapore Press Chairman Lee Boon Yang was a
former information minister, while MediaCorp is owned by Temasek
Holdings Pte, the state-owned  investment company .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  