-- South Africa’s Gordhan Calls for Resolution to Mining Disputes
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-06-09T11:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/south-africa-s-gordhan-calls-for-resolution-to-mining-disputes.html
South Africa, which has seen its
currency slump 10 percent since May, must cut its fiscal deficit
and resolve labor disputes in the mining industry to make the
economy less vulnerable to external shocks, Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said.  The rand’s plunge and slowing economic growth emphasized
the need to insulate the country from global financial turmoil
through policies that promote growth and investment, including a
“speedy resolution” to challenges facing miners, Gordhan wrote
in the Johannesburg-based Sunday Times.  South Africa’s currency weakened since the beginning of May
amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  may reduce monetary
stimulus as the  U.S. economy  recovers. South Africa’s economy
expanded at the slowest pace since a 2009 recession in the first
quarter as labor unrest in the mining industry and lower
commodity prices cut output. The government has appointed a task
team headed by Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  to mediate
between labor unions and employers.  “The market reaction to any tapering-off of quantitative
easing creates difficulties for national responses to the global
economic crisis,” Gordhan wrote. “Any failure by business,
government and labor to act together and decisively will have
far-reaching negative consequences.”  While the government’s economic blueprint, the National
Development Plan, focuses on  job creation  and growth in the long
term, it must be complemented by short-term policies to bring
down the deficit and restore confidence in the mining industry,
Gordhan said. Improving the quality of  government spending  and
reducing policy uncertainty are also imperatives, he said.  Key Contributor  Mining accounts for more than 50 percent of South Africa’s
exports and 6 percent of gross domestic product, according to
government data. The central bank cut its forecast on May 23 for
GDP growth this year to 2.4 percent, from 2.7 percent. The
economy expanded 2.5 percent in 2012.  “The government is ready to take tough decisions to ensure
that South Africa remains an attractive investment
destination,” Gordhan said. “We will build up our buffers to
protect South Africa from further shocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  