-- South Sudan Says It May Halt Oil Output on Bashir Statement
-- B y   M a d i n g   N g o r   a n d   M i c h a e l   G u n n
-- 2013-06-09T09:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/south-sudan-says-it-may-halt-oil-output-after-bashir-statement.html
South Sudan ’s government said it may
stop oil production if comments by Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir ordering a halt to shipments are confirmed.  Bashir yesterday instructed Sudan’s Oil Minister Awad al-Jaz to cease oil flows from South Sudan because his government
has evidence that the south is arming the rebel Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement-North, or SPLM-N. Bashir’s comments, at the
opening of an electricity plant on the outskirts of the capital,
Khartoum, were broadcast on state television.  “This is just an unfortunate statement,” South Sudan’s
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mawien Makol said in a phone
interview yesterday from the capital, Juba. “This means we have
to stop production.”  Landlocked South  Sudan  took over three-quarters of the
formerly united Sudan’s output of 490,000 barrels a day when it
seceded in July 2011 after a two-decade civil war. South Sudan
halted production in January 2012 after accusing Sudan’s
government of stealing $815 million of its crude. Sudan said it
took the oil to recover unpaid transportation costs and
processing fees. That and disputes over border security brought
the countries to the brink of war in April 2012.  Production Resumed  South Sudan on March 12 agreed to restart pumping crude
after the two nations resolved the dispute over transit fees.
Oil in South Sudan is pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known also as
Petronas, and  India ’s  Oil & Natural Gas (ONGC)  Corp. Before the
shutdown, The country depended on crude exports for 98 percent
of government revenue.  Bashir’s order comes after he threatened on May 27 to close
oil pipelines from South Sudan “forever” if South Sudan gives
support to rebels in the western Sudanese region of Darfur and
the  Blue Nile  and Southern Kordofan states.  “Sudan won’t allow revenue from oil exports from South
Sudan to be used for buying arms for rebels and mercenaries,”
he said yesterday.  Clashes began more than 18 months ago in Southern Kordofan
and Blue Nile between Sudanese government forces and the SPLM-N
rebels who fought alongside the forces of South Sudan during the
civil war. The fighting has displaced more than 1 million
people, according to the  United Nations .  The SPLM-N has also formed an alliance with three insurgent
groups in Darfur to create a “viable democratic alternative”
to Bashir’s government, the Small Arms Survey, a research group
at the Graduate Institute of International and Development
Studies in Geneva, said in an April 2012 report.  South Sudan has sought to reduce its reliance on Sudan for
oil shipments by announcing plans to build a pipeline either via
neighboring  Ethiopia  to an export terminal in Djibouti, or to a
port being built at Lamu on  Kenya ’s coast.  The country can export their oil via Kenya or Djibouti “or
wherever they want to take it,” Bashir said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Gunn in Nairobi at 
 mgunn14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  