-- Sudan Threatens to Shut South Sudan Oil Over Rebel Support
-- B y   M i c h a e l   G u n n   a n d   M a d i n g   N g o r
-- 2013-06-10T06:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/sudan-threatens-to-shut-down-south-sudan-oil-over-rebel-support.html
Sudan  threatened to halt South
Sudanese oil exports within 60 days unless the neighboring state
ends support for rebel groups opposed to President Umar al-Bashir’s rule.  Sudanese Information Minister Ahmed Bilal Osman said his
government has evidence that South Sudan is backing renegade
fighters in the western region of Darfur and the southern states
of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile. That undermines cooperation
accords signed between the two nations last year and for which a
timeframe was agreed in March, he said.  “It is clear that the purpose of supporting the rebels is
to bring down the regime, which is why we have to stop the
petrol,” Osman told reporters yesterday in the capital,
Khartoum “We asked them to stop their support so that it
wouldn’t affect all the agreements that were signed.” The
decision to halt the oil flows may be reversed if  South Sudan 
stops backing the rebels, he said.  Landlocked South Sudan exports all of its crude via
pipelines that traverse Sudan to  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea .
South Sudan seceded in July 2011 and took three-quarters of the
formerly united country’s crude  output  of 490,000 barrels a day.  A dispute last year over how much South Sudan should pay
for the transport resulted in its production being shut down for
15 months. Output resumed in April. The nation’s largest field,
Palouge in Upper Nile state, started pumping 120,000 barrels a
day last month and is expected to reach its full capacity of
250,000 barrels a day by September, Oil Minister Stephen Dhieu
Dau said May 6.  No Notification  Brent crude , the benchmark price for more than half the
world’s oil, traded at $104.52 a barrel at 1:42 p.m. Singapore
time today. The July contract closed at $104.56 on June 7, the
highest settlement since May 20.  South Sudan has yet to be officially notified about the
planned shutdown, Information Minister Barnaba Marial Benjamin
told reporters yesterday in the capital, Juba. South Sudanese
President Salva Kiir will address the nation on the matter
today, Benjamin said.  South Sudanese army spokesman Philip Aguer reiterated his
government’s denial that it supports the rebel groups, and
accused Sudan of deploying troops in Upper Nile state. The
presence of the Sudanese forces is “unacceptable,” he said at
the briefing alongside Benjamin.  China, Malaysia, India  Oil in South Sudan is pumped mainly by China National
Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known also
as Petronas, and  India ’s  Oil & Natural Gas (ONGC)  Corp. Prior to the
January 2012 shutdown, the country depended on crude exports for
98 percent of government revenue.  Sudan’s threat to halt oil flows follows a warning by
Bashir in May when he said his government would close oil
pipelines from South Sudan “forever” if the neighboring state
backs rebels in the western Sudanese region of Darfur and the
Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan states.  “Sudan won’t allow revenue from oil exports from South
Sudan to be used for buying arms for rebels and mercenaries,”
he said at a ceremony yesterday to mark the opening of an
electricity plant on the outskirts of Khartoum. The remarks were
broadcast on state television.  Clashes began more than 18 months ago in Southern Kordofan
and  Blue Nile  between Sudanese government troops and the SPLM-N
rebels who fought alongside the forces of South Sudan during the
civil war. The fighting has displaced more than 1 million
people, according to the  United Nations .  Pipeline Plans  The SPLM-N has also formed an alliance with three insurgent
groups in Darfur to create a “viable democratic alternative”
to Bashir’s government, the Small Arms Survey, a research group
at the Graduate Institute of International and Development
Studies in Geneva, said in an April 2012 report.  South Sudan has sought to reduce its reliance on Sudan for
oil shipments by announcing plans to build a pipeline either via
neighboring  Ethiopia  to an export terminal in Djibouti, or to a
port being built at Lamu on  Kenya ’s coast.  The country can export their oil via Kenya or Djibouti “or
wherever they want to take it,” Bashir said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Gunn in Nairobi at 
 mgunn14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  