-- U.K. Urged to Cut Losses on Lloyds as Sale Speculation Grows
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-06-10T16:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/u-k-told-to-cut-losses-on-rbs-and-transfer-shares-to-taxpayers.html
The U.K. government should return
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to
private ownership by the end of next year, even at a loss,
according to a report by Policy Exchange.  Taxpayers should be given shares in the banks for which
they would only pay when they decide to sell them, a proposal
that would avoid drawing out the sale of the government’s stake
over a period of years, according to the report. The Treasury
could recoup its  investment  and investors would be protected
from losses if the stock fell, the research group said.  “Now that the Policy Exchange proposal (which we are
reading as a government policy document) is out, we think the
political momentum for rapid disposals will build quickly,”
Sandy Chen, a banking analyst at  Cenkos Securities Plc (CNKS)  in
London, wrote in a note to clients today.  The government, which owns 39 percent of Lloyds and 81
percent of RBS after giving them a 65.5 billion-pound ($102
billion) bailout during the financial crisis, is seeking to
reduce the stakes before a general election due in 2015.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may sell an initial
10 percent stake in Lloyds by the year-end, the Financial Times
reported today, citing unidentified people close to the talks.  Prevent Collapse  “The measures taken to recapitalize the banks were
designed to prevent the collapse of the financial system as a
whole -- not act as investments,” Policy Exchange said. “On
that basis it has worked.”  Lloyds declined 1.2 percent to 61.56 pence in London
trading and RBS rose 2 percent to 334 pence.  “We will put the banks back in the private sector when
it’s right to do so,” said a Treasury spokesman who asked not
to be identified in line with government policy. “There’s no
change in policy.”  Lloyds Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio said
last month he expects to complete his turnaround plan as soon as
next year. RBS CEO Stephen Hester has said the Edinburgh-based
lender will have completed most of its restructuring next year,
allowing the government to start cutting its stake by the end of
2014.  Asset Protection  The think-tank said that taking into account fees the banks
have paid for using the Treasury’s Asset Protection Scheme, the
government paid about 360 pence for its RBS shares and 53 pence
for Lloyds. RBS rose 3.3 percent to 327.40 pence in London
trading on June 7, while Lloyds advanced 2.4 percent to 62.32
pence. Prime Minister  David Cameron  refused last month to rule
out selling the British government’s stake in RBS at a loss.  “We do not believe that banks should be state-controlled
as a matter of principle,” Policy Exchange said. “The private
sector is generally a better allocator of capital and while the
errors of the banks in the run-up to the financial crisis showed
the private sector too has its flaws, both the banks and the
regulatory system are better-placed to deal with such issues in
the future.”  Policy Exchange’s three founders, Michael Gove, Francis Maude and Nicholas Boles, are all now ministers in the coalition
government.  Spokesmen for Lloyds and RBS declined to comment on Policy
Exchange’s proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  