-- U.K. Fights EU Short-Sale Powers After Bank Bonus Defeat
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-06-10T14:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/u-k-fights-eu-short-sale-powers-after-bank-bonus-defeat.html
The U.K., defeated in a campaign to
derail European Union curbs on banker bonuses, goes to the
bloc’s top court tomorrow in a bid to overturn the powers of an
EU agency to ban short selling.  Britain will argue at the Luxembourg-based EU Court of
Justice that the  European Securities and Markets Authority ’s
decision-making ability comes at the expense of national
supervisors, in the latest skirmish against the EU’s growing
powers over financial services.  “The Brits have a tradition of objecting to more power
being given to the European Commission or EU agencies,” said
Karel Lannoo, chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies in Brussels. If ESMA has been handed the powers
to “avoid a bad functioning of the single market, then there’s
nothing against this” in the bloc’s rules, he said.  Prime Minister David Cameron has promised to seek a new
settlement with the EU, amid a rising tide of opposition that
saw the U.K. Independence Party, which advocates a divorce from
the bloc, gains seats in local elections last month. While
Cameron has said he plans a referendum on EU membership by the
end of 2017, this has failed to quell calls from members of his
Conservative Party for Britain’s European destiny to be put to
the people sooner.  Bonus Curbs  The U.K. has often found itself on the defensive in EU
discussions on financial regulation. The nation, which lacks a
veto on financial laws, was the sole dissenting voice in March
opposing a deal to ban bonuses more than twice fixed pay.  Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne last
week said that plans being discussed by 11 other EU nations for
a common financial transactions tax were “unlawfully
extraterritorial” and “poorly designed.” The country started
a legal challenge over the draft measures in April.  The U.K. is also suing the European Central Bank over
policies that it says push clearing of some derivatives away
from London and into the euro area, and has grappled with other
states on topics ranging from oversight of hedge funds to how
much power the Brussels-based commission should have to police
bank capital.  Upgraded Mandate  ESMA, which brings together markets regulators from the 27-nation EU, was handed an upgraded mandate to police short
selling  last year  as part of a bid by EU lawmakers to make
markets less volatile and tame speculation by traders blamed for
driving up governments’ borrowing costs.  Short sellers seek to profit on declining markets by
selling borrowed shares or bonds, on the belief their price will
fall, then replacing them with securities bought at a lower
price.  Britain contests provisions of the law allowing Paris-based
ESMA to introduce short-selling bans to protect “the orderly
functioning and integrity of financial markets.” It can only
act if the crisis has “cross-border implications” and if
national regulators are unwilling or unable to deal with it.  ESMA is one of three EU-level agencies set up to better
coordinate oversight of securities markets, banks and insurers
in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The U.K.’s case “could have wider ramifications,” said
Alexandria Carr, a lawyer in the  London  office of Mayer Brown,
which isn’t involved in the case. It could affect the powers of
the EU’s three supervisory authorities “to take what are
arguably wide discretionary decisions.”  ESMA Powers  ESMA has “a large measure of discretion” in the law about
when it takes action, is “given a wide range of choices as to
what measure or measures to impose” and “is empowered to renew
its measures without any limit on their overall duration,” the
U.K. said, according to a  court filing .  The U.K. Treasury declined to comment on the court case.  ESMA has seen its powers boosted several times since it
started work in 2011. EU lawmakers put it in charge of
overseeing credit-ratings companies and trade repositories,
while the commission is set to propose that it should take over
supervision of Libor and other critical benchmark rates.  “This is probably just the next step in what promises to
be, in the years ahead, a series of regulatory challenges
between national regulatory authorities and EU institutions,”
Richard Reid, a research fellow for finance and regulation at
the University of Dundee in  Scotland , said in an e-mail.  “I think the evidence that short selling is a root cause of
instability is slim. But this does not prevent it from being one
of several emotive issues,” he said.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Financial Services
Commissioner Michel Barnier, the architect of the proposal to
give ESMA the short-selling powers, declined to immediately
comment on the hearing.  The case is: C-270/12, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland v. Council of the European Union, European
Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  