-- U.K. Plans Agency to Negotiate With Defense Suppliers
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/u-k-plans-agency-to-negotiate-with-defense-suppliers.html
The U.K. government plans to set up
an independent agency to negotiate contracts with its biggest
defense suppliers, including  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Rolls-Royce
Group Plc (RR/) , to save hundreds of millions of pounds a year.  Defense Secretary Philip Hammond intends to seek value in
equipment procurement while also ensuring the industry makes a
reasonable profit, said defense ministry officials who cannot be
identified under government rules. He will set out plans for new
legislation in Parliament today, the officials said.  For reasons of national security, often only one company
can provide the specialist capability required by the armed
forces on a specific project, the officials said. That has
allowed companies to set terms with the ministry without risk of
being outbid. Hammond aims to change those rules governing state
and industry relationships, which date from 1968.  Hammond has backed private-sector management of military
equipment procurement as a way of avoiding cost overruns that
have wasted of billions of pounds in taxpayer funds. The
National Audit Office said a Jan. 10 report addressing
procurement-cost overruns that there are “critical shortfalls”
in air transport and refueling capabilities because of delays in
delivering new aircraft.  Additional Proposal  In addition to proposing an independent agency, Hammond
today will set out the legislative changes required to transform
his ministry’s current procurement arm, Defense Equipment and
Support, into a government-owned, contractor-operated
organization, known as a Go-Co. This is so that if the project
is approved by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s
Treasury in April, the ministry can quickly implement the change
from DE&S to Go-Co status.  While Hammond favors the Go-Co model, it has yet to be
approved by the Treasury or the Cabinet Office, which is
considering keeping DE&S in government hands.  The drive to partly privatize defense procurement comes as
Hammond is negotiating his department’s budget for 2015-16.
Osborne is scheduled to announce the departmental spending plans
on June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 