-- U.S. Military Faces Crisis Over Sexual Assaults, Gillibrand Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-09T16:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/u-s-military-faces-crisis-over-sexual-assaults-gillibrand-says.html
The U.S. military is facing a
“crisis” over cases of sexual assault, Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand  said as she pushed her plan to remove sex-assault
cases from the chain of command and turn them over to
independent military prosecutors.  “What we have here is a crisis,” Gillibrand, a  New York 
Democrat, said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.
“What the victims tell us across the board is that they’re
afraid to report because of retaliation” or that they’ll be
marginalized or blamed, she said.  The military is facing criticism over its handling of
sexual assaults. Debate has centered increasingly on whether
commanding officers should continue to decide whether to act on
allegations of sexual harassment and assault within their units.
A Defense Department survey estimated 26,000 cases of sexual
assault occurred last year, compared with 2,949 victims
identified in criminal reports.  The U.S. Army on June 7 said that it suspended Major
General Michael T. Harrison, the commanding general of its
forces in  Japan , over allegations that he failed to report or
properly investigate an allegation of sexual assault.  “Until you have transparency, accountability and
objectivity, where the decision maker of whether you’re going to
trial or not, is an objective prosecutor -- not a commander --
you’re not going to have the kind of reporting and, frankly,
justice that we need in the system,” she said.  The military’s top commanders pledged during a June 4
hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee to take greater
steps to prevent such cases. They also said the cases should
remain within the chain of command.  “No problem gets solved in the military without the chain
of command, and I don’t want to let the chain of command off the
hook,” Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican and a
member of the congressional panel, said on the CBS show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  