-- Turkish Leader Defends Police Crackdown on Protesters
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-06-10T11:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/turkey-police-clash-with-protesters-in-ankara.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  brought his supporters onto the streets as he staged
rallies in several cities including the capital Ankara, where
police moved against protesters in the city center.  Erdogan blamed banks and financial speculators for seeking
to profit from the unrest as he spoke to crowds in the cities of
Adana and Mersin before a multi-stop speaking tour in Ankara,
where he halted his journey from the airport several times late
yesterday to address crowds from atop his bus. It was a show of
strength by the Islamist-rooted premier, who has been the target
of nationwide protests since police cracked down on a rally in
an Istanbul park on May 31.  Erdogan said his government would listen to the protesters’
demands, saying he would be ready to meet a chosen
representative. He also said that if the demonstrators remain in
the streets, “we’ll have to answer them in the language they
understand.”  As Erdogan’s bus inched through the capital amid crowds
cheering and waving flags, footage on CNN Turk and other
channels showed police using tear gas and water cannons to drive
demonstrators out of the Kizilay Square district in the city’s
center. A few minutes earlier, Erdogan had urged protesters to
withdraw. It was a warning for the crowds in Istanbul’s Taksim
Square, where police have been absent more than a week and tens
of thousands gathered last night for an opposition rally
followed by a rock concert.  Weeklong Clashes  At least three people, including a policeman, have died in
more than a week of clashes between police and protesters who
accuse Erdogan of increasingly autocratic behavior after three
successive election victories. Turkish police have used tear
gas, pepper spray and water cannon to quell the protests,
drawing international criticism of their conduct. Erdogan called
on his supporters to respond to the protesters at the ballot
box.  Turkey  is due to hold local and presidential votes next
year and parliamentary elections in 2015.  He called the demonstrators “terrorists” and
“anarchists” and praised officers he called “my police” for
their efforts to restore security. Erdogan also lashed out
against financial speculators he accused of planning the events
because they profit from higher  interest rates  in Turkey. He
asked his followers to deposit their money in state banks, while
accusing private banks of opposing him.  “You who started this struggle against us, you’ll pay a
heavy price for it,” he said, referring to the private banks
and an “interest-rates lobby” he says is trying to undermine
and profit from Turkey’s economy. “The interest rates lobby has
exploited my people’s sweat for years, and you won’t be able to
exploit it any longer.”  Banging Pans  European Union High Representative  Catherine Ashton  said
allegations of excessive police force in Turkey should be
investigated promptly and those responsible held accountable,
according to a statement from her office yesterday.  The protesters in Istanbul have barricaded off Taksim
Square and gathered there each day since May 31. Across major
cities including Ankara and Istanbul, the sounds of people
banging on pots and pans and whistling rings out each night at 9
p.m. in protest against Erdogan’s rule.  Erdogan’s verbal attacks against the finance industry may
backfire in markets, according to Tim Ash, chief  emerging
markets  economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London .  “They are somehow trying to pin the blame on the protests
on markets, and market participants, including foreigners,” Ash
said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “The attack on stock
market speculation will hardly go down well with foreign
portfolio investors who have bought into the Erdogan/AKP story
over the past decade, and have been part of its success.”  Squeeze Throat  Erdogan said yesterday that his government would “squeeze
the throat” of speculators in the stock market. He also said
that there were powers inside and outside Turkey who were
unhappy with Turkey’s economic success under his Justice and
Development Party or AKP, which won the last election in 2011
with 50 percent of the vote.  Turkey’s stock market declined 1.4 percent at 2:30 p.m.
today while the lira fell 1.2 percent to 1.8970 per dollar,
heading for its biggest loss on a closing basis in more than a
year.  Turkey pays the fourth-highest  interest rates  on its two-year local currency debt among 21 major emerging markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Turkish
benchmark  two-year bonds  has increased 76 basis points since May
31 to 6.55 percent at the close on June 9, up from a record low
of 4.79 percent on May 17. The  benchmark stock index  fell 8.9
percent last week, the most in almost two years.  ‘Stand Tall’  As Erdogan rallied his supporters, crowds chanted slogans
including “stand tall, this people is with you,” and “let the
hands of those who touch the police be broken.” They booed at
each mention of the interest rates lobby.  Erdogan accused demonstrators of damaging public property
and shops, calling them riffraff and looters and complaining
that they uttered obscenities against him.  The government has ruled out early elections to defuse the
snowballing protests.  “The prime minister is fueling tensions with his combative
style, he must soften his tone,” said Ibrahim Koksel, 47, in
Ankara, adding that he had voted for Erdogan’s party. “This is
a reflection of unease over what he has done over the past
decade.”  Protesters have cited grievances including suppression of
the media, legislation passed last month to curb alcohol sales
and advertising, an increase in religious lessons at schools,
and development plans in Taksim’s Gezi Park and other areas that
they say will destroy green spaces.  More than 4,000 people have been treated at hospitals for
injuries sustained since the clashes began, the Turkish Medical
Association said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  