-- Vettel Wins Canadian Grand Prix for Third Victory of Season
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-06-10T10:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/vettel-wins-canadian-grand-prix-for-3rd-victory-of-f-1-season.html
Three-time defending champion
Sebastian Vettel extended his lead to 36 points in this season’s
Formula One drivers’ standings by winning the Canadian Grand
Prix by 14.4 seconds for his third victory of the year.  The 25-year-old German, who started from pole position,
took 1 hour, 32 minutes, 9.143 seconds to finish the 70-lap race
yesterday on the 4.361-kilometer (2.71-mile) Circuit Gilles
Villenueve.  It was the first victory at the  Montreal  track for the Red
Bull driver and the 29th of his career. He also started from
pole the previous two years, only to fall short of a victory.  “We’ve had good races here before, but it didn’t come
together to win,” Vettel said from the victory podium. “Great
car by the team and we were really able to pull away from the
rest of the field.”  Ferrari’s Fernando Alonso of Spain was second and Mercedes
driver Lewis Hamilton of Britain was third. The race was run in
dry conditions, with a track temperature of 84 degrees (29
Celsius) at the start.  Vettel now has 132 points this season after seven of the 19
races, while Alonso is second with 96. Lotus driver Kimi Raikkonen of  Finland , who began the day in second place in the
season standings, finished ninth in Montreal and fell to third
place this season with 88 points. Hamilton is fourth with 77.  Track Death  A track marshal died after being run over near the end of
the race as he was helping to retrieve Mexican driver Esteban
Gutierrez’s crashed Sauber. The marshal tripped and fell into
the path of a mobile crane that was recovering the car to the
pits, the ruling body  Federation Internationale de l’Automobile 
said.  Quebec Premier Pauline Marois met briefly with Formula One
head Bernie Ecclestone along the track before the race and told
reporters they discussed how to reach an agreement to keep the
race in Montreal after the current contract expires next year.  “It was positive on both sides,” Marois said. “So far,
things are going well. I hope we will reach an agreement.”  The next Formula One race is the British Grand Prix on June
30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  