-- Vietnam’s Prime Minister Dung Faces First Confidence Vote
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-10T11:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/vietnam-s-prime-minister-dung-faces-first-confidence-vote.html
Vietnam ’s lawmakers cast historic
confidence votes today to decide the fate of the prime minister
and senior leaders, after stumbles that last year prompted the
premier to make a public apology to the communist nation.  Premier Nguyen Tan Dung, the country’s president and 45
other senior officials were scrutinized as the 499-member
National Assembly cast secret ballots on their level of
confidence in leaders for the first time. The results of the
votes, a bid to bring greater accountability to government, will
be announced tomorrow.  Vietnam’s ruling  Communist Party  faces growing dissent for
not reining in corruption as the economy last year grew at the
slowest pace in 13 years. Earlier this year, a group including
former government officials distributed an alternative draft
constitution calling for “political competition.”  “There will be a group of non-party members and
independent party members who vote against him, but I don’t see
him losing,” Eddy Malesky, Associate Professor of Political
Economy at  Duke University  who has been studying Vietnam and its
politics for 15 years, said of Dung.  Vietnam targets 5.5 percent economic growth this year. That
would be its first period of three straight years of growth
below 6 percent since 1988, according to International Monetary
Fund data. The government is trying to fix a banking sector
weighed down with bad debt, which the central bank estimated at
7.8 of outstanding loans at the end of last year, and force
state-owned companies to become more efficient.  The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  dropped 0.7 percent today in  Ho Chi
Minh City . The gauge has surged 28 percent this year, at least
10 percentage points more than any other Southeast Asian
benchmark gauge tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Two Messages’  Like students taking exams, some delegates covered their
ballots with their arms to ensure privacy. They then cast their
ballots by dropping them in boxes at the front of the chambers.  Nguyen Sinh Hung, the legislature’s chairman, told
lawmakers to “stay calm” and “take your time” to carefully
choose ratings. He acknowledged there are “shortcomings” in
the new process and that it would be improved the next time.  While Dung, 63, is expected to pass his confidence ballot,
there may be enough votes against him and a small number of
senior lawmakers to send a message, said Roberto Herrera-Lim,
New York-based Asia Director at the Eurasia Group. Last year,
Dung was “steps away” from being pushed out, he added.  “There will be enough negative votes so that it will be
seen Dung is under some sort of public admonition,”  Herrera-Lim said by phone. “They are trying to send two messages: There
is a government reaction to the problems that is credible, and
the prime minister is being scolded.”  The confidence vote is a two-step process. Lawmakers vote
to rate a leader with “high confidence,” “confidence” or
“low confidence,” according to the legislature’s  website .  A low confidence outcome from two-thirds of delegates will
bring a no-confidence vote either this week or later this year
when the legislature next meets, with a majority required for
the dismissal of an official. Two consecutive annual ratings of
low confidence will also trigger a no-confidence vote.  Dung Apology  Dung faced a call for a confidence vote in the National
Assembly in late 2010 for his handling of Vietnam Shipbuilding
Industry Group, or Vinashin, the state-run firm that he
championed and that almost collapsed under $4 billion of debt
that year. The vote was never held and Dung apologized to the
nation in a televised broadcast in October 2012 “for
shortcomings and weaknesses of the government” in managing
state companies.  Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong also apologized in
October last year for “big mistakes” made by the Politburo.
The following month, lawmaker Duong Trung Quoc suggested to Dung
in a televised legislative session that he start a “culture of
resignation.”  ‘Clamp Down’  In January, the party faced the biggest challenge to its
power monopoly since the country reunified 37 years ago after
the war: Seventy-two intellectuals and former government
officials, including many party members, produced an alternative
draft constitution which has received nearly 15,000 signatures
via an online campaign.  Given such uncertainties National Assembly members will not
remove top leaders for fear of creating further instability,
Herrera-Lim said.  “If the party splits now in the middle of an economic
crisis, things could get worse, even the primacy of the party
could be questioned,” he said. “The government would clamp
down.”  The Communist Party is looking to amend the  constitution  to
bolster its control of the military and curb political dissent
as it shifts to a market-oriented economy. The armed forces owe
“absolute loyalty to the homeland, the Party, the State and the
people,” the revision says. The current constitution excludes
the party and state. The government has cracked down on dissent
with two activists given prison sentences last month on
subversion charges.  Parliament Voice  National Assembly member Quoc said lawmakers were “excited
but also concerned about the polling outcomes because we don’t
have enough information for delegates to make judgment on the
officials.” “However, the fact that we are making it happen is
a good thing,” he said by phone.  The confidence vote gives parliament a voice beyond being a
rubber-stamp body, said Jonathan  London , assistant professor at
the  City University of Hong Kong ’s Department of Asian and
International Studies.  “It is conceivable that substantial changes in Vietnam’s
politics could take place within five years, and that is not
something I have ever felt comfortable saying before,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  