-- When Market Incentives Undermine Morality
-- B y   D a n i e l   F r i e d m a n   a n d   D a n i e l   M c N e i l l
-- 2013-06-09T22:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-09/when-market-incentives-undermine-morality.html
The Greek philosophers were not
entirely wrong about markets. When they reward cooperation,
people become more obliging and virtuous -- but markets don’t
always reward it. Though on balance they have greatly improved
our moral behavior, they can also degrade it.  Cases of cheating go back beyond  Uruk , and in our time we
have witnessed extraordinary frauds such as Enron. Let’s look at
a small-scale example to show how it can work.  For years  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  have sold a trio
of anemia drugs: Epogen, Procrit and Aranesp. Together, they
have been the pharmaceutical equivalent of Ghawar, the vast
Saudi oil field, bringing in $8 billion annually for these
companies. The star, Epogen, was once the most lucrative drug
under Medicare.  Then, in 2011, Medicare issued a study that found no solid
evidence that most kidney patients -- the main users of these
medicines -- lived longer, felt better or indeed got any
“clinical benefit” from the drugs, other than an increased red-blood-cell count. At the same time, the pharma firms had
understated the risk for side effects, such as cancer and
stroke. In other words, the drugs benefited few people but could
harm many who were taking them needlessly. In most cases, they
were no better than 19th-century patent medicines.  Yet market incentives had led doctors everywhere to
prescribe them. A  2012 story  in the Washington Post outlined the
steps.  Marketing Campaign  First, the drug companies held drug trials that inflated
the benefits while missing the true harm. Amgen, for instance,
assured the  Food and Drug Administration , “The risks associated
with therapy are minimal.” Yet conflict of interest is an
obvious hazard when firms test their own potential blockbusters.
It’s like asking a job applicant if she’s qualified for a high-paying position.  Then the companies won approval from the FDA and, according
to the Washington Post, lobbied Congress assiduously to allow
higher dosages. Of course, the more that patients take of a
drug, the more companies earn. Moreover, though investigators
eventually learned that the medicines seem to help only 16
percent of dialysis patients, those who need blood transfusions,
the companies won approval for milder cases and a variety of
other ills. So by 1994, one drug’s label stated that it could
improve “health, sex life, well-being, psychological affect,
life satisfaction and happiness.”  Next, the companies tilted decision making among doctors.
For instance, they gave discounts to physicians who ordered a
large volume of the drugs. They also overfilled vials, sometimes
adding as much as 25 percent extra, presumably so doctors could
resell the surplus. And the companies lobbied Congress to allow
a markup to physicians of as much as 30 percent each time they
prescribed these medicines to Medicare patients. Markups were
even higher for patients with private insurance. For instance,
one clinic received $900 for doses normally costing $600 so it
pocketed $300 for each.  “An oncologist could make anywhere from $100,000 to
$300,000 a year from this alone,” said Charles Bennett, a
professor at the University of  South Carolina . “And all the
while they were told that it was good for the patient.”  Finally, in November 2006, an independent study in the New
England Journal of Medicine revealed that kidney patients who
got higher dosages also had higher rates of stroke,
hospitalization and death. The following month, scientists in
 Denmark  stopped a trial of Aranesp in cancer patients because
tumor growths and deaths had increased. Amgen sat on this news
for three months, until a newsletter revealed it. Asked why his
company had not reacted faster, Kevin Sharer, the chief
executive officer, replied, “Perfection says we should have done
that.”  Higher Doses  Use peaked in 2007. At that time, more than 80 percent of
the 175,000 dialysis patients on Medicare were getting higher
levels of these medicines than the FDA now deems safe. In 2007,
despite intense lobbying, the FDA limited use of the drugs,
lowered dosages and warned doctors to prescribe the smallest
possible quantities in many cases.  Amgen initially denied any deception. It issued a statement
claiming that it updated the product labeling 15 times and
“quickly and responsibly” communicated new findings as they
appeared. The company asserted it had never misled the public:
“On the contrary, Amgen’s primary concern is for patients.”  Amgen’s primary concern, in fact, seemed to be for the
bottom line. But were company executives evil? Did they choose
to commit statistical homicide, to kill a percentage of
customers they would never meet, in exchange for big profits?  We think it’s far more likely that they simply didn’t scout
too hard for negative test results. They may have thought of
themselves as highly moral, bearers of vital therapy to
suffering patients. All of us concoct rationalizations of self-interest. And if we badly want to believe a fact -- say, that my
drug is widely helpful and harmless -- the bar of proof drops
significantly. We’ll seize on evidence suggesting it does and
downplay the counterevidence. Indeed, if a job applicant falsely
says she is qualified for a position, she may not even be lying.
Self-interest may convince her that she is qualified.  And once we form and express an opinion, we will pay more
attention in the future to supporting evidence and slight the
rest, a well-known mental quirk called the confirmation bias. We
are all vulnerable; no one likes to learn news that undermines
one’s beliefs. And where billions of dollars and entire careers
are at stake, the bias grows much stronger. So markets can
degrade morals by offering gleaming rewards and playing on our
need to see ourselves as moral.  Note that this was hardly a farmer’s market. The balance
between buyers and sellers leading to a competitive equilibrium
was just not there. The government defined many terms of its
operation. Yet officials had to deal with relatively sketchy
data, as it turned out, and heavy lobbying. Market pressure
swayed votes in Congress and allowed the selling of these drugs
far beyond the need for them, despite the dangers.  Doctors Decide  Moreover, the decision maker was not the buyer, but the
doctor. Doctors prescribe the drugs, but patients, insurance
companies and the government all pay.  Overall, the checks and balances of the model market
receded, and the opportunities for moral corrosion grew. In the
end, it is hard to believe Amgen’s claim that its “primary
concern is for patients.”  The larger question here is: Have markets changed the
zeitgeist? Have they marginalized the moral dimension in public
policy and made market efficiency its key arbiter?  Many think so. In 2009, then President  Nicolas Sarkozy  of
 France  wrote, “Purely financial capitalism has perverted the
logic of capitalism.” It is a system, he declared, in which “the
logic of the market excuses everything.”  (Daniel Friedman is a professor of economics at the
 University of California  at  Santa Cruz . Daniel McNeill is the
author of “Fuzzy Logic.” This is the first of  two  excerpts from
the second edition of their book “Morals and Markets: The
Dangerous Balance,” to be published June 11 by Palgrave
MacMillan.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Daniel Friedman at  danqfrie@gmail.com .
Daniel McNeill at  dmcn@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  