-- ‘21 Jump Street’ Is Top Film With Sales of $36.3 Million
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-03-20T00:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/-21-jump-street-is-top-weekend-film-with-35-million-in-sales.html
“21 Jump Street,” a film spoof of
the 1980s TV series that starred  Johnny Depp , led the U.S. and
Canadian box office this past weekend, generating $36.3 million
in ticket sales for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s  Columbia Pictures .  “Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax,” the No. 1 film for the previous
two weekends, fell to second place with $22.8 million in
receipts for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures ,  Hollywood.com
Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Will Ferrell ’s
“Casa de mi Padre” and  Jason Segel ’s “Jeff, Who Lives at
Home,” opened in limited release.  “21 Jump Street” was forecast to pull in $28 million to
$31 million, the estimates of Box Office Guru and Box
Office.com. The film’s “R” rating may limit its appeal,
according to Gitesh Pandya, editor of Box Office Guru.  “This is a great opening for Jonah Hill and  Channing
Tatum , and it helps that this was the only new film in wide
release,” said  Jeff Bock , a box-office analyst for Exhibitor
Relations Co. in Los Angeles, in a telephone interview.  “21 Jump Street” features Hill and Tatum as a pair of
young cops sent to a local high school to blend in and bring
down a synthetic drug ring. The original series, a TV drama, ran
from 1987 to 1991, according to the Internet Movie Database.  The film isn’t so much a send-up of ’80s cop shows as a
send-up of movies that send up ’80s cop shows, Bloomberg critic
 Greg Evans  said in his review.  ‘John Carter’  Production credits for the picture include Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer Studios Inc. and Ryan Kavanaugh’s Relativity Media LLC,
according to IMDB. The film was made for an estimated $42
million, according to film researcher Box Office Mojo.  In “The Lorax,” written by the children’s author Theodor Seuss Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, a 12-year-old boy
battles to win the affection of a girl and restore nature in his
overly industrialized world.  In the process, he learns the story of the Lorax, an
acerbic creature who tried to save trees from developers. The
computer-animated film features the voices of  Danny DeVito ,
 Taylor Swift  and Zac Efron. The film has taken in $158.4 million
since it opened on March 2.  Among other returning films,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s big-budget
film “ John Carter ” collected $13.6 million in its second
weekend, falling to third place from second.  The film, produced at an estimated cost of $250 million,
according to  IMDB.com , tells the story of an American Civil War
veteran who suddenly finds himself on Mars. Empowered with great
strength because of the planet’s lighter gravity, he joins in a
conflict among its inhabitants.  ‘A Thousand Words’  “Project X,” the R-rated teen comedy from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., had $4 million in receipts in its third
week, placing fourth. The film, which follows three high-school
seniors as they plan a birthday party that explodes into a drug-
fueled bash, has taken in $48.2 million since opening.  “That has been a huge boon for Warner Bros.,” Bock said.
“They’re already talking about making a sequel.”  Eddie Murphy ’s “A Thousand Words” earned $3.6 million to
finish in sixth place. The comedian plays a slippery literary
agent who falls under a curse that limits the number of words he
has left to speak. The film from Viacom Inc.’s Paramount
Pictures also features Alison Janney and Clark Duke.  Revenue Up Slightly  “Casa de mi Padre” opened with sales of $2.3 million in
382 theaters, to finish in ninth place. The comedy, distributed
in the U.S. by Pantelion Films, a partnership of  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and Grupo Televisa SAB, features Ferrell as
the son of a cash-strapped Mexican rancher. He battles a drug
lord after his younger brother’s financial rescue plan turns out
to be trouble.  Opening in 254 theaters, “Jeff, Who Lives at Home”
collected $855,000 in sales for the Paramount Vantage label. It
finished 17th in the rankings.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 5.4 percent to
$97.8 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
For the year to date, box-office sales have risen 16 percent to
$2.2 billion and attendance is up 19 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 16 to March 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolume@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  