-- Madoff Judge in Mets Case Still to Rule on Koufax, SEC Evidence
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/madoff-judge-in-mets-case-still-to-rule-on-koufax-sec-evidence.html
The parties in a $303 million claim
against the owners of the  New York  Mets are waiting for several
issues to be resolved, including whether Hall of Fame pitcher
 Sandy Koufax  may testify, before settling on a final lineup of
witnesses for a trial set to start tomorrow.  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, the owners, and  Irving Picard ,
the court-appointed trustee liquidating the former firm of con
man  Bernard Madoff , will select nine jurors to decide whether
the owners and a group of related people, family trusts and
other entities can keep the principal they withdrew from their
Madoff accounts before the fraud was exposed in December 2008.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff is set to rule on a flurry
of pretrial motions filed by both sides last week, including
whether witnesses including Koufax and former  Manhattan  District
Attorney Robert Morgenthau may testify, whether Picard may refer
to the funds as “other people’s money,” and whether Wilpon and
Katz can argue that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
did nothing to expose Madoff.  Rakoff ruled March 5 that the Mets defendants must return
to Picard as much as $83 million in fictitious profits from
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The exact amount is subject to dispute,
Rakoff said. He hasn’t said when he will rule on the issue.  Rakoff also ruled that Wilpon and Katz must prove they
withdrew the $303 million in good faith and didn’t willfully
blind themselves to evidence of Madoff’s fraud.  Koufax Testimony  Wilpon and Katz claim the testimony of Koufax and
Morgenthau will help jurors decide they were unaware of the
 Ponzi scheme . Picard urged Rakoff to bar the testimony of those
witnesses, claiming they would unfairly prejudice the jury.  Picard also asked Rakoff to rule that the owners can’t tell
jurors about the $273 million that he and his  law firm  have
charged in fees for liquidating the Madoff firm. In addition, he
wants Rakoff to prevent Wilpon and Katz from creating a
“sideshow” over the SEC’s failure to discover Madoff’s fraud.  The owners want to bar Picard from introducing documents
from the Sterling Stamos hedge fund. Picard claims Peter Stamos,
who ran the fund, frequently warned that Madoff’s returns were
“too good to be true.”  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina .  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  