-- Maersk Drilling to Spend Much as $6 Billion on Oil Rigs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/maersk-drilling-to-spend-much-as-6-billion-on-oil-rigs.html
Maersk Drilling , the oil-rig
operating unit of  Denmark ’s largest company, plans to spend $4
billion to $6 billion on new platforms, with the first of those
orders being placed as early as this year.  The unit of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S plans to buy six to
eight rigs to “expand into a more significant player,” Chief
Executive Officer Claus V. Hemmingsen said in an interview
yesterday in Beijing.  Maersk Drilling, which has about 3 percent of the offshore
market, has expanded its fleet as part of a long-term target to
increase its capacity by 50 percent. The company, based in
Copenhagen, is already spending $3.8 billion to build six
platforms, with deliveries expected as early as next year,
according to Hemmingsen. The company may start placing
additional orders at the end of 2012 or in 2013, he said.  “We still believe in the market,” said Hemmingsen, who is
also a member of A.P. Moeller-Maersk’s  executive board . “Oil
production is declining rapidly and in order to meet demand,
there’s a lot of oil that needs to be found and produced in a
very short time frame.”  Maersk Drilling, which celebrates its 40th anniversary this
year, operates 26 platforms that include six ultra-harsh
environment jack-ups, six further jack-ups, four semi-
submersibles and 10 drilling barge rigs. Jack-up rigs have
extendable legs while semi-subs are rigs that float and are
partly filled with water for stability.  The company spent $3 billion in the four years through 2010
to increase the size of its fleet to 26 from 20.  $600 Million Each  Hemmingsen said in August that the company wouldn’t order
something “tomorrow or in the near future” because platforms
were “very expensive.”  Yesterday, he said prices have leveled off. “The cost of
rigs have come up a lot over the last couple of years, but
currently prices seemed to have stabilized, even though at a
very high level,” he said. “There’s a limit to how high prices
can go.”  The price of oil rigs have tripled since 2003 and deepwater
rigs now cost between $600 million and $650 million to build,
according to Hemmingsen. Maersk Drilling’s  deepwater semi-subs 
operate at water depths of as much as 3,000 meters (9,800 feet),
according to the company’s website.  “Deepwater is very promising,” said Hemmingsen,  who took
over responsibility for Maersk Drilling in 2005. “We expect to
be ordering for 2016, 2017 and onwards. Since we already have a
new building program, we’re not in an urgent need.”  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  is building four deepwater
drillships for Maersk Drilling, which has an option for another
two at the same price. Hemmingsen said Maersk Drilling wouldn’t
exercise these options that expire at the end of the month.  Keppel FELS Ltd. is also building two ultra-harsh
environment jack-ups for the company.  Chinese Shipyards  Maersk Drilling’s rigs are fully contracted for this year
and about three-quarters covered for 2013, Hemmingsen said. Day
rates, or the daily cost of rig rental, are about $500,000 for
deepwater platforms and above $600,000 for those operating under
special conditions, he said.  “Deepwater market rates are very firm,” he said. “Of
course it’s helped by the oil price and the activity that the
oil price spurs.”  Demand is strongest in the  Gulf of Mexico ,  Brazil  and West
Africa, Hemmingsen said.  China  isn’t as “busy” compared to
those regions, and doesn’t have needs for the sophistication
offered by rigs that the company operates, he said.  While China isn’t a potential market for Maersk Drilling in
the near future, the company has been in contact with its
shipyards regarding rig manufacturing, Hemmingsen said.  “They are building some good rigs,” he said. “Certainly
there’s a chance that one day, they’ll be making our rigs.”  Retirement Wave  The only risk that the rig industry faces in the next
couple of years is a collapse in the world economy and plunging
 oil prices , Hemmingsen said. He said he doesn’t expect either of
these things to happen.  The bigger challenge is for the industry to replace the
skilled personnel needed to operate modern platforms.  “There’s a retirement wave coming,” Hemmingsen said. “We
need to educate people and we are very behind as an industry,”
he said.  At least 20,000 new workers are needed in the industry in
the next four to five years, 3,000 of whom Maersk Drilling wants
to employ, according to Hemmingsen.  “There’s a career opportunity in oil drilling,” he said.
“It’s not the dirty, heavy business it used to be. It’s pretty
clean, it’s very safe and everything’s worked by a joystick,”
he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  