-- Afghan Suspect’s Life Marked by Honors, Personal Setbacks
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n ,   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-03-18T18:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/afghan-suspect-s-life-marked-by-honors-personal-setbacks.html
Robert Bales, the U.S. Army staff
sergeant suspected of killing 16 Afghan civilians, was a
decorated veteran who also experienced wounds in service and
setbacks at home.  He once spoke of saving civilians when his infantry unit in
the  Iraq war  found villagers and family members of Iraqi
fighters after the 2007  Battle of Najaf , also known as the
Battle of Zarqa, that left 250 insurgents dead. The American
soldiers turned from fighting to saving lives, according to a
military account.  “I’ve never been more proud to be a part of this unit than
that day, for the simple fact that we discriminated between the
bad guys and the noncombatants and then afterward we ended up
helping the people that, three or four hours before, were trying
to kill us,” Bales said in an interview for the 2009 report.  Yet women and children were among the 16 victims of the
March 11 shootings in two villages in southern  Afghanistan ,
according to U.S. officials who on March 16 identified Bales, a
38-year-old married father of two, as the suspect. The killings
threaten to erode U.S.-Afghan relations, drain remaining U.S.
and European support for the war and add pressure to speed troop
withdrawals.  Along with a career marked by military honors, a portrait
emerged of Bales as a man who had faced financial troubles and
brushes with the law. He was a soldier who had been injured
twice in Iraq, spurned when he sought a promotion and deployed
to Afghanistan even though his family opposed him going into
combat again.  Promotion Rejected  Bales was flown March 16 to a U.S. military prison in Fort
Leavenworth, Kansas, Army Colonel James Hutton said in a
statement. Bales was being held in a medium-security facility in
his own cell and no charges had been announced in the killings.
Bales’s attorney, John Henry Browne of  Seattle , will meet with
his client tomorrow at the prison, Browne’s colleague Emma
Scanlan said today in an e-mail.  The Army turned down a request from Bales for a promotion
last year, his wife Karilyn wrote March 25 on a blog she
maintained as an online family diary. She said her husband “was
very disappointed after all of the work Bob has done and all the
sacrifices he has made for his love of his country, family and
friends.”  “The Bales Family Adventures” blog and the companion
“BabyBales” site were closed to public view yesterday, after
Robert Bales was identified as the shooting suspect. The sites
were linked to others associated with Karilyn Bales and an e-
mail that uses her maiden name. Karilyn Bales didn’t respond to
an e-mailed request for comment.  Family Barbecues  Reporters swarmed around Bales’s home in Lake Tapps,
Washington, a rural, wooded area near Seattle, about 27 miles
(43 kilometers) northeast of Joint Base Lewis-McChord, the
soldier’s home station. A neighbor, Paul Wohlberg, said he was
stunned to hear what authorities were saying against the man
he’d sometimes join for family barbecues or pizza.  “He’s a good guy, just one of the guys,” Wohlberg said.
“He loved our country; I’m sure he still does.”  Wohlberg, who said he’s lived next door to Bales for five
years, described the soldier’s family as friendly yet reserved.
He said he sympathized with Bales, who served three tours in
 Iraq  before being sent to Afghanistan in December, because of
the pressures of war.  “There are a lot of things that go on in war that are not
good,” Wohlberg said. “A good guy got put in the wrong place
at the wrong time.”  ‘That’s Not Bobby’  Bales grew up in Norwood,  Ohio , a suburb of Cincinnati. He
was a 1991 graduate of Norwood High School, Superintendent
Robert Amodio said in a telephone interview.  Michael Blevins, 35, said he lived across the street from
Bales and considered him “a role model.” He said Bales played
guard and linebacker on the high school football team.  Sitting yesterday on the porch of his mother’s house across
from the former Bales family home, Blevins kept saying of the
killings in Afghanistan: “That’s not Bobby.”  After high school, Bales attended the College of Mount St.
Joseph, a private, liberal arts school in suburban Cincinnati,
for two semesters in 1991 to 1992, said Jill Eichhorn, the
college’s communications manager.  Bales also attended the  Ohio State University  in Columbus
from 1993 to 1996 and studied economics, though he didn’t
graduate, university spokesman Jim Lynch said in a telephone
interview.  Before enlisting, Bales lived in Jensen Beach,  Florida ,
according to the Army, and records there show he registered to
vote as a Republican in St. Lucie County.  Business Failure  While in Florida, Bales started Spartina Investments Inc.,
a Doral, Florida-based company, with his brother, Mark, and a
third man in May 1999, according to state records. The company
dissolved 16 months later. Manuel Arthur Mesa, listed in the
records as an attorney for the company, didn’t return a phone
message yesterday.  Bales enlisted on Nov. 8, 2001, less than two months after
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, according to the Army statement.  In 11 years in the Army, Bales has been awarded the Army
Commendation Medal six times, the Good Conduct Medal three times
and Meritorious Unit commendations twice for superior
performance of exceptionally difficult missions, the Army said
in the statement.  He was deployed to Iraq for 12 months in 2003-2004, 15
months in 2006-2007, 10 months in 2009-10, and arrived in
Afghanistan in December, the Army said.  Generally ‘Mild-Mannered’  A U.S. official briefed on the Afghan killings said the
stress of the fourth combat deployment, a troubled marriage and
alcohol use may have combined to provoke the killings. Browne,
the attorney who said he was hired to represent the soldier,
disputed the allegations.  His client is “in general very mild-mannered” with “a
very strong marriage,” Browne said at a news briefing last
week, denying that alcohol or marital stress were concerns.  Court records show Bales was arrested at a Tacoma,
 Washington , hotel in 2002 for investigation of assault in a case
Browne said involved a woman he dated before he married his
wife, according to the  Associated Press . The lawyer didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the case.  Bales pleaded not guilty, underwent 20 hours of anger
management counseling and the charge was dismissed, the news
service said. Three years ago, a hit-and-run driving charge was
dismissed in another town’s municipal court after a single-
vehicle rollover that damaged property, the AP reported.  Head, Foot Injuries  Bales was sent to Afghanistan after sustaining a concussive
head injury and losing part of a foot in tours in Iraq, Browne
said. The possibility of post-traumatic stress disorder and the
adequacy of his screening for the head injury will be examined,
according to the lawyer.  The soldier’s family was disappointed when he was sent
overseas for a fourth time, according to Browne.  “He and the family were told that his tours in the  Middle
East  were over, and then literally overnight that changed,”
Browne told reporters last week.  Bales’s yellow, two-story home looked this weekend as if it
had been left quickly. Trash was piled on the porch. The
soldier’s family was moved onto the base for their safety, the
military has said.  Property records show Robert and Karilyn Bales bought the
home in 2005 for a listed sale price of $280,000; it was
assessed at $227,100 this year. The four-bedroom, 2.25-bath,
with an attached garage was built in 1990.  “It’s kind of scary to think someone could go off their
rocker like this,” said Alissa Cinkovich, 45, a seven-year
resident of the neighborhood.  Wife’s Work  Karilyn Bales, who goes by Kari, works for Amaxra Inc., a
Redmond, Washington-based business communications company,
according to Kerri LeRoy, operations and human resources
manager. Her LinkedIn profile lists her as an associate
technical project manager.  “She does have our full support and we ask that you
respect her privacy,” LeRoy said.  Kansas Prison  In Leavenworth,  Kansas , the arrival of Robert Bales created
little stir in a town amid rolling hills and farm pastures that
has known more than its share of headline-producing figures.  Its military prison has housed Charles Graner, a U.S. Army
reservist convicted for the abuse of prisoners at  Abu Ghraib ,
Iraq, in 2003-2004 and William Calley, imprisoned for his role
in the March 16, 1968, My Lai massacre of civilians during the
 Vietnam War . The civilian federal penitentiary once held
Prohibition-era gangsters Al Capone and George “Machine Gun”
Kelly.  “We’ve had a history of well-known detainees dating back
many decades,” Leavenworth Mayor Mark Preisinger said
yesterday, as the town held its St. Patrick’s Day parade and the
Veterans of Foreign Wars chapter held a corned beef and cabbage
lunch.  In southern Afghanistan, top officials such as Kandahar
provincial Governor Tooryalai Wesa have backed the U.S.
military’s account of the attacks by a single gunman. Local
residents and Afghan legislators sent to investigate by the
parliament say they don’t believe one soldier could have
produced such carnage.  “This organized, violent attack on civilians was not
committed by a single American soldier, but by several of
them,” Sayeed Mohammed Akhund, one of the five members of
parliamentary team, said in a phone interview. “Our findings
show different types of weapons had been used. How can one guy
attack three different houses and kill 16 civilians?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Washington at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  