-- Afghanistan Setbacks May Lead to Pre-Election U.S. Exit
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-03-18T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/afghanistan-setbacks-may-lead-to-pre-election-u-s-exit.html
A month ago, the one sure thing
about  Afghanistan  was that the U.S. would not withdraw troops
before November 2012, staving off potential disaster until after
the elections.  Now that assumption is no longer certain.  In the last month, the American effort in Afghanistan hit a
grim trifecta: inadvertent Koran burning; the killings of
Americans inside the heavily fortified Interior Ministry in
Kabul; and the horrific Columbine-comes-to-Kandahar murder of 16
civilians, allegedly by an Army sergeant. The Pentagon will
probably still be able to hold on for while. But let there be no
mistake: America’s hold on Afghanistan is unraveling, and the
troops may come home as quickly as military logistics will
allow.  The basic logic for keeping large numbers of U.S. troops in
Afghanistan began with the surge in 2010. The idea was that a
technique that had worked for General David Petraeus and
President  George W. Bush  in  Iraq  might work in Afghanistan as
well. The odds were never good -- much worse than they had been
in Iraq, partly because unlike Iraq’s Sunni Muslim insurgents,
who are a minority, the Taliban belong to Afghanistan’s dominant
Pashtun ethnic group.  Trying a Surge  But for President  Barack Obama , it was worth a try. A
withdrawal then would have been perceived as a victory not only
for the Taliban but also for al-Qaeda and a still-living  Osama bin Laden . And on the campaign trail, Obama had committed
himself to the “right war” in Afghanistan. This had locked him
into trying to win that struggle at a time when it was possible
for his rivals to argue that the surge had made the  Iraq war 
winnable.  Once it became clear to the Obama administration that the
Afghan surge would not generate a clear victory over the
Taliban, however, it moved to a fallback position: The continued
offensive pressure by the U.S. would give the Taliban incentive
to come to the negotiating table. No one would dream of
describing that goal as “peace with honor,” but the strategic
aim closely matched that of the U.S. in the later phases of the
war in Vietnam.  Indeed, much of President  Richard Nixon ’s expansion of that
conflict reflected  Henry Kissinger ’s judgment that although the
war certainly could not be won, it would be impossible to
negotiate meaningfully with the North Vietnamese in Paris unless
the U.S. had some leverage. Increased force, then as now, was
supposed to provide the incentive for the enemy to come to the
table.  Yet, by last summer, that fallback position had itself
fallen away, and little was left to keep the U.S. in Afghanistan
except domestic politics. The Obama administration announced a
speeded up withdrawal process, complete with target dates.  Strikingly, that final withdrawal date was planned for
2014, not this year. Clearly, the Obama administration did not
want to risk a Saigon-like collapse and the rapid return of the
Taliban before the election. Eventually, President Obama might
have to confront the reality that the right war was ending even
more disastrously than the “wrong” one. So the plan was to put
off that historical re-evaluation until at least after the votes
were cast and counted, when he had already been re-elected -- or
when he had lost, and had nothing to worry about except his
legacy.  There was nothing especially unusual about this caution.
During the Iraq war, the  Bush administration  regularly made
crucial strategic decisions informed by the timing of U.S.
elections. The Iraqis took it in stride -- and themselves have
been happy to subordinate American interests to their own
domestic political concerns.  Chain of Tragedies  Yet we are now faced with another possibility entirely: a
scenario in which, despite wanting to keep Afghanistan in check
for a while longer, the Obama administration decides it cannot
wait any longer and must begin to withdraw major numbers of U.S.
forces ahead of time, no matter the consequences.  We have reached this point thanks to a staccato chain of
events, any one of which was predictable individually, but which
mean something vastly more significant taken as a group.  Any war gamer worth his salt would have modeled Afghan
popular reaction after the desecration of the Koran by U.S.
personnel. After all, the U.S. faced serious retaliation in
Afghanistan and elsewhere when a minister in  Florida  simply
announced plans for a book burning. A similar event, in-country,
was sure to have worse results, even if the burning reflected
gross negligence rather than intent.  Slightly less predictable was the breaching of security in
the fortress of the  Interior Ministry  -- not by an attack from
the outside but from within, by a ministry employee. The message
was not simply that the Taliban could infiltrate the innermost
chambers of government. Worse, it suggested that people who
might originally have taken jobs out of loyalty to the
government were now potential killers. The response, also
predictable, was to withdraw all NATO personnel from ministries
-- in effect ending the governance aspects of the U.S.-led
mission before the military ones could be wound down.  Most predictable of all was the horrific spectacle of an
American soldier gone rogue, killing women and children in a
door-to-door massacre. Hundreds more people died at My Lai in
 Vietnam  in 1968. And 24 died at Haditha, Iraq. But both of those
tragedies arose from routine operations gone haywire. Kandahar
was truly an example of the lone gunman, both totally deviant
from the goals of military discipline and also symptomatic of
what can happen when a body of men is under unimaginable
pressure and looking defeat in the face.  Calm After Massacre  It is notable that the Kandahar massacre didn’t have
anywhere near the public reaction of the Koran burnings. From
the standpoint of many Afghans, it would seem, innocent
civilians are killed all the time in their country. The moral
distinction between collateral damage and intentional murder
seems stark to us, who must bear the responsibilities of the use
of force on a large scale and from the air. But for the person
whose family is killed, the difference may seem less salient.  Nevertheless, the American position in Afghanistan becomes
more tenuous each day. Large crowds of angry Afghan civilians
would make a sustained presence harder and harder. President
 Hamid Karzai  last week called for coalition troops to end
patrols in villages and retreat to bases, while the Taliban, who
have known since last summer that it was all over but the
waiting, shut down nascent negotiations with the U.S.  In terms of U.S. politics, concern with losing American
lives is coming to outweigh desire for salvaging some sort of
victory. Should the Obama administration decide to abandon ship
this year, it is not even clear who will object. Yes, it will be
a black day for Afghanistan women, human-rights advocates and
all those who bravely and perhaps a little foolishly took the
side of democracy and hope. But it is hard to imagine any very
great criticism of Obama, even from a Republican candidate in a
heated election.  The American public knows the war is over. The Afghan
public knows it. The tragedy, unfortunately, is just beginning.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu . 