-- Lagarde Says World Can’t Be Lulled Into Sense of Security
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-18T02:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/lagarde-says-world-can-t-be-lulled-into-sense-of-security.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  urged policy makers to be
vigilant as  oil prices , debt levels, and the risk of slowing
growth in  emerging markets  threaten global economic stability.  “Optimism should not give us a sense of comfort or lull us
into a false sense of security,” Lagarde said today at a speech
in Beijing at the China Development Forum. “We cannot go back
to business as usual.”  The IMF last week approved a 28 billion-euro ($36.6
billion) loan for Greece as part of a 130 billion euro second
bailout by the European Union that requires more austerity and
an overhaul of its economy. Greece completed the world’s largest
sovereign-debt overhaul and agreed to deeper spending cuts to
obtain new funds as it faces a fifth year of recession.  “The measures that were proposed are ambitious and it will
be important to focus on steady rigorous implementation of the
situation on the ground,” Lagarde said about  Greece . “We have
made important steps forward.”  Brent crude oil futures have rising 18 percent this year on
concern  Iran ’s standoff with the West over its nuclear program
will escalate into military action in a region that holds 54
percent of global petroleum reserves. Increased gasoline prices
threaten to slow  consumer spending  in the U.S., tempering the
recovery in the world’s largest economy.  Oil prices are “becoming a threat to global growth,”
Lagarde said. “I think it’s a major threat.”  Praising China  Lagarde praised China’s rising leadership role in the world
economy, while saying the world’s second-biggest economy must
“continue shifting the drivers” of growth toward domestic
consumption and away from investment and exports.  China ’s
leadership should work to improve standards of living, she said.  The IMF chief said March 8 that the fund may raise its
growth forecast for the U.S. on signs the recovery is picking up
in new forecasts to be released in about a month.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if it was upward compared with
our previous forecast of 1.8” percent for 2012, she said in an
interview on the “Charlie Rose” show broadcast on PBS and
Bloomberg Television.  The Washington-based IMF in January cut its global growth
forecasts for this year and next and warned that the European
debt turmoil could tip the world into another recession if it
were to worsen. The fund has been seeking $600 billion from its
members to be able to allow an increase in lending resource of
$500 billion, to protect the world from consequences of the
European debt crisis.  While euro nations have pledged about $200 billion, Group
of 20 officials meeting in  Mexico  last month sided with the U.S.
and said any decision on more funding hinges on the euro area
delivering more of its own financial firepower first.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  