-- Manchester Utd. Beats Wolves 5-0 to Take Four-Point League Lead
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-03-19T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/manchester-utd-beats-wolves-5-0-to-take-four-point-league-lead.html
Manchester United  beat 10-man
Wolverhampton Wanderers 5-0 to establish a four-point lead atop
English soccer’s Premier League and push its opponent to last
place in the standings.  Javier Hernandez  scored twice at Molineux yesterday, while
 Jonny Evans ,  Antonio Valencia  and  Danny Welbeck  also got goals
for the visitors. Wolves fullback Ronald Zubar was red-carded
before halftime.  “It was an OK performance from us, I didn’t think it was
anything special,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told Sky
Sports. “Wolves always make it difficult for you here, but we
took our goals well.”  United moves to 70 points from 29 matches after its fifth
straight league victory, while Manchester City has 66 points
from 28 games. Tottenham is a further 13 points back. Wolves
trail Queens Park Rangers and Wigan on goal difference at the
other end.  In yesterday’s other league game, Newcastle beat Norwich
City 1-0 to end a four-match winless run in the league.  Steven Fletcher  headed just wide on 18 minutes for Wolves,
which hasn’t won at home since Dec. 4.  United took the lead soon after as Evans got his first goal
for the club. The center-back put the ball into the net from
close range after Michael Carrick knocked it on from a deep
corner by  Wayne Rooney .  Zubar Red-Carded  The home team’s chances of getting back into the match were
hit by a red card for Zubar on 39 minutes. He was shown a second
yellow card for a late challenge on Welbeck.  Moments later Welbeck missed a chance to double United’s
lead before Valencia scored on 43 minutes when he ran on to a
pass from Rooney and struck a low shot past goalkeeper Wayne
Hennessey.  Welbeck then got his 10th goal of the season just before
halftime to make it 3-0.  Hennessey stopped an effort from Rooney early in the second
half before Hernandez increased the lead after 56 minutes with a
header. The Mexican striker claimed his second goal of the game
five minutes later.  Ferguson said reducing  Manchester City ’s advantage in goal
difference may be “significant.” City is plus 49, three better
than United.  “It will go down to the wire,” Ferguson said. “There are
still nine games to go and it’s just a matter of chalking them
off one-by-one.”  Wolves has one win in 15 league matches, including three
defeats in four starts since Terry Connor was put in temporary
charge until the end of the season. Mick McCarthy was fired on
Feb. 13.  ‘Keep Believing’  It lies 20th and last in the league on 22 points, Wigan is
19th, with QPR in the other relegation spot. Bolton is one point
above those three teams, with Blackburn on 25.  “The message to the players and to everyone is keep
believing,” Connor told reporters.  Senegal striker Papiss Cisse got sixth-place Newcastle’s
only goal as it beat Norwich to close within two points of
Chelsea.  Norwich, without a victory in four league matches, remains
in 13th.  Two days ago, Wigan drew 1-1 at home against West Bromwich
Albion, while Swansea City defeated Fulham 3-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 