-- Anti-Contraception Battle a Loser on Policy and Politics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-18T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/anti-contraception-battle-a-loser-on-policy-and-politics.html
Politically, the great
contraception debate appears to have been a  wash .  Republicans saw their message on religious liberty
enveloped by the crude  misogyny  of radio host  Rush Limbaugh .
Democrats, anticipating a polling boost from outraged female
voters, appear to have experienced nothing of the sort. Instead,
in a Bloomberg News  poll , three-quarters of respondents,
including the majority of women, said the issue has no place in
the debate.  Politics, however, is not all there is to political debates,
even in  Washington . The proximate cause of the drama was the
Obama administration’s recent decision to require health
insurers to provide free access to contraception for employees
of religiously affiliated institutions, such as hospitals and
colleges, that oppose contraception.  That move was itself a retreat -- an appropriate one --
from the administration’s initial position, which would have
required religious institutions themselves to ensure access to
birth control services and supplies. The distinction is subtle,
but it was enough to soothe the concerns of many Catholic social
organizations, if  not  the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.  The Catholic Church, of course, has every right to oppose
contraception and insist that its followers do likewise
(although, according to  polls , most U.S. Catholics don’t). But
on both health and economic grounds, the federal government’s
stake in the issue is considerable.  Using  family planning  to space out births improves both
maternal and child health, including a reduction in low-birth-
weight infants. It reduces unintended pregnancies, which are
concentrated among teens, the poor and the unmarried. The
children of such pregnancies have lower educational attainment
and are less likely to graduate from college. They also have
lower levels of labor-force participation and are more likely to
be unmarried themselves.  The  Brookings Institution   estimates  that taxpayers spend
$12 billion annually on medical care for women with unintended
pregnancies and their infants, and that expanding subsidies for
family planning would save more than $4 for every $1 spent. Yet
the economic impact of contraception is probably far broader
than government expenditures.  In their 2002  study  of the influence of oral contraceptives
on women’s careers and marriages, economists Claudia Goldin and
Lawrence F. Katz wrote that the advent of the pill in the 1960s
made it easier for women to delay marriage, extend their
educations and invest in careers. By “indirectly lowering the
cost of career investment,” the pill helped start four decades
of increased labor-force participation by women and a drastic
narrowing of the gender gap in pay.  Contraception provides powerful benefits in another realm,
one that we’d expect to be especially attractive to social
conservatives. According to the  Guttmacher Institute , more than
40 percent of  unintended pregnancies  are aborted. Although
Americans differ in their opinions about the morality of
abortion, there is broad consensus that fewer abortions are
preferable to more. Abortion rates in Central Asia and Eastern
Europe declined in the 1990s as the use of modern contraceptives
increased. In the U.S., contraception use among teens is
credited with a recent  decline  in teen pregnancy.  Unfortunately, conservatives in several states have seized
the opportunity to inflame the controversy. The Arizona Senate
is considering a bill, already passed by the state House, to
give businesses the option to exclude contraceptives from health
insurance coverage. In  Texas , state legislators have joined
Governor  Rick Perry  in working to defund and delegitimize family
planning clinics associated with  Planned Parenthood .  The federal government is right to encourage access to
contraception. No church is required to dispense it; no
congregant is required to use it simply because health insurance
policies cover it. (The majority of private insurers covered
birth control services and supplies before the Obama
administration’s decision.) At this point contraception’s role
in American culture and public health is firmly established. Why
turn it into a political pill?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 