-- Apple Seen Paying Some of $97.6 Billion in Cash as Dividend
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-03-19T09:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/apple-to-discuss-outcome-of-discussions-over-handling-its-cash.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which plans to discuss
its $97.6 billion in cash and investments in a conference call
today, is likely to announce a dividend, according to analysts’
predictions and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  and Chief Financial
Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  will host the call, scheduled for 9
a.m. New York time, Cupertino, California-based Apple said in a
statement yesterday. The company didn’t elaborate on its plans,
and said it won’t discuss topics besides cash.  “They should pay a dividend,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. “This is something that large
shareholders have been asking for.”  Apple’s  cash pile  has swelled amid surging demand for its
products, such as the iPhone and iPad. Investors have urged
Apple to return some of the balance in the form a dividend. Cook
fueled speculation an announcement might be coming when he said
this year that the company has “more than we need to run a
company” and that the board is considering its options.  Apple directors held a meeting in the past few weeks to
discuss the plans, said Wu, who predicted that Apple will
announce an annual dividend of 2 percent to 3 percent of its
share price. That indicates a dividend of $11.71 to $17.57,
based on Apple’s  closing  share price of $585.57 on March 16. In
German trading today, the stock gained 3.1 percent to the
equivalent of $601.39 at 10:03 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to elaborate
on the statement.  Dividend Estimates  Apple may issue a quarterly dividend of $2 a share,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The estimate is based
in part on the dividends paid by other large technology makers,
including Microsoft Corp. and International Business Machines
Corp.  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group, projects an
annual dividend of $14.65 a share.  While a share buyback is also a possibility, a dividend is
more probable, Wu said.  Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the most-popular search
engine, are the only technology companies with market values
higher than $100 billion that don’t pay a dividend.  Apple generated $16 billion in cash in the first quarter of
fiscal 2012, which ended in December. Wu predicts that Apple
will generate about $75 billion in cash this year. Analysts at
Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Mizuho Securities USA
Inc. also have predicted that Apple will institute a dividend.  The growing amount of money on Apple’s balance sheet has
followed the introduction of the iPhone, the best-selling
smartphone, and the iPad, the leading tablet computer.  Jobs’s Resistance  The company last week began selling a third-generation
iPad, which comes with a high-definition screen and faster
processor.  A dividend would be an added boon to investors who have
already seen the company’s  stock  rise 45 percent this year.
Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs , who died in October, long resisted
calls to return some of the money to investors.  Apple last paid a dividend in 1995, before Jobs returned as
CEO and led the introduction of top-selling products including
the iPod, iPhone and iPad. The final dividend, of 12 cents a
share, was suspended amid leadership upheaval and dwindling
computer-market share. According to a company filing, Apple’s
cash, equivalents and short-term investments dropped by about
half, to $491 million, in the year through Sept. 29, 1995.  Highlighting its turnaround since that period, Apple has
surpassed  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  as the world’s most valuable
company. The iPhone maker’s market value is $545.97 billion,
compared with $407.4 billion for  Exxon Mobil .  (Apple will webcast the conference call, scheduled for
March 19 at 9 a.m. New York time, at
www.apple.com/quicktime/qtv/call31912.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  