-- Apple, Foxconn Report Retracted by ‘This American Life’
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-03-18T02:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/apple-foxconn-report-retracted-by-this-american-life-.html
The weekly radio program “This
American Life” retracted a report on conditions of Chinese
workers who construct  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products, saying the broadcast
contained “errors” and “fabrications.”  “We can’t vouch for its truth, and this weekend’s episode
of our show will detail the errors in the story,” Ira Glass,
host and executive producer of “This American Life,” wrote
yesterday in a  statement .  The broadcast, which first aired Jan. 6, focused on working
conditions at  Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ) , which manufactures
products for Apple and other electronics makers. It centered on
a monologue by Mike Daisey that contained statements later
disputed and shown to be falsified, Glass said.  “Daisey lied to me and to ‘This American Life’ producer
Brian Reed during the fact checking we did on the story,” Glass
said in the statement. “That doesn’t excuse the fact that we
never should’ve put this on the air. In the end, this was our
mistake.”  Daisey, whose one-man show “The Agony and the Ecstasy of
 Steve Jobs ” is currently running at the  Public Theater  in  New
York , responded to the retraction in a personal blog, saying,
“I stand by my work.”  “’This American Life’ is essentially a journalistic ­- not
a theatrical ­- enterprise, and as such it operates under a
different set of rules and expectations,” Daisey wrote. “For
this reason, I regret that I allowed ’This American Life’ to air
an excerpt from my monologue. What I do is not journalism.”  He didn’t immediately respond to a request for additional
comment.  Foxconn Conditions  Emily Condon, a spokeswoman for “This American Life,”
said the company plans to post a transcript of a show that
elaborates on the retraction. “This American Life” airs on
National Public Radio stations and is  produced  by Chicago Public
Media and distributed by Public Radio International.  Daisey’s show centers on working conditions at plants that
make products sold by Apple and other electronics manufacturers.
Apple has begun subjecting factories of its suppliers to audits
by an independent labor group following employee suicides and
injuries and criticism from China Labor Watch, which cited
instances of harmful conditions.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment. Foxconn said it welcomed the
retraction.  “I am happy that the truth prevails, I am glad that  Mike
Daisey ’s lies were exposed,” Louis Woo, a spokesman for Taipei-
based Foxconn, said by telephone today. “But I don’t think that
the reports about this have gone far enough to find out what
exactly is the truth.”  Fact Checking  Apple  stock  has returned 649 percent since January 2009,
beating the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index by a factor of almost 9,
as demand for its iPhones and iPads spurs revenue growth and
makes it one of the six most valuable U.S. companies of all time
by market capitalization.  After the initial broadcast focused on Daisey’s work, Rob
Schmitz, a correspondent for American Public Media’s Marketplace
publication, began questioning its validity.  “Marketplace had done a lot of reporting on Foxconn and
Apple’s supply chain in  China  in the past, and Schmitz had
first-hand knowledge of the issues,” according to Glass’s
statement.  The “This American Life” program was downloaded 888,000
times, making it the most popular in the broadcast’s history. It
prompted a listener to start a petition calling for better
working conditions for Apple’s Chinese employees, according to
the statement.  During the fact-checking process, Daisey lied about the
name of his interpreter and said he had no way to reach her,
because her mobile phone number no longer worked, Glass said.  ‘Human Truths, Story Form’  “At that point, we should’ve killed the story,” Glass
said. “But other things Daisey told us about Apple’s operations
in China checked out, and we saw no reason to doubt him.”  Contested information in the broadcast includes the number
of factories Daisey visited, how many workers he spoke with and
whether certain ones were poisoned on an iPhone assembly line.  “He evokes this image of a very, sort of, totalitarian
state, and there is some broader truth to the things that he
puts in his monologue, but from what we found, there are many
things that don’t just check out,” Schmitz said in an interview
today. “It is very compelling. It’s theater, right?”  1.2 Million Workers  New York-based China Labor Watch has said that workers
making Apple products log 11 hours of work a day, six days a
week, while production speeds are so high that workers aren’t
able to rest while making iPads.  Foxconn employs more than 1.2 million people in over 18
countries, chairman and founder Terry Gou said Dec. 1. The
company has operations in  Taiwan ,  Brazil ,  Mexico , Slovakia and
 Vietnam  in addition to its China factories.  Daisey’s work reveals “human truths in story form,” the
Public Theater said in a statement.  “Mike is an artist, not a journalist,” the theater said.
“Nevertheless, we wish he had been more precise with us and our
audiences about what was and wasn’t his personal experience in
the piece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  