-- Latin American Nations in Worse Shape for Crisis, IDB Says
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-03-18T18:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/latin-american-nations-in-worse-shape-for-next-crisis-idb-says.html
Most Latin American nations, in the
event of another global crisis, are in worse shape to implement
stimulus than in 2007 as a result of lower budget surpluses
before interest payments, the  Inter-American Development Bank 
said.  Mexico , Chile, Colombia and the Dominican Republic are
among nations less prepared to face a potential crisis, the IDB
said in a report released at the bank’s annual meetings in
Montevideo, Uruguay, today.  Brazil  and Argentina are in
positions similar to those in 2007, while Uruguay and Jamaica
are better prepared, the Washington-based lender said.  “The main reason for the deterioration is the widespread
reduction in structural primary balances,” the report said.  While so-called primary surpluses have eroded, balance
sheets across the region are stronger and financial supervision
has improved, making many economies more resilient, the report
said. Latin American economies will grow on average 3.6 percent
this year after averaging 5.4 percent the past two years, the
IDB said.  “If you look at the region, you’ll see a slight
deceleration of growth compared to last year,” said Marcos Buscaglia, chief  Latin America  economist for Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Two exceptions in the region to that forecast are
Brazil and Venezuela, he said.  Brazilian Growth  Growth in Brazil, Latin America’s biggest economy, should
accelerate through the year after a slowdown in the second half
of 2011, Buscaglia said in an interview in Montevideo.  “Monetary policy will be more expansionary than last year,
and fiscal policy will be less contractionary,” Buscaglia said.  In the aftermath of the Greek debt crisis, one weakness for
the region comes from its dependence on European banks,
primarily lenders in Spain, the IDB said. Other potential
regional liabilities come from a growing dependence on
commodities such as copper, and from higher borrowing costs, the
report said, the report said.  A  World Bank  official said “protectionist” trade measures
may hinder the region’s ability to boost long-term economic
growth. Argentine Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino said
yesterday that he’s working with colleagues in countries
including  Chile  and Uruguay to resolve trade tensions after
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  imposed import
restrictions last month.  “The short-term tendency is to look at protectionist
measures as an option but, in the long-term, it will jeopardize
the ability to reach some of the goals that the regional
countries would like to have,” Hasan Tuluy, the World Bank’s
vice president for Latin America and the Caribbean, told
reporters in Montevideo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Montevideo at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 