-- Matt Flynn Joins Seahawks as Peyton Manning Ponders Options
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-19T04:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/matt-flynn-agrees-to-multiyear-contract-with-seattle-seahawks.html
The  Seattle Seahawks  agreed to
multiyear contract with Matt Flynn, who was regarded as the
 National Football League ’s top free-agent quarterback this
offseason until the  Indianapolis Colts  cut  Peyton Manning .  Flynn, 26, spent the past four seasons as a backup for the
Green Bay Packers, playing behind NFL Most Valuable Player Aaron Rodgers. Before signing with the Seahawks last night, Flynn met
with the Dolphins in Miami, where former Packers offensive
coordinator Joe Philbin is now the head coach. Flynn’s contract
is worth $26 million over three years, with $10 million
guaranteed, according to  NFL.com .  While Flynn is off the market, Manning is still considering
which team to sign with after working out for the  Denver
Broncos , Tennessee Titans and San Francisco 49ers.  A four-time NFL Most Valuable Player, Manning is dealing
directly with officials from those three teams and hasn’t given
a timetable to make a decision,  NFL.com reported , citing
unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Manning, 35, was cut by the Colts on March 7 after missing
the 2011 season following neck-fusion surgery. Manning said at
the time that he still had work left in his attempt to return to
Pro Bowl form.  Manning’s 54,828 yards passing, 4,682 completions and 399
touchdowns are third on the NFL career list, trailing leader
Brett Favre and Dan Marino in each category. He led the Colts to
a Super Bowl title in February 2007.  Flynn will probably compete with Tarvaris Jackson for the
starting job in  Seattle .  While he’s started only two NFL games, Flynn set Packers’
franchise records by passing for 480 yards and six touchdowns
against Detroit in the final game of the 2011 regular season.
Flynn was a seventh-round draft pick of Green Bay in 2008, when
Seahawks General Manager John Schneider was with the Packers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  