-- Australian Mining Tax Won’t Hamper Investment, Swan Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-18T21:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/australian-mining-tax-won-t-hamper-investment-swan-says.html
Australia ’s surtax on miners won’t
deter investment in the resource industry and will help small
businesses and workers with their retirement plans, Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said.  The Mineral Resources Rent Tax, or MRRT, is scheduled to be
voted on today by the Australian Senate and with the Greens
Party pledging on March 13 to support the ruling Labor Party,
the law has enough votes in the upper chamber to pass.  BHP Billiton Ltd., (BHP)   Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and other iron-ore and
coal producers face paying about A$11 billion ($11.7 billion) in
extra charges in the first three years of the levy. The
government plans to use the proceeds to reduce the corporate  tax
rate  to 29 percent from 30 percent and help increase the amount
paid to people’s retirement savings by 2020 to 12 percent from 9
percent of their salaries.  “One of the downsides of the mining boom is that it’s
accompanied by a higher dollar which is making life a lot
tougher for industries that compete in international markets
like manufacturing,” Swan said yesterday in his weekly economic
note. “That’s why, as well as increasing superannuation, the
MRRT will also help businesses, particularly small businesses
outside the fast lane of the resource sector.”  The Australian dollar has gained 15 percent against its
U.S. counterpart in the past two years.  The Australian central bank is struggling to balance a
slump in non-mining industries during the nation’s biggest
resource-driven investment boom in a century.  Auto Exports  The nation’s auto exports plunged to the lowest since 1998
last year, leading to job cuts at General Motors Co. and Toyota
Motor Corp.’s local units.  The slump is taking a political toll on Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard , who withstood a leadership challenge from
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  last month. Her Labor Party trails
opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s coalition by 12 percentage
points, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper on March 13.  Abbott has opposed the resource tax, as have Australia’s
mining magnates including Gina Rinehart, chairman of Hancock
Prospecting Pty. and Andrew Forrest, chairman of  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)   “We all know these resources can only be sold once,” Swan
said in yesterday’s note. “That’s why the government is
committed to locking in the benefits of the mining boom and
ensuring Australians receive a fair return.”  New investment in the resource sector more than doubled to
A$95 billion this financial year, from A$47 billion in the 12
months ended June 2011, Swan said. It will probably rise to
A$120 billion in 2012-2013, he said.  “That’s 68,000 mining jobs created since the MRRT was
announced,” Swan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  