-- Avalanche Defeat NHL Eastern-Conference Leading Rangers 3-1
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-03-18T05:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/avalanche-defeat-nhl-eastern-conference-leading-rangers-3-1.html
Rookie Gabriel Landeskog scored the
game-winning goal for the  Colorado Avalanche  who defeated the
Eastern Conference-leading  New York  Rangers 3-1 in a National
Hockey League contest.  The Rangers (44-20-7) have 95 points to lead the Eastern
Conference, 10 points ahead of the  Boston Bruins  of the
Northeast Division in the race for the conference’s top seed in
the playoffs. Colorado (39-30-5) has 83 points, placing it
seventh in the Western Conference, 17 points behind the St.
Louis Blues of the Central Division.  Mats Zuccarello scored a goal to give the Rangers a 1-0
lead 10 minutes, 43 seconds into the first period at New York’s
Madison Square Garden. Five minutes later, Matt Hunwick tied the
game at 1-1.  Landeskog broke the tie at nine minutes, 51 seconds of the
second period, while Paul Stastny added an empty-net, power-play
goal with 13.1 seconds left in the game.  Semyon Varlamov stopped 41 shots for the Avalanche.  Rangers coach John Tortorella said it was one of Varlamov’s
better performances.  “You can see how that game was going,” Tortorella told
reporters. “A couple of Dubi’s (Brandon Dubinsky) shots were
ready to trick in, and he gets it with his butt end. That’s just
the way it went.”  Rangers goalie  Henrik Lundqvist  had 17 saves as he returned
after missing two games with the flu.  “I feel pretty good,” he said. “The last few games I
haven’t seen that much action, so the toughest part is to stay
sharp.”  New York leads the  Atlantic Division  by two points over the
Pittsburgh Penguins (43-21-5), with the NHL listing division
leaders in the first three playoff spots no matter their point
totals. Colorado is second in the Northwest Division, 11 points
behind the  Vancouver Canucks .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  