-- Bank Stress Tests Don’t End the Pain
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-03-18T23:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/bank-stress-tests-don-t-end-the-pain.html
The  Federal Reserve  has released
the results of stress tests of 19 big U.S. banks that assessed
how their Tier 1 common capital ratios would fare by the end of
2013 with a 13 percent unemployment rate, a 50 percent decline
in stock prices and house prices off 21 percent.  Only one institution, Ally Financial Inc., would fail to
meet the 5 percent minimum capital requirement. Yet  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and SunTrust Banks Inc. were so close to the
threshold that the Fed won’t allow them to raise dividends or
buy back stock.  Relieved investors pushed up  bank stocks , mainly because
the Fed didn’t require any of the tested companies to
immediately raise capital. But they will need to do so to meet
new standards set by the Fed and the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision that will soon take effect.  Bank of America Corp. ’s
ratio, for instance, will jump to 9.5 percent, from 6 percent,
implying an almost 60 percent reduction in its leverage. This is
one of many reasons I believe that many U.S. and foreign bank
stocks, now selling below book value, aren’t cheap.  The business climate for major banks around the world has
changed remarkably in just four years. Decades ago, they set off
on a huge leveraging spree. Then, starting in 2007, many
institutions holding bad private and sovereign assets had to be
bailed out by central banks and governments to prevent a
collapse of the global financial system.  Spread Lending  As a result, banks globally have been forced to exit off-
balance-sheet vehicles, derivatives origination and ownership,
and proprietary trading as they deleverage and shed noncore
businesses. They’ve also been hit with much higher capital
requirements, further eroding the scope for leverage. And
they’re being busted back to spread lending with smaller
returns, a far cry from the hugely leveraged, high-flying growth
stock outfits that big bank chief executives thought they were
piloting.  They’re now a contrite bunch. Only  Lloyd Blankfein  of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , James Dimon at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Brady Dougan  of Credit Suisse Group AG have survived the
housecleaning of major bank CEOs.  Even with help from the release of reserves for bad loans,
U.S. banks’ return on equity was 6.8 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with 15 percent in the pre-crisis salad days.
Return on assets, which skips leverage, is 0.76 percent, down
from 1.4 percent.  Banks will also be faced with low returns on their basic
business as slow economic growth, falling house prices, small
returns on stocks, low  interest rates  and a flat yield curve
persist in the remaining five to seven years of global
deleveraging that I foresee. Consumer loans will be repaid on
balance, and record nonfinancial corporate liquidity and slow
economic growth will continue to curb borrowing and mergers-and-
acquisitions activity. Then there are the huge counterparty
risks on derivatives and potential large further write downs of
troubled assets.  Even after the recent settlements with the government over
bad mortgages and improper  foreclosures , major U.S. banks will
continue to deleverage. With many companies’ shares selling for
less than book value, CEOs don’t want to dilute shareholders by
raising equity capital and are dumping assets to meet higher
capital ratios. And book values are problematic. Tangible
common-equity ratios -- capital without all the questionable
stuff -- for major U.S. banks are in the 6 percent to 7 percent
range. But total capital ratios, which include goodwill and
other questionable items, run 8 percent to 10 percent, even
after non-equity capital is adjusted for risk.  Citigroup Sales  Citigroup has cleared out more than half the $662 billion
in troubled assets it dumped into its so-called bad bank in
early 2009. That includes a 49 percent share of  Smith Barney ,
which Citigroup is selling to the 51 percent partner,  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)   Bank of America  is unloading noncore assets, especially
from its huge troubled real-estate portfolio, which is dominated
by its Countrywide Financial unit. Morgan Stanley exited the
subprime mortgage business last fall when it sold for $59
million a unit it had purchased for $706 million in 2006.  Even Goldman Sachs hasn’t been spared from deleveraging; it
has closed a hedge fund, sold a profitable investment in
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and cut jobs. Its
return on equity last year was 3.7 percent -- compared with its
earlier norm of 30 percent -- as revenue dropped 26 percent from
2010 and 36 percent from 2009.  The situation outside the U.S. is no different. To satisfy
local regulators who want to avoid another 2008-style bailout,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  is making its investment bank a separate unit that will
be incorporated outside Switzerland. Late last year,  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , a major player in gathering and securitizing
mortgages before the collapse, announced the closing of its U.S.
commercial mortgage-backed securities origination business along
with layoffs.  In  France , the country’s third-largest bank,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , announced plans to shore up its capital by exiting
investment banking in 21 of the 53 countries in which it
operates, and cutting 2,350 of its 160,000 jobs. The other two
big French banks,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, have
said they will discontinue some businesses and cut lending.  Germany ’s  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  says it may dump its asset-
management businesses in the U.S. and elsewhere, citing
regulatory changes and associated costs.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , hoping
to avoid another government bailout after its 18 billion euros
($24 billion) rescue in 2009, is negotiating to transfer its
troubled assets to a government-owned “bad bank,” where they
will be written down and worked off.  Deleveraging Furiously  Big banks in Italy, Spain and Eastern  Europe  are also
deleveraging furiously to recover from ambitious acquisitions
that turned out disastrously. The Japanese investment bank
Nomura Holdings Inc. -- which reached for global status in late
2008 when it acquired the European and Asian businesses of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and hired 1,000 people -- is
engaged in major cost-cutting after its  stock price  dropped by
two-thirds in the last three-and-a-half years.  For U.S. banks, equity capital -- the difference between
assets and liabilities -- has risen 22 percent, or $259 billion,
from September 2008 to February 2012, according to the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., and cash holdings have almost
quadrupled to $1.7 billion. In part, this is because of the Fed
pumping money into the system through quantitative easing and
other means. Nevertheless, bank regulators in the U.S. and
abroad are determined to limit the size of banks and force
financial institutions to increase their capital cushions to
ensure that they won’t become too big to fail and require
government bailouts. Regulators decided, in effect, not to force
banks to become “too small to matter.”  Banks, of course, object that more capital holdings will
limit their lending capacity. In addition, European institutions
want to extend their capital buffers beyond cash deposited in
central banks and highly rated government bonds to include
assets such as gold, blue-chip stocks and mortgage-backed
securities. And they’ve gotten very creative in meeting the 115
billion euros increase in capital they were ordered to carry out
by the European Banking Authority by June.  At the same time that European banks are raising capital by
hook or by crook, they need to roll over about 775 billion euros
in debt this year, even as European governments are rolling over
about 900 billion euros. Troubled euro-area countries such as
Italy, Portugal and Spain have few buyers for their debt, except
their national banks, which have no option, and then use the
bonds as collateral for loans from the European Banking
Authority.  But who will buy European bank debt? U.S. money-market
funds aren’t interested in the risks, and their loans to foreign
banks have fallen 40 percent since last June. In January, those
loans accounted for 33 percent of money-market fund assets,
compared with 55 percent in 2009.  No Visible Solution  The union of German-dominated northern Europe and the Club
Med south under the euro currency has created financial woes and
problems for banks that have no visible solution. And
institutions in weak euro-area countries will probably remain
semi-governmental conduits for financing budget deficits, with
the attendant risk of default.  So despite their recent rallies, I remain decidedly
unenthusiastic about major bank stocks. They’re now selling
about one times book value, far below the three times level of
the late 1990s and even the two times in the mid-2000s, but that
doesn’t necessarily make them cheap.  Do current prices reflect the continuing deleveraging of
banks, persistent slow loan growth, further write-offs of bad
real estate and other assets, compressed interest-rate margins,
increased  capital requirements  and increasingly stringent
regulation? I’m not convinced they do.  (A. Gary Shilling is a Bloomberg View columnist and
president of A. Gary Shilling & Co. He is the author of “The
Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies for a Decade of Slow
Growth and Deflation.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 