-- Fighting in Syrian Capital, U.S. Citizen Killed in Yemen
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-03-19T13:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/bombing-in-syria-u-s-citizen-killed-in-yemen-in-mideast.html
Explosions and gunfire sounded
across the Mazzeh neighborhood of western Damascus as fighting
spread to President Bashar al-Assad’s capital city, an
opposition group said.  Security forces filled the district, which houses a number
of embassies and homes of security officers, following the
blasts, according to an e-mailed statement today from the
opposition Local Coordination Committees of  Syria .  At least three “terrorists” and a member of the security
forces were killed, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported
Syrian television as saying, with witnesses describing exchanges
using rocket-propelled grenades and machine guns.  Intensified attacks on rebel strongholds by Assad’s forces
over the past month have led protests to sprout in new regions,
while fighting has reached the heart of Damascus. Government
forces were targeted by a series of bombings in Aleppo and
Damascus over the weekend which left at least 30 dead, state
media reported. The attacks followed the capture by Assad’s army
of the rebel cities of Homs and Idlib this month.  Last month, government forces opened fire in Mazzeh after
thousands rallied in the capital during the funerals of
civilians killed during protests, the opposition said on Feb.
19. The district is home to many security officers and
government officials and also houses several Damascus university
campuses, the headquarters of more than one security
organization and some embassies. Damascus was the scene of
fighting involving tanks and other armored vehicles in January.  ‘Utmost Urgency’  The International Committee of the  Red Cross  will ask
 Russia  today to help persuade Syria to provide humanitarian
access as fighting escalates.  ICRC President Jakob Kellenberger was to meet Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  in Moscow on the need to provide aid and
allow medical evacuations in areas where fighting is taking
place, the Geneva-based body said in an e-mailed statement.  “It is a matter of utmost urgency that the ICRC be able to
extend its assistance and protection activities,” the Red Cross
said. Russia and  China  have opposed two United Nations Security
Council resolutions aimed at Assad’s government.  UN envoy  Kofi Annan  left Damascus without agreement on a
ceasefire earlier this month after meeting Assad. The Syrians
made several demands of the UN, including a guarantee from the
world body that rebels would surrender their arms to the
authorities, according to a copy of the document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Field Hospitals  Syrian security forces arrested two of the “most wanted
dangerous terrorists” after a gunfight in Jisr al-Shoughour
near the border with Lebanon that resulted in the death of a
number of “terrorists,” state-run SANA news agency said.  Three days of confrontations between protesters and
government troops in the north central city of Al Raqqua have
left 26 people dead, the Local Coordination Committees of Syria
said in an e-mail yesterday. It said residents were forced to
establish field hospitals to treat the wounded after government-
run hospitals refused to treat them. Syrian state forces killed
67 people across the country yesterday, it said, and eight more
today.  The dead include two soldiers who defected after rebels
from the Free Syria Army attacked a security checkpoint in
Qameshli, the statement said. “The regime’s forces chased and
killed them,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  