-- Chevron, Transocean Managers Banned From Leaving Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-03-19T14:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/brazil-to-file-charges-related-to-oil-spill-prosecutor-says.html
Seventeen  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
Transocean Ltd. executives were banned from leaving Brazil 
pending an investigation into an offshore  oil spill .  The order was signed by a federal judge last week as part
of the probe into the 3,000-barrel slick off Rio de Janeiro in
November, Marcelo del Negri, a spokesman for the federal
prosecutor’s office, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Transocean owned the rig involved in the spill.  The leak at Chevron’s $3.6 billion Frade field occurred at
a time when Brazil is increasing scrutiny of deepwater drilling
following the 2010 Macondo spill in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico,
which was about 1,630 times bigger. State and federal lawmakers
have criticized Chevron for the spill.  “They took this out of proportion,” Cleveland Jones, an
oil specialist and geology professor at Rio de Janeiro State
University, said in a telephone interview. “It’s far from the
coast and it’s a small volume.”  Seepages are common in regions such as the Gulf of Mexico
and the North Sea, Jones said.  Chevron has not been notified of the court order yet,
Claudia Afflalo, a press officer for Chevron, said in a
telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro. Chevron will defend the
company and its employees, spokesman  Kurt Glaubitz  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Guy Cantwell , a spokesman for
 Transocean, (RIG)  declined to comment today.  Temporary Shutdown  Last week, Chevron shut what oil production remains at the
field after detecting a new leak, Glaubitz said. He called the
shutdown temporary and said the company will conduct a geologic
study of the area.  Frade was producing about 60,000 barrels a day before last
week’s spill.  The filing ordering the executives to stay in the country
couldn’t be independently confirmed in court records.  Chevron, the second-biggest U.S. oil company by market
value, and the Brazilian Navy identified a “thin” sheen of oil
at the Frade field on March 16 that extended about a kilometer
(3,280 feet).  Chevron rose 0.3 percent to $110.58 at 10:00 a.m. in  New
York . It’s up 3.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  