-- Torres Goals Help Chelsea Reach F.A. Cup Semis; Liverpool Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-03-19T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/chelsea-beats-leicester-5-2-in-f-a-cup-torres-scores-twice.html
Fernando Torres  ended a five-month
goal drought with two strikes in Chelsea’s 5-2 win against
Leicester City in the quarterfinals of English soccer’s F.A.
Cup. His former team Liverpool beat Stoke City 2-1 to advance.  “I needed those goals, I’ve been working so hard to get
them,” Torres told ESPN yesterday. “the job of a striker is to
score goals and if you don’t do it people think you’re playing
badly.”  Torres, who became the most expensive signing by an English
club when he joined Chelsea from Liverpool for 50 million pounds
($79.2 million) in January 2011, last scored on Oct. 19 in a
Champions League match against Genk. He now has six goals this
season.  Chelsea will play Tottenham or Bolton in the semifinals,
with Liverpool facing Everton or Sunderland.  Everton and Sunderland face a replay following a 1-1 tie
two days ago, while the quarterfinal between Spurs and Bolton
was abandoned just before halftime after Bolton midfielder
Fabrice Muamba collapsed on the field. Muamba suffered a cardiac
arrest and remains in a critical condition in the hospital.  At Stamford Bridge,  Gary Cahill , Salomon Kalou and  Raul Meireles  also got goals for the Blues, who have won the
competition three times in the past five seasons. Jermaine Beckford and Ben Marshall scored for Leicester of the second
tier Championship.  Opening Goal  Cahill got the opening goal on 12 minutes with a header
from a corner by  Juan Mata . Torres then slid the ball forward
for Kalou to score five minutes later.  Torres headed straight at goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel
later in the half, while at the other end of the field Neil
Danns tested Petr Cech with a low shot.  Halftime substitute Florent Malouda had a long-range shot
on target after 52 minutes and Torres had an effort deflected
wide.  Torres ended his wait for a goal on 67 minutes. The Spain
striker didn’t connect cleanly with the ball, which squeezed
past the dive of Schmeichel into the bottom corner of the net.  Beckford pulled a goal back before Torres headed in from a
Meireles corner with five minutes remaining. Marshall scored
soon after, with Meireles adding the final goal in injury time.  Chelsea has now won all four matches since former player
Roberto  Di Matteo  was appointed as manager until the end of the
season after Andre Villas-Boas was fired.  Di Matteo said Torres deserved to score.  Reward for Hard Work  “He works so hard for the team,” Di Matteo told ESPN.
“You get rewarded when you work hard in life and I think we’re
all happy that he helped us win.”  Liverpool’s bid for two trophies this season continued with
the defeat of last season’s runner-up. The Reds won the Carling
Cup last month.  “It’s never easy against a tough, physical side like
Stoke,” Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  told ITV. “In the
second half I think we took over and controlled the game.”  Luis Suarez  got the first goal at Anfield midway through
the first half. The forward took possession in the middle of the
field, exchanged passes with Maxi Rodriguez and fired a long-
range shot into the net.  Stoke replied three minutes later when Crouch headed into
the net against his former club.  Stewart Downing  restored Liverpool’s advantage on 57
minutes with a low shot from the edge of the penalty area past
 Thomas Sorensen .  Before it lifted the Carling Cup, Liverpool hadn’t won a
trophy since it claimed a seventh F.A. Cup success in 2006.  “It’ll be a fantastic feeling if we can deliver another
cup for the supporters,” Gerrard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 