-- N. Korea Rejects Rocket Launch Criticism as China Cautions
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-03-19T10:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/china-presses-n-korea-on-rocket-launch-as-japan-weighs-options.html
North Korea  rejected international
criticism of its planned satellite launch next month as China
cautioned its ally in the first sign of tension since Kim Jong Un succeeded his father as head of the totalitarian state.  U.S., Japanese and South Korean condemnation is “a base
move to deny the DPRK’s right to use space for peaceful purposes
and encroach upon its sovereignty,” the official Korean Central
News Agency said yesterday, referring to the country’s official
name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. North Korea has
no intention of canceling its plans, KCNA said.  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Zhijun expressed his
“worry” over the March 16 announcement to North Korean
ambassador Ji Jae Ryong, the Foreign Ministry said in a
statement. The U.S. said the launch, which is to mark the 100th
anniversary of state founder  Kim Il Sung ’s birth, would negate
an agreement to provide food aid in exchange for a North Korean
moratorium on nuclear and missile tests.  North Korea is dependent on energy and food assistance from
China, which has sought to support its neighbor to avoid unrest
that could hinder trade and prompt a wave of refugees across its
border. Kim Jong Un took over after his father Kim Jong Il died
in December and the launch is part of an effort by the regime to
bolster his image ahead of his grandfather’s April 15
centennial.  ‘Tough for Beijing’  China “doesn’t want to give the impression it’s supporting
what North Korea is doing,” said  Robert Dujarric , director of
the Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at Temple University
in  Tokyo . “It’s tough for Beijing. They have to criticize it,
but they can’t do much more.”  “We sincerely hope parties concerned stay calm and
exercise restraint and avoid escalation of tension that may lead
to a more complicated situation,” Zhang told Ji, according to
the statement. China has noted the international reaction to
North Korea’s announcement, Zhang said.  Defense-related stocks surged today in  Seoul , with  Speco
Co. (013810) , manufacturer of naval ship equipment, rose 7.7 percent to
2,660 won, while  Victek Co. (065450) , an electronic warfare equipment
maker rose 8 percent to 1,830 won.  Huneed Technologies (005870) , a
military communication equipment maker, jumped 11 percent to
3,600 won. The benchmark Kospi Index increased 0.6 percent to
2,047.00.  Japan  has instructed its military to gather information on
the firing and is considering the deployment of sea and land
anti-missile defenses, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura
told reporters in Tokyo today. The rocket could pass over
Japan’s southern island of Okinawa, he said.  Japan made similar considerations in 2009, when North Korea
fired a rocket it claimed was a satellite in defiance of the
 United Nations .  Journalists Invited  “You may want to hit it before it looks like it’s going to
hit Japan,” Dujarric said. “You don’t want to fire at it if it
clearly isn’t going to hit Japanese territory because no one
wants an escalation with North  Korea .”  International experts and journalists will be invited to
watch the launch, KCNA said on March 17.  South Korea  Presidential Spokesman Park Jeong Ha today
called the North’s plan a “grave provocation.” The South’s
military will increase surveillance efforts with the U.S. and
maintain readiness as further antagonisms are “highly likely”
to follow, said Yoon Won Sik, a defense ministry spokesman.  Peaceful Purpose  The Kwangmyongsong-3 satellite will be mounted on a Unha-3
rocket and sent from a station in North Phyongan province
between April 12 and April 16, a spokesman for the North Korean
Committee for Space Technology said in a statement reported by
KCNA. The launch is for “peaceful purposes” and will
“strictly abide by relevant international regulations,” the
unidentified spokesman said.  The announcement is “highly provocative” and a launch
would violate UN resolutions prohibiting North Korea’s use of
ballistic missile technology, U.S. State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said last week. The Obama administration has
told North Korea going ahead with the mission would be a “deal
breaker” for the food-aid agreement, she said.  Under the deal reached in February, the U.S. agreed to
provide an initial 240,000 metric tons of food in monthly
20,000-ton increments. The accord opened the possibility for the
resumption of six-party talks to persuade North Korea to abandon
its nuclear weapons development.  North Korea backed out of the talks, which include  Russia ,
 China , the U.S., Japan and South Korea, shortly after its April
2009 satellite test and has shown no sign that it’s willing to
resume them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  