-- China's Share of Global Arms Imports Falls, Sipri Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/china-buys-fewer-weapons-as-local-industry-expands-sipri-says.html
China , the world’s top weapons
importer for much of the past decade, fell to fourth from second
on an annual list from the  Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute  as it produces more arms at home.  China received 5 percent of the volume of international
transfers of “major conventional weapons” from 2007 to 2011,
Sipri said in a report released today. The total was half that
of India, which last year overtook China as the world’s largest
recipient of arms, and less than  South Korea  and  Pakistan .  “In certain sectors such as combat aircraft, with the
exception of certain parts like engines, China is able to put
together these systems largely from their own indigenous base
now,” Paul Holtom, director of Sipri’s arms transfer program,
said by phone. “ India  is still struggling there.”  China is set to increase military spending 11 percent this
year as rising economic interests, territorial disputes and
expanding global commitments drive demand for warships, missiles
and fighter jets. Defense outlays of more than $100 billion per
year are second only to the U.S., which along with  Europe  has
maintained an arms embargo against the leadership in Beijing
since a 1989 crackdown against protesters.  The volume of worldwide arms transfers in 2007-2011 was 24
percent higher than in 2002-2006, the report said. The Asia-
Pacific region led the world, accounting for 44 percent of arms
imports. It was followed by Europe at 19 percent, the  Middle
East  at 17 percent and the Americas at 11 percent.  China Exports Double  China’s arms exports nearly doubled in 2007 to 2011 from
five years earlier, Sipri said, making it the world’s sixth
biggest supplier after the  United Kingdom . About two-thirds of
China’s weapons were sold to neighboring Pakistan, it said,
including 50 JF-17 combat aircraft, 203 tanks and three warships.  Asia-Pacific spending on fighters, missiles and other
equipment is set to grow an average 4.2 percent annually to $114
billion in 2016, according to  Frost & Sullivan . China’s defense
budget alone may rise 14 percent each year through 2015,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  India last week said it will increase defense spending by
13 percent next year to 1.93 trillion rupees ($38.4 billion) as
it seeks to counter China’s buildup.  India’s purchases range from naval to aircraft to ground
forces, Holtom said, including Russian-made 120 Su-30MK and 16
MiG-29K fighter jets. Paris-based  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  is in
final talks on a contract to supply at least 126 Rafale combat
planes to India to clinch the first-ever export deal for the jet,
Chief Executive Officer Charles Edelstenne said March 9.  ‘Status Element’  Brazil  and  South Africa  are also stepping up weapons
purchases, reflecting the emergence of middle-income powers on
the global stage, Holtom said. Brazil’s orders of 4 Scorpène
class submarines, a nuclear-powered submarine, and 50 transport
helicopters will contribute to a “dramatic increase” in
imports in the coming years, Sipri said.  “There is a status element there as well as an ability to
project power over distance,” Holtom said. “The emerging
powers desire to be seen having the equipment of a power, and in
some of those cases it’s upgrading and modernizing from Cold
War-era equipment.”  The U.S. remains the world’s largest exporter of military
equipment, accounting for 30 percent of arms deliveries between
2007 and 2011, followed by Russia at 24 percent, the report said.
The Pentagon is asking for $613.9 billion next year, which also
includes $88.5 billion in supplemental spending for wars.  Stockholm-based Sipri, founded in 1966, conducts research
into conflict, armaments, arms control and disarmament,
according to its  website . A substantial part of its funding
comes from the Swedish government, it said.  The institute says it measures the volume of arms moved
around the world using an index that is “based on the known
unit production costs of a core set of weapons and is intended
to represent the transfer of military resources rather than the
financial value of the transfer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  