-- China Home Prices Fall in More Than Half Cities Tracked
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-18T02:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/china-home-prices-fall-in-more-than-half-cities-tracked.html
China’s February  home prices  fell
in more than half of the 70 cities monitored by the government
with only three cities recording gains as the country maintained
curbs on the  property market .  Prices fell in 45 cities last month as compared with
January, while 22 cities were unchanged, the National Statistics
Bureau said in a statement on its website today. That compares
with 47 cities recording a decline in January. New home prices
in the cities of Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen and Guangzhou
dropped for a fifth month.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week China’s home prices
remain far from a reasonable level and called on the government
not to slacken efforts to regulate the housing sector. Relaxing
the curbs could cause “chaos” in the market, Wen said.  China ’s
two-year campaign to rein in home prices has included measures
such as higher down payments and mortgage rates, and home
purchase restrictions in 40 cities.  “With more supply coming in spring, prices will fall
further,” said Lan Shen, a Shanghai-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. “There will not be a total reversal of the
government’s tightening policies this year and any sort of
policy fine-tuning will have a limited impact of the market.”  Only the northern city of Baotou, the eastern city of Jinan
and northwestern city of Xining posted gains of 0.1 percent in
home prices. In January, no city posted gains for the first time
since the government began releasing data at the start of 2011
for 70 cities instead of a national average.  Beijing, Shanghai Prices  Among major cities, February new home prices in Beijing
fell 0.1 percent from January, while prices dropped by 0.2
percent in  Shanghai . The southern business hubs of Guangzhou and
Shenzhen both declined by 0.2 percent.  The eastern city of Wenzhou posted the biggest drop for the
fourth month, with home prices declining by 0.5 percent from
January and 8 percent from last year, according to the
statistics bureau. A credit squeeze on smaller businesses in the
city prompted Premier Wen to visit in October and pledge
financial aid.  Today’s figures came after private data also showed the
home market continued to cool. China’s February home prices
posted the biggest decline in 19 months, according to  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  New home prices fell in 27 out of 70 cities in February
from a year earlier, the government data showed today.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s largest publicly traded
developer, said contracted sales in the first two months fell 27
percent from a year earlier, while they slumped 31 percent at
 Poly Real Estate Co. (6000048) , the second-biggest developer traded on
Chinese exchanges.  Existing Homes  Existing home prices in Beijing and Shanghai both dropped
0.2 percent from January, according to the statistics bureau.  “The current administration will not relax the overall
tightening stance on the housing market,” wrote Barclays
Capital Asia Ltd. economists led by  Jian Chang  in a note to
clients on March 14. “We expect a further decline in property
prices, especially in major and coastal cities.”  The country’s home sales declined 25 percent in January and
February, according to data from the statistics bureau on March
16. The value of homes sold fell 25 percent after surging 26
percent in the first two months of 2011.  Home prices may post a “single-digit” decline this year,
billionaire developer Vincent Lo, chairman of  Shui On Land Ltd. (272) ,
said in an interview in Beijing on March 8. Home prices will not
see a crash, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  