-- Button Makes Perfect Start to F-1 Season With Win in Australia
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-18T13:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/mclaren-s-button-wins-season-opening-f1-grand-prix-in-australia.html
Jenson Button  opened the 2012
Formula One world championship by winning his third Australian
Grand Prix in four years in  Melbourne .  McLaren’s Button held off defending world champion
Sebastian Vettel by 2.1 seconds in yesterday’s 58-lap event at
Albert Park.  Lewis Hamilton , who had started from pole position
in his McLaren, was third ahead of Red Bull’s  Mark Webber .  Button’s 13th career win lifted him within one of  Michael Schumacher ’s record four victories at Melbourne’s temporary
circuit. Five of the past six winners of the Australian Grand
Prix went on to secure the drivers’ title.  “There’s a huge amount of positives to take away from this
weekend,” Button, who also won the Melbourne race in 2009 and
2010, said in a news conference. “We’ve got a great car and we
can fight for the world championships. This is a perfect start
to my season.”  The next event in the 20-race calendar is scheduled March
25 in Malaysia, where Red Bull’s Vettel won the past two years.  The winners’ podium yesterday featured three former world
champions. With Schumacher,  Fernando Alonso  and Kimi Raikkonen
also competing, it was the first time six winners of the
drivers’ title had lined up on the grid in a Formula One race.  Button, starting from second place, made a better start
than teammate Hamilton and beat his fellow Englishman into the
first corner and pulled away. He then controlled the race all
the way to the checkered flag.  Vettel, who’s seeking his third straight world title,
recovered from sixth on the grid. The German benefited when the
safety car was deployed on the 37th lap to enable the recovery
of Vitaly Petrov’s stranded Caterham car. That bunched the field
together, cutting Button’s 10-second lead and allowing Vettel to
move above Hamilton into second place.  ‘Great Race’  “We would have had a crack even without the safety car,”
Vettel said. “I would have been very close but surely it did
help a little bit. It was great race, quite a lot of fun.”  Racing resumed after lap 41 and Button opened up a 3.5-
second lead over Vettel after one lap before securing the
victory. With the sun beginning to set, Button said it was a
challenge to keep enough heat in his tires when following the
slow-moving safety car to ensure they ran smoothly.  “Jenson was utterly immaculate,” Martin Whitmarsh,
McLaren’s team principal, said in a team statement. “He made a
brilliant start, slipping past Lewis who got bogged down
momentarily, and after that he controlled the race with
consummate authority.”  Raikkonen’s Return  Two-time world champion Alonso finished fifth in a Ferrari
ahead of Sauber’s Kamui Kobayahsi. Raikkonen, the 2007 champion,
was seventh for Lotus in his first race after a two-year stint
driving rally cars.  “It feels like I’ve never been away,” Raikkonen said.  Sauber’s Sergio Perez, Daniel Ricciardo of Toro Rosso and
Force  India ’s Paul di Resta rounded out the top-10. Ricciardo’s
performance ensured that two Australian drivers scored points in
their home Grand Prix after Webber secured his best finish in 11
career races in Melbourne.  Schumacher was one of six retirements. The record seven-
time world champion was in third position when a gearbox problem
in his Mercedes forced him out of the race on lap 11.  Button heads the drivers’ standings with 25 points, seven
more than Vettel. Hamilton has 15, Webber 12 and Alonso 10.  “This year is a very special year in Formula One,” Button
said. “Last year was also, having five world champions, but
having six world champions and so many competitive teams it’s
good to see that Formula One is in a great place right now. I’m
very excited heading to  Malaysia .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  