-- Australia Iron Ore, Oil Operations Restart After Cyclone
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-03-19T05:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/cyclone-lua-batters-western-australian-mining-region.html
Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , an Australian iron
ore producer, and Apache Corp. resumed mining and oil drilling
operations after the biggest storm of the year moved through
Western Australia’s Pilbara region two days ago.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s mines and other businesses in the region
escaped mostly unscathed after Tropical Cyclone Lua, bearing
winds as strong as 250 kilometers (155 miles) an hour, hit land
on March 17. The Category 4 storm was downgraded to an ex-
tropical cyclone yesterday, according to the  Bureau of
Meteorology .  “I’ve never seen so minor damage from so strong a
cyclone,” Les Hayter, manager of public information at the Fire
& Emergency Services Authority of Western Australia, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “It’s unbelievable,” said the
veteran of 15 cyclones.  The Pardoo-Wodgina mines have resumed and haulage from its
Pardoo operation is expected to restart by tomorrow, Perth-based
Atlas said in a statement.  Apache (APA)  is re-mobilizing its Stag oil
platform, the company said in an e-mail. Woodside Petroleum Ltd.
restarted production at its Enfield oilfield off the north-west
coast, while the Vincent, Cossack, Wanaea, Lambert and Hermes
fields remain shut, the company said in an e-mail.  Large Swells  The port of Dampier, used by Rio, the world’s second-
biggest shipper of iron ore, had shut down in anticipation of
large swells, said  Gervase Greene , a spokesman for the company.
London-based Rio Tinto secured its Dampier Salt operations while
iron ore mining further inland continued, he said March 16. All
alerts have been lifted and operations are returning to normal,
he said yesterday.  Port Hedland , the world’s biggest iron ore port used by  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , also shut down on
March 15 in anticipation of the storm. It reopened yesterday.  Hayter said he spoke with all mines in the region and was
told the damage from the storm was negligible and no one was
injured. BHP’s Yarrie Mine had damage to a roof and an
outbuilding, Hayter said.  Fiona Martin, a BHP spokeswoman in Melbourne, said
yesterday the company was monitoring the situation and would
report on the impacts of the storm in its next production
statement.  The storm came ashore March 17 with the eye crossing onto
land in a remote region near Pardoo Station, about 120
kilometers northeast of Port Hedland.  There’s some structural damage to the Pardoo Roadhouse and
it’s still being assessed, Hayter said.  ‘Absolutely Horrific’  The roadhouse manager, Janet Robb, told the  Australian
Associated Press  that enduring the storm was “absolutely
horrific” with water seeping into the building through every
window seal and light fitting.  The cyclone had prompted  Woodside Petroleum (WPL) , Apache and
 Santos Ltd. (STO)  to shut output at offshore fields that account for
more than one-quarter of Australia’s oil output.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  evacuated workers from Barrow Island where
it’s building the $37 billion Gorgon liquefied natural gas
project and the Wheatstone LNG venture, the  San Ramon ,
California-based company said in an e-mailed statement March 15.  “It was a bit of luck and a lot of good preparations,”
Hayter said, in reference to the minimal damage. “The
communities really did their bit.”  The Bureau of Meteorology canceled a warning for a new
potential cyclone off the northeastern Australian coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  