-- Danone, Ferragamo, Villeroy: European Equity Preview
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K l e e g e
-- 2012-03-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/danone-ferragamo-villeroy-european-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in  European (SXXP)  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.5 percent to 272.40. The
 Stoxx 50 Index (SX5P)  increased 0.4 percent to 2,549.98. The  Euro Stoxx
50 Index (SX5E) , a benchmark measure for nations using the euro, gained
0.6 percent to 2,608.30.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  : The world’s largest steelmaker said
it plans to boost its iron-ore output in Brazil 65 percent to
7.1 million metric tons next year. The shares rose 0.6 percent
to 15.83 euros.  Autogrill SpA (AGL)  : the world’s biggest manager of
airport and highway restaurants may decide to strengthen its
food and beverage division in more profitable  European (SXXP)  countries
such as  France ,  Switzerland  and  Belgium  while pulling out of
Austria,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported. The stock declined 0.5 percent
to 8.12 euros.  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  (BT/A LN): Britain’s largest fixed-line phone
company, plans to spend as much as 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4
billion) plugging a deficit in its pension fund, the Sunday
Times reported. The shares fell 0.1 percent to 215.6 pence.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  (LHA GY):  Europe ’s second-biggest
airline may close its BMI Regional unit if the planned sale of
the business is delayed by European regulators, the Sunday Times
reported.  Lufthansa’s sale of the unit is faltering as the buyer is
struggling to raise money for the purchase, according to an e-
mail sent to staff by BMI’s chief executive officer and seen by
Bloomberg News. The shares rose 0.7 percent to 10.49 euros.  Eni SpA (ENI)  :  BP Plc (BP/)   and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
 are separately considering a partnership with  Italy ’s
largest oil producer in Mozambiqiue, the Independent on Sunday
reported. Eni is seeking to sell part of its 70 percent stake in
the Area-4 field in the east African nation, according to the
newspaper. Eni shares rose 1.2 percent to 18.51 euros.  Game Group Plc (GMG)  : A proposal put forward by private-
equity firm OpCapita to rescue the computer games retailer may
break down, the Guardian reported. The shares tumbled 11 percent
to 3.07 pence.  Grammer AG (GMM)  (GMM GY): First-quarter revenue at the German
company that makes components and systems for automotive
interiors was “above our most optimistic internal
expectations,” Chief Executive Officer Hartmut Mueller told
Frankfurter Allgemeine am Sonntag newspaper. The shares fell 2
percent to 17.41 euros.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  : Europe’s biggest bank is
unlikely to take part in the U.K. government’s program to boost
low-cost lending to small businesses, the Mail on Sunday
reported. The stock rose 1 percent to 580.4 pence.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  : Europe’s oldest
independent bourse and LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. agreed to pay a 7
million-euro ($9.2 million) break fee if either of them cancels
a deal in which the exchange company is buying as much as 60
percent of the clearinghouse. LSE shares gained 1.6 percent to
1,014 pence.  Mothercare Plc (MTC)  : The U.K. children’s clothing
retailer is in talks with 158 non-store staff about making them
redundant, the Times reported, citing a company announcement.
The shares were up 0.9 percent at 201.75 pence.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  : The world’s biggest maker of
cancer drugs expects a small rebound in the global drug market
once patent expires on major products have passed, Switzerland’s
Le Temps reported, citing Pascal Soriot, chief operating officer
of Roche’s pharma unit. The stock was down 0.3 percent at 159.9
Swiss francs.  Societe Generale (GLE)  : France’s second-largest bank is
is in exclusive talks with Blackstone Group LP over the sale of
100 million euros ($132 million) in SocGen commercial property
loans, the Financial Times reported. The stock was up 2 percent
at 25.22 euros.  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  : Switzerland’s biggest phone company
has no plans to sell its Italian fixed-line unit Fastweb SpA,
SonntagsZeitung reported, citing an interview with Swisscom
Chairman Hansueli Loosli. The shares rose 0.8 percent to 361.5
francs.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  : Europe’s second-largest
tour operator has had interest from buyout firms including
Carlyle Group LP and KKR & Co. for its Indian currency-exchange
business, the Sunday Times reported. The shares gained 5.5
percent to 24 pence.  Total SA (FP)  : The refiner’s Halfaya project with China
Petroleum Corp. and Petronas could start output “this year,”
Yves-Louis Darricarrere, head of exploration and production,
said in Paris. The shares advanced 0.1 percent to 42.53 euros.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  : The world’s biggest mobile-
phone operator may save 1 billion pounds in taxes if its bid for
 Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)   succeeds, the Sunday
Times reported. The savings would cover most of the cost of the
potential acquisition, according to the report. Vodafone fell
0.3 percent to 166.35 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kleege in New York at 
 skleege@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  