-- Luke Donald Regains Golf’s No. 1 Ranking With Playoff Victory
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/donald-wins-transitions-championship-playoff-to-reclaim-no-1.html
Luke Donald  reclaimed golf’s No. 1
world ranking from Rory McIlroy with victory in a four-way
playoff at the Transitions Championship.  Donald, a 34-year-old Englishman, earned his fifth title on
the U.S. PGA Tour yesterday when he sank a 6 1/2-foot birdie
putt at the first extra hole on the Copperhead course at the
Innisbrook Resort in Palm Harbor,  Florida .  Donald collected $990,000 by beating American duo  Jim Furyk 
and  Robert Garrigus , and Sang-Moon Bae from  South Korea , who all
finished the tournament at 13-under par. Donald had the shortest
drive at the par-4 18th hole in the playoff and was the only
player to miss the fairway, yet his approach shot from the rough
just cleared a bunker in front of the green and rolled within
seven feet of the hole.  “The other three hit pretty good drives and I was probably
in the worst position,” Donald told reporters. “That shot just
came off perfectly.”  Donald, who overcame a three-shot deficit in the final
round, had been ousted as world No. 1 on March 5, a day after
U.S. Open champion McIlroy won the Honda Classic. Donald was the
top-ranked player for 39 weeks.  “I wasn’t really thinking about the world rankings,”
Donald said. “It’s nice to sneak out a win.”  Garrigus, who led the playoff contenders with a 7-under-par
64 in the final round, missed a birdie putt from just outside
seven feet in the playoff. Donald had a 66 yesterday, while Bae
shot 68 and Furyk had a 69.  Scott Piercy, who finished in a four-way tie for fifth
place at 12-under, had a 62, the lowest score of the day.  Playoff Jam  The playoff was almost a record-tying six-way contest.  Ken Duke missed out when he bogeyed No. 17 to drop back to
12-under. Ernie Els, 42, who took the lead at 14-under when
Furyk had a three-putt bogey at No. 13, finished with
consecutive bogeys to drop to 12-under. He missed a 5-foot par
putt at the 18th hole.  The event entered extra holes when Furyk, the 2010
champion, missed a 28-foot birdie effort at the final hole.  Six golfers have contested a playoff on the  PGA Tour  twice;
at the 1994 Byron Nelson Classic, which Neal Lancaster won, and
the 2001 Nissan Open, won by  Robert Allenby .  The U.S. PGA Tour’s next official event is the Arnold
Palmer Invitational from March 22-25. Tiger Woods said March 15
he’ll be ready for the tournament in  Orlando , Florida. It will
be his last scheduled event before the  Masters Tournament , the
first of four annual major championships.  Woods, a four-time winner of the Masters in Augusta,
 Georgia , withdrew from the Cadillac Championship in Miami on
March 11 because of tightness in his left leg. It was later
diagnosed as a mild Achilles tendon strain.  ‘More Hype’  Donald said returning to the top of the  Official World Golf
Ranking  may put more pressure on him to win a first major at the
Masters, which is scheduled to run April 5-8.  “There might be a little bit more hype around me,” he
said. “I’ve been through that and I still think Rory and
obviously Tiger will be getting a lot of the attention.”  Woods, a 14-time major tournament winner, hasn’t won a PGA
Tour event since September 2009 and last captured the Masters in
2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 