-- Dubai Able to Tap Loans to Repay Debt This Year, StanChart Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-03-18T12:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/dubai-able-to-tap-loans-to-repay-debt-this-year-stanchart-says.html
Dubai’s state-owned companies
should be able to raise new loans to help repay about $10
billion of debt due this year, the head of  Standard Chartered
Plc’s (STAN)  unit in the  United Arab Emirates  said.  The issue of government-related entities “debt remain and
they still have to be worked through,” Jonathan Morris, the
bank’s chief executive officer for the U.A.E. told a news
conference in Dubai today. “We think the government is doing
all the right things and exploring all options” and “I don’t
see why” they won’t be able to roll over their debt, he said.  Investors have been concerned about the ability of DIFC
Investments LLC, an owner of properties in Dubai’s financial
center, to repay a $1.25 billion Islamic bond due in June as
well as that of business park operator Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE,
which must pay a 7.5 billion-dirham bond ($2 billion) in
November. Dubai’s state-related companies have about $10.3
billion of debt maturing this year, Bank of America Corp.
Merrill Lynch estimated in October.  State-linked companies in the emirate, which teetered on
the brink of default in 2009, don’t need to raise money from
international bond markets in 2012 and has “no intention” of
seeking support from  Abu Dhabi , Mohammed Al Shaibani, director
general of the Dubai ruler’s court, said in an interview last
month. Abu Dhabi gave $20 billion to its neighbor in 2009 to
help restructure debt.  Economic Growth  DIFC Investments started talks with banks for a loan of as
much as $1 billion to help repay the sukuk, two bankers with
knowledge of the plan said on March 14. Jebel Ali Free Zone
hired Citigroup Inc. to find a buyer for its U.K warehouse unit
Gazeley Ltd., a person familiar with the deal said Feb. 27. The
company also started talks with banks for a loan to help pay
half of its Islamic notes, two people familiar with the matter
said Feb. 7.  “We are very confident about the U.A.E. economy, although
we would be concerned if there was a headline event which hit
confidence,” Morris said. “Certainly where we sit at the
moment we are comfortable that the government is doing all the
right things and broadly we are pretty optimistic about this
year.”  Standard Chartered ’s consumer banking business has
rebounded from the credit crisis and non-performing loans in
retail banking are at the pre-crisis levels, Morris said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  