-- Federal Reserve Stress Tests Make Us All Muppets
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-03-18T23:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/federal-reserve-stress-tests-make-us-all-muppets.html
There was disheartening news last
week regarding the way the U.S. financial system operates. I’m
not referring to the opinion  piece  by a departing Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. employee, which suggested that the company has little
respect for its customers.  If you have a complex derivatives transaction in place with
Goldman -- or any other big  Wall Street  firm -- and you didn’t
know they thought of you as a malleable “muppet,” it may be
time to replace your chief financial officer.  Anyone who thinks this kind of hubris is new should read
 Frank Partnoy ’s inside  account , “F.I.A.S.C.O.,” published in
1999. Wall Street became a more aggressive and risk-loving place
when trading increased as a line of business, but this happened
way back in the 1980s by most accounts.  The truly dreadful news last week was conveyed in the
 results  of the  Federal Reserve ’s latest bank stress tests. As
presented by the Fed, most of the news was good. Some large
financial institutions were judged likely to have sufficient
equity capital even if the U.S. economy were to experience a
significant downturn. With that, banks such as JPMorgan Chase &
Co. were allowed to increase their dividends and buy back
shares. Naturally, bank stocks rallied.  Economic Uncertainty  But there’s a problem, and it’s not a small one. If you buy
the Fed’s view of what is likely to constitute stress, there is
some justification for its action. Even then, you should ask the
question that  Anat Admati , a Stanford University finance
professor, has been pressing: Why would we let banks reduce
their capital in the face of so much financial and economic
uncertainty around the world? If you leave shareholder equity on
bank balance sheets, it still belongs to shareholders. Let it
stay there as loss-absorbing capital in case the world turns
nasty again.  Reducing bank capital, according to  Admati  and her
colleagues, doesn’t help the economy. Bankers like lower capital
levels because their pay is based on return-on-capital
unadjusted for risk. Shareholders are willing to go along either
because they don’t understand the risks of thinly capitalized
and therefore highly leveraged businesses, or they expect to
share in the downside protection that will be provided by the
government.  Make no mistake: Lower equity at big banks means higher
expected losses for taxpayers down the road. Don’t let anyone
fool you into thinking that banking crises are costless. The
disaster of 2008 caused about a 50 percent increase in  U.S. debt 
relative to gross domestic product -- the second largest shock
to the country’s balance sheet after World War II. (The details
of this calculation and a broader perspective on today’s fiscal
risks are in my new book with  James Kwak , “White House Burning:
The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to
You,” which will be  published  April 3.)  And the Fed’s record as an economic forecaster is less than
stellar. As chief economist at the  International Monetary Fund 
in 2007 and 2008, I sat through innumerable meetings in which
the senior Fed official painted a picture of the world that, in
retrospect, was overly optimistic. When the Fed ran stress tests
in early 2009, did it anticipate the depth and length of the
U.S. recession? When it ran tests in late 2010, did it envisage
even the rough contours of what became the European sovereign
debt crisis? In both cases, the answer is no -- neither the Fed
nor anyone else knows the future.  When the Fed leans toward the bright side, it isn’t
accidental. As the organization that sets monetary policy and
communicates the likely future direction of interest rates, the
Fed feels the need to be careful about what it says, and goes
out of its way to convey calmness.  Too Benign  For example, the Fed’s assumption in the stress scenario
that  Europe  would have a mild recession seems too benign. My
sources tell me that the Fed further assumed that only one large
European bank would fail. But a single failure is a rarity --
either many banks do or they all receive bailouts, presumably
depending on how public-sector balance sheets hold up and what
happens politically.  But if the Fed implied, through its stress-test design,
that it was seriously concerned about a major European meltdown,
including perhaps a large restructuring of Italian or French
government debt, what would that do to bond spreads and fiscal
solvency around the world?  Another major omission from the stress tests is any serious
consideration of interest-rate volatility, either with the
economy far below full employment (as now) or if there is a
faster than expected recovery. Long-term  interest rates  could
easily rise if international investors shift away from holding
dollars and the Fed decides not to resume buying long-term debt,
which it had been doing to stimulate the economy. Short-term
rates could also rise sharply. Either way, the Fed should
examine the implications for banks.  Failure to do so is the kind of hubris we should fear. The
Fed has an imperfect view of the future, as do we all. It has
repeatedly demonstrated a limited ability to control economic
outcomes. In light of this, the Fed could have required banks to
build up shareholder capital on their balance sheets in case
their aggressive risk-taking again becomes reckless and creates
enormous losses.  Instead, the Fed is allowing big banks to reduce capital
levels, increasing the likelihood of another financial and
fiscal crisis and endangering the broader  U.S. economy . We are
all muppets now.  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 