-- French $17bn Luxury Goods Become Election Losers: Retail
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-03-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/france-s-17-billion-luxury-goods-become-election-losers-retail.html
Whoever wins next month’s French
election,  luxury-goods  makers will be the likely losers.  Frontrunners President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist
candidate  Francois Hollande  have both pledged tax increases. The
measures may damp the feel-good factor, a driver of luxury-goods
consumption, as has happened elsewhere in Europe, according to
CA Cheuvreux’s Thomas Mesmin.  “France could become the next Italy,” the Paris-based
analyst said.  Spending on high-end goods has been under pressure there
since  Mario Monti  was appointed prime minister in November.
Higher taxes and a 1,000-euro ($1,320) limit on cash payments in
particular have dented local demand at brands including Gucci as
well as reducing average purchase prices.  In France, Hollande has proposed raising the income tax to
45 percent for those earning more than 150,000 euros a year and
imposing a 75 percent levy on income over 1 million euros. The
presidential election favorite’s manifesto also includes
limiting exemptions to 10,000 euros and aligning  capital gains 
and income tax.  The austerity measures are “a negative” for luxury
consumption in France, according to  Andrew Hughes , an analyst at
UBS. Higher taxes and ending some allowances for the wealthy may
hurt demand even though tourists account for a “big chunk” of
sales in Paris, Hughes wrote in a Feb. 17 report.  Pointing the Finger  Sarkozy has said he’ll lift the value-added tax to 21
percent from 19.6 percent as well as introduce a financial tax
and a levy on the worldwide revenue of large French corporations
if re-elected. Jobless claims jumped to a 12-year high in January
as the president implemented a second round of tax increases and
spending cuts in less than six months to narrow the  budget
deficit  after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped France of its AAA
credit rating.  “All the politicians in this election try to impress the
electorate in talking taxes, in pointing their fingers at the
rich,” France Telecom SA Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard said in a March 13 interview. Top earners may not stay
in France if the proposals are implemented, said Line-Alexa
Glotin, a partner at Paris law firm UGGC & Associes.  Officials at  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the
world’s largest maker of luxury goods, and  PPR SA (PP) , the Paris-
based owner of Gucci, declined to comment on luxury demand in
France or the presidential candidates’ proposals.  France accounts for about 13 billion euros of annual
luxury-goods sales, or about 8 percent of the total, according
to consultant Bain & Co.  ‘Be Careful’  Because employment is tied to consumption, the next
president “should be careful about not taking decisions which
would be short-term gains but long-term negative,” said  Anne
Michaut-Denizeau , affiliate professor of marketing and luxury
certificate coordinator at Paris business school HEC, adding
that higher taxation won’t necessarily lead to lower sales.  French luxury-goods makers employ more than 160,000 people
in France and generate 84 percent of sales outside their
domestic market, according to trade association  Comite Colbert .
The industry is “a cultural strength” and “has to be
protected,” Michaut-Denizeau said.  In  Italy , local traffic is down at Gucci’s stores and the
1,000-euro cash cap that Monti introduced last year to help curb
tax evasion hurt sales in December and January, CEO Patrizio Di
Marco said in a Feb. 21 interview. Many would-be shoppers are
hesitating, Cavalli Group Chief Executive Officer Gianluca Brozzetti said in a Feb. 24 interview.  Luxury Growth  Sales of luxury goods may grow 4 percent in Europe this
year, excluding currency swings, said  Thomas Chauvet , a
Citigroup Inc. analyst. The forecast reflects a combination of
weak domestic spending and robust tourist-driven demand.  Sarkozy and Hollande would receive the same share of the
vote in the first round of  France ’s presidential election on
April 22, a poll published March 15 showed. In a potential
runoff on May 6, Hollande leads Sarkozy 54 percent to 46
percent, according to the CSA survey for BFM TV, RMC Radio and
20 Minutes newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  