-- Gauck, East German Stasi Hunter, Elected Germany’s President
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-18T13:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/gauck-east-german-stasi-hunter-elected-germany-s-president.html
Joachim Gauck, a Protestant pastor
from East Germany who oversaw the opening of communist-era
Stasi files in the decade after the collapse of the  Berlin Wall ,
was voted in as Germany’s 11th postwar president.  Gauck, 72, was elected today in Berlin by the 1,240-member
 Federal Assembly , a special body that convenes to choose the
Federal Republic’s mainly ceremonial head of state. Gauck
succeeds  Christian Wulff , 52, a one-time party ally of
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  who resigned last month after less than
two years in office amid corruption allegations and a looming
investigation.  Gauck’s appointment as a unity candidate last month caused
a rift between Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc and its
Free Democratic coalition partner, who joined the opposition in
supporting Gauck. That forced Merkel into putting forward the
candidate who lost to her choice, Wulff, in 2010.  Popular with the German public, Gauck’s election was
assured by the support of Merkel’s bloc, the FDP, as well as the
opposition Social Democrats and  Green Party . The Left Party,
partly made up of former East German communists, opposed Gauck.
The party put forward its own candidate, Beate Klarsfeld, 73,
who has made a career of pursuing former Nazi criminals.  Gauck, speaking at a Feb. 19 press conference in the
chancellery after Merkel’s coalition selected him, said that he
was “overcome and a little confused” after the chancellor
called him while he was in a taxi to tell him of their choice.  Lutheran Pastor  The son of a sailor who was sent to a Soviet Gulag for more
than three years in the 1950s, Gauck was raised in the Baltic
Sea port city of Rostock and became a Lutheran pastor. In 1989,
he was a leading figure for the New Forum, an umbrella movement
opposing East  Germany ’s communist leadership.  After reunification, Gauck gained a reputation as Germany’s
leading “Stasi hunter.” Through the 1990s, he oversaw the
opening of millions of files kept by informants of the
communist-era Ministry of State Security, laying bare the extent
of the surveillance state.  In June 2010, Gauck unexpectedly forced a third-round
presidential election ballot against Wulff, evidence of both his
popularity and unease with Merkel’s selection of a former deputy
leader of her party for the independent role of president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  