-- Grilled Rat for Welfare Shows Unification Hurdles for Korea
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-03-19T07:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/grilled-rat-for-welfare-tradeoff-shows-korea-unification-hurdles.html
Kim Tae Hee fled  North Korea  at age
16 and made her way to Seoul via  China . Two years after arriving
she is unemployed and dependent on government welfare to pay her
food and electricity bills.  “I thought life would be comfortable here, living in high-
rise apartments and wearing nice clothes,” said Kim, for whom
finding rats to grill was a luxury in her village back home.
“Everything was supposed to work out once I got here and
nothing has.”  More than 2,000 North Koreans come to  South Korea  every
year, escaping chronic malnutrition and a regime that forbids
dissent and restricts contact with the outside world. Lacking
social skills attuned to the Internet age, or educational
backgrounds that match employer needs, northerners face a
jobless rate three times higher than native-born citizens.  Getting the integration right could yield a pool of
thousands of northerners trained in the business practices of a
modern economy that could smooth eventual unification. The
anointing of Kim Jong Un as leader in the North three months ago
intensified economists’ analysis of costs and benefits of
unification after 67 years of separation, with Bank of America
Merrill Lynch calculating a potential bill of $3.2 trillion.  “We need to succeed in integrating defectors into society
because that will be the precursor for how unification will
work,” said Kim Young Yoon, senior research fellow at the
state-run  Korea  Institute for National Unification in Seoul.  Potential Benefit  The death of  Kim Jong Il  on Dec. 17 sparked speculation
over whether son Kim Jong Un can maintain six decades of
dynastic rule and prevent North Korea’s collapse. The regime has
tried to bolster the younger Kim’s image, announcing March 16 it
will launch a satellite propelled by a long-range rocket next
month to mark the 100th anniversary of state founder Kim Il Sung’s birth. The move has drawn international criticism.  Any eventual opening of the North offers the South a pool
of labor and natural resources that could see South Korea escape
the fate of neighbor  Japan , where an aging and shrinking
population has eroded long-term economic growth rates, Goohoon Kwon, an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Seoul, said in
an interview last month.  North Korea has a population of 24 million, or about half
of the South’s, and holds untapped mineral wealth including gold
and copper that’s estimated at more than $6 trillion by the
South Korean state-owned mining company  Korea Resources Corp. (032860) 
Extracting the minerals is currently hindered by a lack of
developed roads, railroads and ports.  ‘Peace Dividend’  A union would also ease security concerns on the peninsula,
creating a “peace dividend” with military spending reduced,
Jaewoo Lee, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist in Seoul
who also previously worked at the IMF, wrote in a report last
month. Fusing the two sides’ workforces would provide a
“lasting boost” to the South’s growth potential, Lee said.  At the same time, unification could cost South Korea $3.2
trillion between now and 2050, Lee estimated, based on “rough
and back-of-the-envelope calculations.” North Korea’s economy
has been wracked by mismanagement that has left the nation
reliant on Chinese aid to feed its people. By comparison, the
cost of the 1990 reunification of East and  West Germany  was 2
trillion euros ($2.6 trillion), according to a 2009 study by
Klaus Schroeder, professor at Berlin’s Free University.  South Korea’s government plans to spend 18.6 billion won
this year on employment programs for its 23,100 North Korean
refugees, according to the Unification Ministry. The number of
defectors from the Kim regime rose 15 percent in 2011 with
flooding exacerbated a food shortage of as much as 700,000
metric tons, according to the  United Nations .  Resettlement Center  Upon arrival in Seoul, defectors are taken to a
resettlement center at Hanawon, south of the capital. In the
three months they spend there, they are taught to use a computer
and access the Internet and auto-teller machines. To help cover
expenses in their first year they are given stipends that total
6 million won, and 13 million won for a down-payment on housing
if they don’t get allocated a government home.  South Korea offers a higher standard of living, with per
capita income around 24 million won in 2010 compared with 1.24
million won in the North, according to  Bank of Korea  data
published in November.  Yet most of the 23,100 defectors, like Kim Tae Hee,
struggle to enjoy as much as the economy has to offer. While the
average monthly wage in South Korea is about $2,800, one-third
of transplanted North Koreans make less than $896 a month,
according to a poll by the Unification Ministry. Another 41
percent make between $905 and $1,344. The official  unemployment
rate  for defectors was 12.1 percent in 2010, compared with 3.7
percent for all of South Korea.  Skills Gap  The disparity underscores that new arrivals, 56 percent of
whom attended school in the North, according to the Unification
Ministry, lack skills needed to enter a competitive job market.  While  South Korean companies  recognize North Korean
diplomas, the credentials mean little as refugees say the
communist curriculum focuses on aggrandizing the Kim dynasty.
Kim Jong Un is the third generation of his family to lead the
nation, after grandfather  Kim Il Sung  took power in the
aftermath of World War II.  Park Sang Don, the director of the Unification Ministry’s
resettlement support division, said the biggest challenge for
defectors is that they are suddenly confronted with the freedom
to choose.  “Coming from a socialist country where the state decided
where you live and work and even what you eat, they get
overwhelmed with liberal democracy’s concept of taking matters,
life and fate, into their own hands,” he said.  Survival Instinct  Yoon Cheol Nam, who left the North in 1999 and now works as
an office assistant in Seoul, adds that another hurdle is
finding common ground with South Korean colleagues.  “The most difficult part is not being able to relate to
South Koreans because we have no shared past or culture,” said
Yoon. “It makes us unattractive job candidates.”  Lee Hae Yeon, who fled North Korea in 1998 and works as a
counselor for defectors, said the deprivations in her homeland
created a basic survival instinct that fostered a lack of
consideration for others, making it harder for her compatriots
to work in South Korean companies. Other defectors say it’s
difficult to get used to having open discussions after living in
a society where they were under tight surveillance.  “Constant desperation led to a perverted, individualistic
sense,” said Lee. “Defectors have a hard time correcting that
and learning to be a team player.”  Challenge of Freedom  Despite all the hardships of integrating, some defectors
have carved out successful careers in their new homeland. Kim
Yong was a singer in the National Symphony Orchestra and a
member of the ruling Workers Party’s  Central Committee  before
defecting on a visit to  Switzerland  in 1991.  Kim, 51, spent 10 years as an entertainer and in 1996
opened his first noodle restaurant in  Seoul , eventually growing
his business to 96 outlets. He now sells noodles and dumplings
online and on television, and has begun a similar operation in
 Vietnam  through a joint venture.  Kim says Unification Ministry resettlement programs don’t
teach a fundamental capitalist principle: nothing comes free.  “Defectors aren’t in a place to absorb anything taught in
a classroom because they’re too blinded by the glitz they think
South Korea has to offer,” Kim said. “They need to wake up and
be ready to work for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  