-- India Seeking to Tax Overseas Transactions to Limit Claims
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-03-19T13:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/india-seeking-to-tax-overseas-deals-will-limit-claims-to-6-years.html
India will claim capital gains tax
on cross-border acquisitions completed in the past six years
through an amendment after  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  won a case against
such levies, according to Finance Secretary R.S. Gujral.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  on March 16 proposed
changing the law two months after the Supreme Court ruled that
Vodafone doesn’t have to pay $2.2 billion in tax on its purchase
of the local business of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  in 2007.
Taxation experts at firms including KPMG said the changes
applicable retrospectively from 1962 may slow foreign
investments into the South Asian nation.  Gujral, seeking to reduce concern that the changes will
prompt the tax office to claim levies on 50 year-old deals, said
the amendment was proposed to clarify the intent of the law.
Mukherjee, struggling to rein in the widest  budget deficit  among
major emerging economies, wants the change to ensure the
government gets as much as 400 billion rupees ($8 billion) of
tax payments that officials say are under litigation.  “Once the  investment decision  is made, then only do
investors look at issues of taxation,” Gujral said in New Delhi
yesterday. “I don’t think this will discourage FDI.”  Nishith Desai, managing partner at law firm Nishith Desai &
Associates, called the proposal a “knee-jerk reaction” to the
Vodafone lawsuit.  “The budget proposes a number of regressive, retrograde
and extraterritorial provisions that would significantly
increase tax costs and alter the dynamics of cross-border
transactions and M&As,” Desai said in an e-mail on March 17.
The proposal will “considerably erode  India ’s standing in the
eyes of investors,” he said.  $27.6 Billion  India attracted  $27.6 billion  of foreign direct investments
in 2011, a 31 percent increase over the previous year, according
to data from the trade ministry.  The nation gives foreign investors the guarantee that they
will not be taxed doubly, Mukherjee said in an interview to
Bloomberg UTV on March 17. “We do not give them the guarantee
that they will not have to pay tax in any country. That way
we’ll simply encourage  tax evasion . That is not possible for any
government.”  The Supreme Court in January dismissed the government’s
demand for 112.2 billion rupees of taxes from Vodafone, stemming
from the 2007 purchase.  Transactions like Vodafone could now be reopened and
“assuming that the law holds, the companies will be issued tax
notices,” said Uday Ved, a partner at the local unit of  KPMG .  The government’s  budget  proposal to introduce general anti-
avoidance rules, or GAAR, enabling the taxing of companies it
believes are structuring deals in a manner to escape taxes,
could serve as a roadblock to investments, Desai said.  ‘Pandora’s Box’  “The ambiguously worded provisions capture most
conventional structures for M&As and investments into India,”
Desai said. “If implemented, GAAR will open up a Pandora’s box
of uncertainty and litigation, and investors may be forced to
think twice.”  While budget amendments to counter  Vodafone (VODA)  and similar
transactions were anticipated, the retrospective aspect of the
proposed laws is “surprising,” said Pallavi Bakhru, practice
leader for tax and regulatory services at Walker Chandiok & Co.  “We suspect that the constitutional validity of such an
amendment will be questioned,” Bakhru said in an e-mail.  The government on Feb. 17 filed a petition to review the
 Supreme court ’s decision on Vodafone, seeking to overturn the
ruling. The court had directed the government to return a 25
billion-rupee deposit  Vodafone (VODA)  made on the contested tax bill,
plus 4 percent interest.  The court will hear the government’s petition tomorrow,
according to a notice posted on the court’s website.  Faith in India  “We are examining this proposed decision with our lawyers,
but we do not believe this retrospective change in tax law
should have any impact on the final judgment handed down,”
Vodafone said in an e-mailed statement on March 16. “We
continue to have faith in the Indian judicial system.”  Newbury, England-based  Vodafone (VODA)  and Hutchison conducted
their $10.7 billion transaction offshore, with Vodafone’s Dutch
subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP
Ltd., a Cayman Islands-based holding company controlled by Hong
Kong-based Hutchison.  India’s tax department in September 2007 sought the capital
gains tax, saying Vodafone should have withheld that amount from
its payment to Hutchison.  Vodafone is India’s third-largest wireless operator, with
148 million subscribers and a 17 percent share of the country’s
894 million mobile-phone accounts at the end of December,
according to the nation’s telecommunications regulator.  “It is certain that this amendment will be challenged
before the Supreme Court by aggrieved parties,” said KPMG’s
Ved. However, such petitions haven’t had much success, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  