-- India Finance Minister Says Expects Interest Rates to Come Down
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-03-18T08:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/india-finance-minister-says-expects-interest-rates-to-come-down.html
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
said he expects India’s central bank to reduce  interest rates ,
helping revive sentiment after economic growth slowed.  “I expect policy rates to be reversed by the central bank
in coming months,” Mukherjee said at a conference in  New Delhi 
today. “That should improve sentiment.”  The minister said in his March 16 federal budget that
India’s economic expansion may revive to as much as 7.85 percent
in the fiscal year starting April 1 and that inflation will
ease. At the same time, he acknowledged yesterday that his
decision to increase the service and excise taxes to 12 percent
from 10 percent may spur some price pressures.  The  Reserve Bank  of  India  signaled before the budget that
better control of the nation’s  fiscal deficit  would boost scope
to lower borrowing costs, which are at the highest level since
2008, at 8.5 percent. The RBI raised the repurchase rate by a
record 3.75 percentage points from 2010 to October last year to
fight price increases, with February’s 6.95 percent inflation
rate holding close to a 26-month low.  “Inflationary pressures need to be at a moderate level in
the next financial year,” Mukherjee said. “I am not talking
about a 4 percent level; 6 to 6.5 percent will be an acceptable
level.”  In the budget speech, Mukherjee forecast a narrowing in the
fiscal gap to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the next
financial year. He said the shortfall for the year through March
31 will be 5.9 percent, wider than the 4.6 percent target set a
year ago.  Aside from tax increases, Mukherjee proposed restricting a
subsidy program spanning diesel to fertilizers to less than 2
percent of GDP, beginning in the year to March 2013. The budget
also proposed changing laws so India can retrospectively tax
 capital gains  by foreign companies.  Economic growth moderated to 6.1 percent last quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost three years, as
costlier credit hurt  consumer spending  and dented investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  