-- InterContinental Starts Brand Targeting Chinese Travelers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/intercontinental-starts-brand-targeting-chinese-travelers.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
the world’s largest provider of hotel rooms, will begin opening
locations as soon as next year under a new brand designed to
appeal to Chinese travelers.  The Hualuxe brand of hotels will have teahouses instead of
bars and feature other designs that target Chinese consumers,
Chief Executive Officer Richard Solomons said in an interview.
They’ll first open in  China  before expanding overseas targeting
Chinese travelers, the company said.  InterContinental in the past was “based on bringing
western brands into China,”  Solomons said in Beijing. “What
we have done is to, first time ever, create a brand that really
talks to Chinese hospitality.”  Growing wealth and the construction of highways, rail lines
and airports is boosting demand for hotels as more Chinese
travel. One in four of the hotels in InterContinental’s pipeline
is in China, Solomons said. The company’s operating profit in
China,  Hong Kong ,  Taiwan  and Macau increased 24 percent last
year to $67 million, according to  its website .  The company has already signed 20 letters of intent to
build Hualuxe brand hotels across China. InterContinental will
manage the hotels built by the property developers that are its
partners, Solomons said. Hualuxe hotels may be opened in 100
cities across China in the next 15-20 years, he said.  InterContinental’s sales in Greater China accounted for
about 12 percent of its total revenue last year, Solomons said.
This year, Greater China’s share of total revenue will be “a
bit higher” than 12 percent, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  