-- Iran Central Bank Says Rial Can Be Traded at Market Rates
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-03-18T15:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/iran-central-bank-says-rial-can-be-traded-at-market-rates.html
Iran’s  central bank  allowed trading
in its currency at market levels after fixing the  exchange rate 
in January as the threat of sanctions over the country’s nuclear
program and economic risks spurred Iranians to buy up dollars.  “Licensed exchange houses are given permission to buy and
sell foreign currencies and answer customers’ needs based on the
mechanism of the market’s supply and demand,” the Iranian
central bank said in a statement posted on its website.  The bank on Jan. 26 fixed the rate at 12,260 after the  U.S.
dollar  surged to almost double that level in unofficial currency
markets as Iranians concerned over the economy rushed to buy.
Citizens’ demand for foreign currency had to be met by banks or
licensed exchange houses selling dollars at the official rate,
marking an 8.5 percent devaluation, after the decision.  The easing of restrictions follows a meeting with central
bank officials and representatives of the Association for
Exchanges of  Iran , according to the statement. Minou Kianirad,
the bank’s deputy governor for foreign-currency affairs, wasn’t
available to comment when a call was made to her office.  Governor Mahmoud Bahmani said in a meeting last week with
the association that the bank backed the use of market rates by
exchange houses and it was necessary for currency levels to be
“real,” the  Donya-e-Eqtesad  newspaper reported March 15.  Black Market  While Iranian officials said when the rate was fixed they
would try to meet demand for foreign currency, access to dollars
remained limited, with some exchange houses restricting sales
and businesses and individuals trading at the black market rate.
Transactions sometimes occurred at levels near 20,000 rials.  “In an economy such as Iran’s, which now has special
circumstances, it isn’t possible to go by the concept of a
unique exchange rate,” Ali Dini Torkamani, an economist at the
Institute for Trade Studies and Research, wrote in a March 15
editorial in the  Jahan-e-Sanhat  newspaper.  Allowing exchange houses to set their rates would balance
the  currency market  and add transparency, Dini Torkamani said.  The exchanges association  listed  the market rate at about
19,050 rials at 11:45 a.m. Tehran time today. The rate indicated
is for information purposes, while transactions are carried out
based on agreement, the association said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  