-- Mitt Romney Wins Puerto Rico’s Republican Primary, CNN Projects
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-18T23:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/mitt-romney-wins-puerto-rico-s-republican-primary-cnn-projects.html
Mitt Romney  won Puerto Rico’s
Republican primary today over  Rick Santorum , CNN projected.  With 14 percent of results reported, Romney had 83 percent
to 8 percent for Santorum, a former U.S. senator from
Pennsylvania, and 3 percent for former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia, CNN said.  The primary was the latest skirmish between Romney, the
frontrunner, and Santorum, who has offered himself as a
conservative alternative to the former Massachusetts governor.
Santorum won primaries in Alabama and Mississippi last week.
Romney claimed victory in Hawaii and has amassed the most
delegates.  The Republican race now turns to contests March 20 in
Illinois and March 24 in Louisiana.  In network television talk shows today, Romney said he
expects to become the Republican nominee, and Santorum called
him a weak candidate to run against Democratic President  Barack Obama  in the November election.  Both Romney and Santorum campaigned in  Puerto Rico , which
was electing 20 delegates to be awarded on a proportional basis.  Santorum was hurt by comments he made to the Spanish-
language newspaper Vocero that the territory, 99 percent
Hispanic, needed to make English its main language if it was to
become a state. There is no such federal requirement.  “If you want to participate as a state, in union with the
United States, you need to participate in the language people
speak in the states,” Santorum told the newspaper.  Following the comments, a former state senator, Oreste
Ramos, resigned from a list of delegates backing Santorum.  Puerto Rico Governor Luis Fortuno appeared in a radio ad
for Romney, saying the former Massachusetts governor had “a
history of economic growth and  job creation  like what we have
started in Puerto Rico.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net  or
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  