-- Japan’s Echo Boomers Giving a Lift to Housing: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-03-19T02:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/japan-s-echo-boomers-giving-a-lift-to-housing-mortgages.html
Japan ’s shrinking  economy  is poised
to get a lift from the children of baby boomers taking out their
first mortgages with rates close to a three-year low.  As many as 19.1 million people, or 15 percent of the
Japanese population, are in the 35 to 39 and 40 to 44 year-old
age groups, the second- and third-largest, government data show.
Combined, the two groups are roughly double the size of the
postwar baby boom generation now in their early 60s, according
to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications.  “Japan is in a demographic sweet spot,” said  Jesper Koll ,
head of equity research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Children of
 baby boomers  are now at their late 30s and early 40s. That is
where the demand is going to be coming from.”  So-called echo baby boomers reaching the age to purchase
their first home will give a boost to a housing market that
accounts for about 15 percent of Japan’s gross domestic product
at a time when the nation is struggling to recover from last
year’s earthquake, some companies are suffering from worse-than-
expected earnings results, pushing up the unemployment rate.  The  Bank of Japan  has maintained rates near  zero  for 17
years, benefiting home buyers, who are enjoying one of the
lowest financing costs in the world.  The 10-year fixed-mortgage rate has declined to 3.65
percent at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of Japan’s
biggest listed bank, compared with 4.1 percent a year earlier,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Low Mortgage Costs  The country’s home loan  costs  may decline further as the
benchmark bond yield stays around 1 percent. It was 1.1 percent
on March 16 after closing the year below 1 percent on Dec. 30
for the first time since 2002.  “Japanese banks are sitting on a lot of cash because of
the Bank of Japan’s monetary easing policy and the yield has
declined,” said  Yoji Otani , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Tokyo, who forecasts a 4 percent increase in housing starts for
the year ending March. “The housing market is quite strong
because the bond yields remain low and the Japanese government
provides housing incentives such as tax breaks.”  Japan’s housing starts rose for a second year in 2011,
gaining 2.6 percent to 834,117 units, according to the land
ministry. The gain in housing starts has boosted mortgage sales
for the first time since at least 2007, according to a report
from Credit Suisse Group AG. They surged 44 percent to 2.61
trillion yen in 2011 after the government introduced fixed-rate
mortgages, the Zurich-based lender said.  Housing Starts  Housing starts gained to the third highest level in history
in 1987 when the baby boomers, those born from 1947 to 1949,
reached the age to buy their first home, government data showed.
The age of home buyers who are between 35 and 39 and in their
40s represents a market share of 44 percent, according to a
survey by Recruit Co., a Tokyo-based human resources and
information service provider.  About 86 percent of Japanese own their own home, based on a
survey of 7,145 people nationwide, conducted last year by
Zentakuren, a real estate foundation.  The central bank indicated on March 13 that it will keep
using monetary policy to tackle deflation.  The BOJ unexpectedly added 10 trillion yen ($121 billion)
to an asset-purchase program and set an inflation goal on Feb.
14 in a bid to revive the economy.  About 20,000 job cuts have been announced so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  unemployment rate 
rose to 4.6 in January from a three-year low of 4.1 percent in
September. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on Feb. 6 the
nation’s economic condition is “severe” because of deflation
and the strong yen.  Tax Breaks  Japan’s economy contracted less than the government’s
initial estimate last quarter, shrinking an annualized 0.7
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31, the Cabinet Office
said on March 8, compared with a preliminary estimate of a 2.3
percent contraction.  The government has introduced tax breaks and low interest
rate policies in a bid to boost the housing market. It recently
extended tax breaks on mortgage payments and increased the
credit limit for donations made for home purchases by as much as
50 percent to 15 million yen.  Those changes have made it easier for the second generation
to purchase their homes, Masahiro Mochizuki, an analyst at
Credit Suisse, said.  “The government’s policy will help boost the housing
market,” said Mochizuki, who estimates down payments at about
10 percent of the total cost of a home. “Without a large amount,
people can easily purchase a house with low  interest rates .”
The Japan Housing Finance Agency’s fixed-rate mortgage program
covers up to 90 percent of a home’s purchase amount.  Doing More  Even as  mortgage rates  remain low, more can be done to
boost the housing market, according to Deutsche Bank’s Otani.  Tax breaks offered by the Japanese government to boost home
purchases are only about one-tenth of tax incentives in the U.S.
and less than the 70 percent that is available in  Germany ,
according to data provided Japan’s land ministry.  Japan has been blighted by price declines and sluggish
economic growth since an asset bubble burst two decades ago. An
index of residential  land prices  has slid by half from its 1991
peak, Japan Real Estate Institute data show.  The central bank’s decision for additional monetary easing
and setting an inflation target of 1 percent will help boost
land prices in the six major cities by 10 percent, Otani at
Deutsche Bank said in a report.  Housing-related expenditures and production totaled 67.5
trillion yen, according to the land ministry. That includes 41.4
trillion yen of spending on construction and electricity and
housing related production is estimated at 26.1 trillion yen, it
said.  “Housing is the one sector that has the highest
multiplier,” said Koll of JPMorgan. “You buy a house, you buy
an air conditioner, you buy a washing machine and you buy a
television. Nothing gets the economy going as housing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  