-- Monti to Meet Labor Unions Amid Fresh Warning on Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-19T09:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/monti-presses-ahead-amid-warnings-euro-crisis-is-far-from-over.html
Italy ’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
will press ahead with efforts to revise the country’s  labor laws 
this week, amid fresh warnings that the three-year-old European
debt crisis is far from over.  Monti will lead talks with unions and employers in a final
round of negotiations beginning tomorrow as the government seeks
an agreement this week. Decision makers meanwhile warned against
complacency after delivery of the final element of  Greece ’s 130
billion-euro ($171 billion) bailout package and the completion
of the world’s largest sovereign-debt restructuring last week.  “Optimism should not give us a sense of comfort or lull us
into a false sense of security,” International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said at the China
Development Forum in Beijing yesterday. “We cannot go back to
business as usual,” she said, urging vigilance on  oil prices ,
debt and the risk of slowing growth in  emerging markets .  An easing of the crisis offered breathing room for Monti to
seek an Italian labor-market overhaul and for euro-area
ministers aiming to bolster euro bailout funding before a
meeting at the end of the month. Still, urgency was underscored
by an IMF warning that the Greek bailout held “exceptional
risks” that could prompt a “disorderly” exit from the
monetary union unless additional help is prepared.  ‘Sovereign Default’  “The materialization of these risks would most likely
require additional debt relief by the official sector and, short
of that, lead to a sovereign default,” IMF staff wrote in a
report released March 16. “In the absence of continued official
support and access to” refinancing by the  European Central
Bank , “a disorderly euro exit would be unavoidable,” it said.  With billions of euros committed to hold Greece afloat and
investors looking to see whether contagion could spread to Spain
or Italy, the fragility of rescue efforts were reflected in bond
yields last week. Spain’s  10-year yield  climbed 20 basis points
to 5.20 percent, the second weekly gain, while the yield on
 similar-maturity  Italian debt rose three basis points to 4.86
percent.  Stocks and the euro fell, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
down 0.5 percent at 9:45 a.m. Frankfurt time and the euro down
0.2 percent, trading at $1.3151.  Investors have been encouraged by the Italian prime
minister’s efforts to rein in the country’s debt since his
government of non-politicians replaced  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
administration last year.  Month’s End  Monti’s labor overhaul will include a revision of firing
rules and an expansion of jobless benefits. The rules, which
will distinguish between workers removed without just cause and
those fired for disciplinary or economic reasons, are among the
most contentious. Under article 18 of the Italian labor code,
employers have to compensate and rehire any worker ruled to have
been fired without just cause by a labor court.  Monti met with employer and labor chiefs over the weekend
and has said he wants to pass labor legislation by the end of
the month. Italian Labor Minister Elsa Fornero said she will
present a plan to overhaul labor laws even if negotiations with
unions and employers fail to produce an agreement.  “We can’t keep going ahead and having endless
discussions,” she said last night on the television program
“Che Tempo Che Fa.” Fornero said that the two-month-old talks
had “matured” and that an agreement could be reached.  “We’ll get an agreement within about a week, although
there may be some small changes to the present proposal before
it’s all done,”  Erik Nielsen , chief global economist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in  London , wrote in a note to clients.  Greek Election  Even as focus shifted beyond Greece to other parts of the
euro area, the IMF’s continuing concern about the Greek package
illustrated the difficulty of implementing changes that
officials in Brussels and  Athens  had been negotiating for
months. Greece remains “accident prone,” the Washington-based
institution’s staff said in the report.  The IMF reduced its contribution to the second Greek
bailout because the operation poses what staff called
“unprecedented financial risks” to its finances. One of the
risks identified was the Greek election, to be held in April or
May.  Lagarde has pushed European governments to boost their
bailout fund in an effort to protect  Spain  and Italy from
contagion. Euro finance ministers may decide to increase the
region’s crisis fund to a total capacity of 692 billion euros
when they meet on March 30, a euro-area official said March 16.  EFSF Moves  The ministers, who will meet in Copenhagen, are weighing
what to do with the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility and its permanent successor, the European Stability
Mechanism. The 692 billion-euro figure represents the most
attainable compromise between 500 billion euros, if policy
makers change nothing, to a maximum of 940 billion euros, the
official said.  On March 16,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  left the door open to
boosting the euro-area backstop, saying a decision on
reinforcing the firewall will be made before IMF meetings next
month. Ministers have discussed “combination possibilities”
for the EFSF and the ESM ahead of their meeting.  “What’s clear is that we need to settle on a position with
a view to the IMF’s spring meeting because the topic will surely
come up and because there have been offers by the international
community,” Merkel said. “You can count on us setting the
course by the end of March.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  