-- Thorpe Will Swim On After London Olympics Bid Ends in Failure
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-18T13:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/thorpe-fails-to-qualify-for-london-olympics-at-australian-trials.html
Five-time Olympic champion  Ian Thorpe  said he’ll continue his swimming comeback after missing
out on a  London  Games berth at the Australian selection trials.  Thorpe blew his last chance to secure a spot in the squad
by failing to advance out of the 100-meter freestyle heats in
Adelaide yesterday. The 29-year-old also failed to make the 200-
meter freestyle final three days ago.  Thorpe had been bidding to compete in his third Olympics
and first in eight years. He returned to racing in November,
five years after retiring from swimming as Australia’s most
successful Olympic athlete.  “I’ve missed out on what was a huge goal for me to
accomplish in this short period of time, but still the desire I
had before this, it’s still there,” Thorpe said in a news
conference. “I still want to swim.”  Thorpe, who needed to finish in the top 16 to reach the
100-meter semifinals, posted the 21st fastest time of 50.35
seconds. World champion James Magnussen went quickest in 48.26
in the heats before topping last night’s semifinals with a
season-best time of 47.93.  Australia ’s policy is to pick the top two from each event
at the trials, with a top-six finish in the 100-meter or 200-
meter freestyle securing a place on the Olympic relay squad.  “Thorpie’s been someone I’ve always admired as a swimmer
so it is upsetting for him and the rest of us do feel his
pain,” said Magnussen, who is the bookmakers’ favorite to win
the 100-meter freestyle Olympic gold this year. “It would have
been great to have him there in London.”  Thorpe had last raced at a major meet in January 2006 at
the Australian Commonwealth Games trials, 17 months after
winning two golds, one silver and one bronze in  Athens  to lift
his Olympic medal tally to a national-record nine.  No Regrets  After announcing his comeback 13 months ago, Thorpe wasn’t
eligible to compete again until November. Even after missing out
on the Olympics, he said that he’d still made the right decision
to return after an extended period away from the sport.  “I don’t regret giving this a go,” Thorpe said.
“Compared to how I’ve raced and how I’ve competed and the
success I’ve had, this does look like doom, but I’m glad I was
willing to put myself out there to give this a shot.”  Thorpe said he would take some time off before discussing
his next targets with Leigh Nugent, the head coach of
Australia’s swim team, and his coach Gennadi Touretski.  The 15th world championships take place in Barcelona next
year before the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow,  Scotland .  “What he’s attempted was incredibly difficult and coming
here and doing what he’s done is an achievement in itself,”
Nugent told reporters. “He got to the point in his races where
he committed himself but just couldn’t go on with it and that’s
a training and condition factor. He’s got it all. You’ve just
got to train it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  