-- Osborne Seeks to End 50% Tax Spat With Pledge to Aid U.K. Poor
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-19T00:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/osborne-seeks-to-defuse-50-tax-row-with-promise-to-help-poor.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  sought to calm speculation over whether he will scrap
Britain’s top income-tax rate by promising to use his budget
this week to help lower-income workers.  Pledging “extremely aggressive” measures to stop  tax
evasion , particularly on property transactions, Osborne said
yesterday that the March 21 annual budget will include changes
“for lifting low-income people out of tax.” He said a decision
was made last week on whether to cut or abolish the 50 percent
tax rate on earnings above 150,000 pounds ($238,000), without
saying what it was.  “The bulk of the measures are directed at working people
on low and middle incomes,” Osborne told BBC television in an
interview. Matters of substance were agreed on last week,
leaving a meeting today only to “discuss how we will present
the budget.”  The comments suggest Osborne’s Conservative Party may have
won the backing of the minority Liberal Democrats in the
coalition government to scrap the top  tax rate  in return for
support for the less well-off. Osborne’s repeated insistence on
a budget with no extra borrowing suggests that anti-avoidance
measures will finance both tax cuts.  The opposition  Labour Party  attacked the possibility of a
 tax cut  for the richest, saying help for high earners should not
be a priority when Osborne is driving through the biggest public
spending cuts since World War II as he seeks to reduce the
second-highest budget deficit among Group of Seven nations.  ‘Out of Touch’  “For families on middle and low incomes, seeing their
petrol prices up, their fuel bills up, their  living standards 
squeezed, the idea that George Osborne is saying the No. 1
priority is to cut taxes for those on 150,000 pounds, they can’t
be serious,”  Ed Balls , Osborne’s opposite in Parliament, told
the same BBC program. “It’s totally out of touch.”  Any tax cut would be financed by a crackdown on the
“completely unacceptable” practice of buying homes through a
company to avoid paying stamp duty, rising to 5 percent of the
price of homes over 1 million pounds, Osborne said. People who
game the system will face “a very punitive charge,” he said.  “We are going to come down on that practice like a ton of
bricks,” Osborne said. “People have had their warning.”  Tax Avoidance  In addition to the stamp-duty measures, Osborne will also
say he plans to introduce legislation for a General Anti-Abuse
Rule in next year’s  Finance Bill , according to person with
knowledge of the matter.  The aim of such a rule is to prevent “aggressive” tax
avoidance by individuals and companies such as Barclays Plc,
which was asked last month were asked to end a practice that
would have deprived the public purse of more than 500 million
pounds. New rules would deter abusive behavior and give the tax
agency greater powers to stop it when it takes place, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the plans aren’t
public.  Osborne is constrained by his desire to keep Britain’s AAA
credit rating, and he told ministers during budget negotiations
that he will not borrow more money to finance tax cuts. Earlier
this month,  Fitch Ratings  added to previous warnings from
Moody’s Investors Service that Britain’s top-grade credit
hallmark carries a more than 50 percent chance of a downgrade
over the next two years.  Austerity Program  The Treasury prolonged austerity plans in November beyond
the 2015 election, with an extra 15 billion pounds of spending
cuts from then to eat into the extra 158 billion pounds of
borrowing needed because of weaker-than-expected economic
growth.  The chancellor’s previous budget cuts will see more than
700,000 public-sector jobs axed in the tightest fiscal squeeze
since World War II. He wants to erase by 2017 the bulk of a
budget deficit that equals 9 percent of gross domestic product.  Osborne said any decision on the 50 percent tax rate will
be based on a study by the Revenue and Customs department into
how much it is raising for the Treasury. Liberal Democrats such
as Business Secretary Vince Cable have signaled their
willingness to relent on the issue in return for lifting the
tax-free allowance at the bottom of the income scale.  Critics of the 50 percent rate, such as London Mayor  Boris Johnson , a Tory, argue it is a disincentive to entrepreneurs,
encourages tax evasion and risks diverting investment abroad.
The levy was introduced by the previous Labour government to cut
the  budget deficit  and left Britain with a higher marginal tax
rate than in the U.S.,  Germany  and  France .  ‘Mansion Tax’  The Liberal Democrats say their priority is to take more
low-income households out paying tax altogether. Cable said on
March 6 the party is willing to scrap the top tax rate as long
as the Conservatives agreed to introduce new taxes on the
wealthy.  Cable said he favored a tax on property, known as a
“mansion tax,” which could be levied by local government and
become part of the existing council tax or be raised directly by
central government.  The next day, Cable attacked a lack of “compelling
vision” in the government, saying efforts to narrow the budget
deficit don’t amount to an economic plan for the future. Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the Liberal Democrat leader, has
called for a “tycoon tax” on high earners, without giving
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  