-- Peru President Humala’s Approval Rating Falls to 53%, Poll Says
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-03-18T17:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/peru-president-humala-s-approval-rating-falls-to-53-poll-says.html
Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala ’s
approval rating fell from a three-month high on concern he may
have condoned favorable treatment for his brother, who’s
imprisoned for killing four policemen, according to a new poll.  The rating dropped to 53 percent, from 59 percent last
month, newspaper El Comercio  reported , citing a poll by Ipsos
Apoyo.  Antauro Humala, who’s serving a 19-year prison sentence,
was moved to a military lock-up from a maximum security facility
March 4. Justice Minister Juan Jimenez told legislators last
week the transfer was for safety reasons, and said press reports
that the former army major had obtained an iPhone and Internet
access in the penitentiary will be investigated.  According to the survey, 59 percent thought the transfer
was designed to give Humala better living conditions and 77
percent disapproved of the move. The Lima-based researcher
questioned 1,204 people from March 14 to March 16. The poll,
commissioned by El Comercio, had a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.8 percentage points.  Antauro Humala was jailed in September 2009 for the
slayings during the 2005 takeover of a police station in the
southern Andean town of Andahuaylas. He had led a group of army
reservists who opposed foreign investment and sought to re-
nationalize state industries.  Lima-based America Television on March 11 published e-mails
it said Antauro Humala had received from people seeking his help
in gaining government jobs. It also published an e-mail it said
he’d sent to a member of staff in Congress.  At least 69 percent of those surveyed said Antauro Humala
holds sway over the president, the army, prison officials and
some government entities, the poll shows.  President Humala had a 55 percent approval rating in a
March 9-12 poll by Datum Internacional, which surveyed 1,206
people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 