-- Princeton Reaps Tax Breaks as State Colleges Beg
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-03-18T23:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/princeton-reaps-tax-breaks-as-state-colleges-beg.html
Princeton University  and the
College of New Jersey are schools of roughly the same size
located just 12 miles apart, but they could be on different
planets.  The world knows Princeton to be a very elite private
school, while if anyone thinks of the  College of New Jersey  at
all, it is as the former Trenton  State College , a public
institution serving a far less upscale population, with a much
larger proportion of students receiving some federal or state
government aid.  In one vital respect, however, the popular perception of
these schools is wrong. A far better case can be made that
Princeton is more of a publicly subsidized school than the
College of New Jersey, which is proportionately more dependent
on private funding.  Federal research grants play a role in paying professor
salaries and providing funds for administrative and building
overhead, but the major reason for my statement is simple:
Princeton’s use of tax exemptions has facilitated its
accumulation of vast amounts of wealth, something largely denied
to the College of  New Jersey  and most other so-called state
universities.  Billion-Dollar Endowment  Princeton’s  endowment  on July 1, 2010, was $14.3 billion.
That works out to almost $2 million for every student  in
attendance .  Over the following year, Princeton’s endowment rose by more
than $2.7 billion, about 500 times the growth in the College of
New Jersey’s endowment, which was about $20 million in 2010,
according to the  National Association of College and University
Business Officers , and rose to about $25 million over the next
year.  Let us assume Princeton earns 3 percent annually on its
2010 endowment -- more than $431.7 million total for 2010-11 --
in actual income payments. A private individual or corporation
owning those assets would have been taxed at probably a 35
percent rate, conservatively, or $151 million. By my
calculations, it also appears that the school accrued at least
$2.5 billion in  capital gains , the realized portion of which
ordinarily would be taxable at 15 percent. If 25 percent of the
gains were taxable (a conservative estimate), Princeton saved an
additional $94 million that other taxpayers would have paid.  Then, of course, there are new gifts, on which donors pay
no tax. The precise impact this had on Princeton’s finances for
the year is unknown, because we do not know if many gifts were
motivated by tax considerations. But a figure of $100 million
seems plausible (the school received more than $50 million just
for its annual giving campaign, a small portion of total
giving).  Finally, the school acknowledges receiving roughly $250
million in research grants. Most of those funds were legally
committed to specific projects, but it is probable that more
than $75 million of that amount was in overhead funds, because
the typical federal reimbursement for operating expenses is
conservatively 30 percent of the total grant amount, for which
the university has considerable discretion in spending.  Adding together the $151 million in income tax savings to
the $94 million in capital-gains-tax savings, the estimated $100
million in tax-induced gifts and the $75 million in research
overhead, we get $420 million; dividing by  7,731 students , we
get more than $54,000 per student.  $54,000 Versus $2,000  Do the same exercise for the College of New Jersey, and it
appears that the school at most receives less than $600 per
student in federal benefits annually. True, the college also
gets state subsidies. Yet that adds up to only about $1,000 per
student a year, so the total state and federal subsidies per
student are less than $2,000, not even 4 percent of Princeton’s
level.  Students get some government financial-assistance benefits
at both schools. But even adding everything in, total direct and
indirect governmental subsidies at the College of New Jersey are
still less than a tenth of what they are at Princeton. Moreover,
tuition payments (clearly a private form of financing)
constitute more than 70 percent of the College of New Jersey’s
total funding, substantially more than at Princeton.  Because Princeton is a school attended by predominantly
wealthy and moderately affluent students, and the College of New
Jersey has more lower- and middle-income kids, it is worth
noting that public policy is subsidizing the “rich” more than
the poor. This may explain why  Daniel Bennett  and I are getting
statistical results suggesting that increased college
participation now appears to be associated with falling, rather
than rising, income equality.  In 2002,  Meg Whitman , now the chief executive officer of
Hewlett-Packard Co. and a former CEO of EBay Inc., made a $30
million gift for what is essentially a luxury dorm (Whitman
College) at Princeton that probably netted her a tax break of
$10 million or so. Less opulent residences at the College of New
Jersey lack such rich private funding. One could argue that this
is the equivalent of building public housing for the rich.  The example contrasting an elite university and a state
school is not isolated. Go to  Chicago  and compare either the
 University of Chicago  or Northwestern with the Chicago campus of
the University of  Illinois . Or go to  California  and compare
 Stanford University  with nearby San Jose State University, and
the same picture would emerge.  What should be done? I am somewhat surprised that the
Occupy Wall Street crowd is not making a case for ending tax
exemptions for elite higher education. One option the protesters
might propose would be a progressive tax scheme, permitting full
exemption of donations, dividends and capital gains at poor
schools; no exemptions at wealthier ones; and perhaps even a tax
on that income at extremely rich universities such as Harvard,
Yale and Princeton.  Matching Grants  One could even level the playing field a bit by using some
of the increased tax revenue to finance matching grants for
donations to poor schools such as the College of New Jersey.
Simpler yet: End federal tax exemptions at colleges and
universities.  To me,  income inequality  is an overrated problem in
American life, and has even propelled the American
entrepreneurial spirit. Yet it remains true that, considering
all federal government policies, including tax exemptions, the
rich schools have benefited more than the poor ones -- a
regressive social policy that many would argue is inconsistent
with using higher education as a tool in promoting the American
Dream.  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity and teaches economics at Ohio
University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 