-- Real Madrid’s La Liga Run Halted by Malaga’s Stoppage-Time Goal
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-03-18T23:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/real-madrid-s-la-liga-run-halted-by-malaga-s-stoppage-time-goal.html
Real  Madrid ’s lead atop Spanish
soccer’s La Liga was cut to eight points after a stoppage-time
goal earned Malaga a 1-1 away draw. Udinese and Napoli missed
the chance to go third in Italy’s Serie A by tying 2-2.  Karim Benzema’s 35th-minute header had put Real on track
for a 12th straight victory last night before Santi Cazorla
scored with a free kick in the second minute of added time.
Malaga joined Barcelona as the only teams to have avoided defeat
in 21 matches at the Bernabeu stadium this season.  The result leaves Real, seeking its first Spanish league
title since 2008, with 71 points, eight more than defending
champion Barcelona, which won 2-0 at Sevilla two days ago on
goals by  Xavi Hernandez  and Lionel Messi.  Valencia, which remains in third, beat Athletic Bilbao 3-0
yesterday with a hat trick from  Roberto Soldado .  In Italy, Udinese and Napoli failed to take advantage of
third-place Lazio’s 1-0 loss at Catania. Edinson Cavani scored
twice in the last 10 minutes to pull Napoli back to 2-2 after
earlier missing a penalty with his team trailing 2-0.  Inter Milan , last season’s runner-up, failed to win for an
eighth time in nine Serie A matches as it was held to a 0-0 tie
by Atalanta. Inter’s  Diego Milito  missed a penalty in the first
half at the San Siro.  Inter slipped to eighth place in Serie A, seven points
behind Lazio, which occupies the last spot which would secure
qualification for  Europe ’s elite Champions League.  Defending champion AC Milan leads the standings with 60
points following a 2-0 victory at Parma two days ago. Juventus
trails by four points after winning 5-0 at Fiorentina.  Germany, France  Schalke rallied to defeat last-place Kaiserslautern 4-1
yesterday and remain fourth in Germany’s Bundesliga, nine points
behind leader  Borussia Dortmund .  Two days ago, Dortmund beat Werder Bremen 1-0, second-place
 Bayern Munich  routed Hertha Berlin 6-0 and Borussia
Moenchengladbach won 2-1 at Bayer Leverkusen. Bayern trails the
leader by five points, with Moenchengladbach three points
further back.  Paris Saint-Germain stretched its lead atop France’s Ligue
1 to two points on the weekend even after being held to a 2-2
draw at Caen. Second-place Montpellier lost 1-0 at Nancy.  Defending champion Lille is seven points further back
following a 4-0 win at home against Valenciennes last night.  AZ Alkmaar  has a one-point lead in Dutch soccer’s
Eredivisie following a scoreless draw against NAC Breda
yesterday. Second-place Ajax won 2-0 at Den Haag, while PSV
Eindhoven is another point back after routing Heerenveen 5-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 