-- Santorum Says Romney Is Flawed by Too Many Similarities
-- B y   R o m a i n e   B o s t i c k
-- 2012-03-18T14:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/santorum-says-romney-is-flawed-by-too-many-similarities-t.html
Presidential primary candidate  Rick Santorum  said fellow Republican Party challenger  Mitt Romney  is
a flawed candidate with too many similarities to Barack Obama on
health care, cap-and-trade and government bailouts.  “I feel like I am doing a training run for the general
election,” Santorum said today on ABC’s “This Week” program.
“The same issues I’m out there campaigning on against Governor
Romney are the same issues I’m going to campaign against Barack
Obama on.”  Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, has won 252
delegates so far in this year’s Republican presidential
primaries, trailing Romney’s 495 delegates in the contest to
face Democrat Obama in the November election. Santorum said he’s
won 10 states even though Romney’s campaign has outspent him --
an advantage Romney wouldn’t have in a general election.  Romney is “not going to be able to pound his opponent into
the ground,” Santorum said in an interview on CNN today.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, is trying to
appeal to the  Republican Party ’s socially conservative base to
rebound from primary losses to Santorum last week in Alabama and
Mississippi.  In a conference call with Illinois Republican voters last
week Romney pointed to his endorsements from conservative
Republican leaders, including Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma,
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia and former
Attorney General John Ashcroft.  Their backing should “give a pretty good indication that,
‘Perhaps the guy’s OK,’” Romney said of himself. The Illinois
primary is this week.  Tribune Poll  A  Chicago  Tribune/WGN-TV poll released last weekend showed
Romney was backed by 35 percent of likely voters in Illinois and
Santorum by 31 percent, within the 4-percentage point margin of
error.  The survey, taken before Santorum’s wins in the March 13
 Mississippi  and Alabama primaries, showed 16 percent of likely
Republican voters in Illinois’s March 20 primary were undecided
and 46 percent said they might change their minds. It also
revealed that Romney is doing better in the suburbs around
Chicago, while Santorum holds the advantage outside the state’s
largest metropolitan area.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  is in third place
in the Republican presidential race, with 131 delegates,
according to an Associated Press tally that includes
endorsements from party leaders who attend the convention and
can vote for anyone. Representative Ron Paul of Texas has 48
delegates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romaine Bostick in Washington at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  