-- Saudi Oil Output in January Was Near 31-Year High, Data Show
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-03-18T16:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/saudi-oil-output-in-january-was-near-31-year-high-data-show-1-.html
Saudi Arabia (OPCRSAUD) , the largest oil
producer in OPEC, pumped 9.87 million barrels a day in January,
its second-highest monthly output since at least 1980, official
data showed.  The country produced 0.6 percent more crude in January than
in the previous month, according to statistics the government
submitted to the Joint Organization Data Initiative. The world’s
biggest exporter of crude also boosted shipments to 7.51 million
barrels a day in January from 7.36 million barrels in December,
data posted today on the  website  of the international initiative
known as JODI showed.  Saudi Arabia  pumped 9.81 million barrels of oil in December
and 10.05 million barrels in November, according to the website.
The November figure was the highest for at least 31 years,
according to data from the U.S. Energy Department. Daily
production of almost 10 million barrels “may persist for some
time” because of uncertain market conditions and upward
pressure on crude prices, Jarmo Kotilaine, chief economist at
Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank , the country’s largest
lender by assets, said in an e-mail.  Oil inventories in Saudi Arabia rose 5.9 percent in January
from a month earlier, according to JODI data. The Middle East
country had 254.6 million barrels of crude in storage within its
territory in January, compared with 240.6 million barrels in
December, JODI data show.  Iran Factor  The latest figures for Saudi output and exports came as
 Iran , the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, braces for a planned European ban on
purchases of Iranian crude starting in July. Saudi Arabia is
“poised to make good any shortfall, perceived or real,” in
global supply, the kingdom’s oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said on
March 14 at the International Energy Forum in  Kuwait .  The JODI data, which include condensates and exclude
natural-gas liquids, are similar to an International Energy
Agency estimate from February that Saudi Arabia was pumping 9.85
million barrels a day.  JODI is supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy
Forum and compiles data provided by member governments. The IEF
is a group of nations accounting for more than 90 percent of
global oil and gas supply and demand, established as a forum for
producing and consuming countries to discuss international
 energy security .  OPEC supplies about 40 percent of global crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Cairo at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  