-- Sharp Stuck on TVs as Samsung, Sony Rally: Chart of Day
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-03-18T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/sharp-stuck-on-tvs-as-samsung-sony-rally-chart-of-day.html
Sharp Corp. has been left behind in
a rally of Asian consumer-electronics stocks, with its shares
touching a three-decade low as reliance on the saturated market
for liquid-crystal-display televisions sapped earnings.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares shares of Sharp, down 24
percent in 2012, with those of Japanese rivals Sony Corp.,
Panasonic Corp. and  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , each having gained more than 10 percent this
year. Sharp’s stock fell to its lowest since 1979 on March 14
after failing to meet quality standards to supply screens for
Apple Inc’s new iPad. The same day, the company named a new
president after forecasting a record annual loss.  “Investors are coming to suspect that Sharp’s slump is
more serious than thought,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief
executive officer at Myojo Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“There is a concern over possible fundraising as losses are
expected to continue next year.”  Sony and Panasonic forecast record losses on their TV units
for the current fiscal year, after ceding market share to Korean
producers in an industry where prices have plunged by half in
three years. Almost half of Sharp’s revenue in fiscal 2010 came
from LCD TV and large panel sales, compared with 17 percent for
Sony and 11 percent for Panasonic, according to Kazuharu Miura,
an analyst in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Sony’s (6758)  music, film and finance businesses and  Panasonic’s (6752) 
plan to boost sales of energy-saving products by combining its
housing and electronics units will drive a turnaround for those
companies, Myojo Asset’s Kikuchi said. Sharp is expected to lose
about 20 billion yen ($240 million) next year, as it struggles
because of its focus on TVs, flat-panel screens and a loss-
making solar cell division, Miura said.  The cost to insure bonds of Sharp rose to the highest on
record relative to Samsung Electronics debt last week, after
Rating & Investment Information Inc. cut its assessment on Sharp
by two levels, citing higher borrowing costs in a transition to
a new president. “Sharp doesn’t have any promising business
large enough to pull the company out of its slump,” said Takao
Hattori, an analyst at TIW Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaaki Iwamoto in  Tokyo  at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Miller at 
 lmiller@bloomberg.net  