-- Small Biz Jobs Act Is a Bipartisan Bridge Too Far
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-18T23:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/small-biz-jobs-act-is-a-bipartisan-bridge-too-far-view.html
A spirit of bipartisanship is
sweeping  Capitol Hill , with lawmakers poised to approve a
package of bills aimed at reducing regulatory burdens on small
business.  We wish we could raise a glass. This moment has been too
long in coming. But the legislation it has spawned would be
dangerous for investors and could harm already fragile financial
markets.  At issue is a measure called Jumpstart Our Business
Startups, or  JOBS Act , which lawmakers in both parties claim
would relieve small businesses seeking to raise capital from
burdensome regulations, and thereby create jobs. The U.S. House
overwhelmingly passed the measure 390-23 last week, and the
Senate is expected to consider it this week. The White House has
said President  Barack Obama  will  sign  the legislation.  We agree that red tape can needlessly tie up small
companies. We also agree that securities laws that bar startups
from harnessing the power of the Internet to raise funds could
use updating. And it makes sense to allow, as the bill does, an
initial public offering on-ramp, which would give startups a
chance to grow before saddling them with certain costly and
time-consuming regulations.  Accounting Scandals  But the JOBS Act goes too far. It would gut many of the
investor protections established just a decade ago in the 2002
 Sarbanes-Oxley law . A wave of accounting scandals -- think Enron
and WorldCom -- had destroyed the nest eggs of millions of
Americans and upended investor confidence in  Wall Street . The
relief would extend beyond small businesses and apply to more
than 90 percent of companies that go public.  At the center of the package is a new class of emerging
growth companies, defined as those with as much as $1 billion in
annual revenue, which would be exempt from a host of disclosure,
reporting and governance rules. These companies would be able to
operate for up to five years without an independent test of
their internal controls -- the checks and balances that help
companies prevent outright fraud and costly accounting mistakes.  Emerging companies would also be able to promote public
offerings with less-than-complete information by “testing the
waters” with fancy PowerPoint slides and other pre-IPO
materials. Executives wouldn’t be held accountable for any
misrepresentations. To go public, companies would ultimately
have to file an official prospectus -- where they must reveal
their financial secrets, warts and all -- with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. But investors who have seen the glossy
brochures might never read those documents.  These companies would also be able to use so-called crowd-
sourcing to raise capital, an idea that deserves support. The
bill, however, puts an overly high $2 million ceiling on what
entrepreneurs can raise with little oversight (more on that
later).  Perhaps most disappointing, the bill rolls back rules meant
to prevent analysts from misleading investors by talking up
stocks simply to win investment banking business. Such conflicts
of interest were  banned  in 2003, after federal and state
investigations revealed analysts were privately deriding stocks
they were publicly touting and failing to disclose conflicts.  Supporters of the bill point to the falloff in initial
public offerings as evidence that regulatory costs are
dissuading entrepreneurs from creating businesses or taking them
public. And they say rescinding the analyst research
restrictions would benefit small companies, which Wall Street
otherwise ignores.  That sounds great in theory, but the reality offers a
different picture. It’s true the number of initial offerings has
declined, but evidence suggests that has less to do with
regulation and more with global economic trends.  Exemptions Exist  IPOs of small companies -- those with less than $50 million
in annual sales -- have declined more than  80 percent  since
2001. It would be easy to blame the Sarbanes-Oxley law, which
ushered in sweeping accounting and governance rules after a
series of bankruptcies revealed that companies were cooking the
books and auditors were looking the other way. But the SEC has
long exempted companies with less than $75 million in sales from
some of the law’s more onerous provisions, including the most
costly of all, the internal controls audit.  As  Jay Ritter , a finance professor at the University of
 Florida  has documented, the decline in IPOs is related to
declining profitability of small businesses. Many are opting to
merge with larger companies to quickly get bigger and more
profitable, rather than go public.  What’s more, many of the rules the bill seeks to upend have
helped companies, including the internal controls rule. An  SEC
study , for example, found that such audits helped companies
avoid financial restatements, which are costly exercises that
often drive down share prices.  Luckily, a bipartisan group of senators has realized the
damage this package could inflict and plans to offer changes
during this week’s floor consideration. Among them: lowering the
threshold for emerging growth companies to $350 million in
annual sales. That’s a vast improvement, but probably still too
high -- $350 million in sales isn’t exactly small beer.  The senators would cap the amount raised through crowd-
funding at $1 million, and require those soliciting funds to
register with the SEC. To help unsophisticated investors, it
would cap investments at the greater of $2,000 or 5 percent of
income for those who earn less than $100,000. (Those earning
more could contribute a maximum of $100,000 per year.)  The senators would also wisely prevent analysts from
recommending the pre-IPO stock of an emerging growth company.  Deregulation Surprises  There is room to improve small-business rules, but Congress
should tread carefully. History is full of examples of
legislation enacted in the name of deregulation, only to have it
backfire. The 1999  Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act , which ended the
Depression-era ban against mixing investment and commercial
banking, and the 2000  Commodity Futures Modernization Act , which
allowed explosive, but unregulated, growth in over-the-counter
derivatives, are two. Both laws helped set the stage for the
2008 financial collapse.  It shouldn’t be necessary to gut investor safeguards to
promote  job creation . If investors lose confidence because of
worries about fraud, they will demand a higher return on their
money, raising the cost of capital for all.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 