-- Snowe’s Resignation Leaves a Vacuum at Senate’s Center
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-03-18T15:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/snowe-s-resignation-leaves-a-vacuum-at-senate-s-center.html
Senator  Olympia Snowe  of Maine, a
certainty to win her fourth term in November, stunned the U.S.
political world last month by announcing that she was retiring.  Some of her fellow Republicans, who only days earlier had
groused that she was unreliable -- a centerpiece of Utah Senator
 Orrin Hatch ’s re-election campaign was the warning that his
defeat could mean Snowe would become chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee -- lamented the loss and what it said about
American politics. Similar sentiments came from Democrats, from
the White House to the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, some of
whom had dismissed her for failing to stand up to her party.  This is why the three-term senator, who also served 16
years in the U.S. House and six years in the  Maine  legislature,
bowed out; the “sensible center,” she said, is disappearing
from American politics and the Senate is dysfunctional.  Last week, in her ground-level office in the Russell Senate
Office Building, she chatted for 40 minutes about changes and
the loss of comity in the body politic.  “There’s no longer political reward for consensus
building,” says the 65-year-old, one of the last of a dying
breed of middle-of-the-road Republicans who worked with
Democrats.  She parcels out bipartisan blame. For President  Barack Obama , who came into office vowing to end Washington’s toxic
partisanship, “everything went awry from the outset.”  Stimulus Vote  During deliberations on the initial fiscal stimulus
measure, she met with the president and counseled him to follow
 Ronald Reagan ’s model of working across the political lines in
Congress. He didn’t or couldn’t. The legislation passed Congress
with the support of only three Republicans, including Snowe.  On  deficit reduction , she laments that Obama appointed the
Bowles-Simpson commission and then walked away from its
recommendations. “The president should have at least put it out
there,” she says.  Likewise, she notes that Republicans did little about
chronic deficits when in control of Congress. She recalls with
dismay the party’s leading presidential contenders declaring at
a debate last August that they would oppose any deal that cut
$10 of spending if it also contained $1 in tax increases.  The health-care measure exemplified the political pettiness
and paralysis in  Washington . The Finance Committee, on which she
serves, was working on a bill as Congress adjourned in August
2009. During that recess, Tea Party conservatives and some
Republicans ginned up the threat of “death panels,” a canard
that Snowe says “ignited a firestorm politically” and made
bipartisan deals almost impossible.  A few months later, Democratic Senate leaders forced a huge
bill onto the floor with no explanation of some provisions. The
measure passed, the country remains divided and the issue will
be settled in June by a politically split  Supreme Court .  Her own party “has moved too far right” on fiscal and
social issues. The recent battle over access to  birth control ,
she fears, is reviving the sense that Republicans are waging a
war against women. In the 1980s, she led a group of female
Republican lawmakers to meet with Reagan on an agenda to address
similar concerns.  “The reigniting of this whole debate is perilous for the
 Republican Party ,” she says. “To focus on social issues to the
exclusion of other issues puts us in a politically delicate
position that could alienate women.”  Disappearing Bipartisanship  It’s the dysfunctional Senate that bothers her most. Too
often, legislation isn’t carefully considered and regular order
is ignored. She cites the passage of the 1985-86 tax reform act
as a model of the way things should work. The debate was
protracted, “contentious and controversial.” In the end, a
major bill was passed on a bipartisan basis with the White House
and Congress working together. “Now we don’t do anything in a
systematic way,” she says.  One reason is abuse of the filibuster rule that requires 60
of the 100 senators -- rather than a simple majority -- to
support cutting off debate before taking a vote. This maneuver
used to be reserved for urgent national issues; the 91st
Congress, which ended in 1970, debated civil rights, the  Vietnam
War  and the controversial presidency of  Richard Nixon ; yet there
were just six votes to break filibusters. In the last Congress,
there were 91.  Snowe is skeptical this will change: “To what? A lower
number? I just wonder if that’s addressing the symptom and not
the underlying problem.”  Given all these problems, one might think an independent or
third-party movement would appeal to Snowe. In the 1992
presidential election, her congressional district gave  Ross Perot  33 percent of the vote, his highest tally anywhere and
more than President  George H.W. Bush . Over the past four
decades, Maine has elected two independents as governor; one of
those, Angus King, is now a favorite to take Snowe’s Senate
seat.  After announcing her retirement, Snowe spoke to former New
Jersey Governor Christine Todd Whitman, who belongs to a
bipartisan group of political figures that is discussing the
notion of an independent effort this year that would focus on
deficit reduction.  Snowe isn’t sold on the idea. “That would complicate
matters,” she says. “I believe in the two-party system. It
could work.”  She remembers those who made the chamber work, starting
with Edward M. Kennedy, the late Massachusetts Democrat. She was
in the minority and had introduced a genetics non-discrimination
bill. “Ted graciously deferred to me as the lead sponsor of the
bill, even though he chaired the committee.”  Kennedy “understood the legislative dynamics and the
interrelationships and the value of the art of legislating,”
she says. Too often, these days, that art “has been consumed in
the overall environment.”  The other lawmaker she singles out for praise is man who
was the Senate leader when she first arrived in that
institution, Robert J. Dole of  Kansas . “He would put everybody
in a room and say, ‘Go work it out.”’  He represented, she believes, the essence of public
service: “to develop solutions.”  Could that happen today? She shakes her head: “It’s
different. It is a different time.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 