-- Soccer’s Muamba ‘Critical’ After Collapsing During Game
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-18T13:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/soccer-s-muamba-critical-after-collapsing-during-f-a-cup-game.html
Bolton Wanderers midfielder Fabrice
Muamba remains in a “critical” condition today after suffering
a cardiac arrest during a televised F.A. Cup soccer match.  Muamba, 23, is “anaesthetised” in intensive care at the
 London Chest Hospital  after collapsing on the pitch near the end
of the first half of Bolton’s away game against Tottenham at
White Hart Lane, in north  London , yesterday. Medical staff in
the ground treated the player on the pitch with a defibrillator
before he was carried off on a stretcher.  “Fabrice Muamba remains in a critical condition in
intensive care in the Heart Attack Centre at the London Chest
Hospital,” the hospital and club said in a  joint statement 
today. “He was admitted to the hospital yesterday evening after
collapsing at White Hart Lane, where he sustained a cardiac
arrest. Fabrice received prolonged resuscitation at the ground
and on route to the London Chest Hospital, where his heart
eventually started working.”  Players and both sets of fans were visibly upset, with some
in tears. Match referee  Howard Webb  took both teams off the
field and moments later the game was abandoned with the score
tied 1-1.  Ian Dennis, the British Broadcasting Corp.’s Radio 5 Live
chief football reporter, was covering yesterday’s game and
described the efforts to treat Muamba.  ‘Swift Actions’  “When the medical staff arrived his face was on the
turf,” Dennis  said  on the BBC website. “You could see them
using a defibrillator. Everyone could see Fabrice Muamba was
fighting for his life.”  In a  statement , Premier League Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Scudamore  said the thoughts of all clubs and players
were with Muamba.  “We would like to praise the players, match officials,
coaching staff and medical teams of both clubs at White Hart
Lane for their swift actions in attending Fabrice,” Scudamore
said.  Muamba, a member of the England under-21 national team and
a former Arsenal midfielder, is in his fourth season with
Bolton. He has appeared in 19 matches this season, scoring once.  Bolton’s scheduled Premier League match at  Aston Villa  on
March 20 was today postponed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  