-- Speculators Dumped Crop Wagers Before Biggest Rally: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-03-19T21:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/speculators-dumped-crop-wagers-before-biggest-rally-commodities.html
Speculators slashed wagers on
higher agricultural prices by the most in eight weeks, missing
out on this year’s biggest rally as parched fields from  South
America  to Europe curbed expectations for record harvests.  Money managers trimmed  positions  across 11 U.S. farm goods
by 2.5 percent to 661,067 futures and options in the week ended
March 13, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show, the
biggest reduction since Jan. 17. Bets on sugar fell the most
since November before prices posted their biggest weekly gain in
five months. Funds also became more bearish on wheat, which
jumped to its highest in almost two weeks.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Spot  Index (SPGSAG)  rose 3.5
percent last week, the most since December, as drought damaged
soy, corn and sugar crops across  Brazil  and  Argentina  and slowed
wheat shipments from eastern Europe and  Russia . World food costs
had dropped about 11 percent from a record in the past year on
prospects for the most grain supply ever, before rallying in
January and February, United Nations data show.  “There are some issues with crop production,” said
 Jeffrey Sherman , who helps manage about $30 billion of assets
for DoubleLine Capital in  Los Angeles . “The weather is very,
very dry in the southern hemisphere. The opportunity now is in
agriculture.”  Sugar, Hogs Climb  The eight-member agriculture gauge climbed to a four-month
high on March 16 as the S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
rose 0.4 percent last week, led by sugar, hogs and wheat. The
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities advanced 2 percent. The
dollar slid 0.3 percent against a basket of six major trading
partners, and Treasuries lost 1.2 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows. The S&P measure of farm futures declined 0.9
percent to close at 445.83 in  New York  today.  Corn and soybeans reached six-month highs as the drought in
South America reduced supplies. It’s been the driest and warmest
growing season since 2009, when corn output fell 30 percent in
Argentina and 13 percent in Brazil, according to data from the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture .  South America’s crops are wilting at a time when China’s
appetite for meat from grain-fed livestock is lifting global
consumption, boosting the outlook for exports from the U.S., the
world’s biggest shipper. Increasing overseas demand helped U.S.
net farm  income  reach a record $98.1 billion in 2011, the
government said last month.  Corn Shipments  Jilin Corn Center Wholesale Market Co. said March 15 that
 China ’s purchases of domestic grain plunged to 1.2 million
metric tons this year from 11 million tons a year earlier,
signaling more imports may be needed. In the week ended March 8,
U.S. shippers reported sales for delivery before Sept. 1 jumped
88 percent from a week earlier, the USDA said.  While investors cut corn wagers 0.3 percent last week, bets
are still up 65 percent this year, heading for the first
quarterly advance since the third quarter of 2010. The net-long
position in soybeans surged more than sevenfold in 2012.  The rally is being caused by “the pervasive lack of buffer
stocks,” Rabobank International’s commodity analysts, led by
London-based Luke Chandler, said in a March 14 report. Record
harvest are needed to meet demand and that’s being “thwarted by
weather,” the team wrote.  Funds Miss Rally  The South American drought is also hurting sugar
plantations. Brazilian mills may produce 5.9 percent less than
previously forecast, Copersucar, the country’s largest trader of
the commodity, said on March 12. Prices surged 7.4 percent last
week in New York, the most since mid-October. The funds probably
missed the rally, cutting net-long  positions  by 20 percent, the
most since November.  A broader measure of commodities showed that money managers
trimmed holdings just before the S&P GSCI index rallied on March
16 by the most in two weeks. The price gauge is up 10 percent
since the start of January, rising for a fourth year.  Net-long positions across 18 U.S. raw materials fell for a
second consecutive week, the longest slide this year, to 1.13
million contracts, CFTC data show. Bets on rising gold prices
dropped to the lowest since the end of January. Wagers on
declines in cotton, coffee, wheat and natural gas increased.  Slowing growth in China and  Europe  may mean this year’s
commodity rally won’t last, said  John Stephenson , who helps
manage $2.7 billion of assets at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto.  ‘Slightly Negative’  “Without doubt, it’s a slightly negative time for
commodities, and we will see bearish bets increasing,”
Stephenson said. “The U.S. is doing well, but it cannot carry
the world on its shoulders.”  China’s economy  will grow by 8.5 percent this year, the
slowest pace in more than a decade, according to the median of
21 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. About 40 percent
of the world’s copper, 43 percent of aluminum and 46 percent of
nickel is consumed by China,  Barclays Capital  estimates.  Investors put $166 million into commodities in the week
ending March 14, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks investment flows. Gold and precious-
metals funds attracted $258 million, compensating for a $92
million drop in industrial metals and agriculture.  Bets on a copper rally gained 4.7 percent to 14,259
contracts, the second increase in three weeks, CFTC data show.
Prices in New York jumped 14 percent this year as factory output
rebounded in the U.S., the biggest consumer after China.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in March at
the fastest pace since June 2010, and a Philadelphia-area
factory index grew at the quickest rate in 11 months, regional
Federal Reserve bank data showed on March 15. A Labor Department
report the same day showed claims for jobless benefits matching
the lowest in four years.  “Things are improving,” said  Evan Smith , who helps manage
$650 million of assets at U.S. Global Investors Inc. in  San
Antonio . “Lots of indicators for industrial production are
recovering and headed upwards. Europe is still weak, but
emerging markets and the U.S. are showing signs of
improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  