-- Standard Chartered Hopes for London Yuan Center This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/standard-chartered-hopes-for-london-yuan-center-this-year.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  Chief
Executive  Peter Sands  said he hopes  London  will as soon as this
year become an offshore yuan center where companies can raise
funds denominated in the Chinese currency.  “London is the logical place for it to happen,” Sands,
50, said in an interview yesterday. “I would hope it would
happen this year but there are a number of things that have to
come together to make it possible.”  China designated  Hong Kong  as the only current offshore
center for yuan trading after allowing settlement of trade using
the currency in 2009. That’s been a boon for banks including
 Standard Chartered , which underwrote 18.9 billion yuan ($3
billion) of bonds denominated in the Chinese currency in Hong
Kong last year. In addition to London,  Singapore  is also seeking
to become a center for yuan trading.  “Singapore may well be playing a role as well but London
is in a different position because London is the natural place
as a bridge to the West,” Sands said in Beijing, where he’s
attending a forum. “I think it will play quite a distinct role
compared to either Hong Kong or Singapore.”  In Hong Kong, Standard Chartered has trailed only  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5)  in underwriting Dim Sum bonds. HSBC underwrote 32.9
billion yuan of bonds in the city last year and more than 11
billion yuan this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Standard Chartered has underwritten 5.6 billion yuan of Dim Sum
bonds this year, the data show.  Yuan Settlement  The starting point for London would be to increase yuan
trade settlement through the city, which would increase the
amount of yuan deposits and create a market for yuan bond
issuances, Sands said. The bank has “dedicated resources” in
London dealing with the yuan, he said.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority announced in January that
it plans to lengthen trading of the yuan by five hours by June,
allowing London-based institutions the opportunity to expand
their share of yuan trading outside China.  That announcement was made as U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  visited Hong Kong and Beijing. Osborne,
who said he would discuss development of an offshore yuan market
in London with Chinese leaders, met with officials including
Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  and central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan during his January trip.  ‘Critical Mass’  “At the moment, there isn’t that much renminbi in London
so it will require a certain critical mass of activity to get it
going,” Sands said yesterday. Renminbi is another name for the
Chinese currency. “Our sense and our experience from Hong Kong
is as soon as we get the component parts of infrastructure and
the regulatory frameworks agreed that it will happen pretty
quickly,” he said.  London isn’t the only place interested in becoming a yuan
trading center.  China ’s central bank may allow Singapore to host
a yuan-clearing bank, Deutsche Bank AG strategists Linan Liu and
Dennis Tan wrote in a December report.  Japan  is also considering
the set up of a market for yuan trading, the Nikkei newspaper
reported last week.  In the fourth quarter, London accounted for 46 percent of
yuan foreign exchange transactions done outside of Hong Kong and
China, according to research by the  Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunications . London accounted for 30
percent of yuan payments sent and received outside of Hong Kong
and China, according to SWIFT.  Hong Kong accounted for 78 percent of yuan payments sent
and received outside China in December, according to SWIFT.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  