-- Bombing in Syrian City of Aleppo Leaves Three Dead, Group Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-03-18T14:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/syrian-forces-break-up-damascus-demonstrations-after-bombing.html
A bombing in  Syria ’s second-largest
city that targeted the regional security headquarters left three
people dead, an activist group said.  Another 25 people were injured, the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said in an e-mailed statement today. The state-run
Syrian Arab News Agency said the blast destroyed buildings in a
residential area and that there were casualties. It didn’t give
a toll.  Twin bombings in the capital of Damascus yesterday left at
least 27 people dead, state media reported. There were no
immediate claims of responsibility for the blasts.  More than 7,500 Syrians have been killed and thousands have
fled the country since forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad
began a crackdown against pro-democracy demonstrations in March
2011.  Kofi Annan , the United Nations-Arab League special envoy
for Syria, said he plans to return to the country to pursue more
discussions with Assad aimed at ending the unrest. He didn’t
give a specific date for his return to Damascus.  Syrian security forces also broke up a pro-reform
demonstration in the center of Damascus today, Rami Abdel
Rahman, head of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said in
a telephone interview from  London  today. There were also armed
clashes in Deir Ezzor in the east and in Maraayan village in the
Idlib province in the north, he said.  Fifteen soldiers were killed in the northern clashes, Al
Jazeera television reported, citing defectors. One person was
killed in Deir Ezzor during clashes between the army and the
opposition Free Syrian Army,  Al Jazeera  said, citing activists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  