-- U.S. Prepares to Continue Egypt Military Aid Amid Dispute
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-18T22:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/u-s-prepares-to-continue-egypt-military-aid-amid-dispute.html
The Obama administration is
preparing to decide this week to release $1.5 billion in annual
aid to  Egypt  that has been in question since the country’s
decision to prosecute U.S. and Egyptian pro-democracy workers.  The anticipated approval has angered human rights groups
and lawmakers who say that releasing the aid will undermine
Egypt’s nascent democratic groups and embolden political forces
that have tried to crush them. Congress requires Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  to certify that Egypt is promoting
freedoms and rights before it will release aid. Clinton can
sidestep the restriction by using a waiver to release all or a
portion of the funds on national security grounds.  “Now is not the time for giving Egypt’s current rulers,
who are mostly holdovers from the Mubarak era dictatorship, the
U.S. government’s seal of approval,” Neil Hicks, international
policy adviser at Human Rights First, a New York-based nonprofit
group, said in a statement.  The aid decision highlights the balancing act between the
Obama administration’s rhetoric on the democratic hopes sweeping
the Middle East and the reality of U.S. security and energy
concerns. Egypt, which is home to 25 percent of the Arab world’s
population, forged the cold Arab-Israeli peace and controls the
 Suez Canal , passageway for 8 percent of the world’s shipping
traffic, including oil shipments to Europe and the U.S.  Maintain Strong Relationship  “Our goal, as we go forward with this process that the
secretary has to make a decision on, is to satisfy the intent of
the legislation while maintaining the strongest possible
foundations for the U.S.-Egyptian relationship going forward,”
 Victoria Nuland , a State Department spokeswoman, said March 16.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Vermont Democrat who heads the
Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the State Department’s
budget, was the force behind the new conditions that have held
up release of $1.3 billion in military aid to Egypt in the
fiscal year that began in October.  “Under current circumstances in Egypt, I believe a waiver
would be a mistake,” Leahy said in a March 16 statement. The
aid conditions are meant to put the U.S. “squarely on the side
of the Egyptian people” seeking democracy, freedom and the rule
of law, and “to clearly define the terms of our future with the
Egyptian military.”  Leahy said a waiver gives the U.S. the flexibility to hold
back portions of the funding. “If the law is waived, I hope
this flexibility will be used to release no more taxpayer funds
from the Treasury than is demonstrably necessary, withholding
the rest pending further progress in the transition to
democracy,” Leahy said.  Criminal Charges  The Egyptian government is pressing criminal charges
against 43 pro-democracy workers from four non-governmental
organizations for illegally accepting foreign funds and
operating without a license. Thirteen of them, including the son
of U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, were allowed to
leave Egypt this month after a standoff that underscored the
uncertainty of U.S.-Egypt ties after protests forced President
 Hosni Mubarak  from office last year.  U.S. House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , in Cairo on an
official visit March 16, described the clash as a “bump in the
road” and said ties between the two countries remain strong.
The California Democrat said the head of Egypt’s ruling military
council, Field Marshall Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, assured her
that the transition to civilian authority will take place as
scheduled in June, once a new president is elected.  ‘Great Disappointment’  An official familiar with White House deliberations on the
matter said that while there’s great disappointment about
Egypt’s efforts to block democracy and human rights groups from
operating in the country, there’s also a desire to help the
country through its remaining months of transition and to build
a successful partnership with the incoming government.  That challenge, the official said, has been exacerbated by
Egypt’s extreme financial difficulties. The country’s upheaval
has scared away investors and tourists, draining the nation’s
foreign-exchange  reserves . Egyptian officials are scheduled to
begin talks with an International Monetary Fund mission today in
Cairo about Egypt’s request for a $3.2 billion loan to help
carry the economy through the political transition.  A cutoff of U.S. military aid would interrupt funding of a
24-year-old agreement by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  with Egypt to
produce M1A1 tanks jointly outside Cairo, according to Peter Keating, a spokesman for the  Falls Church , Virginia-based
company.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and Allison Transmission
Holdings Inc. are subcontractors.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of
Bethesda,  Maryland  is building 20 F-16 fighters for Egypt with
delivery scheduled this year, according to Laura Siebert, a
company spokeswoman. Congress also approved $250 million in
economic aid for the current fiscal year.  Keeping Influence  Egypt’s democratic development, its stability, security and
economic prosperity are all of concern to the U.S., Nuland said
March 16. “So those are a lot of things that have to be kept
strong and kept in balance as we move forward with this,” she
said. Moreover, aid has given the U.S. influence with the
Egyptian military that can ultimately help the country’s
democratic development, Nuland said.  “It enabled us to have influence at a time when the
Egyptian military had to decide whether it was going to fire on
its own people or whether it was going to support change,”
Nuland said.  The administration is briefing members of Congress before
making an announcement that may come this week, she said.  Jeffrey Martini, a project associate at Rand Corp., a
policy group, pointed to the gap he and other analysts see
between the Obama administration’s words and the prospect of aid
continuing.  ‘Enduring Cooperation’  In November, Clinton addressed the National Democratic
Institute, one of the Washington-based pro-democracy groups
targeted in Egypt, and stressed the U.S. commitment to support
the Arab push for freedoms, rights and democracy.  “As the fall of Hosni Mubarak in Egypt made clear, the
enduring cooperation we seek will be difficult to sustain
without democratic legitimacy and public consent,” Clinton
said, discussing the tension between ideals and realities. “We
cannot have one set of politics to advance security in the here-
and-now and another to promote democracy in a long run that
never quite arrives.”  If that speech was supposed to signal a new emphasis on
promoting and protecting rights in the  Middle East , Martini
said, “frankly, I don’t see it.”  “If the $1.5 billion goes through, what kind of message
does that send to the Egyptian people,” Martini said. “In
Egypt, there’s a lot of bluster about conditionality, but at the
end of the day it looks like business as usual.”  In her remarks to NDI, Clinton said there would be
conflicts to resolve. “As a country with many complex
interests, we’ll always have to walk and chew gum at the same
time,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  