-- UPS to Purchase TNT Express for $6.8 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-03-19T20:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/ups-said-to-reach-deal-to-buy-tnt-express-to-grow-in-europe-1-.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  agreed
to buy  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  with a sweetened bid of 5.16 billion euros
($6.8 billion), the biggest purchase in the U.S. company’s 105-
year history, to challenge  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  in Europe.  TNT accepted an offer of 9.5 euros a share in cash, the
companies said in a joint statement today. That’s 5.6 percent
more than the 9-euro bid turned down last month by Hoofddorp,
Netherlands-based TNT and 54 percent more than the closing price
on Feb. 16, the day before the talks were made public.  UPS, already the world’s largest package-delivery company,
will double in size in Europe and vault to equal footing there
with  Deutsche Post (DPW) ’s DHL, the market-share leader. The tie-up
with money-losing TNT will immediately add to earnings on an
adjusted basis once the deal is done, Atlanta-based UPS said.  “To buy something at the bottom of the market like this at
an attractive price like this is great,” said  Art Hatfield , a
Morgan Keegan & Co. analyst in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “The market
always wants to focus on the next quarter, but corporations
think in terms of what this means for the next 30 to 40 years,
and this is a tremendous deal for UPS.”  UPS gained 3.4 percent to $81.11 at 4 p.m. in  New York , the
biggest advance since Nov. 30. Hatfield is among 18 analysts
recommending buying UPS, compared with eight who urge holding
the shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. TNT  rose 
1.1 percent to 9.44 euros in Amsterdam.  ‘Confident’ of Approval  UPS is “confident” the deal will receive regulatory
approval by the end of the third quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Kurt Kuehn said, adding that it’s too early to say what
divestitures may be needed to satisfy concerns.  The combination should produce pretax cost savings of 400
million euros to 550 million euros annually after four years,
and the integration expenses will be about 1 billion euros over
that same period, according to UPS.  UPS said it will finance the purchase with $3 billion in
cash, and the rest with debt. The company had $4.3 billion in
cash and equivalents as of the end of December and generated
about $5 billion in free cash last year.  “We have a top-class balance sheet, so we have the ability
to make this happen” with minimal credit risk, Kuehn said on a
conference call with analysts.  S&P, Moody’s  UPS has  ratings  of AA- from Standard & Poor’s and Aa3 from
Moody’s Investors Service, each company’s fourth-highest grade.
S&P said today it is keeping UPS on “CreditWatch” with
negative implications, the status placed on the company on Feb.
17 when the first TNT bid was disclosed. Moody’s put UPS’s
rating under review for a possible downgrade.  At 9.50 euros a share, the deal values TNT at 13 times its
last four quarters’ earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, compared with a median of 10
times trailing Ebitda in nine other similar deals, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The purchase comes as  Europe ’s economy shrinks toward what
the  International Monetary Fund  predicts will be a “mild
recession” in 2012. The euro area may contract 0.5 percent
compared with a previous estimate of 1.1 percent expansion, the
Washington-based IMF said on Jan. 24.  Investing in TNT means UPS won’t soon meet its target of a
25 percent return on investor capital, Kuehn said. Cost savings
will be primarily found in intra-national delivery services,
combining the two air networks, and in administration and
procurement, he said.  ‘Attrition First’  Executives declined to say how many of TNT’s 77,500 jobs
might be eliminated. UPS would rely on “attrition first before
we have forced redundancies,” Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis said at a press conference in Amsterdam.  While UPS intends to retain the Cologne-Bonn airport as its
main air cargo hub in Europe, the company has no plans to shut
TNT’s Liege facility in  Belgium , which employs 1,400 people,
Davis said. The TNT brand eventually will be dropped, UPS said.  “In this environment with little economic growth, there’s
going to be a lot of noise to protect jobs and that’s going to
be something they’ll have to handle very delicately,” said Matt Collins, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , who
recommends holding UPS.  Market Share  The U.S. company controlled 7.7 percent of the European
express-parcels market in 2010, compared with TNT’s 9.6 percent,
according to industry researcher Transport Intelligence.
Together they would be about as large as DHL, which had 17.6
percent.  Deutsche Post expects antitrust regulators to examine the
deal very closely, said Dirk Klasen, a Bonn-based spokesman.  Buying TNT will be UPS’s biggest purchase since UPS was
 founded in 1907  as a bicycle-messenger service. The deal tops
the 2005 acquisition of  Overnite Corp. (OVNT)  for about $1.25 billion
in cash, which gave UPS the ability to make U.S. land shipments
of parcels too large to be lifted by a driver.  International packages generate the most revenue for UPS,
at $19.30 each in 2011, compared with $9.30 per domestic parcel.
The portion of UPS’s revenue that comes from outside the U.S.
will jump to 36 percent of the total with the TNT purchase, up
from 26 percent currently. The company’s total revenue last year
was $53.1 billion.  Interest Rates  Low  interest rates  also helped make this an attractive time
to buy TNT, UPS’s Davis said on the call. Yields on  10-year U.S.
Treasuries (USGG10YR)  fell for a ninth straight trading day, the longest
slide since June 2006, to 2.3 percent as investors bet a
strengthening U.S. economy will diminish the appeal of
 government securities .  UPS, known for its brown paint scheme on vans and trucks
and employee uniforms, has $13.3 billion in bonds and loan
facilities outstanding, of which $2.3 billion falls due this
year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  TNT was spun off in May from  PostNL NV (PNL) , the Dutch postal
operator, which said it will tender its 29.8 percent stake.
After posting a 2011 operating loss of 105 million euros, TNT
announced plans last month to focus on Europe, where it reported
an operating profit.  A bid by UPS or  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  had long been fodder for
industry speculation as the U.S. companies studied expansion in
Europe. TNT Chairman Antony Burgmans said today a counterbid
from FedEx was “highly unlikely.” FedEx doesn’t comment on
competitors, said Baerbel Bussenius, a spokeswoman in Brussels.  TNT, whose name derives from the postwar Australian company
Thomas Nationwide Transport, sold its Indian domestic road
business in December and has been hurt by costs from revamping
unprofitable Brazilian operations.  “The strength of TNT is as a European franchise,” CEO
Marie-Christine Lombard said at the Amsterdam press conference.
“We’ve always missed the U.S. link; it was a well-known issue
for us. This combination will benefit our customer base by being
able to offer a U.S. capability.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Bank of America ’s Merrill Lynch
unit were financial advisers for UPS. TNT Express worked with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  advised the Dutch
company’s supervisory board.  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP (1002L) 
was UPS’s legal adviser and  Allen & Overy LLP (323556L)  worked with TNT.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  