-- Vice Premier Says China Must Grow Consumption, Stabilize Exports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-18T08:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/vice-premier-says-china-must-grow-consumption-stabilize-exports.html
Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
said the world’s second-largest economy needs to increase
domestic consumption and stabilize exports as overseas demand
remains weak.  “Expanding domestic demand is a strategic point for
economic development,” Li told a forum in Beijing today.
Boosting consumption is important “especially this year as
there is slack in intentional markets,” he said.  China last month had its biggest  trade deficit  since at
least 1989 as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis eroded demand for
the nation’s goods. In 2009, China introduced tax incentives and
subsidies to encourage domestic purchases of cars and home
appliances in an effort to stem the effects of the global
financial crisis. It also froze the yuan’s appreciation to
support exporters.  “We hope to expand domestic demand and we also need to
stabilize and expand exports,” Li said, without identifying
specific measures the government may take to do so.  China  began allowing the yuan to appreciate in June 2010
after having prevented it from strengthening since July 2008.
The Chinese currency has gained about 8 percent since then.  Economic growth in the fourth quarter moderated to the
slowest pace in two years. For February, China reported a trade
deficit of $31.5 billion. Imports rose 39.6 percent from a year
earlier to $146 billion and exports increased 18.4 percent to
$114.5 billion, according to statistics from the customs bureau.  Chinese Imports  China will import more than $1.9 trillion of goods this
year, Li said at the forum today.  Domestically, the economy still faces problems of
uncoordinated and unsustainable growth, Li said, echoing
comments other officials including Premier  Wen Jiabao  have made.
The government has targeted transforming the economy so that
domestic consumption accounts for a greater proportion of growth
and the nation depends less on exports and investment.  Li said China may spend as much as 1 trillion yuan ($158
billion) on research and development this year. The country
should also tap into its growing urbanization to fuel domestic
demand, he said. The number of citizens living in towns and
cities exceeded the nation’s rural population for the first time
in China’s history last year.  National Development and Reform Commission Chairman Zhang Ping said at the same forum today that investment will continue
to be an important force in improving domestic demand.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  