-- Vista Said to Prepare $2.1 Billion Offer for U.K.’s Misys
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-03-19T11:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/vista-said-to-prepare-2-1-billion-offer-for-u-k-s-misys.html
Vista Equity Partners agreed to
acquire  Misys Plc (MSY)  for 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion) in cash,
a week after  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  ended talks over an all-share
merger with the British financial software maker.  Vista, a San Francisco-based private equity firm, will pay
350 pence a share in a deal Misys’s independent directors agreed
to recommend to shareholders, the companies said today. Misys,
which has jumped 42 percent this year through March 16, gained
6.8 percent to 352 pence at 10:55 a.m. in  London .  Companies that sell financial software to businesses are
proving attractive to private-equity firms amid tighter banking
regulations. In August,  Bain Capital  agreed to buy a majority
stake in  Australia ’s  MYOB Ltd. (MYO) , which had also drawn a bid from
 Sage Group Plc. (SGE)  Vista, which holds assets valued at more than $6
billion, said it plans to combine London-based Misys with Turaz,
a risk-management software maker it bought recently.  “This will probably be it for Temenos in this deal, I
don’t think they’ll come back again,” said Andreas Mueller, an
analyst at  Zuercher Kantonalbank (ZKAN)  in Zurich. “The synergies
would have been higher” from a combination with Temenos, he
said.  While talks to merge with Geneva-based  Temenos (TEMN)  to create
the largest vendor of banking software broke down earlier this
month, Temenos can still make a counter offer. Andrew Hayes, a
spokesman for Geneva-based Temenos, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Rival Bids  Tom Kilroy, Misys’s acting chief executive officer, had
also considered a rival bid from Misys’s largest shareholder,
ValueAct Capital, which joined forces with  CVC Capital Partners .  The Vista deal on a multiple of 14.6 times 2011 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is cheaper
than the average of 17.6 times for comparable deals in Western
Europe in the last five years, according to Bloomberg data.  “We think this offer is likely to be the best deal
available for Misys and its shareholders,” Kilroy said in a
phone interview. Kilroy, who was formerly Misys’s general
counsel, will step down as CEO after the deal is completed while
aiming to remain with the business, he said.  “The business will be run as the business is, now combined
with Turaz,” Kilroy said. Misys lost out to Vista in the prior
bidding for the Turaz business last year, he said.  The deal will probably close before the end of May, Kilroy
said.  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,300
banking customers.  ‘Invest and Grow’  Revenue fell 12 percent in the third quarter through Feb.
29, while orders dropped 18 percent, as customers delayed
purchases while the company’s ownership was being decided, Misys
said today.  Previous negotiations for a sale of Misys to  Fidelity
National Information Services Inc.  collapsed last year when the
two failed to agree on price, a person with knowledge of the
matter said at the time.  “Through our deep experience with enterprise software
companies, we believe that Misys has an attractive future that
we plan to invest in and grow,”  Robert Smith , Vista’s chairman
and chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  advised Vista, while  Barclays
Capital (JNK)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were advisers to Misys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  