-- Whistleblower Gets Sham Justice From Wall Street Court
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-03-18T23:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/whistleblower-gets-sham-justice-from-wall-street-court.html
(Corrects that recording of the arbitration hearing was
audio not video in 13th paragraph.)  In a typical civil courtroom
proceeding, if recorded testimony is lost or tampered with, one
can expect the case to be dismissed and an investigation begun.  It seems hard to imagine that the case would proceed in
court without such missing evidence, especially if it could be
interpreted as exculpatory and if a verdict rendered against a
defendant could destroy his career and force him into
bankruptcy.  But, as I have previously written, the arbitration process
forced on bankers and customers who have a dispute with a  Wall
Street  firm is about as far as you can get from a court of law.
Indeed, mandatory arbitration with the  Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority  may be the single largest ongoing
abdication of legal rights -- affecting millions of people --
that exists in this country.  Typical courtroom rules of evidence and procedure do not
apply in a FINRA proceeding, which is typically adjudicated by
three arbitrators who work for the organization, which itself
gets more than  $1 billion  a year from Wall Street’s biggest
firms.  In other words, in FINRA arbitration, the judge and jury
work for Wall Street, which is always on one side of the case or
the other. Doesn’t seem fair or American, does it?  Retirement Fund Mischief  Take the case of Mark Mensack, a 49-year-old, former
financial advisor at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  with a wife, three children
and, at least for now, a house in  Cherry Hill , New Jersey.
Mensack worked at a Morgan Stanley office from August 2008 to
November 2009. Six months after he got there, he claimed he
found wrongdoing involving what he called a “pay-to-play
scheme” in $4 billion of 401(k) assets that Morgan Stanley
administered.  In accordance with Morgan Stanley’s code of conduct,
Mensack reported his ethical and legal concerns through the
management ranks and, eventually, to the board of directors.
“Morgan Stanley prohibits retaliation for reports or complaints
that are made in good faith regarding the misconduct of
others,” reads the  code of conduct .  But, Mensack tells me, the head of the firm’s 401(k)
department threatened him in an e-mail for pursuing these
alleged violations. When the matter reached  Gary Lynch , the
firm’s general counsel at the time and a former chief
enforcement officer at the Securities Exchange Commission, his
response was “reasonable minds can differ,” Mensack wrote me
in an e-mail. The response from a different executive was,
“There is no bright line rule addressing this issue.”  After he reported the wrongdoing, Mensack claims, Morgan
Stanley “began retaliating against me such that it was
impossible for me and my team to conduct ethical and legal
401(k) business” -- in effect, a constructive dismissal.  Not placated and no longer at Morgan Stanley, in March 2010
Mensack filed a whistleblower suit in New Jersey Superior Court
against the firm because he believed its 401(k) sales program
violated regulations of the SEC, FINRA and the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act.  A month later, Morgan Stanley filed a “breach of
contract” arbitration claim against Mensack, seeking return of
the $750,000 sign-on bonus that the firm had given him as part
of a three-year recruiting package to lure him away from his
previous employer. Also, since Mensack had been a Wall Street
employee, Morgan Stanley argued successfully that the
whistleblower case should be moved from the  New Jersey  court to
the FINRA arbitration process.  Testimony Disappears  Mensack’s arbitration proceeding with Morgan Stanley
occurred between June 6 and June 9, in Philadelphia, and
consisted of seven three-hour recorded sessions. As often
happens in a FINRA proceeding, Mensack lost his case. The
arbitrators found for Morgan Stanley and ordered him to repay
his $750,000 signing bonus plus another $450,000 in Morgan
Stanley’s legal fees and FINRA’s fees, or a total of $1.2
million.  In August, Mensack’s attorney requested an audio copy of
the arbitration hearing in order to review the testimony as part
of considering an appeal of the arbitrators’ ruling, which is
rarely successful. When Mensack and his attorney reviewed the
recording, they expected to hear 18 hours of on-the-record
testimony. Instead, it contained only 10 hours of testimony. The
other eight hours had vanished.  “These eight hours include nearly all of Morgan Stanley’s
incriminating testimony,” Mensack wrote me in an e-mail.
“Perhaps the most incriminating redacted testimony is from Bill
Ryan, Morgan Stanley’s Chief ERISA attorney, when he
substantiates my claim that Morgan Stanley’s Alliance Partner
401(k) Sales Program violates the ERISA Prohibited Transaction
rules.”  In September, according to Mensack, FINRA threatened to
revoke his broker licenses -- he has both a Series 7 and Series
63 certification -- unless either he paid the $1.2 million,
filed a motion to vacate the arbitration decision or filed for
bankruptcy. He didn’t have the $1.2 million to repay, he said,
and if he lost his licenses he could no longer earn a living as
a broker -- he by then had a job with with Piedmont Investment
Advisors LLC. And so in late September 2011, Mensack filed a
Chapter 7 bankruptcy proceeding. As a result of this filing,
FINRA stopped trying to take away his certifications. But now he
might lose his home.  In October, after several letters seeking information about
what happened to the missing testimony, FINRA’s ombudsman
informed Mensack’s lawyer that the eight hours of recordings
were “never recorded due to mechanical or human error.”  Apology of Sorts  On Jan. 13, Katherine Bayer, FINRA’s regional director in
the Northeast, finally got back to Mensack with an apology, of
sorts. After explaining that arbitrators use a digital recorder
and that the “quality of these recordings tends to be
excellent,” she did confirm that “unfortunately, portions of
testimony returned to us by the panel are missing from the
recordings for the June hearing sessions. I apologize for this
and for any perceived miscommunications from the FINRA staff
about the status of the recordings.” She concluded that she
understood Mensack’s “disappointment with the arbitrators’
decision” but “FINRA has no authority to reverse the award.”  For its part, Morgan Stanley is completely unmoved by
Mensack’s claims. “He had a full opportunity to present them,
represented by counsel, in an extensive formal hearing,” a
spokeswoman for the firm  explained  to Dow Jones Newswire. “The
arbitration panel gave them fair consideration and rejected them
in their entirety. She accused Mensack of “attempting to
prosecute his case in the media.”  This is FINRA and Wall Street at their very worst. Instead
of the smug self-satisfaction on display by both FINRA and
Morgan Stanley, the only just outcome here is for the award in
the arbitration to be vacated and for Mensack to be able to
pursue his whistleblower claim in New Jersey Superior Court as
he originally wished. Anything short will go to prove that the
FINRA arbitration process is an utter sham.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more online opinion from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 