-- Ziggo Offers IPO Shares at Discount to Peers in Market Test
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-03-19T07:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-18/ziggo-offers-ipo-shares-at-discount-to-peers-in-test-of-market.html
Ziggo BV (ZIGGO) , the Dutch cable company
owned by Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd., is offering stock
for at least a 7.5 percent discount to peers in the biggest week
for European initial public offerings in eight months.  Ziggo increased today the number of shares it will offer
tomorrow at 16.5 euros to 18.5 euros each, with proceeds of as
much as 804 million euros ($1.1 billion) going to the private-
equity owners and other shareholders, according to offering
documents. The top end of the range would give the company an
estimated enterprise value of about 7.4 times projected 2012
earnings, said people with knowledge of the forecast. That makes
it cheaper than  Germany ’s  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  at 8.8
times projected earnings and Belgian cable operator Telenet
Group Holding NV at 8 times.  Warburg and Cinven are looking to take advantage of Ziggo’s
above-average profitability, and the Utrecht, Netherlands-based
company plans to pay 220 million euros in dividends this year to
entice new investors. The IPO will probably be priced at the
high end of the range because of demand for the stock, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private.  “There is a lot of appetite for cable assets,” said Joris
Franssen, a senior portfolio manager at Kempen Capital
Management in Amsterdam. “That and the fact that they are
returning money to shareholders through a dividend makes it
quite attractive to a lot of investors.”  Ziggo’s Profit  The owners are selling shares after the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index rebounded 27 percent from its two-year low in  September (SXXP) .
 Switzerland ’s DKSH Holding Ltd., which helps companies expand in
 Asia , is also planning an IPO about the size of Ziggo’s and is
scheduled to start trading tomorrow, a day before the cable
operator.  Ziggo’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose to 835 million euros last year, or 56.5
percent of sales, the company said. That ratio, a gauge of
profitability known as Ebitda margin, is 43.6 percent at  Kabel
Deutschland  and 52.5 percent at  Telenet , controlled by  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If priced at the top end of the range, Ziggo will have a
market capitalization of about 3.7 billion euros before
exercising an overallotment option, according to a sales
document. Ziggo’s owners are offering 43 million shares, with an
option to add a further 6.6 million depending on demand. That
amounts to about 25 percent of issued shares after the IPO,
counting the additional shares.  Selling Shareholders  Ziggo will get no proceeds from the offering. Warburg and
Cinven, seeking to return cash to investors, will reduce their
stakes in Ziggo to about 29 percent each from 36 percent if the
over-allotment option is fully exercised, according to the IPO
prospectus. Some executives and employees will also sell shares
in the offering.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are managing the
IPO, alongside  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)  The banks received
orders for all stock on offer the first day the books opened,
according to the sales document. The shares are scheduled to
start trading tomorrow.  Martijn Jonker, a Ziggo spokesman, declined to comment, as
did spokeswomen for Cinven and Warburg.  Largest Operator  Ziggo is the largest cable-television operator in the
Netherlands with an estimated network coverage of 56 percent of
the country’s easily connectable homes at the end of last year,
according to its prospectus. It offers TV, digital pay TV, high-
speed broadband Internet and telephone services. Its main
strategy is to offer packages of services at a lower price than
customers would pay for the individual service subscriptions.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Bernard Dijkhuizen, was created by combining three cable operators that
Warburg and Cinven acquired between 2005 and 2007, according to
the website of Warburg, which drove the consolidation. Ziggo
competes with Royal KPN NV and Liberty Global’s UPC in the Dutch
market.  Buyout firms are reviving IPO plans following this year’s
equity rally after slumping markets delayed sales last year.
Cinven, the British buyout firm that raised more than 3 billion
euros for its latest fund, is also planning to restart an IPO
for the Italian aerospace company Avio SpA by June, two people
with knowledge of the plan said this month.  ‘Fantastic Window’  Shareholders of DKSH, the largest privately owned company
in Switzerland, are seeking to raise as much as 903 million
Swiss francs ($986 million) in the IPO. The company, which helps
firms such as  Nestle SA (NESN)  expand in Asia, is vying with Ziggo to
conduct Europe’s largest IPO since  Spain ’s Bankia SA raised $4.4
billion in July.  The lenders handling DKSH’s IPO -- UBS and Deutsche Bank,
alongside  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Berenberg Bank Schweiz AG -
- also received orders for all shares being sold on the first
day, said two people with knowledge of the transaction.  “Companies now have a fantastic window with markets
holding up and financial risks diminishing in Europe,” said
Matthias Fankhauser, a  fund manager  at Clariden Leu in Zurich,
which oversees about $100 billion in assets. “If the situation
continues, we may see a very strong year of IPOs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  