-- Abe Pledge to Demand Outside Directors at Risk in Ministry Draft
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-10-22T10:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/abe-pledge-to-demand-outside-directors-at-risk-in-ministry-draft.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may be
backing away from his pledge to require companies to have
outside directors, according to a draft document prepared by the
Justice Ministry.  The new rules will only require companies to justify the
lack of outside directors without forcing them to appoint any
independent board members, according to the document obtained
from an official of Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party . The plan
will prevent executives at parent companies from being counted
as outside directors of their units, the document says.  The proposal falls short of Abe’s push to require companies
to have at least one outside director as stated in the
government’s  growth plan , which includes reforms that seek to
double foreign direct investment in  Japan  to 35 trillion yen
($356 billion) by 2020. About 90 percent of countries in which
global investors trade equities have some form of corporate
governance code, but Japan has none, according to Nicholas Benes, from The Board Director Training Institute of Japan.  “It sounds like what’s being offered is not much more than
what the  Democratic Party  of Japan came up with,” said Benes, a
representative director at the institute, which trains
executives in corporate governance.  Cerberus Failure  Cerberus Capital Management LP, the biggest shareholder of
Seibu Holdings Inc., was unable to get its representatives
appointed to the Japanese hotel and rail operator’s board
earlier this year, highlighting the challenges overseas
investors face in the world’s third-biggest economy.  The push by Cerberus follows previous failures to gain
representation in Japan by  T. Boone Pickens  in the 1990s,
Christopher Cooper-Hohn’s Children’s Investment Fund Management
UK LLP in 2008 and Warren Lichtenstein’s Steel Partners in 2010.  Olympus Corp. (7733)  executives were found guilty earlier this
year for aiding in a $1.7 billion accounting fraud that
“destroyed the image of Japanese companies internationally,”
according to former Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa.  Shares of Olympus tumbled as much as 77 percent after
former President  Michael Woodford  revealed the fraud.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  