-- Active Energy Studies Burning Own Biomass to Boost Profit
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-10-22T15:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/active-energy-studies-burning-own-biomass-to-boost-profit.html
Active Energy Group Plc , a Ukrainian
supplier of wood chips to power stations, is studying a plan to
increase profit by burning its own biomass.  The company may burn its wood at a plant in  Italy  rather
than selling to the site, Chief Executive Officer Richard Spinks
said, without identifying the facility. That would enable it to
receive government subsidies for clean-power generation while
paying the plant’s owners a percentage of the profit, he said.  “We might earn significantly more per ton burning it,”
Spinks said in an interview in London. “It would be a great
flagship for our company to become a bigger company.”  Governments are promoting biomass as a cleaner alternative
to fossil fuels as they strive to curb carbon emissions and
increase energy security. Unlike other renewable-power plants
such as solar and wind farms, biomass facilities don’t depend on
the weather and can produce electricity around the clock.  Active Energy, which produces wood chips from forests in
 Ukraine , won a contract from Biomasse Italia SpA  in August  to
deliver the material to two power stations. The London-based
supplier is now in talks with a “well-known” company in Italy
about burning wood at its plant, according to Spinks.  “The model is interesting because it turns the equation
upside down,” the CEO said. “We are the small startup and
they’re the big conglomerate and they want to work with us. It
has never happened before.”  Expansion Abroad  Active Energy may consider replicating the model in the
future, according to Spinks, who said the current facility being
considered is “perfect” because it isn’t too big.  The company also may expand to other countries where it can
find suitable forests near ports “within two days’ sailing of
Italy,” he said. While many European plants buy North American
wood -- increasing emissions from shipping the fuel -- Active
Energy uses wood from Ukraine, limiting costs and carbon output.  “As we’re closer, the customer can order later -- it’s
more convenient and they can buy smaller loads at shorter
notice,” Spinks said. “The shorter the delivery time means our
wood is fresher and the quality is better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  