-- Adidas Says Reebok North America Head Becker Leaves in Shakeup
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-10-22T10:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/adidas-says-reebok-north-america-head-becker-leaves-in-shakeup.html
Adidas AG (ADS)  said the president of
 Reebok  in  North America  will leave the company as part of a
management shakeup to help spur a revival at the fitness brand.  Uli Becker is departing after 23 years with the sporting-goods maker to “pursue new career and business opportunities,”
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Adidas said today.  Until September last year, Becker had been global head of
Reebok, which has which posted sales declines in four of the six
years since being bought by Adidas for $3.7 billion in 2006. He
was replaced in that role by Matt O’Toole, Reebok’s chief
marketing officer, as the world’s second-biggest sporting-goods
maker sought to restore growth at the fitness brand.  Under plans announced today, management of the Adidas and
Reebok brands in North America will be consolidated under the
leadership of Patrik Nilsson. Nilsson, 49, has been president of
the Adidas brand in the region since 2007.  “Our goal is to strengthen our business, to invest in our
brands and to enable faster growth for both brands by winning
our key consumers,” Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said
in a statement. “This new set-up will make our group stronger
and grow our business faster in the U.S.”  Reebok had its first revenue growth in almost two years in
its most recent quarter. The fitness brand has teamed up with
Les Mills, the Spartan Race and CrossFit Inc. to reclaim its
place in the fitness pantheon.  Adidas gets about 23 percent of revenue in North America,
where it seeks to overtake rival  Nike Inc., (NKE)  the U.S. leader in
running shoes, with products such as Energy Boost sneakers.  Adidas cut its 2013 profit forecast last month for reasons
that included the euro’s strength, a glitch in Russian
distribution and a weak golf market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  