-- Major Urges U.K. Energy Windfall Tax If Cold Pushes Up Spending
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-22T16:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/major-urges-u-k-energy-windfall-tax-if-cold-pushes-up-spending.html
Former Conservative Prime Minister
 John Major  called for a one-time tax on energy company profits
if the U.K. government has to spend more on cold-weather
payments to pensioners and other benefit recipients this winter.  Major told reporters at a House of Commons lunch in  London 
today it’s “not acceptable” for companies such as  RWE AG (RWE) ’s
nPower unit and  Centrica PLC (CNA) ’s British Gas to set prices far
above wholesale rates. Npower said yesterday it will raise gas
prices by 11.1 percent, while British Gas is set to increase
electricity costs by 10.4 percent. Three of the Big Six energy
suppliers that dominate the U.K. market have announced higher
prices in the past two weeks.  “At the moment I do not see how it can be in any way
acceptable that with energy prices rising broadly 4 percent in
terms of costs that the price for the consumer should rise by 9
to 10 percent,” Major said. He said the price increases would
mean poorer people having to choose between heating and eating.  “If we get this cold spell, the government will have to
intervene and if they do intervene and it is costly, I for one
would regard it as perfectly acceptable for them subsequently to
levy an excess profits tax on the energy companies and claw that
money back to the exchequer where their primary job is to get
the economy working and back to work,” he said.  The government makes  cold-weather payments  to the elderly
and people receiving some other types of welfare payments of 25
pounds for each seven-day period when the local temperature is
forecast to be below zero degrees Celsius. Pensioners also
receive an annual  winter-fuel payment  of as much as 300 pounds.  ‘No Plans’  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman Jean-Christophe Gray dismissed Major’s call, telling reporters it’s “an
interesting contribution” and the government has “no plans”
to levy a tax on energy companies.  The energy-price increases far outstrip the rate of
consumer-price inflation, at 2.7 percent in September, while
average wages increased by only an annual 0.7 percent in the
three months through August.  The opposition  Labour Party , which is attempting to gain
support by campaigning on the cost of living, said the remarks
by Major, who was premier from 1990 to 1997, were an endorsement
of their plan to freeze energy prices if it wins power in the
2015 general election.  “Sir John Major makes Labour’s argument: David Cameron
stands up for the energy companies not hard-pressed families,”
Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said on Twitter.  Even so, Major attacked the Labour policy, saying
Miliband’s “heart is in the right place but his head has gone
walkabout.”  The House of Commons Energy Committee said today it was
summoning the heads of the Big Six energy suppliers to
Parliament next week to explain price increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  