-- Alcoa Jumps on Speculation Aluminum Will Rise
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-10-22T21:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/alcoa-jumps-on-speculation-aluminum-will-rise.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, jumped the most in almost two years as output
cuts and a dispute over warehousing convinced some investors to
abandon bets that the stock will fall.  Alcoa, which traded almost three times the average volume
over the past 15 days, rose 8.8 percent to $9.36 at the close in
New York, the biggest gain since Oct. 27, 2011. Aluminum
futures, which have declined 9.4 percent this year on the London
Metal Exchange, rose 1.6 percent today.  Aluminum output outside of  China  fell in September for a
third straight month, according to data released yesterday by
the International Aluminium Institute. That may have encouraged
investors to buy Alcoa shares and close out short positions,
said Curt Woodworth, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “If you’re heavily short the market and it’s a very
crowded trade, it’s something that could get you thinking
differently in the short run,” Woodworth, who is based in New
York, said in a telephone interview today.  Other U.S. aluminum companies advanced today.  Century
Aluminum Co. (CENX)  rose 18 percent while  Noranda Aluminum Holding
Corp. (NOR)  climbed 5.9 percent.  Short sellers borrow shares to sell with the hope of
profiting by buying them back at a cheaper price. They bought
Alcoa stock “aggressively” amid uncertainty over the
resolution of a dispute about aluminum stored in LME-registered
warehouses, Macquarie Group Ltd. said today in a report.  LME Proposal  The LME, which oversees more than 700 warehouse sites
worldwide, is embroiled in a dispute over queues to withdraw
metal stored at some of those locations.  The bourse has proposed that warehouses with waiting times
exceeding 100 days should ship out more metal than they take in.
An end to the delays may reduce so-called physical premiums, or
the extra cost to aluminum users on top of the LME benchmark
price to take delivery of metal stored in LME warehouses. Lower
premiums may mean a lower realized aluminum price for Alcoa.  The LME said Oct. 4 that its board may not reach a decision
at a meeting this month on the rule change. Alcoa is among
aluminum producers that have objected to the change, saying it
will reduce transparency without benefiting consumers.  Short selling in Alcoa reached a record 10 percent of
shares outstanding last week, according to data going back to
2006 from Markit, a London-based data provider. That’s more than
four times the average of bearish bets in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. Alcoa is among the most-shorted stocks in the equity
index.  Rusal Cutbacks  Monica Orbe, a spokeswoman for New York-based Alcoa,
declined to comment on the company’s share price.  Alcoa and competing aluminum producers including Moscow-based OAO Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer by
volume, have cut output this year amid a global oversupply that
has damped prices.  “I won’t say that producers have finally found religion
but it looks like there is some discipline,” Woodworth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  