-- AlphaMetrix Must Repay $600,000 by Nov. 1, Futures Group Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-10-22T00:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/alphametrix-must-repay-600-000-by-nov-1-futures-group-says.html
AlphaMetrix Group LLC, a Chicago-based firm that funnels investor money to fund managers, must
repay about $600,000 to participants in commodity pools by Nov.
1, the  National Futures Association  said.  AlphaMetrix will be  prohibited  from placing trades for any
of its pools except for liquidating open positions if it fails
to meet the repayment deadline, the self-regulatory body for the
U.S. derivatives industry said in an e-mailed statement today.
The company has about $700 million under management, according
to the statement.  AlphaMetrix said in an Oct. 10 letter that it had
discovered “significant cash-flow issues.” The firm, which had
marketed itself as a haven for investors from fraudsters such as
 Bernard Madoff , fired its chief financial officer and hired
accounting firm Arthur F. Bell Jr. & Associates LLC to review
its internal controls and recordkeeping.  The firm had deducted advisory fees for some participants
in commodity pools that it operates, according to the NFA’s
statement. Those fees were to be reinvested in the pools but
were not, the NFA said.  The  investment adviser  is in talks to sell a stake to some
of the managers to which it owes fees, two people familiar with
the matter said this month. It is also speaking with banks and
money managers about selling itself or securing a loan, said one
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  In addition to directing investors’ money to fund managers,
AlphaMetrix holds  conferences  and had enlisted former British
Prime Ministers  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown  for events this year
in Monaco and  Miami Beach ,  Florida . Blair earned $300,000 plus
expenses for speaking at the Florida event in January, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reported earlier this year, citing a person
familiar with the matter. Blair’s spokeswoman said at the time
that the fee was lower than reported.  AlphaMetrix also hosted a performance last year by CeeLo
Green, a singer from American soul group Gnarls Barkley and a
judge on TV singing competition “The Voice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  