-- Amnesty Calls on U.S. to Justify Civilian Deaths From Drone Hits
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-22T18:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/amnesty-calls-on-u-s-to-justify-civilian-deaths-from-drone-hits.html
U.S. drone strikes in Pakistan are
launched sometimes without legal justification and may amount to
 war crimes , according to a report released on the eve of
President  Barack Obama ’s meeting with Pakistani Prime Minister
 Nawaz Sharif .  Civilians are believed to have been indiscriminately killed
in several of the 45 known drone strikes in Pakistan’s North
Waziristan from January 2012 to August 2013,  Amnesty
International  said a report released today. The group cited
field research and 60 interviews with survivors, eyewitnesses
and officials.  The Obama administration should fully disclose the facts
and legal basis for each drone strike carried out in the program
operated by the Central Intelligence Agency and investigate any
“potentially unlawfully killings,” the London-based human
rights group said. The secrecy surrounding the drone campaign
often prevents compensation for civilians and their families who
are killed an injured, it said.  While saying that firm conclusions can’t be reached based
on the U.S. refusal to “provide even basic information on
particular strikes,” Amnesty International said in the report
that it “is seriously concerned” that strikes “have resulted
in unlawful killings that may constitute extrajudicial
executions or war crimes.”  Sharif will tomorrow make his first official visit to the
White House since taking office four months ago. The U.S. and
Pakistan are exploring how to mend ties since their falling out
over the 2011 raid that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.
Sharif, who has condemned the drone strikes, will discuss with
Obama possible U.S. assistance to revive an economy hurt by
power blackouts and a Taliban insurgency.  Obama’s Speech  Asked about the Amnesty report, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today that “we would strongly disagree” that the
U.S. has acted outside of international law.  Carney cited a May speech by Obama in which the president
said the U.S. has a process to ensure targets are selected
carefully to avoid civilian casualties.  “He made clear that it is a hard fact that U.S. strikes
have resulted in civilian casualties,” which is a consequence
of any warfare, Carney said. The U.S. operations are “precise,
lawful and effective,” he said.  An independent expert’s report for the  United Nations 
General Assembly, released last week, said at least 400
civilians were killed in about 330 drone strikes carried out in
Pakistan’s tribal areas since 2004. That was an
“underestimate,” according to the report.  ‘Almost Insurmountable’  The “technically classified” status of the CIA drone
program in Pakistan is becoming “increasingly harder to
justify” under national security concerns, when its operations
have been publicly acknowledged by Obama and Secretary of State
 John Kerry , said Ben Emmerson, the UN special rapporteur on
protection of human rights in counter-terrorism, in the report
released Oct. 18.  “The involvement of the CIA in lethal counter-terrorism
operations in Pakistan and Yemen has created an almost
insurmountable obstacle to transparency,” said Emmerson, who
will brief the UN on his findings on Oct. 25 in  New York .  An investigation of six drone strikes in Yemen “strongly
suggests” that U.S. drones targeted those who didn’t pose an
imminent threat or weren’t directly involved in terrorist
operations, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said in a separate
 report  it released today in partnership with Amnesty.  “The U.S. may be using an overly elastic definition of a
fighter who may be lawfully attacked during an armed conflict,”
according to the report.  Security for Investments  Sharif strongly opposed the U.S. drone attacks in Pakistani
tribal areas during his election campaign and promised to halt
the program. Speaking before the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
yesterday, the former businessman said his government is focused
on providing a secure environment for investment.  Pakistan  is the world’s sixth most-populous nation, with
about 193 million people. Sharif is moving to overhaul the
economy by selling shares in state-run companies and improving
infrastructure. The goal is to expand the economy by more than 6
percent in the 2016 fiscal year, up from an estimated 3.6
percent in the year ended June 30.  The U.S. will provide aid to support “various programs”
in Pakistan, State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf, said Oct.
19 in an e-mailed statement.  The decision is part of “long process of restarting
security assistance,” which helps Pakistan’s military counter
terrorism and violence in its western regions near the
Afghanistan border, Harf said.  About $1.6 billion will be given in military and economic
aid, reviving what was suspended in 2011, following the
breakdown in ties over the Bin Laden raid and U.S. air strikes
against Pakistani soldiers, according to the  Associated Press .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  