-- Amwins Group Seeks Add-on Acquisition Loan; Calpine Debt Trades
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-10-22T20:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/amwins-group-seeks-add-on-acquisition-loan-calpine-debt-trades.html
Amwins Group Inc. is seeking a $175
million add-on term loan for an acquisition, while  Calpine
Corp. (CPN) ’s $390 million debt rose in initial trading.  The insurance broker owned by private-equity firm New
Mountain Capital LLC may pay interest at 3.75 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, with a 1.25 percent
minimum on the lending benchmark, the same rate as the $710
million remaining under a pact it obtained in February,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction who
asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set. The
six-year debt, which will back an acquisition and refinance
payment-in-kind notes, is being offered to lenders at 99.5 cents
on the dollar.  Power producer Calpine’s loan to support a bond tender
began trading at 100.38 cents on the dollar, according to Markit
Group Ltd, up from an issue price of 99.875 cents. The Houston-based company pays interest at 3 percentage points more than
Libor, with a 1 percent minimum, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Packaging Corp. of America , a maker of corrugated shipping
boxes, is getting $1.65 billion of unsecured loans to support
its acquisition of Boise Inc., the company said today in a
regulatory filing. The financing, which is being led by Bank of
America Corp., includes a $350 million, five-year revolving line
of credit, a $650 million term loan due in five years and a $650
million portion maturing in seven years.  CIFC CLO  Microsemi Corp. (MSCC) , a maker of microchips for the aerospace
and defense industries, is holding a lender call on Oct. 24 at 1
p.m. in New York to discuss a $150 million loan it’s seeking,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction. Morgan
Stanley is leading the deal for the Aliso Viejo, California-based company.  Lenders received portions today of a $250 million term loan
for  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  that supports the world’s largest
ammunition maker’s purchase of Bushnell Group Holdings Inc. The
debt, which pays interest at 2.75 percentage points more than
Libor with a 0.75 percent minimum on the lending benchmark, was
sold at par.  Garda World Security Corp. is seeking a $525 million term
loan and $150 million piece in Canadian dollars to refinance
debt, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.
Canada’s largest security company may pay interest on the U.S.
dollar loan at 3.25 percentage points more than Libor and at
3.75 percentage points more than the lending benchmark on the
Canadian dollar slice, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Lenders must submit
commitments to Royal Bank of  Canada , the bank arranging the
financing, by Oct. 31.  Morgan Stanley priced a $522.5 million collateralized loan
obligation for CIFC Asset Management, with the AAA piece paying
1 percentage point more than Libor, according to a person with
knowledge of that deal.  Prices of leveraged loans rose 0.03 cent to 97.68 cents on
the dollar today, according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA
Leveraged Loan 100 index. The debt has  returned  3.61 percent
year to date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 