-- Argentine Black Market Peso Tumbles to 5-Month Low Before Vote
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-22T19:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/argentine-black-market-peso-tumbles-to-5-month-low-before-vote.html
The Argentine peso tumbled in the
black market to the weakest since May as demand for dollars
surges on speculation the government will clamp down on access
to foreign currency after Oct. 27 congressional elections.  The peso fell 1.5 percent to 10.05 per dollar in the
illegal  currency market  at 4:20 p.m. in Buenos Aires, according
to prices compiled by  Ambito.com . That’s the weakest since it
slid to a record 10.45 per dollar on May 5. The peso has
weakened 32.5 percent this year in the unofficial market and is
now more than 70 percent weaker than the official rate of 5.8533
per dollar.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who is recovering
from an Oct. 8 surgery to drain a hematoma in her skull, has
restricted dollar sales in the domestic market since winning re-election in 2011 and slapped a 20 percent tax on the use of
credit cards abroad. While she has managed to reduce capital
flight, the country’s international  reserves are being drained 
at a rate of $1 billion a month and have fallen to a six-year
low of $34.1 billion as the country’s energy deficit widens.  “The government will tighten controls even more by
limiting the use of credit cards abroad because we have a
serious problem and the government needs the dollars to pay
debt,” former central bank president Aldo Pignanelli said in a
telephone interview from Buenos Aires. “The question is how
much longer can  Argentina  withstand the draining of reserves.”  The amount Argentines spent abroad with credit cards
surpassed that spent by tourists in Argentina by $711 million in
the first eight months of the year, according to the National
Statistic Institute.  ‘Cocaine’ Price  Argentine government officials are monitoring the situation
at exchange houses in  Buenos Aires  and there’s “total calm” in
the market, said Alejandro Vanoli, head of the securities
regulator, according to state-run news agency Telam.  “There’s a real and virtual country; in the virtual, the
media wants to represent their right-wing interests, they want
to generate panic in the population ahead of the elections,”
Telam reported, citing Vanoli. “They want to install an
exchange rate that is in the first place illegal, as if they
were publishing the price of cocaine, and is of little
significance.”  The central bank sold $40 million in the official foreign
exchange market today, less than half the $100 million sold
yesterday.  Congressional Election  About 31 million Argentines are obliged to vote in the Oct.
27 mid-term election to renew half of the 257-member lower house
and a third of the 72-member Senate. Fernandez’s candidates are
forecast to replicate results of an Aug. 11 primary election, in
which support for her Victory Front coalition dwindled to a 10-year low, according to a survey by Management & Fit. The primary
results squashed speculation Fernandez would seek a
constitutional overhaul to seek a third term in 2015.  Argentines look to buy dollars with their pesos to protect
against inflation. Consumer prices rose 25.4 percent in
September from a year earlier, the highest in the region after
 Venezuela , according to private estimates. Official  inflation
data , which is questioned by the  International Monetary Fund ,
was 10.5 percent last month.  The peso has fallen 16 percent this year, more than double
the rate of depreciation in the same period a year earlier.  While the 70 percent premium Argentines pay to buy dollars
in the informal market is a fraction of the 750 percent gap
between the official and black market rates in Venezuela, the
difference may widen, according to Jose Alfredo Nogueira,
director of Buenos Aires-based ABC Mercado de Cambios.  Cuban Policy  Cuba’s communist government, which has maintained two
exchange rates since the mid-1990s with a difference of 25-to-1,
will begin to eliminate the system to boost efficiency and
trade, according to a statement published today in the state-run
Granma newspaper.  “There’s higher demand for dollars because savers seek to
protect their money,” said Jose Alfredo Nogueira, director of
Buenos Aires-based ABC Mercado de Cambios. “The government
needs to address the economic problems such as high inflation,
subsidies and cut taxes. The exchange rate reflects the current
situation of the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  