-- Marks & Spencer to Ramp Up Food Expansion in U.K. and France
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-10-22T16:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/marks-spencer-to-ramp-up-food-expansion-in-u-k-and-france.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , Britain’s
largest clothing retailer, unveiled plans to open more dedicated
food stores in the U.K. and its first in  France  as it builds on
one of the best-performing parts of the business.  About 150 new Simply Food outlets will open in the U.K.
over the next three years, adding to the current 427 stores in
that format, the retailer said today in a statement. In France,
Marks & Spencer will open 10 stores in and around Paris by 2018
under an agreement with Relay, whose 850 kiosks sell books and
newspapers at rail stations, airports and hospitals.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  is focusing on the
smaller-format Simply Food chain and international stores as
avenues for expansion as clothing sales struggle at home. The
U.K. plans unveiled today will more than double the number of
Simply Food stores the company opens each year, M&S said.  The U.K. stores will open in locations where the retailer
is “significantly under represented,” food director Steve Rowe
said in the statement. About half of the new outlets will be
small-sized stores operated in convenience locations with
existing franchise partners such as BP and Moto gas stations,
the retailer said. The rest will be owned by M&S.  The first of the French food stores will open in summer
2014, Marks & Spencer said. The outlets will be located at
railway stations, metro stations and airports, and there is
potential for further expansion in future, the company said.  Marks & Spencer has no immediate plans for an online food
service, Bolland and Rowe said at a presentation today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  