-- ARM Holdings Sales Climb as Chip Designs Feature in New IPhone
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-22T12:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/arm-sales-beat-estimates-as-chip-designs-feature-in-new-iphone.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  third-quarter
revenue rose 27 percent on sales of its products that are used
in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Revenue at the chip designer climbed to 184 million pounds,
or $286.7 million as reported in dollars, the Cambridge,
England-based company said. Analysts predicted 179.9 million
pounds, according to the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Royalty revenue rose 13 percent to $137.1 million.  ARM has had five consecutive years of revenue growth as its
designs for chips that control graphics and processing were used
in increasingly popular smartphones and tablets. New Chief
Executive Officer Simon Segars, who succeeded Warren East in
July, is confronting a shift in the industry’s growth to low-end
smartphones and stiffer competition from  Intel Corp ., which has
begun designing its own chips for mobile.  While “third-quarter revenue is well ahead from very
strong licensing,” the “royalty revenue is short of
expectations with growth rate slowing substantially,” Nick James, an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., said in a note.
James reiterated a reduce recommendation on the shares.  ARM shares were up 0.5 percent at 1,044 pence as of 12:59
p.m., after falling as much as 7.5 percent earlier in the day.  The company predicted about $290 million in fourth-quarter
revenue “assuming the macroeconomic situation does not
deteriorate significantly.”  Tablets, TVs  ARM’s shares have risen more than 10 percent since Sept.
10, when Cupertino, California-based Apple said it would use the
company’s new 64-bit technology in its new iPhone 5S. The
announcement should drive widespread adoption of processors
based on the designs, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch analysts
said in a note. Chipmaker  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  said it would create a
new 64-bit chip based on ARM’s technology for enterprise
networking applications, ARM said today.  Segars is focused on increasing market share for
semiconductor designs for connected appliances and Web-enabled
“smart” televisions, as well as smartphones and tablets. The
“Internet of things” can include connected appliances such as
thermostats that can be controlled remotely and with mobile
phones.  The embedded-processing business grew 25 percent last year
and ARM got more than half of its sales from products other than
mobile phones for the first time in the third quarter of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  