-- Global Stocks Drop With Metals as Yen, Treasuries Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-10-23T20:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/asian-futures-climb-on-fed-outlook-as-dollar-holds-drop.html
Global stocks dropped from a five-year high, with shares in  Europe  halting the longest rally in 40
months, as oil and copper tumbled after  China ’s money-market
rates jumped. The yen and Treasuries rose and the dollar
rebounded from an almost two-year low versus the euro.  The MSCI All-Country World Index lost 0.6 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York  for its biggest drop in two weeks. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPA)  decreased 0.5 percent after reaching a record
yesterday for a fourth straight day. Chinese shares fell for a
second day and Japan’s currency advanced against all 16 major
peers, rising 2.2 percent versus New Zealand’s dollar. Treasury
10-year yields fell to a three-month low. Oil lost 1.5 percent
to $96.86 a barrel following bigger-than-forecast growth in
supplies. Copper fell 2.2 percent.  Altera Corp. and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  helped lead declines in
the  S&P 500  following revenue forecasts that disappointed
investors. China’s benchmark money-market rate jumped the most
since July as the central bank refrained from adding funds to
markets. The  European Central Bank  said it will use stricter
rules when stress testing banks’ balance sheets next year than
it will to study their assets. More than 30 companies in the  S&P
500 (SPX)  are scheduled to  report  results today.  “The market has run quite a bit,” Edward Painvin, chief
investment officer of Chase Investment Counsel Corp., said by
phone from Charlottesville, Virginia. His firm oversees $500
million. “Every time we have that kind of move going into
earnings season, expectations are high. The market is going to
be placing an increasing amount of emphasis in companies
delivering expectations and providing some clarity for 2014.”  Rally Halted  The S&P 500 snapped a five-day rally after yesterday
extending its 2013 advance to 23 percent, on pace to challenge
2009’s 23.45 percent jump for its best  yearly advance  in a
decade. The equity rally has pushed valuations to the highest in
almost four years. The S&P 500 started today trading at 15.9
times estimated earnings, the most since December 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Semiconductor companies in the S&P 500 lost 2.4 percent as
a group for the worst loss among 24 industries. Altera sank 13
percent, the biggest drop in six years, to lead the S&P 500
lower after the chipmaker forecasting fourth-quarter sales that
trailed estimates. Broadcom Corp. fell 2.9 percent after the
company forecast lower fourth-quarter revenue than analysts
projected and said it’s cutting as many as 1,150 jobs as demand
slows for chips that connect mobile phones to the Internet.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, fell 6.1 percent for its biggest drop in two
years after cutting its sales and earnings forecasts following a
slump in orders from commodity producers. Cree Inc. plunged 17
percent as the maker of energy-efficient lighting products
reported earnings that missed estimates.  Movers  Corning Inc. (GLW) , the maker of glass for televisions and mobile
devices, jumped 14 percent after approving a $2 billion buyback
and agreeing to purchase full ownership of a Samsung Electronics
Co. joint venture. Boeing Co. climbed the most since 2011,
jumping 5.3 percent to a record $129.02, after boosting its
full-year earnings estimate amid an increase in jetliner
deliveries.  The U.S. equities rally has been fueled by unprecedented
Fed stimulus and better-than-estimated corporate earnings.
Analysts raised  forecasts  for profits in the third quarter,
predicting an average increase of 2.5 percent for companies in
the S&P 500, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with 1.7 percent forecast at the beginning of the month.  Earnings Season  Earnings beat analyst  estimates  at 76 percent of the 162
companies in the S&P 500 that have released their results so far
this reporting period, while 54 percent exceeded sales
projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said stock
market momentum is heading upward.  “In a sense, we are actually at relatively low stock
prices,” Greenspan, who guided the central bank for more than
18 years, said in an interview with Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television today. “Indeed I say that so-called equity premiums
are still at a very high level, and that means that the momentum
of the market is still ultimately up.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.6 percent. The gauge had
rallied for nine days, the longest winning streak since June
2010, and reached the highest level in five years.  Orange SA slid 5.4 percent as France’s largest
telecommunications company reported decreased earnings.
STMicroelectronics NV declined 8.9 percent, the most in three
months, after Europe’s biggest semiconductor maker reported a
net loss.  De La Rue Plc (DLAR)  plunged 9.7 percent as the world’s
largest banknote printer cut its profit forecast.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for the first time in
seven days, losing 1.2 percent. India’s S&P BSE Sensex gauge
slipped 0.5 percent, led by Wipro Ltd. as sales growth trailed
its peers. Benchmark gauges in Brazil,  Russia ,  Poland  and  South
Korea  lost at least 0.7 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.2 percent and the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed
in  Hong Kong  slid 1.8 percent. The seven-day repurchase  rate , a
gauge of funding availability in the banking system, surged 45
basis points to 4.03 percent in Shanghai, according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  Ten-year Treasury  yields  fell two basis points to 2.49
percent, the lowest since July 23, Bloomberg Bond Trader data
showed. Treasuries rallied the most in a month yesterday after a
report delayed because of the U.S. government shutdown showed
employers added 148,000 workers in September, below the 180,000
gain projected in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds rose
from a 3 1/2-year low. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 125 investment-grade companies increased 2.4
basis points to 86.1 basis points.  Commodities Decline  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped 1.4 percent as
oil slid to the lowest since June. China is the biggest buyer of
industrial metals and energy. Crude inventories climbed 5.25
million barrels last week, the Energy Information Administration
said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated a gain of 3
million. Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , increased for a second
week and domestic production jumped to the most in 24 years.  Gasoline futures slid 2.4 percent to $2.5544 a gallon, the
lowest on a closing basis since June 2012. Gasoline pump prices
in the U.S. are poised to drop to the lowest since February 2011
by New Year’s Eve as supplies increase more than demand,
providing a lift for consumers in an economy struggling to
recover from the deepest recession since the 1930s.  Gas Prices  Retail prices will probably sink to an average $3.15 a
gallon by Dec. 31 from $3.339,  Michael Green , a spokesman in
 Washington  for AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization,
said yesterday. The highest seasonal inventories in three years
are set to rise as plants return from scheduled maintenance.
Refining capacity in the fourth quarter will be 410,000 barrels
a day higher than last year while demand climbs 10,000 barrels,
the Energy Information Administration estimated Oct. 8.  The yen climbed to the strongest level in two weeks against
the dollar and rebounded from a four-year low versus the euro.
Japan’s currency strengthened 0.8 percent to 97.36 per dollar
after reaching 97.16, the strongest level since Oct. 9. It
advanced 0.8 percent to 134.13 per euro from yesterday, when it
touched 135.51, the weakest since November 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  