-- Aussie Dollar Falls as Chinese Stocks Slide on Money-Market Rate
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-10-23T05:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/aussie-dollar-trades-near-4-month-high-before-inflation-report.html
Australia ’s dollar fell from a four-month high as Chinese stocks dropped amid a jump in money-market
rates, damping investor confidence in the outlook for the South
Pacific nation’s biggest overseas market.  The currency climbed to a one-month high against its  New
Zealand  counterpart after data showed inflation quickened more
than forecast in the bigger nation, adding to prospects the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia will halt cuts to borrowing costs. The
kiwi slid against all 16 of its major peers as a technical
indicator signaled the currency has risen too rapidly.  “The Aussie’s strength isn’t sustainable,” said Masashi Murata, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. Investors are sensitive to money-market rates in
 Asia ’s largest economy because “they have skepticism about
 China ’s financial system.”  The Australian dollar lost 0.6 percent to 96.52 U.S. cents
as of 4:51 p.m. in Sydney after gaining as much as 0.5 percent
to 97.58, the highest since June 4. New Zealand’s kiwi dropped
1.2 percent to 84.14 U.S. cents after advancing 0.7 percent
yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of shares slid 1.2 percent.
The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding availability
in China’s banking system, soared 42 basis points, the most
since July 29. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The New Zealand dollar’s 14-day relative-strength index
against the greenback was at 70 yesterday, the level that
signals an asset price may have climbed too rapidly and be
poised for a reversal.  Australian Inflation  In Australia, the trimmed mean gauge of core consumer
prices rose 0.7 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from
the second quarter when it increased 0.6 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.6 percent
climb in a gauge the RBA uses to monitor underlying inflation.  Swaps traders see an 82 percent chance the central bank
will hold its key  interest rate  at 2.5 percent this year,
compared with 54 percent odds estimated at the end of last
month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today’s CPI report “reinforces markets’ belief that the
RBA will stay on hold and is done cutting rates for now, and
that is positive for the Australian dollar,” said Divya Devesh,
a foreign-exchange analyst in  Singapore  at Standard Chartered
Plc. The currency is “probably getting a little bit out of
their comfort zone, so we expect them to come back to a dovish
tone and then eventually ease” in the first quarter, he said,
referring to the central bank.  The RBA cut its key rate by 2.25 percentage points over the
past two years to an all-time low, seeking to revive domestic
demand as a mining boom peaks.  Aussie, Kiwi  The Aussie has risen 2.7 percent since Oct. 1 when the
Reserve Bank said in a policy statement that the currency was
still weaker than levels in April. That contrasted with a Sept.
3 statement saying the  exchange rate  may “depreciate further
over time.”  Australia’s dollar added 0.6 percent to NZ$1.1473 today
after touching NZ$1.1495, the strongest since Sept. 12. It
reached NZ$1.12 on Aug. 1, a level unseen since October 2008.  “The Aussie has a bit more momentum than the kiwi,”
Takuya Kawabata, a Tokyo-based analyst at Gaitame.com Research
Institute Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s largest currency-margin
company, said before the release of the inflation report. “The
Aussie-kiwi has firmed around a low of NZ$1.12 and is
rebounding. A rise above a mid-NZ$1.14 will open further upside
to the Australian dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  