-- Aussie Is Near 4-Month High After BHP Raises Iron Ore Projection
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-10-22T05:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/aussie-is-near-4-month-high-on-rate-gap-before-u-s-jobs-report.html
Australia ’s dollar was near a four-month high after  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  raised its production
forecast for iron ore, the country’s biggest export.  The extra  yield  that investors can get by holding the South
Pacific nation’s two-year government notes instead of similar-maturity Treasuries was near the highest in six months, as
investors pared bets that the Reserve Bank of Australia will
lower its benchmark rate. Demand for the Aussie and kiwi was
bolstered before the U.S. releases jobs data amid speculation
the Federal Reserve will delay reducing stimulus that has capped
bond yields in the world’s largest economy.  Market participants “are skeptical that the RBA will ease
further,” said  Imre Speizer , an Auckland-based market
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. “As a result, they have
been quick to push up interest rates in Australia, and that in
turn has increased the carry attractiveness of the Aussie dollar
in the same way that the kiwi is attractive,” he said,
referring to differences in borrowing costs.  The Aussie was little changed at 96.54 U.S. cents at 4:45
p.m. in Sydney after reaching 96.79 yesterday, the highest since
June 4. New Zealand’s dollar was at 84.52 U.S. cents after
losing 0.6 percent to 84.55. It advanced to as high as 85.25 on
Oct. 17, a level unseen since May 6.  Total iron ore output will rise to 212 million tons this
year, Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s largest mining company,
said today in a statement. The company’s previous forecast was
207 million tons. Imports of the steelmaking material in  China ,
Australia’s largest overseas  market , climbed to an unprecedented
75 million tons last month.  “The Chinese economy has held up reasonably well,”
Westpac’s Speizer said. “That is supportive for the Australian
economy.”  Yield Differential  Yields on Australia’s two-year notes rose two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.74 percent, compared with 0.31
percent for U.S. Treasury debt. The gap between the two widened
to 2.5 percentage points on Oct. 16, the most since April 22.  The U.S. Labor Department may say today employers added
180,000 jobs last month after boosting positions by 169,000 in
August, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The unemployment rate probably held at 7.3
percent, compared with the Fed’s longer-run  forecast  of 5.2
percent to 5.8 percent.  The Fed will delay the first reduction in its bond
purchases until March after the partial government shutdown
slowed fourth-quarter growth and interrupted the flow of data,
economists said. Policy makers will pare the monthly pace of
asset buying to $70 billion from $85 billion at their March
18-19 meeting, according to a Bloomberg poll of economists
conducted Oct. 17-18.  RBA Outlook  Traders see a 20 percent chance that the RBA will cut its
benchmark interest rate from 2.5 percent this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg on overnight-index swaps. The
likelihood of a rate reduction was estimated at 46 percent at
the end of last month.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index was at
7.77 after touching 7.73 last week, the lowest since Jan. 9.  “We’ve seen market volatility levels falling
substantially, and as far as currencies are concerned, that’s
the reason that the U.S. dollar has been on the defensive,” Ray Attrill, the global co-head of currency strategy at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. The Aussie still has “some semblance of
positive carry” among its Group of 10 peers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  