-- Axa Real Estate to Buy Up to A$500 Million of Australian
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-10-22T01:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/axa-real-estate-to-buy-up-to-a-500-million-of-australian.html
Axa Real Estate Investment Managers,
a unit of  Europe ’s second-largest insurer, will seek to buy as
much as A$500 million ($483 million) of Australian office
buildings over the next two years to capture higher yield.  Axa Real Estate , which manages 48 billion euros ($66
billion), plans to join hands with as many as three investors,
with equity of as much as A$300 million, said Frank Khoo, global
head of  Asia . The group will buy about four “A-grade” office
buildings in Sydney and  Melbourne  and fund the remaining amount
with debt, he said.  Australia’s “attractive yield levels” relative to other
Asian markets and its properties with long-term leases are
drawing investors, with the country and  China  accounting for
more than half of cross-border property acquisitions in the
second quarter,  CBRE Group Inc.  said in a report. Axa Real
Estate last month partnered with local asset manager Eureka
Funds Management to buy the New South Wales state headquarters
of  Australia  Post in Sydney for A$168 million, on behalf of an
“ultra high net worth” client based in  Singapore , Khoo said.  “Investors are looking for a stable, long-term income
stream, and in Asia there are only two real markets that can
provide you with breadth and depth; that’s Japan and
Australia,” Khoo said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.
“For a developed economy, Australia is still growing
strongly.”  A-grade buildings  in Sydney and Melbourne are larger than
10,000 square meters (107,639 square feet), with each floor
having areas larger than 700 square meters, according to
industry group Property Council of Australia.  Australia, Japan  Axa Real Estate is targeting a total return of more than 9
percent for its Australian investments, including currency
hedges, Khoo said. It also plans to establish a presence in the
country by acquiring a local asset manager, he said, declining
to provide further details.  The company, which now manages about $350 million in  Japan 
and $150 million in Australia, will continue to buy properties
in the two countries both with its own capital and with funds
from overseas investors, Khoo said.  In Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to stoke the
economy and the 2020 Tokyo Olympics will boost tenant demand, he
said. Axa Real Estate, which bought two central Tokyo office
towers for 10 billion yen ($102 million) this year, plans to
double its investments by the end of 2013, Hidetoshi Ono, the
head of Axa’s Japan Core Fund, said in July.  Korea Plans  “There’s not much supply, so demand will increase,” Khoo
said yesterday. “In the short-to-medium-term, we expect rents
to pick up and vacancies to fall.”  Axa Real Estate has lent $120 million from Axa Life Japan
on local commercial properties, and has another $250 million to
deploy in the next two years, Khoo said. In the future, it plans
to raise capital from other investors to provide real estate
loans in Japan, he said.  Axa Real Estate is also seeking to raise as much as $600
million over the next two to three years in  South Korea  to
invest in properties in Europe and Asia, Khoo said. The
expansion will follow the purchase of Ropemaker Place in  London 
in March for 472 million pounds ($763 million) on behalf of Axa
France, Hanwha Life Insurance Co. and China’s State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, Khoo said. SAFE manages
China’s $3.66 trillion of foreign currency reserves.  Axa Real Estate plans to set up an office in  Seoul  early
next year as its fundraising plans there progress, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  