-- Bankers Squeal as Origin to AMP Slash Costs: Australia Credit
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-10-23T02:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/bankers-squeal-as-origin-to-amp-slash-costs-australia-credit.html
Australian companies have cut more
than a percentage point off loan margins as banks compete to
refinance $111 billion of debt maturing within two years.  Borrowers paid an average cost of 223 basis points above
the bank bill swap rate in the third quarter, compared with 333
basis points a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Australian syndicated loan volumes surged 18 percent this year,
compared to little change in the Asia-Pacific region outside of
Japan. AquaSure Pty, the builder of a water plant in Victoria
state, more than halved borrowing costs when it refinanced a
A$3.7 billion ($3.6 billion) loan this month.  Lenders including  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  are being forced to accept
lower margins to win syndicated loan business as the pace of the
nation’s overall credit growth slows amid a waning mining boom.
Companies seeking to refinance debt are taking advantage of that
rivalry before an expected end to U.S. stimulus policies and the
Reserve Bank of  Australia ’s easing cycle.  “Banks are squealing in terms of where pricing levels
are,” Gavin Chappell, the Sydney-based head of loans and
syndications at Westpac Banking Corp., said in an interview.
“Pricing will stabilize from here. The only thing that could
drive pricing considerably lower from here is a significant
reduction of funding cost for banks. But that’s unlikely.”  Origin Loan  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  last quarter cut borrowing costs on
A$7.4 billion of loans that it said were sufficient to refinance
all existing bank debt. The facility included a five-year loan
that paid 170 basis points above the bank bill swap rate, two
people familiar with the matter said in August. That compares
with the 220 basis points margin it paid on a similar-maturity
loan in October last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  AMP Ltd. (AMP) , Australia’s largest life insurer and pension
manager, in August attracted about 20 banks when it refinanced a
A$1 billion syndicated loan, which offered 110 basis points more
than the swap rate for a two-year portion and 135 basis points
on four-year debt, said people familiar with the matter. The
margins were lower than those on the original 2011 deal,
according to David Rowe, the company’s group treasurer.  “Pricing has been very competitive,” Sydney-based Rowe
said in an interview. “It’s very clear that there’s plenty of
money out there looking for a home.”  Idled Plant  AquaSure last week said it completed a A$3.7 billion
refinancing of loans backing its idled desalination plant. The
Melbourne-based company cut interest margins to about 165 basis
points more than the benchmark rate on money with a five-year
maturity, said a person familiar with the matter last month.
That compares with a 350 basis-point margin AquaSure paid on a
five-year loan it arranged in 2009 to build the plant, according
to Bloomberg-compiled data.  Banks led by ANZ and NAB have helped arrange $65.2 billion
of syndicated loans in Australia this year, compared to $54.1
billion in the same period in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Total deals in the Asia-Pacific region outside  Japan  fell
0.1 percent, the data show.  “Borrowers have been getting a lot of calls from banks
that are keen to lend, and from existing lenders also flagging
their appetite,” said Stephen Boyd, Sydney-based director of
debt markets origination at NAB.  Origin got more offers from lenders than it sought when it
syndicated a A$5.4 billion portion of its facility, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. It sold more of the
loan to banks as a result, the person said.  Credit Growth  Banks are seeking to keep business and secure new customers
as the pace of credit growth slows. Overall annual lending to
Australian businesses and consumers rose 3.4 percent in August,
compared to 4.1 percent a year earlier, according to  Reserve
Bank  of Australia figures.  Australia’s 10-year yield climbed 74 basis points this year
to 4.02 percent at 1:36 p.m. in Sydney, after touching 4.28
percent on Oct. 16, the most since March 2012. The premium
offered over similar-maturity Treasuries was 151 basis points,
up from a six-year low of 96 basis points in August.  Aussie Climbing  The Aussie dollar climbed to as high as 97.58 U.S. cents,
the strongest since June, after government data showed inflation
quickened more last quarter than economists estimated.  The volume of bonds sold in Australia by non-financial
companies has shrunk to A$6.4 billion this year, down 29 percent
from the same period in 2012, according to Bloomberg-compiled
data. Many borrowers avoided selling bonds in the third quarter
amid a widely-expected reduction of U.S. central bank stimulus
that didn’t occur.  “In times of volatility, the loan market is showing it is
a strong, reliable and flexible market and is consistently able
to provide large volumes to borrowers when they need it the
most,” said NAB’s Boyd.  Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  will probably hold
borrowing costs until at least May after cutting the benchmark
to a record 2.5 percent in August, swaps indicate. Two months
ago, traders saw better-than-even odds of a cut by the end of
this year. The U.S. Federal Reserve will delay the first
reduction in its bond purchases until March, according to the
median of 40 responses in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Sidestepping Banks  Borrowers are also lowering costs by arranging their own
facilities instead of paying banks to manage the deals. Amcor
Ltd., the world’s largest packaging company, and Melbourne-based
farm chemical supplier Nufarm Ltd. this month began talking to
lenders bilaterally to refinance loans, instead of through a
syndicate, according to people familiar with the matter.  Sydney-based Coates Hire Ltd., controlled by Carlyle Group
LP and Seven Group Holdings Ltd., was last month able to agree
more favorable terms on a A$1.75 billion loan that it also self-arranged, in a so-called “amend and extend” deal.  AMP’s Rowe is skeptical about the advantages of borrowers
managing their own transactions.  “To be honest, I think the benefit of getting the deals
done without the burden of having to rely on our internal
resources outweighs the cost,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  