-- Banks to Utilities Given U.S. Standards to Fight Hackers
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-10-22T16:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/banks-to-utilities-given-u-s-standards-to-fight-hackers.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration proposed standards for banks, utilities and other
companies to voluntarily follow to prevent hackers from
infiltrating their  computer networks .  The measures are intended to help companies that provide
critical services inside the U.S. -- such as electricity,
financial transactions and health care -- improve their digital
defenses, according to the  National Institute of Standards and
Technology .  “The national and economic security of the  United States 
depends on the reliable functioning of critical
infrastructure,” according to the document. “Due to the
increasing pressures from external threats, organizations
responsible for critical infrastructure need to have a
consistent and iterative approach to identifying, assessing, and
managing cybersecurity risk.”  Obama issued an executive order in February to create the
voluntary guidelines. While it called for offering incentives to
companies responsible for protecting critical infrastructure to
encourage them to adopt the standards, the proposal doesn’t
discuss any.  Incentives under consideration by the White House include
protecting companies that adopt the standards from lawsuits if
their networks are attacked, Michael Daniel, Obama’s
cybersecurity coordinator, wrote in an  Aug. 6 blog  post.  Obama issued his order after the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce ,
the largest U.S. business lobby, led opposition last year to
legislation backed by the president that would have created
mandates for companies to protect their networks.  The draft proposal was due Oct. 10 and delayed because of
the partial government shutdown, which ended Oct. 17. A final
version of the framework is due in February.  Draft Standards  The proposal outlines five areas companies should focus on
to manage their cybersecurity risks: identify, protect, detect,
respond and recover.  Within each area are recommended standards that should be
considered. For example, in order to protect networks companies
should ensure that access to data and facilities are limited to
authorized personnel, according to the document.  When responding to hacking attacks, companies should
arrange for mitigation activities to be performed to prevent an
intrusion from expanding, the document states.  The document also includes recommendations to safeguard
personal information of employees and customers so cybersecurity
operations don’t violate privacy laws.  “The framework is designed to complement existing business
and cybersecurity operations,” the document said. “It can
serve as the foundation for a new cybersecurity program or a
mechanism for improving an existing program.”  Cyberthreat Sharing  A bill from Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House intelligence committee,
would give companies legal protections for sharing cyberthreat
data between each other and with the government.  Rogers’ effort to move the bill through Congress has
stalled since June, when former National Security Agency
contractor Edward Snowden began leaking details about the extent
of the government’s spying programs.  The House passed the bill, H.R. 624, in April by a vote of
288-127. Obama vowed to veto the bill because it didn’t have
adequate privacy protections. The Senate has yet to take up the
measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  