-- Bank of Ireland Reaches Accord to Narrow Pension Deficit
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-10-23T13:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/bank-of-irelan-nears-pension-accord-as-refinancing-looms.html
Bank of Ireland Plc  said its pension
deficit will narrow by an initial 400 million euros ($550
million) under a plan to cut employee retirement benefits, in an
accord that eases the way for the nation’s largest lender to
repay part of its state bailout.  The deal, supported by the bank’s biggest labor union,
centers on how future pay increases are treated for pension
purposes, the Dublin-based bank said in a statement today.
Should workers back the changes, the bank will then inject an
additional 400 million euros into the  pension plan  over time,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked
not to be named as the proposal isn’t public.  Narrowing the bank’s 1 billion-euro pension deficit would
lower the capital it needs to raise to refinance 1.8 billion
euros of state-owned preferred shares.  Bank of Ireland (BKIR)  Chief
Executive Officer Richie Boucher is weighing options, including
a share sale, to repay the government by the end of March. If
the shares are not redeemed by then, the amount owed rises 25
percent.  “Dealing with the pension deficit is crucial from a
capital perspective,” said  Emer Lang , an analyst at Dublin-based securities firm Davy, pointing to incoming banking rules
that will deduct pension deficits from regulatory capital from
2019.  European Clarity  Officials from Bank of Ireland and the IBOA Finance Union
declined to comment on the bank’s planned contribution.  A pension agreement “is likely to be the first of a number
of interlinked actions” as the bank seeks to refinance the
preference shares, according to Lang, who has an outperform
rating on the company’s stock.  The bank and government are seeking European regulatory
clarity on whether the preferred shares would continue to count
as core Tier 1 capital, a measure of financial strength, if some
are sold to private investors, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  Preferred shares can only be included as core Tier 1
capital until the end of 2017, under incoming international
banking rules. If some of the securities are sold to private
investors in the meantime, regulators may phase out their
capital benefit more quickly, Ciaran Callaghan, an analyst at
Merrion Capital in Dublin, said in a note on Oct. 16.  Bank of Ireland fell 1.1 percent to 26 cents at 2:01 p.m.
in Dublin trading. The stock has risen 130 percent this year,
giving it a market value of 7.9 billion euros.  “The review of the pensions in Bank of Ireland has
involved protracted and difficult negotiations between the
parties,” said Larry Broderick, general secretary of the IBOA
union. If staff back the plan, it “should secure the defined
benefit scheme into the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  