-- Bean Says Modest U.K. Recovery Supports Keeping Policy Loose
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-22T08:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/bean-says-modest-u-k-recovery-supports-keeping-policy-loose.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean said the U.K. economy still has not fully
recovered, supporting the case for loose monetary policy.  “There is still a long way to go before we can say the
economy is mended,” Bean said in a speech in  London  today.
“Until that is the case, monetary policy will need to remain
supportive and the guidance we issued in August was intended to
make that clear.”  Governor Mark Carney’s forward guidance says officials
won’t consider raising the key interest rate until  unemployment 
reaches a 7 percent threshold, something the central bank
doesn’t see happening until 2016. Bean said that the framework
isn’t a trigger and instead will prompt the Monetary Policy
Committee to undertake a “broad assessment” of the economy.  “As a breach of the threshold becomes imminent, it seems
likely that the committee will wish to provide further guidance
on the future determinants of policy in order to reduce any
uncertainty surrounding our reaction function,” Bean said.  He also said that if there is still a “substantial
degree” of slack in the economy that can be absorbed without
threatening the  2 percent inflation target , then “there will be
scope to maintain the existing stance of monetary policy longer,
perhaps re-setting the unemployment threshold to a new lower
level at the same time.”  Of the three so-called knockouts to guidance, the caveat
delegated to the central bank’s Financial Policy Committee may
become “material” amid concerns that a house-price bubble is
brewing, Bean said. He added that mortgage approvals are still
below their average before the financial crisis, and growth in
house prices outside of the capital is still “quite modest.”  “We appear to be still some way off seeing an
unsustainable house-price boom on the back of excessive credit
growth,” he said. “That said, neither the MPC nor the FPC can
afford to be complacent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  