-- Beckham Didn’t Reach Top Because of Fame Hunt, Ferguson Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-10-23T10:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/beckham-failed-to-become-top-player-after-leaving-ferguson-says.html
David Beckham failed to become one
of the world’s top soccer players after he left  Manchester
United (MANU)  because he was distracted by his pursuit of fame, former
coach Alex Ferguson said in his autobiography.  Beckham left for Real  Madrid  in 2003, and also played for
the Los Angeles Galaxy and AC Milan before retiring at Paris
Saint-Germain last season. Ferguson, in his book “My
Autobiography,” said the player became focused on celebrity and
that “I could see him being swallowed up by the media or
publicity agents.”  “For my money, after the change, he never attained the
level where you would say: that is an absolute top player,”
Ferguson wrote.  Beckham, 38, remains one of the world’s most marketable
sports personalities. Forbes magazine in June put his total
earnings at $47 million, making him the eighth-highest paid
athlete. The former midfielder has deals with  Adidas AG (ADS) ,  Hennes
& Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Coty Inc. (COTY)  In March he took on a role as global
ambassador for Chinese soccer.  “At some point in his life, he may feel the urge to say: I
made a mistake,” Ferguson says of Beckham in the 400-page book.  The autobiography is being published tomorrow, and in it
the 71-year-old discusses his time in charge of the defending
English Premier League champion. He spent more than 26 years at
Manchester United, winning 38 trophies.  Keane Relationship  The Scot talks about his relationship with former captain
Roy Keane, who he let move to Celtic after the midfielder went
on the club’s television channel and blasted younger teammates.  Ferguson said of Keane that “the hardest part of Roy’s
body is his tongue. He has the most savage tongue you can
imagine. He can debilitate the most confident person in the
world in seconds with that tongue.”  The relationship continues to be troubled after Keane took
on the role of an analyst on television, Ferguson said.  Keane responded to Ferguson’s criticism on ITV last night
and accused him of lacking loyalty.  “I do remember having conversations with the manager when
I was at the club about loyalty. In my opinion he doesn’t know
the meaning of the word,” Keane said. “It doesn’t bother me
too much what he has to say about me, but to constantly
criticize other players at the club who brought him a lot of
success, I find very, very strange. I certainly won’t be losing
any sleep over it.”  As for Ferguson’s criticism of Beckham, Keane said, “I
just don’t think the manager needs to do it.”  Glazer Takeover  Ferguson also said in his book that he resisted calls from
some supporters to quit after the 2005 takeover of United by the
Glazer family, which also owns the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the
National Football League.  The Americans have brought in more advertising and
marketing money from brands around the world, which helps pay
the club’s debts, he said.  “At no stage was I held back by the Glazer ownership,”
Ferguson said. “Often we would lose interest in a player
because the transfer fee or wage demands had become silly. There
was no edict from above to spend only in line with the club’s
debts.”  England Offer  Ferguson also managed clubs including Aberdeen, where he
won three Scottish league titles and the European Cup Winners’
Cup, and led  Scotland  at the 1986 World Cup.  He said he turned down two requests from the Football
Association to manage  England ’s national team. Ferguson wrote
that the first offer was around 1999 before Kevin Keegan took
over, and then the F.A. returned with another attempt before
Sven-Goran Eriksson accepted the post in 2001.  “My Autobiography,” by Alex Ferguson, is published by
Hodder & Stoughton (25 pounds).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  