-- Beijing May Make ABCs Less Important After English-Training Boom
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-22T05:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/beijing-may-make-abcs-less-important-after-english-training-boom.html
China ’s capital city of Beijing
proposed reducing the importance of English in education by
cutting the language’s weighting on college-entrance tests in
favor of the nation’s own tongue.  English would count for 100 points, down from the current
150, out of the maximum score of 750 starting in 2016, the
official Xinhua News Agency  reported  yesterday, citing the
Beijing Education Examinations Authority. The possible score in
Chinese would rise to 180 from 150, Xinhua said. The local
government said English programs currently stress examinations
over mastery of the language, according to Xinhua.  De-emphasizing English may limit gains in a language-training industry that has mushroomed in recent years, with the
central government in 2001 extending English classes to primary
schools. China suspended English as a school subject during the
Cultural Revolution and a saying sprang up: “With or without
ABC, the revolution carries on.”  Students in Beijing who now start English on the first day
of primary school won’t begin before third grade in the near
future, Xinhua reported, citing unidentified people with the
Beijing Municipal Commission on Education.  Outside of Beijing, the eastern province of Jiangsu has
considered removing English from college entrance exams and
using letter grades, rather than percentiles, for grading,
Xinhua reported. The city of Shanghai and Shandong province are
considering similar actions, Xinhua said.  Xinhua reported in 2006 that 300 million people were
studying English. Extracurricular English training has boomed in
China, creating local billionaire Michael Minhong Yu, a former
English teacher at  Peking University  who founded  New Oriental
Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  in 1993. The market has lured
foreign investors including publisher  Pearson Plc (PSON) , which bought
Wall Street English in 2009.  Many Chinese students can’t speak English despite many
years of study, Xinhua reported, citing a Beijing education
official it didn’t identify.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  