-- Berkshire Beats Apple as Favorite Stock of Tiger 21 Group
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/berkshire-beats-apple-as-favorite-stock-of-tiger-21-group.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  regained its ranking as the favorite stock pick among U.S.
and Canadian multimillionaires, beating  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and fending
off the increasing preference for exchange-traded funds.  Members of Tiger 21, a New York-based group of wealthy
investors, selected Berkshire in an annual survey of preferred
investments scheduled to be released today. Apple, which had
held the No. 1 spot the last two years, slipped to No. 2.  “The bloom is off of Apple,” Michael Sonnenfeldt, founder
and chairman of Tiger 21, said in an interview. “For people who
held Berkshire Hathaway it’s held its appeal, but for Apple, a
lot of people who were on that ride have realized that perhaps
the best days are behind it.”  Apple’s share price has  fallen  by more than one-fourth from
its September 2012 record high as the Cupertino, California-based company battles lower-cost rivals and seeks to prove it
can innovate without co-founder  Steve Jobs , who died in 2011.
The Berkshire choice shows members’ satisfaction with Buffett’s
investing strategy even as the 83-year-old chief executive
officer won’t publicly identify a successor.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of chips for mobile
phones, was the other individual stock among members’ top five.
The San Diego-based company surged to No. 4 from No. 20 last
year. The top five included two ETFs for the first time: The
 iShares MSCI EAFE Index Fund  was No. 3 and the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF
Trust (SPY)  ranked No. 5.  Burlington Northern  Berkshire, based in Omaha, Nebraska, soared in its first 25
years under Buffett as the billionaire transformed a textile
maker into an insurer and placed winning bets on stocks such as
Capital Cities/ABC Inc. and Coca-Cola Co. More recently, he’s
expanded by buying whole companies such as railroad Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe .  Berkshire has risen  31 percent  this year, compared with a
22 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  The stock
had dropped to No. 3 in last year’s survey after being No. 2 in
2011 and No. 1 in 2010.  Tiger 21 is a network of 220 entrepreneurs, investors and
executives who have at least $10 million in investable assets
each and more than $20 billion combined. Members, whose average
age is 55, meet monthly in seven cities in the U.S. and four in
Canada to share ideas. They pay annual membership fees of
$30,000.  Members had, on average, 24 percent of assets in stocks, 21
percent in real estate, 19 percent in private equity, 15 percent
in fixed income, 11 percent in cash, 8 percent in  hedge funds , 1
percent in commodities and 1 percent in miscellaneous
investments as of Sept. 30, according to a separate report from
the group.  Smartphone Chips  Qualcomm has benefited as growing demand for smartphones
lifts sales. The stock has gained 11 percent this year, trailing
the 32 percent surge by the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.
Some investors have sold because of concern that revenue growth,
which has averaged almost 30 percent each quarter this year,
won’t translate into profit as the company faces more
competition in  emerging markets .  Members’ preference for low-cost ETFs, which are linked to
indexes and trade like stocks, has increased because active fund
managers usually don’t beat the market after fees over time,
Sonnenfeldt said.  The SPDR S&P 500 ETF, known as the SPY, last year became
the first ETF among members’ top five picks, ranking No. 2. The
security tracks the U.S. benchmark index and is offered by
Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)  New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s
iShares MSCI EAFE ETF, which tracks equities in Europe,
Australasia and the  Far East , joined the list’s leaders for the
first time this year.  ETF Deposits  U.S.-based ETFs attracted an estimated $33.6 billion in
September, compared with $2.5 billion flowing into U.S. open-end
mutual funds, according to Chicago-based researcher  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  ETFs charge an average 0.67 percent annual fee, compared
with 1.26 percent for the typical mutual fund, Morningstar data
show.  Tiger 21 also asked members their preferred asset class.
About 41 percent chose public equities, followed by private
equity and hedge funds, which both got 17 percent of the votes.
Hedge-fund preference declined in the past two surveys while
private equity gained favor.  The private-equity  asset allocation  is the highest in a
decade, Sonnenfeldt said. The increase is driven more by direct
investments members are making in closely held companies rather
than commitments to private-equity funds, he said.  Chickasaw, Rachlin  Investors are losing money on an inflation-adjusted basis
in safe assets such  government bonds  and cash, which is causing
them to take more risks to preserve spending power, Sonnenfeldt
said. They’re choosing investments they know, such as startups
and small businesses, he said. Most Tiger 21 members have become
wealthy by building a company rather than through an
inheritance.  Members listed Chickasaw Capital Management LLC, based in
Memphis, Tennessee, and New York-based Neuberger Berman Group
LLC’s Rachlin Group as two of their favorite money managers.
Both invest in income-producing master limited partnerships.  Tiger 21’s survey was based on responses from more than 70
members collected in May through July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  