-- Beyond BRIC Nations Are Auto ‘Last Frontier,’ BCG Says
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-10-22T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/beyond-bric-nations-are-auto-last-frontier-bcg-says.html
Emerging markets  beyond Brazil,
India, Russia and China offer the “last frontier” for vehicle-sales growth through 2020, Boston Consulting Group said in a
report.  “Brazil, Russia, India and China have generated
substantial growth opportunities in the last decade and will
certainly be vitally important over the coming decade,”
according to the report released today in Troy,  Michigan . “But
we believe that concentrating on BRIC markets alone will be
insufficient to ensure longer-term success.”  Sales in these so-called Beyond BRIC emerging markets will
make up one-fifth of the world’s sales through 2020 and will
rise faster than deliveries in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan,
Australia and New Zealand, according to the study.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
are competing to be the world’s largest automaker by vehicle
sales. GM and VW receive a major part of their deliveries from
China.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  is playing catch-up in China and seeks to
capture 5 percent of the market during the fourth quarter, up
from 2.5 percent in the first quarter of 2012.  Parts of Southeast Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and
northern Africa offer “growth opportunity in a world in which
established markets are largely characterized by stagnation or
low growth and the key stakes have already been distributed in
the BRIC markets,” Boston Consulting said in a separate
statement.  ‘Growth List’  The southeast Asia countries, including Indonesia, Malaysia
and Thailand, are forecast to have new vehicle sales of 4.6
million by 2020, larger than  Russia , the report said.  Middle Eastern countries, including Iran, Saudi Arabia and
Turkey, may have 5.8 million sales in 2020, larger than 5.2
million forecast for Brazil, according to Boston Consulting.
Latin American countries, including Argentina, Chile and
Colombia, may be 2.9 million, compared with the 3.6-million
German market.  “These regional clusters should be on the growth list of
every OEM and supplier with ambitions to be a truly global
player,” Thomas Dauner, a senior partner of the consulting firm
and co-author of the report, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Troy, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  