-- Blackstone Unit Wins in No-Lose Codere Trade: Corporate Finance
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e ,   M a r y   C h i l d s ,   a n d   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-10-22T15:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/blackstone-unit-wins-in-no-lose-codere-trade-corporate-finance.html
GSO Capital Partners LP provided a
loan to Spanish gaming operator  Codere SA (CDR)  in June with terms
that gave it a guaranteed return on credit-default swaps,
outmaneuvering sellers of the protection.  The unit of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  structured the loan in a
way that would lead to a payout on swaps it held, according to
three people with knowledge of the situation who asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private. The contracts
were triggered on Sept. 18 after Codere delayed an interest
payment by two days to comply with the loan terms. GSO held 25
million to 30 million euros of the swaps, meaning it may have
made at least 11.4 million euros ($15.6 million), according to
one of the people and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The trade shines a light on the opaque world of credit-default swaps, where the interests of lenders and debt traders
aren’t always aligned and those in a position of influence have
the ability to affect whether the contracts get triggered.  “If you’re going to trade CDS, you’ve got to be fully
aware,” Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based hedge-fund
adviser TF Market Advisors, said in a telephone interview. “The
only losers are the guys who seemed to play the CDS market
incorrectly or didn’t see this as a potential outcome.”  Betting Parlors  Andrew Dowler , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone,
declined to comment for GSO. Italo Durazzo, a Madrid-based
spokesman for Codere, declined to comment on GSO’s trade and the
restructuring talks.  Codere, which operates betting parlors and race tracks from
 Italy to Argentina , is attempting to restructure about 1 billion
euros of debt after posting  losses  for six straight quarters,
reflecting in part smoking bans in Latin American gaming halls.  The company is 51 percent- owned  by Masampe Holding BV, a
company controlled by members of the founding Martinez Sampedro
family, according to a  statement  on its website citing December
2012 data. The remainder of the shares are listed on the  Madrid 
stock exchange and about 18 percent are owned by the Martinez
Sampedro family, board members and management.  Bonds, Swaps  GSO, the New York-based credit investing unit of
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, bought
Codere’s bonds and credit-default swaps in the first half of
this year, hoping to profit from differences in pricing of the
instruments in what’s known as a basis trade, according to a
person familiar with the transactions.  The swaps GSO held were weighted toward those expiring
within the year, the person said.  GSO and Canyon Partners LLC then took over what the company
said at the time was a 100 million euro revolving loan from
banks including Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG,
extending the maturity for six months, Chief Financial Officer
Angel Corzo Uceda said during an Aug. 30 conference call to
discuss first-half earnings with analysts and investors.  A condition was attached to the debt stipulating that it
would be repaid should Codere make an Aug. 15 interest payment
on its $300 million of 9.25 percent bonds due in February 2019,
according to a June 13  statement  on the company’s website. GSO
and Canyon lent the company an additional 35 million euros in
September.  Late Payment  The company’s willingness to pay the coupon late helped
ease restructuring negotiations as many bondholders also held
credit-default swaps and would benefit from a missed payment,
the person said. Codere made the August payment two days after a
30-day grace period, and the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association ruled that there was a failure-to-pay  credit event ,
resulting in a $197 million payment to holders of the swaps.  Based on a value of 54.5 cents on the dollar for the bonds
set at an Oct. 9 auction administered by Markit Group Ltd. and
Creditex Group Inc. to determine the swaps payout, GSO would
have made from 11.4 million euros to as much as 13.7 million.  With the issue of triggering the swaps resolved, the
company and lenders could focus on restructuring the debt.  Default swaps were blamed by the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission for contributing to the worst credit meltdown since
the Great Depression, and regulators have sought to push the
contracts from privately negotiated transactions off exchanges
to more transparent systems.  “As a lender, the idea is to help somebody make payments
on their debt,” said Bonnie Baha, the head of global developed
credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which manages
about $53 billion. “It’s generally not to pay them not to make
payments on their debt so that you can benefit via a derivative
instrument.”  Restructuring Talks  Codere’s 9.25 percent bonds traded Aug. 14 at 55 cents on
the dollar to yield 24.6 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, while its 660 million euros of 8.25 percent bonds due
in June 2015 were quoted at 52.92 cents to yield 55.49 percent
at 10:58 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  A creditor steering committee, which includes Greenwich,
Connecticut-based hedge fund Silver Point Capital LP is now in
talks with the company over its debt restructuring, two people
familiar with the matter said. Other creditors include London-based M&G Investment Management Ltd. and Cyrus Capital Partners
LP, two people said.  Tripp Kyle, a spokesman at Brunswick Group LLC for Canyon;
Adam Weiner, a spokesman for Silver Point at Kekst & Co.;
executives at M&G, who asked not to be identified citing company
policy; and Ember Shmitt, a spokeswoman for Cyrus, declined to
comment.  ‘Totally Irrational’  Codere’s  earnings  before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell 34 percent in the second quarter, and the
company’s September performance was in line with that, according
to an Oct. 15 report from CreditSights Inc.  The company restated its 2012 earnings on June 3 after
detecting accounting errors, bringing last year’s net loss to
134 million euros.  The company’s  shares , which dropped as low as 1.15 euros in
September, closed at 1.59 euros in Madrid yesterday.  Moody’s Investors Service  rates  Codere’s debt Caa3, nine
levels below investment-grade, and  Standard & Poor’s  puts it one
rung lower at CC. Both ratings have “negative” outlooks.  “This is totally irrational from the perspective of an
investor who loans money to a company, buys the bonds or loans,
and expects to get paid back,” said DoubleLine’s Baha.
“They’re definitely stacking the deck.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  