-- Blackstone, GIC Buy Stake in Goldman's European Insurer
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-10-22T12:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/blackstone-gic-buy-stake-in-goldman-s-european-insurer.html
Blackstone Group LP and GIC Pte,
 Singapore ’s sovereign wealth fund, agreed to buy a majority
stake in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s European insurance business.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm, and
GIC will each buy 28.5 percent of the shares in Rothesay Life
Ltd., a London-based insurer run by Goldman Sachs partner Addy Loudiadis, Goldman Sachs said in a statement today.
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. will also buy 7 percent,
and Goldman will retain 36 percent. The price wasn’t disclosed.  “It is more capital efficient for Goldman Sachs to share
its ownership with other investors,” said  Michael Sherwood ,
vice chairman of New York-based Goldman Sachs, said in the
statement. “Rothesay Life can continue its growth as a
standalone business with the benefit of diversified ownership.”  Rothesay insures about 12 billion pounds ($19.4 billion) of
insurance contracts for companies including IAG SA’s British
Airways and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s U.K. division. Firms such as
Rothesay promise to pay pensions if retirees live beyond a
certain age and use derivatives to hedge the risk. The insurer
typically receives a portion of the pension plan’s assets.  Goldman Sachs said in August that it planned to sell a
majority stake in Rothesay, which has about $9.66 billion in
assets, in the next 12 months as banks face more stringent
capital rules. The bank has already sold about 80 percent of
Global Atlantic Financial Group, a reinsurance business in
 Bermuda , to institutions and high-net-worth clients this year.  ‘Strong Pipeline’  Loudiadis said in the statement that diversifying
Rothesay’s shareholder base was the next stage in the company’s
strategy, adding that the insurer will continue to work on a
“strong pipeline” of opportunities.  Chad Pike,  Blackstone (BX) ’s head of tactical opportunities in
 Europe , said in the statement that Rothesay was “well placed”
to benefit from the growth potential in the U.K. pension
insurance market as  interest rates  climb.  Tay Lim Hock, president of GIC’s Special Investment. said
the fund sees “long-term potential” of the expanding market
for Rothesay’s pension-insurance business. GIC is the world’s
eighth-biggest state fund with an estimated $248 billion of
assets under management, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund
Institute’s website.  Mass. Mutual, which invested 100 million pounds in
subordinated debt in Rothesay earlier this year, said demand for
risk management from U.K. defined-benefit pension plans offered
significant growth opportunities.  Completion of the deal is subject to regulatory and
antitrust approvals, which includes the U.K.’s Prudential
Regulation Authority, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  