-- BlackBerry, DuPont, Random House: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/blackberry-dupont-random-house-intellectual-property.html
Even as  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB) ’s sales
tumbled in recent years, the company continued amassing patents,
building an  intellectual-property  hoard that’s now central to
its effort to entice bidders.  The struggling smartphone maker received 986 patents last
year, a 49 percent increase from 2011, according to figures
compiled by the Intellectual Property Owners Association.
BlackBerry’s patents are valued at anywhere from $1 billion to
$3 billion, depending on how many of them have already been
licensed out, analysts and patent experts estimate.  Working in BlackBerry’s favor: The patents cover similar
technology as Apple Inc.’s intellectual property, and much of
the portfolio is only a few years old. The downside is that the
market for such assets has cooled. Previous patent buyers such
as  Apple (AAPL)  and Google Inc. amassed broad portfolios in patent
deals two years ago.  “This is an incredibly volatile market,” said Ron Laurie,
managing director of  Palo Alto , California-based Inflexion Point
Strategy, which advises companies on patents. “It all depends
on perceived demand and strategic value.”  Apple, whose iPhone is now the best-selling smartphone,
cites BlackBerry’s technology 1,295 times in its own patent
applications, according to MDB Capital Group LLC, a  Santa
Monica , California-based patent-investment bank. The rivals
credit each other more than any other two North American device
makers. Companies are required to identify competing technology
to ensure they aren’t claiming something already patented.  Lisette Kwong, a Waterloo, Ontario-based spokeswoman for
BlackBerry, and Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple,
declined to comment.  Given its connections to Apple and an average patent age of
just 3.4 years, the portfolio may fetch $2 billion to $3
billion, according to MDB. That value may be lower if BlackBerry
has already licensed much of its technology, said Erin-Michael Gill, managing director of MDB Capital. Widely licensed patents
have less use for new deals or court challenges.  “If that’s the case, the financial buyers no longer have
much interest -- and the strategics don’t need them,” Gill
said. “Then it would go from multibillion dollars to a trivial
amount, probably just a few hundred.”  MDB’s estimate reflects what the patents would fetch as
stand-alone assets without liabilities a buyer of the whole
company would face. The cost of shutting the hardware unit could
be $800 million, according to BMO Capital Markets.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Bentley Wins Order Barring Knockoff Kits, Car Transformations  Bentley Motors Ltd., a maker of luxury cars, won a court
order barring two  Florida  car customization companies from
making and installing kits that could  transform the appearance 
of inexpensive American cars into knockoffs of the Bentley GTC.  The U.K.-based automaker filed suit in federal court in
Tampa, Florida, in June 2012, claiming the kits and auto
transformations infringed the trademark and trade dress of a
luxury car that can sell for  upwards of $238,000 .  Fugazzi Cars Inc. of  St. Petersburg , Florida, and Real Auto
Customizing Inc. of Clearwater, Florida, are barred from using
any of the Bentley marks, logos and design features.
Additionally, they are required to post the text of the court
order on their websites, on their pages in  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
social media sites and anywhere else they’ve advertised their
replica kits.  The court didn’t award damages, saying this must wait until
the issue of willfulness is determined with respect to
infringement. That part of the case is set for trial in
December.  The case is Bentley Motors Ltd. v. McEntegart, 8:12-cv-01582-VCM-TBM, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Tampa).  DuPont, Easton-Bell License Pact Ends Kevlar Trademark Fight  DuPont Co. (DD) , the maker of Corian countertops and Tyvek
packaging materials, has licensed its Kevlar trademark to
Easton-Bell Sports Inc. of  Scotts Valley ,  California , a maker of
bicycle-related products.  The license follows the dismissal of a trademark suit
DuPont filed against Easton-Bell in January, accusing the
company of infringing the Kevlar mark.  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , had said the size of
the Kevlar trademark on Easton-Bell’s packaging was even larger
than the California company’s own mark, according to the
complaint  Easton-Bell has sold and marketed bicycle tires and locks
in packaging displaying the Kevlar trademark since July 2012,
according to court papers. Such products are sold through
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
Amazon.com Inc., DuPont said.  Easton-Bell sued in federal court in San Francisco on Jan.
18, seeking a court declaration that it didn’t infringe the
DuPont trademark.  In its pleadings, Easton-Bell said it has bought Kevlar
from authorized distributors and resellers for at least six
years and used it in bike tires and locks. Indicating on its
packaging that the products contain Kevlar “has no likelihood
of causing confusion,” the company claimed.  On March 26, a magistrate judge refused to dismiss Easton-Bell’s case and rejected DuPont’s request that the dispute be
transferred to Delaware. He said that DuPont’s request for a
transfer was inappropriate.  DuPont didn’t give any reason for dropping its suit against
Easton-Bell. According to the March 28 filing, Easton-Bell
hadn’t answered the complaint or asked that the case be
dismissed.  The two companies issued a joint  statement  Oct. 17 saying
that the license covers the use of the Kevlar brand for various
Easton-Bell products, including bicycle tires and locks. Terms
of the license weren’t disclosed.  The DuPont case is E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Easton-Bell Sports Inc., 1:13-cv-00150, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington). The earlier case is Easton-Bell Sports
v. E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co, 3:13-cv-00283, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  Steelite to Expand Collectibles With Woodmere Mark Acquisition  Steelite International Plc, a U.K. housewares manufacturer,
acquired the Woodmere China trademark from Castle China LLC of
 New Castle ,  Pennsylvania , according to a company  statement .  According to the Castle China website, the company is
ceasing operations. The company was known for its reproductions
of the official  White House china  patterns, and of a line of
china depicting various first ladies’  favorite flowers . Castle
China merchandise was sold in museum shops and presidential
libraries and used as protocol gifts by the U.S. State
Department.  Steelite said it will produce historical collectibles in
Castle’s Woodmere China tradition. In December 2012 Steelite
 acquired  the Royal Crown Derby brand, which has been associated
with figurines and collectibles, including  some commemorating 
the wedding of  Prince William  and the former  Kate Middleton  and
the birth and christening of their son Prince George.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Random House Unit Claims Copyright on Author’s Interview  Random House  Inc.’s  Transworld  unit has demanded  Amazon.com (AMZN) 
suspend the sales of an e-book for copyright infringement, the
World Travel Market website  reported .  The book is a reprint of a 1994 interview Mike Gerrard, the
publisher of Passport magazine, conducted with travel writer
 Bill Bryson , according to World Travel Market.  Bryson’s books are published by Transworld, which is
claiming the copyright to the content of the words the author
spoke in the interview is infringed, the website reported.  Amazon has suspended sales of the book, and Garrard is
presently consulting with lawyers as well as the U.K.’s Society
of Authors, World Travel Market reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  