-- BofA Said to Face Three More Probes of Mortgage-Bond Sales
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-10-22T13:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/bofa-said-to-face-three-more-u-s-probes-of-mortgage-bond-sales.html
Bank of America Corp. , sued by U.S.
attorneys in August over an $850 million mortgage bond, faces
three more  Justice Department  civil probes over mortgage-backed securities, according to two people with direct knowledge
of the situation.  U.S. attorneys offices in Georgia and  California  are
examining potential violations tied to Countrywide Financial
Corp., the  subprime lender  Bank of America bought in 2008, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the inquiries
aren’t public. U.S. attorneys in  New Jersey  are looking into
deals involving Merrill Lynch & Co., purchased by the firm in
2009, the people said.  If claims are brought, Bank of America would join  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  dealing with government demands that it resolve
liabilities inherited after buying weakened rivals at the
government’s urging during the credit crisis. JPMorgan, the
biggest  U.S. bank , reached a tentative $13 billion agreement
last week to end civil claims over mortgage-bond sales,
including those handled by Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington
Mutual Inc. operations purchased in 2008.  Bank of America, led by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 54, is being scrutinized for violations of the
Financial Institution Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of
1989, or FIRREA, an outgrowth of the savings-and-loan crisis,
according to the people. The Justice Department cited that
statute in its August lawsuit against the firm, which is the
nation’s second-largest lender after JPMorgan.  BofA’s Disclosures  The law allows the government to sue an individual or group
for fraud that affects a federally insured financial
institution. It carries a 10-year statute of limitations.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the pending
inquiries. Spokesmen for the three U.S. attorneys offices and
the Justice Department declined to comment or didn’t immediately
respond to telephone calls and e-mails.  Bank of America was little changed at $14.53 at 9:35 a.m.
in  New York . The stock gained 25 percent this year through
yesterday, trailing the 28 percent advance for the 24-company
KBW Bank Index.  The lender wrote in an Aug. 1 regulatory filing that it’s
cooperating with state and federal probes into how home loans
were bought, bundled and then sold to investors. While the
company didn’t specify the number of inquiries, it said the
Justice Department had already signaled intent to file civil
complaints over “one or two” jumbo prime securitizations.  Bank of America said at the time that it was speaking to
regulators “to explain why the threatened civil charges are not
appropriate.” The Justice Department lawsuit filed days later
involved a single jumbo prime deal.  August Complaint  The U.S. complaint accused the firm of misleading investors
about the quality of loans tied to $850 million in mortgage-backed securities. While the bank had portrayed the bond as
backed by prime loans vetted by its staff, most were riskier
wholesale debts, meaning they were originated by outside
brokers, authorities wrote. Some were “PaperSaver” loans that
hadn’t required proof of borrowers’ income.  Buyers of the bonds were “sophisticated investors” who
were capable of assessing the risks, Halldin said after the suit
was filed Aug. 6.  Task Force  President  Barack Obama  ordered the creation of a  task force 
last year to coordinate investigations into improper mortgage-bond underwriting by banks. As part of that effort, U.S.
attorneys in California are examining potential FIRREA
violations by New York-based JPMorgan that would be included in
the firm’s $13 billion settlement, a person with knowledge of
the deal has said. Terms of the accord, described by people
familiar with the talks, are still being negotiated.  The U.S. efforts are adding to more than $100 billion in
legal costs already incurred by the six biggest U.S. banks since
the credit crisis, a figure exceeding all of the dividends paid
to shareholders in the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, said in a speech last year that he did the U.S. a
favor by buying Bear Stearns and that he might not go through
with it again because of how much the deal ultimately cost.  “This incessant push for more cases where most thought the
book had been closed creates an air of distrust for future
dealings with the government,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a former
Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer who’s now a partner at
Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,  Maryland .
“It appears to be a political response to political outrage.”  Settlement Guide  JPMorgan’s proposed settlement could be used as a guide for
other firms to resolve probes, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, the co-chairman of the task force, said at a news
briefing in Manhattan.  “We are very, very hopeful that we will have a resolution
with this bank that can serve as a template for resolutions with
other banks,” Schneiderman said.  The Justice Department’s August case is U.S. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 13-cv-00446, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  North Carolina  (Charlotte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  