-- BofA’s Lamprecht Said to Join RenCap as Head Africa Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-22T15:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/bofa-s-lamprecht-said-to-join-rencap-as-head-africa-sales.html
Robert Lamprecht, a managing
director at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in  South Africa , has left to
become head of Africa sales at  Renaissance Capital ’s operation
in Johannesburg, said a person with knowledge of the move.  Lamprecht replaces Ali Khalpey, who left the Moscow-based
investment bank earlier this year, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the appointment hasn’t been made
public. Liz Wood, a spokeswoman for Bank of America in London,
didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment. A female
employee, who declined to give her name, said Lamprecht had left
when the bank’s Johannesburg office was called. Lamprecht didn’t
immediately respond to a message left on his mobile phone.  Renaissance Capital’s hiring of Lamprecht follows the
departure of Tony Marcia, who resigned as head of Africa
execution to pursue undisclosed opportunities, according to an
internal memo sent by the bank to staff. Sarah Maja, head of
sub-Saharan Africa sales trading, also recently left RenCap, she
said in a text message reply to questions.  RenCap, as the bank is known, named Igor Vayn as sole chief
executive officer earlier this month after John Hyman, who had
shared the job, decided to leave. The company, controlled by
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , has cut back expansion
into  emerging markets  and closed sales, trading and research
operations in Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Beijing and Hong Kong.  The investment bank has also hired Benjamin Samuels as
global head of equities and Harry Stanford as a director in its
equity sales trading team, according to spokeswoman Lyudmila Bibina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  