-- JPMorgan Commodities Unit Said to Draw Bid From BTG
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-23T17:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/brazil-s-btg-said-to-work-on-bid-for-jpmorgan-commodities-unit.html
Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , the Brazilian
investment bank founded by billionaire  Andre Esteves , is working
on a bid for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s physical commodities
business, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  BTG is in the early stages of reviewing the financial
information, said the person, who requested anonymity because
the process is private and didn’t specify how big the offer will
be.  Brian Marchiony , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on potential bids, as did an official for Sao Paulo-based BTG,
in keeping with company policy.  JPMorgan has sought $3.3 billion for the division and the
first round of bids is due before the end of the month, a person
with direct knowledge of the sale process said last week. The
New York-based bank probably would prefer to divest the entire
unit, making it harder for other firms seeking to expand
existing commodities businesses by bidding on the pieces, said
 Gerard Cassidy , an RBC Capital Markets analyst.  “Selling the division in total would generate the best
price as different parts of the business can leverage off one
another, creating incremental value that would be lost by
selling it in pieces,” Cassidy said yesterday in an e-mail.  Goldman Sachs  Documents circulated by JPMorgan say the unit produces $750
million in annual income before compensation costs, according to
the person with knowledge of the sale process. Possible bidders
were granted access to some information about the business, the
person said.  The 10 biggest Wall Street banks generated about $6 billion
in revenue from commodities last year, including dealings in
physical materials and related financial products, according to
a Feb. 15 report from analytics firm Coalition. JPMorgan ranked
No. 2, after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Gary Cohn , the president of New York-based Goldman Sachs,
said his company isn’t interested in bidding for JPMorgan’s
commodities business.  “Some of our clients are looking at their portfolio, and
some of our clients could potentially ask us for help on looking
at some of the long-dated derivatives,” Cohn, 53, said today in
a Bloomberg Television interview with  Stephanie Ruhle . “We’re
more than happy to help facilitate our clients, but we’re not
going to buy the business directly from JPMorgan.”  Reputational Risk  The  Federal Reserve  said in July that it’s reviewing a
decade-old ruling to let deposit-taking banks trade physical
commodities. A reversal would be the Fed’s biggest exclusion of
banks from a market since Congress lifted the Depression-era law
against them joining with securities firms in 1999.  A disaster at a bank-owned commodities asset would be
“catastrophic” to the reputation of the company and the Fed,
 Joshua Rosner , managing director at Graham Fisher & Co., said at
a July 23 hearing of the Senate Banking subcommittee. An
incident such as a major  oil spill  would trigger calls for more
collateral, cut liquidity and require the government to step in
and stabilize systemic risk to the financial system, he said.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat and the panel’s
chairman, is among U.S. lawmakers to join regulators in
expressing concerns that banks may be put at risk when volatile
commodity markets move against them or calamity strikes one of
their operations.  “What do we want our banks to do? Make small-business
loans or refine and transport oil? Issue mortgages or corner the
metals market?” Brown, chairman of the Senate Banking
subcommittee, said at a July 23 hearing.  Blythe Masters  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank , said three days later that
it plans to get out of the business of owning and trading
physical commodities. Last month, it said Paul Posoli, 44, was
rejoining the unit to help manage the sale, reporting directly
to Blythe Masters, 44, JPMorgan’s commodities head. The firm
could sell or spin off holdings that include warehouses, stakes
in  power plants  and traders in materials such as gas and coal.  Masters has told people inside the bank that she’s willing
to leave JPMorgan to keep running the business if its new owner
agrees, a person familiar with the matter said. She didn’t reply
to an e-mailed request for comment about her intentions.  JPMorgan  fell  1.3 percent to $52.90 at 1 p.m. in New York.
BTG was unchanged at 30.55 reais in  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  