-- British Airways Parent IAG Sees Profit at Spanish Iberia Unit
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-22T14:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/british-airways-parent-iag-sees-profit-at-spanish-iberia-unit.html
IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said a turnaround for its Iberia unit in Spain will lead
to a profit next year at the subsidiary, which has weighed on
group earnings as the company cuts thousands of jobs.  “We will bring Iberia back into profitability,” Walsh
said today at a conference in  London . “All parts of the group
will be profitable next year.”  The company, known in full as  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , includes British Airways and discount unit
Vueling SA, which both were profitable in the last quarter for
which numbers are available. Walsh is cutting more than 3,100
jobs at Iberia as part of a revitalization to achieve 1.6
billion euros ($2 billion) in operating profit in 2015.  IAG acquired full control of Vueling in April for 123.5
million euros and set up Iberia Express to allow Iberia to exit
unprofitable short-haul routes. Iberia reported a 35-million
euro loss ($47 million) in the second quarter.  IAG has advanced 93 percent this year as investors
validated its turnaround strategy. The gain eclipses the 7
percent appreciation of  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group’s shares in 2013,
while  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  has gained 1.7 percent. Lufthansa
today gave an earnings outlook that fell short of analysts’
estimates as the company absorbs costs of an overhaul.  Qatar Alliance  Walsh said he will continue to expand the British Airways
network in Asia as additional  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners are
delivered after starting service to Seoul and Chengdu, China.
The company also is looking to Qatar Airways Ltd., which will
join the Oneworld airline alliance at the end of the month to
tap markets it can’t access itself, including in  India , he said.  British Airways growth is constrained by lack of available
capacity at its London Heathrow hub base. The U.K. government
has set up a commission to review runway needs in England’s
southeast.  “There will never be a third runway at Heathrow,”
irrespective of what the commission, led by  Howard Davies ,
proposes, Walsh said. Politicians will never allow expansion of
Europe’s biggest airport, he told the Airport Operations
Association’s annual conference in London.  Opportunities exist to expand British Airways operations at
Gatwick, Europe’s busiest single-runway airport, and London
City, Walsh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  