-- British Columbia Nears Land Deal For Sinopec LNG Export Project
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-22T01:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/british-columbia-nears-land-deal-for-sinopec-lng-export-project.html
The British Columbia government is
close to completing an accord for land needed by China
Petrochemical Corp. for a proposed liquefied natural gas export
project in  Canada ’s westernmost province.  Asia ’s largest refiner, known as Sinopec Group, is
interested in sourcing Canadian LNG supplies to help meet a
near-term import target of about 30 million metric tons a year,
Rich Coleman, British Columbia’s Minister of Natural Gas
Development, said today on a call from  Kuala Lumpur . Coleman met
with Sinopec executives during an eight-day  trip  that ended
today to promote the province’s LNG industry, he told reporters.  “Sinopec wants to be an early mover and we will shortly be
in a position to finalize the arrangements with them with
regards to their land needs in B.C.,” Coleman said of Sinopec.
He declined to provide details and said there may be LNG
announcements from the government in the next couple of weeks.  Lv Dapeng, Sinopec’s Beijing-based spokesman, did not
answer two phone calls to his office today seeking comment.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Chevron Corp.,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  are among international energy companies proposing or
considering LNG export projects in western Canada, including
pipelines across British Columbia’s mountains to link gas
supplies in shale formations to Pacific Coast facilities.  Four proposed terminals are targeted to start operations
before 2020, including three for which the Canadian government
has already awarded export licenses. The British Columbia
government has  sought  expressions of interest from LNG
proponents to develop projects on some land it owns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  