-- Budding Retailers Crowd Seattle Seminar on Pot-Shop Rules
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-22T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/budding-retailers-crowd-seattle-seminar-on-pot-shop-rules.html
Sean Kearney, owner of an online
sex-toy business, said he was late to the dot-com boom and
doesn’t want to miss out on the next wave as Washington state
sets the rules for retail marijuana sales to recreational users.  Kearney, who plans to apply for a license to open a pot
shop at his warehouse, was among several hundred prospective pot
retailers, growers and processors who attended a state-run
seminar on the burgeoning business yesterday in Seattle.  “I feel like here’s an opportunity to get in on the new
boom economy for legalized pot,” Kearney, a 42-year-old
Seattlite, said at the state convention center where the seminar
took place. “It’s definitely worth sticking my toe in the water
and see what happens, if I should be granted a license.”  Washington and  Colorado  became the first U.S. states to
legalize recreational-marijuana sales when ballot measures
passed in November. The states are setting up systems for
regulating the business, which has the potential to generate
billions of dollars from levies and is drawing the attention of
entrepreneurs looking for new ways to make money.  “The business will explode,” said Eli Fernandez, a 41-year-old resident of suburban Renton who plans to get producer
and processor licenses. “There’s going to be lots of tourism.”  Josh Berman, 32, co-founder of 4Evergreen Group, a Seattle-based cannabis marketing and servicing company, also plans to
seek producer and processor licenses to grow pot in three
30,000-square-foot spaces and sell products to retailers.  Cannabis Everywhere  “Anything you can put cannabis in, we’re going to do,”
Berman said in an interview. “Everyone knows that this is the
emerging industry to be involved in and everyone is trying to
figure out how to get in.”  The  Seattle  seminar was among a handful that the Washington
State Liquor Control Board plans to hold from Oct. 17 to Nov. 1
to help prospective marijuana shop owners, growers and
processors get business licenses. The board developed the rules
for the new industry, passing them last week. It plans to begin
taking license applications on Nov. 18.  The sessions were held in two beige-and-white meeting rooms
on the second floor of the convention center, identified by
signs only as “WSLCB: Seattle Applicant Workshop.” Events at
the site hosted by other groups included an estate-planning
seminar and accounting 101 for attorneys.  Entrepreneurs were joined at the morning and afternoon
sessions by lawyers, commercial real-estate brokers and other
service providers. Mikhail Carpenter, a liquor board spokesman,
said 500 people signed up for the meetings.  Demand Surge  “I think I will have too many clients and I will have more
demand than supply,” said Joshua Fant, a 42-year-old Seattlite
who owns Canna Commercial Properties. The company scouts out
potential marijuana retail and warehouse space.  “The owners of commercial real estate are nervous to lease
to this business because it’s so new,” Fant, who opened the
company in July in anticipation of demand, said in an interview.
“There are plenty of good spots on the market, but then there’s
10 percent of those or less that have willing owners.”  Kurt Boehl, a lawyer in Seattle whose services include
marijuana regulatory compliance, said he anticipates a boom in
business because of interest in the new market.  “The amount of people who are going to be coming into
these places is going to be phenomenal,” Boehl said.  Effective Nov. 16  The liquor board’s  rules , which kick in Nov. 16, limit
retail licenses to 334 statewide and require tracking of
marijuana from seed to sale. They require warnings saying the
product is intoxicating and may be habit-forming, and restrict
sales to 8 a.m. to midnight. On-premises consumption is barred.  Chad Brown, a 45-year-old Seattlite and commercial
photographer, said he’s undecided about whether to apply for
licenses to become a grower and processor.  “I’m not really sure we’re going to be able to make a
decent profit with all the regulation,” Brown said. “It’s
pretty exciting to be able to do this legally. I don’t think
it’s going to be the cash cow that everybody thinks it’s going
to be.”  Each applicant has to pay a $250 fee and then $1,000 a year
to renew a license. Producers, processors and retailers each
must pay the state a 25 percent sales tax, unless they hold both
producer and processor licenses, so they will only pay the levy
once.  Brian Rose, 43, and Jason Gardiner, 40, co-founders of a
medical-marijuana dispensary in Renton, south of Seattle, said
they plan to convert it to a recreational-marijuana shop.  Revenue Windfall  While the  tax rate  seems high, Gardiner said if regulators
use it to clarify the rules then “it would be money well-spent,
well-invested.” So far, he said in an interview, “We haven’t
seen what they’re going to do with the money.”  The state may collect $1.9 billion through fiscal 2017,
“assuming a fully-functioning marijuana market,” according to
an August 2012 fiscal-impact  statement  by the Washington Office
of Financial Management. That assumes producers will charge
processors $3 a gram, processors will get $6 a gram and
consumers will pay an average $12 a gram, or $340 an ounce.  Street prices for the drug average about $200 an ounce in
Seattle, according to websites such as Priceofweed.com that
report what people say they pay.  Federal law still makes possession and sale of marijuana a
crime. In August, the U.S.  Justice Department  said it wouldn’t
challenge the formation of regulatory structures to oversee
recreational pot sales in Washington and Colorado, provided they
prevent out-of-state distribution, minor access, drugged driving
and participation by gangs and cartels, among other limits.  Questions Remain  Questions remain on banking and taxes because of federal
law. Last month, the Justice Department said it had begun talks
with banking regulators on how to deal with pot retailers.  Liquor board officials said budding retailers would be on
their own in dealing with federal taxes.  “It’s between you and your accountant to work out,” said
Mike Steenhout, the board’s comptroller.  Becky Smith, the board’s marijuana licensing and regulation
manager, said the state’s rules will evolve over time.  “What we have today is probably going to be different than
what we have a year from now,” Smith said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Seattle at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 