-- Buffett Praises IBM Profit Prospects After Share Slump
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-23T13:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/buffett-praises-ibm-profit-prospects-after-share-slump.html
Warren Buffett , who invested more
than  $11 billion  in  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , said
he is confident in the computer-service provider’s prospects
after the stock slumped last week.  “They will have record per-share earnings this year,”
Buffett, 83, said in an interview on the “Charlie Rose” show,
which aired late yesterday on PBS. “That can be disappointing
if you expected more. But it is not a bad record, believe me.”  IBM is seeking to expand in more profitable markets like
software and services to make up for the deterioration of its
older hardware business. The company reported its sixth straight
quarter of declining sales last week, sending the stock to its
lowest price in more than two years. It is the worst-performing
of Buffett’s top investments at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , where
he is chairman and chief executive officer.  Berkshire began accumulating a stake in Armonk, New York-based IBM in early 2011 after the stock rallied 74 percent from
the end of 2008 to the end of 2010. Buffett’s company had  68.1
million shares  as of June 30, meaning it paid about $171 apiece
to build its stake.  IBM was little changed at $175.01 at 9:38 a.m. in  New York .
The shares had dropped 8.7 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 23 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Buffett said he doesn’t focus on results of an individual
quarter and that all businesses have struggles.  “Every company, including Berkshire,” faces tough
periods, Buffett told Rose. “We’ve had a fair number of blips
over time.”  Software, Taxes  Even as IBM’s revenue slips, earnings continue to climb.
The company last week reiterated a forecast for profit of $20 a
share in 2015, up from $11.52 in 2010. IBM has sold less
profitable businesses, acquired high-margin software companies,
lowered its  tax rate  and bought back shares to help meet the
target.  Berkshire built a  stock portfolio  valued at more than $100
billion by investing in companies that Buffett believes have a
durable competitive advantage and sticking with those picks for
years.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest holding, had surged 26
percent this year through yesterday.  Buffett wrote last year in a  letter  to shareholders that
long-term investors like Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire should
cheer for IBM shares to languish in the short term. A lower
price means IBM can repurchase more of its stock, increasing
Berkshire’s ownership stake in the company.  Investors comforted by short-term share increases
“resemble a commuter who rejoices after the price of gas
increases, simply because his tank contains a day’s supply,”
Buffett wrote.  Buffett was joined by his son Howard, who is conducting
media interviews after writing “ 40 Chances: Finding Hope in a
Hungry World ” about  food security .  Howard Buffett , a farmer and
Berkshire director, told Rose that a “brown revolution”
focusing on soil would aid agriculture.  “We’ve got to start protecting our natural resources,” he
said. “And soil is the key.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  