-- HTC Said to Plan Smartwatch as Wang Rallies Workers
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-10-22T10:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/htc-said-to-plan-android-smartwatch-with-camera-for-next-year.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  is developing a smartwatch
that uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software and can take pictures,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Cost, functions and sales strategy for the watch are still
to be decided before it’s released by the second half of 2014,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
plans aren’t public. Chairwoman  Cher Wang  gathered workers at a
town-hall style meeting today to tell them the Taiwanese
smartphone maker needs to improve its customer focus, Chief
Marketing Officer Ben Ho said in an interview.  Dwindling market share for HTC smartphones led to the
company’s first quarterly loss and a 54 percent slump in its
share price this year as it loses ground to  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest producer. The smartwatch will join a
growing segment of wearable technology that already includes
devices from Samsung and  Sony Corp. (6758)   Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has a team of designers working on a watch-like
device, two people familiar with the matter said in February,
and the company has sought trademark protection for the
“iWatch” name in  Japan .  Retail sales of Internet-connected wearable devices,
including watches and eyeglasses, will reach $19 billion by
2018, compared with $1.4 billion this year, Juniper Research
said in an Oct. 15 report.  HTC  rose  by the daily limit in Taipei trading, surging 6.9
percent to close at NT$139.50. Taiwan’s benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index
was little-changed and has advanced 9.3 percent this year.  Faster Reaction  HTC doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation, it said in an
e-mailed response to questions about the smartwatch from
 Bloomberg News .  Wang, who was joined by Chief Executive Officer Peter Chou,
held a 90 minute town hall meeting with workers, including a
question and answer session, Ho said.  Wang emphasized the importance of after-sales service to
ensure customer loyalty and repeat business for its handsets,
according to Ho.  Chou, who took over as president in 2004, has struggled to
compete with devices from Apple, Samsung and an array of Chinese
entrants driving prices down.  HTC, once the biggest seller of smartphones in the U.S.,
saw its share of the global market drop by more than half in the
second quarter. The company has issued redesigned versions of
its flagship HTC One model and has hired actor Robert Downey Jr.
in a renewed push to promote its brand.  HTC’s third-quarter net loss was NT$2.97 billion ($101
million), it reported Oct. 4, wider than the NT$1.71 billion
loss according to the average of 16 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales of NT$47 billion missed the NT$54 billion
average of analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  