-- Caesars Under Pressure as Officials Probe Activities
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-22T14:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/caesars-under-pressure-as-officials-probe-activities.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  stock
and bonds are under pressure as the casino company grapples with
investigations from  Nevada  to  Massachusetts , including a federal
money-laundering probe.  The Las Vegas-based company dropped 1.6 percent to $17.53
at 10:13 a.m.  New York  time after falling 4.8 percent yesterday.
The stock is now down 33 percent from a Sept. 17 record close.
Caesars’ 10 percent notes due in December 2018 slid 0.8 cent on
the dollar to a record low 47 cents yesterday, lifting the yield
to more than 31 percent.  Since the close of trading on Oct. 18, investors in Caesars
have learned the company was under scrutiny from U.S. regulators
and two states. Caesars pulled out of a project in  Boston  and
ended a hotel-licensing deal in Las Vegas after Massachusetts
investigators recommended denying a permit. The company
disclosed the money-laundering probe yesterday and said
officials also raised questions about the head of its online
gaming business, which will trade publicly next month.  “Although we never gave any credit for the potential
Boston project in our Caesars valuation, it is a clear
disappointment,” John Kempf, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets ,
said in a note to investors. “We are very surprised.”  Desert Palace Inc., owner of company’s flagship Caesars
Palace resort in Las Vegas, was told in an Oct. 11 letter that
the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
was investigating the resort for possible Bank Secrecy Act
violations and is weighing whether to assess a civil penalty and
take enforcement action. Nevada officials are also involved.  Banking Probe  “If federal laws have been violated, that could very well
lead to disciplinary action based upon Nevada gaming laws,”
A.G. Burnett, chairman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, said
in an e-mail. The state is investigating matters regarding
Caesars Palace and is working with U.S. regulators, he said.  Caesars, the largest owner of U.S. casinos, said in a
 regulatory filing  yesterday it’s cooperating with the Treasury
Department and the grand jury.  “Governmental authorities have been increasingly focused
on anti-money laundering policies and procedures, with a
particular focus on the gaming industry,” the company said,
citing a recent settlement involving a major competitor.  Las Vegas  Sands Corp., operator of the Venetian-Palazzo
hotel complex on the Strip, agreed in August to pay $47.4
million to end a federal probe of its failure to report a high-stakes patron’s suspicious deposits.  Interactive Boss  Caesars left the Boston project on Oct. 18 over concerns
raised by state officials. Investigators cited one of the
parties involved in the Las Vegas hotel project, past jobs held
by the head of Caesars’ interactive division and the parent
company’s $23 billion in  debt . Caesars was taken private in 2008
in a $30.7 billion buyout led by Apollo Global Management LLC
and TPG Capital.  Massachusetts officials recommended the company not be
licensed, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman said
in an Oct. 19 telephone interview.  Caesars signed an agreement with Gansevoort Hotel Group to
rebrand Bill’s Gamblin’ Hall & Saloon on the  Las Vegas Strip  as
a boutique hotel. Arik Kislin, an investor in Gansevoort, was
identified in German court filings as allegedly having ties to
organized crime in  Russia , according to a 2012 report in the New
York Post.  Gansevoort agreed to end its role in Las Vegas to minimize
any controversy for Caesars, Nancy Friedman, a spokeswoman for
the hotel, said in an e-mailed statement. Kislin’s lawyer, Lisa
Cohen, told the Post last year that he had “no recollection”
about the company with the alleged mob ties.  PartyGaming Past  The report by Massachusetts gaming investigators also noted
matters related to the CEO of the Caesars Acquisition Co. unit
that is selling shares to the public, and his work at public
companies in the gaming industry prior to his employment by
Caesars, the company said in yesterday’s filing.  Mitch Garber, the CEO of Caesars Acquisition, headed
PartyGaming Plc starting in April 2006, as the U.S. began
cracking down on illegal online betting.  Garber halted U.S. online gambling operations five months
after arriving as CEO of PartyGaming. The company signed a non-prosecution agreement with the U.S. Attorney in New York in
2009, forfeiting $105 million as part of the deal.  Caesars has offered shareholders the opportunity to buy
stock in Caesars Acquisition in a transaction that is expected
to close Nov. 18. The new company will have a stake in Caesars
Interactive, which operates online.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  