-- Canadian Takeovers Made Easier With Europe Trade Accord
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-10-22T20:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/canadian-takeovers-made-easier-with-europe-trade-accord.html
Companies from  Birchcliff Energy
Ltd. (BIR)  to Painted Pony Petroleum Ltd. will find it easier to
attract foreign suitors after Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper lifted hurdles for U.S. and European investors.  Canada will raise the threshold for reviewing foreign
investment from European Union countries to C$1.5 billion ($1.5
billion) as part of its trade agreement with the region
announced last week. The pact with Europe means Canada is
obligated to also raise the threshold for all countries it has
free trade agreements with, including the U.S.  The move may help resource companies find new sources of
capital in the U.S. and Europe even as Harper has been
increasing scrutiny of investments from state-owned enterprises,
largely from Asian countries such as  China . Mergers and
acquisitions in the  oil sands  fell this year to the lowest since
2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Increasing the threshold to C$1.5 billion opens up the
playing field for entities trying to get into Canada,” said
 Jeremy McCr ea, an analyst at AltaCorp Capital Inc. in Calgary.
“If you’re going down that path, and looking to make a sizable
investment in Canada, at least you have some comfort that it’s
not going to be subject to review.”  Energy companies such as  Crew Energy Inc. (CR) ,  Bellatrix
Exploration Ltd. (BXE) , Painted Pony and Birchcliff, all based in
Calgary, could see their chances of being acquired improve,
McCrea said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Market Orientation  Birchliff, the owner of more than half a million acres of
undeveloped oil and gas prospects in  Alberta , had considered
selling itself to a buyer in 2011, a search the company said in
March last year it was putting off as natural gas prices fell.  Jim Surbey, a spokesman for Birchcliff Energy, Bellatrix
Chief Executive Raymond Smith and Crew Energy Chief Financial
Officer John Leach didn’t immediately respond to a call for
comment.  “Anything that opens it up without government interference
is always good for business,” Patrick Ward, CEO of  Painted
Pony (PPY) , which owns natural-gas assets in British Columbia, said by
phone yesterday. “We’re not actively having the company for
sale or anything at this point, but people are always looking
for  shareholder value , so it certainly does weigh on people’s
decisions, how open Canada is for business,” Ward said.  The increased threshold underscores Harper is placing on
advanced market-oriented economies as he seeks foreign capital
to sustain the recovery, even as scrutiny of investment from
emerging countries such as China is heightened. Canada’s 14 free
trade partners produced about $36.4 trillion in gross domestic
product last year, representing about half of global output,
according to International Monetary Fund data.  India, Singapore  In addition to the U.S., Mexico and the EU, Canada has free
trade agreements with Norway, Iceland, Switzerland,
Liechtenstein,  Panama , Jordan, Colombia, Peru,  Costa Rica ,
Chile, Israel and  Honduras .  Canada is also negotiating free trade agreements with
 Japan , South Korea,  India  and  Singapore  and is part of the
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks seeking a Pacific-region
agreement.  The Canadian government currently reviews foreign takeovers
of businesses with assets of at least C$344 million. Harper had
already planned to raise that threshold for all private
investors for companies with an enterprise value of C$1 billion,
while keeping it at the existing level for state-owned
enterprises.  Oil Sands  “By necessity, it should be understood it raises that
threshold not only for Europe, but for all countries with which
we have trade agreements,” Harper said in an Oct. 18 interview
in Brussels. “Obviously, the 42 countries in the world with
which we have free-trade agreements are good partners that give
us few or no concerns.”  Lifting the threshold to C$1.5 billion will remove about
212 Canadian-based publicly traded companies from the
government’s automatic review list, according to Bloomberg data.  Harper last year implemented investment restrictions for
state-owned companies, including a ban on future oil-sands
takeovers except under “exceptional circumstances.”  After that policy came into effect, mergers and
acquisitions in the oil sands slowed. Smaller developers
including Birchcliff and  BlackPearl Resources Inc. (PXX)  are lagging
behind peers after the government introduced the rules.
Birchcliff fell 5.4 percent since the rules were made public on
Dec. 7, versus a 9.0 percent gain on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Energy Index.  Lost Capital  Falling investment prompted  Jim Prentice , a former industry
minister for Harper and vice chairman of Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce, to call on the government last month to clarify its
foreign investment rules.  “Canada must make clear to the world that it continues to
be open for business,” Prentice said in an Oct. 1 speech in
 London . He cited data that showed acquisitions in Canada’s
energy sector totaling C$8 billion this year, down from C$66
billion in 2012.  Increased investment from Europe and the U.S. won’t match
lost capital from  Asia , said Eric Nuttall, who oversees C$70
million at Sprott Asset Management LP in Toronto.  “It’s had a profound impact on some companies,” Nuttall
said in a telephone interview. “There is an increased confusion
amongst the part of certainly Chinese companies in terms of just
how welcome they are.”  Canada  has increasingly relied on foreign capital to
finance investment, running cumulative current account deficits
of C$265 billion since the last quarter of 2008. The current
account is the broadest measure of international trade.  Under the Canada-EU pact, EU investments can still be
reviewed to determine whether they are of “net benefit” and
meet national security requirements, Harper said.  “I think it would be far-fetched to see any kind of
European investment as a national security challenge,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  