-- Canada Dollar Rises to 4-Week High as U.S. Jobs Trail Forecast
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-10-22T21:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/canada-dollar-rises-with-commodity-peers-on-fed-stimulus-bets.html
The Canadian dollar rose to a four-week high against its U.S. counterpart on speculation weaker-than-forecast America jobs gains last month will delay the
 Federal Reserve  from tapering its monetary stimulus.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed, fell
against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers before a Bank
of Canada policy meeting tomorrow where the central bank is
projected to trim growth forecasts and hold the benchmark policy
interest rate at 1 percent. Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem
said earlier this month that the nation’s economy will expand
more slowly than had been forecast. Canada’s retail sales rose
for a second month in August, matching a record set three months
earlier, on gains in food and clothing.  “From the positive standpoint, there’s no taper, which
suggests the loonie should go up versus the  U.S. dollar , but it
also proves a bit of a headwind to Canadian growth, to suggest
U.S. growth is coming in,” said David Doyle, a strategist at
Macquarie Capital Markets, by phone from Toronto. “The loonie,
I think, is reacting less positively than some of the other
currencies versus the U.S. dollar because of concerns over
follow on effects for the Canadian economy.”  The loonie rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0286 per U.S. dollar at
5 p.m. in Toronto, touching the strongest level since Sept. 24.
One loonie buys 97.22 U.S. cents.  Options Reading  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer fell to the lowest in almost five months.
The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate fell to
1.03 percent, the lowest since May 3. Risk reversals measure the
premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  The loonie weakened to the lowest point in more than four
months against the currency of its commodity-exporting peer,
 Australia . The currency touched parity with Australia’s dollar
for the first time since June 4.  The Canadian dollar has trailed the Australian and New
Zealand dollars in the past month among 10 developed nation
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index.
The loonie has dropped 1.3 percent compared with the Australian
dollar’s 2 percent gain and the New Zealand dollar’s 0.6 percent
rise.  “CAD has been lagging other currencies pretty badly,”
said  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign exchange strategy at
Bank of Montreal, by phone from  New York . ”The jobs data today
says no taper in October for sure, it will take a huge
turnaround to taper in December, highly unlikely, and so it
pushes out for a long time. And that’s why we’ve seen currencies
in general rally against the USD. CAD is an outlier for how
little.”  Bonds Gain  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  rose, with
yields falling seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
2.48 percent, reaching the lowest level since Aug. 12. The 1.5
percent note maturing in June 2023 added 57 cents to C$91.69.  The debt may outperform similar  U.S. debt  because central
bank governor Stephen Poloz will delay tightening monetary
policy until the Fed begins reducing the bond buying program its
used to depress  interest rates  and stimulate the economy.  The
yield has averaged about five basis points below equivalent U.S.
yields this year. The spread will widen to nine basis points
below by January, predicts  Benjamin Reitzes , a senior economist
at BMO Capital Markets.  Poloz, who delivers the Bank of Canada’s interest-rate
decision and quarterly monetary policy report at 10 a.m.
tomorrow in Ottawa, won’t raise the benchmark rate until at
least the end of 2014, while the Fed may begin “tapering” bond
purchases as early as March, according to separate  Bloomberg
News  surveys.  Economic Data  Canada’s retail sales increased 0.2 percent to C$40.3
billion ($39.2 billion),  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.3 percent
gain, based on the median of 20 projections.  The U.S. addition of 148,000 workers followed a revised
193,000 rise in August that was larger than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 93 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
180,000 advance. Unemployment fell to 7.2 percent, the lowest
level since November 2008. The report, delayed by the 16-day
shutdown that ended Oct. 17, was originally slated for Oct. 4.  “The Canadian dollar is outperforming the U.S dollar
because such a negative report for jobs in the U.S. means
expectations for tapering have been extended a little bit more,
which means the U.S. dollar should feel a little bit more
pressure against everything, including the Canadian dollar,”
said Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank, by phone from Toronto. “It’s a lower-yielding currency
than the Aussie or kiwi and so not going to move as much as
those on tapering expectations.”  Canada ’s dollar will weaken to C$1.04 by the end of the
year, according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of 62
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  