-- Canadian National Profit Beats Estimates, Plans Buyback
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/canadian-national-profit-beats-estimates-as-volume-rises.html
Canadian National  Railway Co.,  North
America ’s most efficient carrier, said it will split its stock
and plans a C$1.4 billion ($1.36 billion) buyback after posting
a third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The results released late yesterday set the stage for
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd.’s earnings today. Analysts project
the country’s second-biggest railroad will report net income of
C$304.7 million, compared with Canadian National’s C$705
million. That beat the C$685.4 million estimated on average by
analysts.  Canadian National’s results benefited from a jump in
petroleum and chemicals revenue and gains in sales from
intermodal freight, that can be carried by train, truck or ship.
The company said it will split its stock 2-for-1 and buy back as
many as 15 million shares, or 4.1 percent, of the outstanding
total, in the next year.  “This was a significant beat,”  Walter Spracklin , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  who recommends investors buy
Canadian National stock, said in a telephone interview from
Toronto. “It seems that all cylinders are firing. On top of
that, the buyback is becoming a bit of a tradition for them.”  It’s the third straight year in which Canadian National has
announced a stock buyback program in connection with its third-quarter results. A year ago, the company unveiled plans to buy
as many as 18 million, or 4.8 percent, of its outstanding
shares.  Revenue rose 8 percent to C$2.7 billion, ahead of the
average estimate of C$2.65 billion. Including costs of 5 cents a
share linked to a one-time deferred income tax adjustment, net
income rose to C$705 million, or C$1.67 a share, from C$664
million, or C$1.52, a year earlier, the company said.  Railroad Efficiency  Petroleum and chemicals revenue rose 17 percent to C$485
million in the third quarter, the company  said . Intermodal
revenue rose 13 percent to C$577 million. Operating ratio, a
measure of railroad efficiency that compares expenses to
revenue, improved by 0.8 percentage point to 59.8 percent.  Canadian National has signed up four intermodal and
automotive customers of rival Canadian Pacific Railway this
year, including Chrysler Group LLC. The company, which estimates 
it carries about half of all new completed vehicles sold in 
Canada, will add Chrysler’s business in mid-2014, Chief 
Marketing Officer Jean-Jacques Ruest said on a conference call.  Canadian National also reaffirmed its full-year target of
“high single-digit growth” for adjusted profit, compared with
C$5.61 a share last year. The company expects “to finish 2013
on a strong note,” Chief Financial Officer Luc Jobin said on 
the call.  Extended Trading  The stock fell 0.1 percent to C$109.76 in Toronto
yesterday. The U.S. traded shares rose as much as 1.5 percent to
$108.35 in extended trading after the company’s results were
disclosed.  The share split will take the form of a stock dividend,
with shareholders receiving one extra common share for each
share held. The stock dividend will be payable on Nov. 29 to
shareholders of record at the close of business on Nov. 15,
Canadian National said. The board approved a fourth-quarter
dividend of 21.5 Canadian cents a share, post split, to be paid
on Dec. 31, to shareholders of record on Dec. 10, the company
said.  Canadian National was the operator of a train carrying
crude oil and liquefied petroleum gas that derailed four days
ago in the western province of Alberta, causing an explosion and
fire with no injuries.  Regulator Scrutiny  Regulators have raised scrutiny of oil transport by rail in
 Canada  and the U.S. after a Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway
Ltd. train derailed in Lac-Megantic,  Quebec , on July 6, killing
at least 47 people and incinerating buildings in the town’s
center.  Chief Executive Officer Claude Mongeau defended the
company’s safety record on the conference call, saying 
Canadian National moves in excess of 1 billion tons of
commodities a year and has “two to three” accidents a month.  “To be able to have so few accidents in any given year
with so much volume is quite remarkable,” he said. “It’s
difficult to get better than that, but we are committed to
continue to improve.”  Canadian National is “focused as we speak on returning
service levels to our customers,” Mongeau said. Residents of
Gainford,  Alberta  -- who were evacuated as a result of the
derailment -- are “safely back at home,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  