-- Cape Wind Offshore Farm Sees Lawsuits Cleared by Year-End
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-22T20:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/cape-wind-offshore-farm-sees-lawsuits-cleared-by-year-end.html
Cape Wind Associates LLC, the
developer seeking to build the first U.S. offshore wind farm,
expects to resolve by year-end the last lawsuits delaying the
project, clearing the way for construction to begin before a key
tax credit expires this year.  Two legal appeals remain after the company won 13 previous
challenges, Vice President Dennis Duffy said today at the
American Wind Energy Association’s Offshore Windpower 2013
conference in Providence, Rhode Island.  Cape Wind, based in  Boston , has spent more than a decade
pursuing the $2.6 billion project in Nantucket Sound, fighting
opposition from environmental groups, local fishermen and
members of the Kennedy family. It must begin construction by
Dec. 31 to earn the federal  investment tax credit .  “What we are focusing on right now is ensuring we qualify
for the ITC before the end of the year,” Duffy said in a
speech.  “We are waiting for those decisions and we think we’ll
have them this fall,” Duffy said. “That will give us the
opportunity to get the notice to proceed to get the project
really going.”  The 468 megawatt project has the backing of Danish investor
PensionDanmark A/S, which committed $200 million in June,
conditional on construction beginning this year. Efforts to
arrange other equity commitments are “underway,” Duffy said.
 National Grid Plc (NG/)  and  Northeast Utilities (NU) ’ Nstar unit have
agreed to buy most of the power.  Anticipated Rulings  Cape Wind will probably be able to move forward before the
end of the year, said Michael Ernst, director of regulatory
affairs at  Tetra Tech Inc. (TTEK) , a Pasadena, California-based
construction and engineering company.  “The decisions should be out this fall,” and the judges
are probably writing their rulings now, he said in an interview.  Opponents doubt that Cape Wind will meet the deadline.  “With the looming tax credit expiry, the whole house of
cards will begin tumbling down,” Audra Parker, director of the
Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound, said in a phone interview.
“Time is running out.”  The ITC provides a 30 percent tax credit for eligible
renewable-energy projects. Cape Wind already has state and
federal permits.  Cape Wind may spur additional U.S. offshore wind projects,
said Sebastian Chivers, senior vice president at the renewable
energy-consulting company TUV SUD PMSS, a unit of the Munich-based technical services provider TUV SUD AG.  “I’m convinced there will be a booming offshore wind
market in the U.S.,” he said in an interview. Cape Wind is
“what the industry needs: a full-scale project up and
running.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  