-- McGraw Hill Lifts Earnings Forecast as Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-10-22T13:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/mcgraw-hill-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-on-higher-bond-sales.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  boosted
earnings’ forecasts as the owner of the world’s largest credit
rater reported third-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates on higher U.S. corporate-bond sales.  Net income rose to $235 million from $151 million, the
company said today in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.
Earnings excluding certain items were 80 cents a share,
exceeding the average estimate of 77 cents in a Bloomberg  survey 
of seven analysts. The company raised its forecast for adjusted
earnings per share this year to a range of $3.25 to $3.30 from
$3.15 to $3.25.  The adjustments exclude the impact of the gain on the sale
of Aviation Week and India Index Services by CRISIL, as well as
one-time costs, according to the statement.  McGraw Hill is benefiting from interest rates at about
historic lows, spurring companies to raise cash by selling
bonds. The 125-year-old company has transformed into a financial
services provider following its publishing division sale earlier
this year. Douglas Peterson, president of the ratings unit, is
succeeding Chief Executive Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III
Nov. 1, who is retiring from the position he has held since
1998, while retaining his role as chairman.  Bond Sales  Revenue at Standard & Poor’s, which makes up about half of
the company’s sales by rating debt, increased 8 percent to $540
million from $502 million a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Shares are trading at the highest level
since June 2007, increasing 27.7 percent to $69.79 this year.  Corporate bond sales in the U.S. increased to $395.2
billion in the three months ended Sept. 30 from $376.9 billion
in the same period last year, Bloomberg data show. Yields on
debt from the most creditworthy to the riskiest U.S. borrowers
have averaged 3.81 percent this year, below the five-year
average of 5.38 percent, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield index.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  bought the education division
from McGraw Hill in March for $2.4 billion. The company decided
in September 2011 to sell the unit, which McGraw’s great-grandfather started 125 years ago, after pressure from Jana
Partners LLC, a New York-based hedge fund, and the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan. The former owner of Chemical Engineering
and Modern Plastics sold Aviation Week in July.  The U.S. Department of Justice sued the company Feb. 4,
alleging that its S&P ratings unit inflated grades to win
business from Wall Street banks. S&P said the following day it
will defend itself “vigorously” against the “meritless”
claims.  The U.S. is seeking as much as $5 billion from New York-based McGraw Hill in its lawsuit, alleging the company
deliberately understated the risk of bonds backed by loans made
to the riskiest borrowers.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , the company’s biggest competitor, reports
third-quarter earnings on Oct. 25.  (McGraw-Hill will hold a conference call for analysts and
investors at 8:30 a.m.  New York  time. To listen, access the
company’s website at { http://investor.mcgraw-hill.com })  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  