-- China Major Cities Home Prices Jump, Fanning Bubble Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-22T09:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/china-home-prices-rise-led-by-record-gains-in-four-major-cities.html
Home prices in China’s four major
cities jumped the most since January 2011, heightening concerns
a bubble is forming as the government refrains from introducing
more property curbs that would hinder economic growth.  New home prices in September rose 20 percent in the
southern business hubs of Shenzhen and Guangzhou, 17 percent in
 Shanghai  and 16 percent in Beijing from a year earlier as prices
climbed in 69 of the 70 cities the government tracks.  Property stocks fell in Shanghai on speculation Premier Li Keqiang will be forced to impose stricter policies to rein in
prices and limit risks to the economy. Li has held off tightened
restrictions on property this year as his government strives to
meet a 7.5 percent annual economic growth target.  “Home prices, especially in big cities, are a bit out of
control,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , in a phone interview
today. “China’s facing an increasing risk of a property
bubble.”  A  gauge  tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.5 percent at the close of trading, compared with a
0.8 percent drop in the benchmark.  Economic Growth  Chinese policy makers may be wary of clamping down on
property just as increased construction is boosting the odds of
the nation reaching a goal this year of a 7.5 percent economic
expansion.  While growth picked up to 7.8 percent in the third quarter,
reversing a two-quarter slowdown, JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist
 Zhu Haibin  said after an Oct. 18 report on gross domestic
product that the recovery momentum was “not likely to last
long.”  Officials are wrestling with controlling risks from shadow
banking and local-government debt. Exports unexpectedly fell in
September, a decline that reflected limits on global demand as
well as distortions caused by past fake invoicing. The
government is rolling out fiscal stimulus, such as spending on
building railways and replacing shanty towns, to support growth
while resisting cuts in interest rates or bank reserve
requirements.  The increase in gross domestic product may slow to 7.1
percent next year from 7.6 percent this year as the government
focuses on rebalancing the economy and implementing reforms,
Barclays Plc analysts Chang Jian and Joey Chew wrote in a
research note on Oct. 18 after the third-quarter data release.  Fine Balance  While  China  is facing increasing pressure of tightening the
property market, “we won’t see a drastic set of curbing
moves,” Xu Gao, Beijing-based chief economist at Everbright
Securities Co. who formerly worked at the World Bank, said in a
phone interview today. “Property is just such an important
sector for China. If home prices fall, the economy will
certainly slump. The government is trying to find a balance.”  Property investment and related industries account for one-third of the economy, according to Xu.  Premier Li has come up with no additional measures to rein
in property prices since his predecessor Wen Jiabao stepped up a
three-year campaign in March to cool the housing market,
ordering the central bank to raise down-payment requirements for
second mortgages in cities with excessive cost gains. Some
Chinese cities are facing increasing pressure to meet annual
home-price targets they set earlier this year and to cap gains
at the growth rate of local disposable incomes.  Land Sales  Domestic loans to developers jumped 50 percent last month
from a year earlier, according to Shanghai-based advisory firm
CEBM Group, which used government data to make its calculations.  A residential land parcel in Beijing sold for a record
73,000  yuan  ($11,980) per square meter (10.76 square feet) on
Sept. 4, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , based in Hong Kong, bought a site in
Shanghai for 21.8 billion yuan in an auction the next day, a
record price in that city, Centaline said.  “Developers have been able to access cheaper liquidity,
which financed their land acquisitions,” ANZ’s Liu said.
“Homebuyers dashed into the market fearing that home prices
will rise further given the high land prices.”  For the fifth month in a row, the eastern city of Wenzhou
was the only one to post a decline, with prices dropping 1.7
percent from last year, the National Bureau of Statistics said
in the statement today.  Existing home prices rose 18 percent in Beijing last month
from a year earlier, followed by a 14 percent increase in
Shenzhen and 12 percent in Shanghai, according to the data.  Developer Sales  Private data also has shown rising housing values. Home
prices jumped 9.5 percent from a year earlier last month, the
biggest gain since December, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
China’s biggest real estate website owner.  The value of home sales rose 34 percent in September from
the previous month to 691.1 billion yuan, the statistics bureau
reported on Oct. 18.  Developers including  Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918)  and
 Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900)  said last week that they will
exceed home-sales targets for the year.  Investors and homebuyers shouldn’t hold high expectations
ahead of the Communist Party meeting in November that President
Xi Jinping and his leadership team are preparing to discuss
deepening reforms, because specific housing measures are
unlikely to come out from the meeting, Sunac Chairman Sun Hongbin said on Oct. 17.  Some cities have already issued tightening measures as home
prices gained too quickly. Lv Ruifeng, deputy mayor of Shenzhen,
has asked his government to strictly implement restrictions on
home purchases and housing loans, according to a statement on
the city government’s website on Oct. 11.  “The government aimed to tighten the market through
financial measures, but that has had very little effect,” Joe
Zhou, head of east China research at broker Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc., said before today’s release. “Homebuyers, who purchase
places to live in, or those so-called real-demand buyers, will
not give up buying simply because of the rising borrowing
costs.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  