-- China’s Yuan Snaps Six-Day Advance as Central Bank Lowers Fixing
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-10-22T09:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/china-s-yuan-snaps-six-day-advance-as-central-bank-lowers-fixing.html
China’s  yuan  fell for the first time
in seven days after the central bank weakened the fixing by the
most since July before U.S. jobs data that’s predicted to
bolster the case for a reduction in Federal Reserve stimulus.  The People’s Bank of China cut the daily  reference rate  by
0.07 percent to 6.1395 per greenback, after raising it yesterday
to the strongest level since a peg to the dollar was removed in
2005. The yuan is allowed to diverge a maximum 1 percent from
the fixing. The  U.S. economy  added 180,000 jobs last month after
boosting positions by 169,000 in August, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey before data due today.  “The message is quite clear: The yuan is not a one-way
bet,” said Suan Teck Kin, an economist at United Overseas Bank
Ltd. in Singapore. The fixing is “not accommodating the rise in
the  spot market  as it would encourage more strengthening of the
currency. You also have the dollar slightly coming back in
anticipation of the non-farm payrolls,” he said.  The yuan fell 0.02 percent to 6.0935 per dollar, China
Foreign Exchange Trade System prices show. It reached 6.0915 on
Oct. 18, the strongest since the government unified the official
and market exchange rates at the end of 1993. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slipped 0.01 percent to 6.1545 per dollar
in  Hong Kong , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts are
trading at a 1 percent  discount  to the onshore spot rate.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in June the
central bank may start reducing $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases if the U.S. economy grows as projected.  Direct Trade  Singapore and China will introduce direct trading between
their currencies, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said in a
statement today. The two nations also agreed on a 50 billion
yuan ($8.2 billion) quota for financial institutions in
Singapore to invest in China’s domestic securities under the
 Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor.  A freely floating and convertible yuan in the Shanghai
free-trade zone is “impossible” and “ridiculous,”  Mei Xinyu ,
a researcher at the International Trade and Economic Cooperation
Institute of the Ministry of Commerce, wrote in a commentary in
the China Daily today. The zone aims to promote trade and can’t
become an offshore financial center without the support of the
“real economy,” Mei wrote.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan weakened 0.02
percent to 6.0886 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, slipped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
1.24 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  