-- China Swap Rate Climbs as PBOC Suspends Cash Additions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-22T02:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/china-swap-rate-climbs-as-pboc-suspends-cash-additions.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
climbed for a fourth day as the central bank refrained from
adding funds to the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t sell reverse-repurchase
or repurchase contracts today, according to a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The authority didn’t inject
funds via reverse-repo agreements on Oct. 17 and drained a net
44.5 billion  yuan  ($7.3 billion) last week.  The one-year swap, the fixed payment to receive the
floating seven-day repo rate, rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.03 percent as of 10:02 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That is the highest
level since Oct. 9.  “It looks like we’re entering a phase when the PBOC will
refrain from selling reverse repos,” said Cheng Qingsheng, an
analyst at Evergrowing Bank Co. in Shanghai. “The PBOC is
sending a clear signal to the market about its prudent stance.”  The pressure for monetary and credit expansion is still
large, as the  trade surplus  widens and capital flows in, the
central bank said in an Oct. 16 statement. There is ample
liquidity in the banking system, and monetary policy will
continue to be “prudent,” it added.  The PBOC may lean toward tightening should there be an
acceleration in consumer-price gains, Song Guoqing, a central
bank academic adviser, said over the weekend. Inflation was 3.1
percent in September, official data show.  The yield on the 4.08 percent bonds due August 2023 gained
two basis points to 4.14 percent, the highest since Sept. 13,
according to data from the Interbank Funding Center.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, declined one basis point to
3.56 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  