-- Christie’s Gay-Marriage Move Combines Reward With Risk
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-10-22T04:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/christie-s-gay-marriage-move-combines-reward-with-risk.html
Governor  Chris Christie  buttressed
his profile as a different kind of Republican with potentially
broad appeal in a race for the White House by ending a legal
effort to stop same-sex marriages in  New Jersey .  He also may have put another obstacle in his path should he
seek the party’s 2016 presidential nomination.  Gay marriage, which began yesterday in New Jersey, is
increasingly more acceptable to the independent voters it takes
to win the presidency. The challenge for Christie, 51, is that
opposition to same-sex weddings remains strong within the
 Republican Party , especially in states including  Iowa  and  South
Carolina  that dominate the start of the nomination process.  “He wants to have his cake and eat it too, and it doesn’t
help him in Iowa,” said  Steve Scheffler , a Republican National
Committee member from the state where caucuses traditionally
begin the nomination balloting. “Maybe that works on the East
Coast, but not in Middle America.”  Christie, a Roman Catholic, has said marriage should be
restricted to a man and a woman and changing that to allow gays
to wed should be decided by each state’s voters, not
legislatures or courts. Still, Scheffler predicted “a lot of
caucus voters will look very dimly on” the governor’s decision
yesterday to drop an appeal of a New Jersey judge's ruling
allowing same-sex nuptials.  “It’s another road down a slippery slope of codifying
homosexual marriage, which is going to have some long-term
detrimental effects on America,” said Scheffler. “It’s both
disgusting and discouraging.”  Republican Challenge  The risk for Republicans in national elections, which party
leaders have warned about, is that maintaining an aggressive
opposition stance on such issues as same-sex marriage and
abortion rights could widen gaps in support evident in polling.  President  Barack Obama  in his successful re-election last
year garnered 55 percent of the women’s vote, 11 percentage
points more than Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . Among voters
younger than 30, Obama won 60 percent -- more than 20 points
higher than Romney’s share.  A Bloomberg National Poll showed that 7 in 10 Americans
younger than 35 support letting gay couples marry. Among all
Americans, 55 percent back same-sex marriage, according to the
Sept. 20-23 poll. Yet the survey also showed a majority of
Republicans, 52 percent, oppose the practice.  As part of analyzing lessons from the 2012 election, a
Republican National Committee report released in March said the
party “must in fact and deed be inclusive and welcoming,” or
risk alienating young people, women and others “who agree with
us on some but not all issues.”  Reaffirmed Stance  The party’s religious conservative wing has rejected that
approach, and it demonstrated its strength in April when the RNC
approved a resolution affirming positions including that
marriage should be between a man and a woman.  Christie vetoed in February 2012 a bill to allow same-sex
marriage in New Jersey. His continued personal opposition to
same-sex unions remains “likely to be the critical point” in
how the issue affects his possible presidential bid, rather than
the dropping of the legal battle against it in New Jersey, said
 Whit Ayres , a Virginia-based Republican consultant.  The New Jersey Supreme Court cleared the path for gay
marriages to begin yesterday with a unanimous ruling on Oct. 18
denying a stay sought by Christie of a lower court’s decision.  “Although the governor strongly disagrees with the court
substituting its judgment for the constitutional process of the
elected branches or a vote of the people, the court has now
spoken clearly,” Christie’s office said in a statement on his
decision to drop an appeal of the lower-court ruling.  Paul’s Position  Christie isn’t alone among potential Republican
presidential contenders in distancing himself from the party’s
platform position on gay marriage. Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky 
has come out against a federal law banning same-sex nuptials,
saying the question should be left to the states.  Polls show Christie with a comfortable lead over Democrat
Barbara Buono in his bid for a second term in New Jersey’s Nov.
5 election, and he has been making the case that his success as
the governor of a Democrat-dominated state offers lessons for
his party at the national level.  “If we don’t win, we don’t govern,” Christie said in an
August speech at an RNC gathering in  Boston . “I am going to do
anything that I need to do to win.”  He questioned that some in his party seem more interested
in winning ideological debates than elections. “I think we have
some people who believe our job is to be college professors,”
he said.  Blunt Style  The comments were in keeping with the trademark Jersey-style bluntness that has helped establish him as a national
figure. Ayres, in an interview, called him an “unconventional
politician, by definition.”  Even before his decision on the gay marriage appeal,
Christie had sparked some ill-will within his party stemming
from his willingness to appear with and praise high-profile
Democrats.  He joined  Bill Clinton  in June at the former president’s
 Global Initiative  conference in  Chicago , where the two had a
friendly onstage discussion about natural-disaster policy.  Fellow Republicans were especially critical of Christie for
accompanying Obama on a tour of the New Jersey shore Oct. 31 to
inspect damage caused by  Hurricane Sandy , during which the
governor lauded the initial federal response -- words some said
gave the president a pre-election boost against Romney.  Some party colleagues also were aggrieved when Christie
criticized Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and other Republicans in
the U.S. House of Representatives for delays in approving
federal assistance in Sandy’s aftermath.  Cruz’s Approach  As Christie hones his approach to voters, other Republicans
are taking a more direct line in appealing to party activists.  Senator  Ted Cruz  of  Texas , who spearheaded the push to
defund Obama’s health-care law that led to the 16-day federal
government shutdown earlier this month, received an eight-minute
standing ovation in his home state over the weekend at an event
organized by the  Texas Federation of Republican Women . He’ll be
in Iowa later this week to speak at an annual Ronald Reagan
dinner, where future presidential candidates often have been
showcased.  Christie has been coy about his longer-range plans as he
focuses on his re-election.  “This is the last political campaign that I’ll ever run in
New Jersey,” he said during a debate with Buono last week,
while brushing off questions about a presidential bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  