-- CONCACAF Head Says FIFA World Cup Strategy Hurts Americas
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-22T20:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/concacaf-head-says-fifa-world-cup-strategy-hurts-americas.html
Awarding soccer’s  World Cup  should
revert to a rotation among continents, the head of the sport in
 North America , Central America and the Caribbean said today.  Jeffrey Webb, president of the regional body known by the
acronym CONCACAF, said his area has suffered since FIFA, the
sport’s worldwide governing body, abandoned the rotation before
the last host elections.  Brazil, which will stage next year’s World Cup, was the
last to be chosen under the previous system when it won host
rights in 2007. If the system had remained in place, Webb’s
region would have staged the 2018 World Cup that instead went to
 Russia . The 2022 edition is slated to take place in  Qatar , which
beat a bidding field that included the U.S.  “I must say that I believe the rotation was working fine,
to be honest with you,” Webb, from the Cayman Islands, said on
a conference call. “Actually, when you look at the rotation,
Korea-Japan, to Europe, to  Africa , then on to  South America ,
it’s very unfortunate that rotation stopped at that time.”  The 2010 selection process, which led to Russia and Qatar
being awarded host rights, was the first after rotation was
scrapped. Two voters were expelled before the final poll for
offering to sell their support to reporters posing as
representatives of a bidding nation. Claims of impropriety were
also made against other executives.  The crisis led FIFA to push through changes in an effort to
improve its governance, including a switch of the World Cup
balloting to all 209 member nations from its 24-member executive
board.  Webb, who took up the CONCACAF post in 2012 after his
predecessor,  Jack Warner , quit amid a corruption probe, said he
backed the governance changes.  The U.S. was the last CONCACAF country to stage the World
Cup, in 1994. Mexico, which staged the tournament finals in 1986
and 1970, is the only other World Cup host from the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  