-- Construction Spending in U.S. Increases for Fifth Straight Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-10-22T14:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/construction-spending-in-u-s-increases-for-fifth-straight-month.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
rose in August for a fifth consecutive month, propelled by the
strongest outlays on homebuilding in five years.  Expenditures were up 0.6 percent to a $915.1 billion annual
rate following a revised 1.4 percent increase in July that was
larger than previously estimated, the Commerce Department
reported today in Washington. The  median  forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent increase.  Gains in commercial and residential construction are
boosting the economic expansion even as rising interest rates
and tight land inventories temper growth. In addition, federal
outlays dropped to the lowest level in five years, showing
government budget cuts will hold the industry back.  “The housing market is going to be the key driver of
growth in the back half of the year,”  Brett Ryan , U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York , said
before the report. “Despite the backup in rates, affordability
is still higher than it was in seven previous business cycles.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 52 economists ranged
from a drop of 0.5 percent to a gain of 1.2 percent, following
an initially reported 0.6 percent increase for July. Today’s
data, originally scheduled for release on Oct. 1, was delayed by
a  federal budget  impasse that led to a 16-day partial government
shutdown that ended last week.  Construction spending climbed 5.9 percent in the 12 months
ending in August before adjusting for seasonal changes,
according to Commerce data.  Homebuilding Gains  Private construction spending climbed 0.7 percent from the
prior month. Homebuilding outlays increased 1.2 percent to
$340.2 billion, the highest level since August 2008. Spending on
non-residential projects rose by 0.1 percent, including gains
for office buildings and communications plants.  Expenditures (CNSTTMOM)  on government projects advanced 0.4 percent
from the prior month. Federal construction spending dropped 3.8
percent to $22.9 billion, the weakest since June 2008. State and
local spending climbed 0.8 percent.  The rate on 30-year home loans, which was as low as 3.81
percent at the end of May, averaged 4.58 percent in the week
ended Aug. 22, the highest since July 2011, and remained near
that level through most of September, according to data from
McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   Those higher borrowing costs are holding back would-be
homebuyers and slowing price increases. Sales of single-family
homes, condominiums and co-ops fell in September for the first
time in three months, retreating from an almost four-year high,
the National Association of Realtors reported yesterday.  While the annual pace of sales dropped 1.9 percent to 5.29
million, prices climbed 11.7 percent, pushing affordability to
an almost five-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  