-- Corning Jumps After Samsung Display Deal, $2 Billion Buyback
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-10-23T14:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/corning-shares-jump-on-2-billion-buyback-samsung-agreement.html
Corning Inc. (GLW) , the maker of glass for
televisions and mobile devices, jumped the most in nine years
after approving a $2 billion buyback and agreeing to purchase
full ownership of a  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  joint venture.  Corning is acquiring Samsung’s 43 percent stake in Samsung
Corning Precision Materials Co., which makes glass for liquid
crystal displays in  South Korea , according to a statement
yesterday. As part of the agreement, Samsung’s display business
is buying new convertible shares of Corning with a value of $1.9
billion and making an additional $400 million investment.  The deal helps Corning capitalize on surging demand for
mobile displays, fueled by sales of tablets, smartphones and
other handheld gadgets. The Corning, New York-based company is
counting on its scratch-resistant Gorilla Glass products to make
further inroads in the market. The Samsung deal also gives
Corning access to $1.2 billion of the joint venture’s cash.  “This affords us greater flexibility in servicing
customers, managing capacity, and minimizing  capital spending  as
we expand production of Corning Gorilla Glass and pursue new
specialty glass applications,” Chief Executive Officer Wendell Weeks said in the statement.  Corning shares rose 14 percent to $17.55 at 9:47 a.m. in
New York. The stock climbed as high as $18.07 earlier in the
session, marking the biggest intraday jump since April 2004.
Corning was already up 22 percent this year through yesterday.  The $2 billion buyback will last until the end of 2015,
assuming the Samsung deal is approved. Samsung’s total
investment in Corning will result in ownership of about 7.4
percent, according to the statement.  Corning also delivered preliminary third-quarter results
yesterday. Excluding some items, earnings rose 18 percent to 33
cents a share, the company said. That topped the 32 cents
estimated by  analysts , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales climbed 10 percent to $2.1 billion, matching
analysts’ projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  