-- Coutts Cutting Japan Stocks on Concern About Third Arrow
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-10-23T04:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/coutts-cutting-japan-stocks-on-concern-about-abe-s-third-arrow.html
Coutts & Co., the wealth management
unit of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , is cutting holdings of
Japanese shares on concern Prime Minister Shinzo Abe won’t pass
the structural reforms needed to boost the economy.  Coutts shifted from overweight to neutral on the best-performing developed-market equities on signs Abe will squander
the early decisiveness of  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda, said Gary Dugan, chief investment officer for  Asia  and
the  Middle East . With a  sales-tax  increase approaching in April,
Abe is failing to deliver on reform measures that would ease the
burden of the levy, Dugan said.  “The ‘third arrow’ of Prime Minister Abe’s recovery plan
appears to be veering off target,” Dugan said by phone from
 Singapore  on Oct. 18. Coutts, the U.K. company  founded  in 1692,
managed 33.1 billion pounds ($53.4 billion) of assets as of June
30. “On the government side, things are just slipping. The
worry is that  Japan  is controlled by pressure groups.”  Inflation accelerated and growth quickened after Kuroda’s
unprecedented decision in  April (TPX)  to double the monetary base of
the world’s third-largest economy. While the signs of progress
drove the Topix index to an almost five-year high in May,
equities have since slumped about 5 percent as investors wait
for Abe’s so-called “third arrow” of structural reform to make
the economic recovery self-sustaining.  Sales Tax  Abe, grappling with a  public debt  more than twice gross
domestic product, is implementing the previous government’s plan
to raise the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent, the first
increase since 1997. He announced a 5 trillion yen ($51 billion)
stimulus package on Oct. 1 to cushion the blow, which a Cabinet
Office statement showed includes public-works spending and tax
breaks for companies. Specific measures will be explained in
early December, Abe said.  “A lot of people were expecting more detail,” Dugan said.
“And now we’re hearing stories about political infighting and
pressure groups are saying ‘please don’t touch this, please
don’t touch that’.”  Abe may have to put off plans for significant deregulation
of the labor market in special economic zones, including lifting
restrictions on working hours for white-collar workers, the
Nikkei newspaper reported on Oct. 18.  Japanese farmers, which benefit from tariffs to protect
local agriculture, oppose trade-liberalization talks with the
U.S.-led Trans Pacific Partnership group of nations. Rice has a
tariff of 778 percent.  Backing Away  Abe may also be backing away from a pledge to require
companies have outside directors on their boards, according to a
draft document prepared by the Justice Ministry that was
obtained yesterday. New rules will only require companies to
justify the lack of outside directors, without forcing them to
appoint any independent board members, it showed.  Coutts turned positive on Japanese shares a year ago as
signs emerged that Abe may win power, Dugan said. The bank added
to holdings around April as the BOJ said it will seek to drive
 inflation (JNCPIYOY)  to 2 percent. Coutts remained “maximum overweight”
until this month, when it started selling out of some Japanese
equity funds on concern Abenomics was stalling, Dugan said.  The private bank is watching for Abe to restart nuclear
reactors shut down after the March 2011 Fukushima nuclear
meltdown, and cut corporate taxes, he said.  High Tax  Japanese businesses pay taxes of 35.6 percent, according to
the  finance ministry . The levies are the highest after the U.S.
among Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
nations. Abe on Oct. 1 asked the ruling party to look into
lowering the rate as soon as possible.  Such a step is the most crucial reform for the Japanese
economy, according to Dugan. If Abe fails to do that by about
December, Coutts will reduce Japanese investments even further
until it holds less of the nation’s equities than the benchmarks
it tracks.  “The only way companies are going to give a big leap of
faith and increase wages is if the government delivers on
improving their cash flows by bringing down their energy bills
and reducing their  corporation tax ,” Dugan said. “Unless you
get wage growth, you cannot get sustained improvement in the
Japanese economy and you cannot reach the inflation targets.”  Wages Slide  Regular  wages  for the nation’s workers excluding overtime
and bonuses fell 0.4 percent in August from a year earlier. The
decline underscores that companies have yet to grow confident
enough to start boosting salaries, even as they sit on what the
BOJ calculated was  220 trillion yen  in cash at the end of June.  Abe took office in December vowing to revive growth.
Japan’s economy expanded for three straight quarters through
June, with output for the three months through September due to
be reported next month.  “Buy my Abenomics,” the Prime Minister said in a speech
at the  New York  Stock Exchange on September 25.  “The Japanese
economy that now surrounds us is exceptionally good,” he said.  Confidence among Japan’s large manufacturers rose to the
highest since the early stages of the global credit crisis in
2007, the quarterly Tankan index showed on Oct. 1.  “The market will hold up as long as economic data remains
clear and it’s got a bit of momentum at the moment,” Dugan
said. “But if we get more headlines that Abe fails to deliver
on something else again, then in my mind I would say thank you
very much, I’ll just take more money out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  