-- Cricket South Africa Cuts CEO’s ICC Role Pending Probe
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-10-22T16:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/cricket-south-africa-suspends-ceo-lorgat-pending-probe.html
Cricket South Africa Chief Executive
Officer  Haroon Lorgat  won’t represent the organization at
international level pending an independent investigation into
his conduct, the governing body said.  “CSA has ordered the withdrawal of Mr. Lorgat from
representing it at the  International Cricket Council ’s Chief
Executive Committee or from acting in any other ICC-related
matters,” the Johannesburg-based organization said in a joint
e-mailed statement with the  Board of Control for Cricket in
India  today. “CSA has also withdrawn him from having
involvement in any aspect of CSA’s relationship with the BCCI,
including but not limited to the upcoming tour.”  The decision came as CSA and the BCCI agreed that the
Indian team will play South Africa in two Test matches and three
One-Day International meetings on a tour of the country, with
details to be released at a later date.  India  was scheduled to
play three Tests and seven one-day games between November and
January, according to the ESPN  cricinfo  website.  India will play West Indies at home before the South
African tour, which will include the 200th and final test match
of world-record run scorer  Sachin Tendulkar  in Mumbai.  CSA said the probe into Lorgat’s conduct will center on his
role in the release of comments about the ICC board by  David
Becker , a former legal adviser to CSA. Becker’s statement linked
BCCI president Narayanaswami Srinivasan to certain unethical
conduct, Johannesburg-based newspaper Business Day said on its
website yesterday.  Not Suspended  “I would like to stress that Mr. Lorgat has not been
suspended,” Chris Nenzani, chairman of the CSA Board of
Directors, said in an e-mailed statement. “He himself
volunteered to withdraw from matters involving the ICC and the
BCCI in his deliberations with the full board at their meeting
last Sunday.”  South Africa tops the ICC’s ranking for Test matches, ahead
of  England . India heads the One-Day International list,
according to the ICC’s website.  South Africa last played India at home in 2010-2011. The
teams drew 1-1 in a three-match Test series and  South Africa  won
3-2 in a best of five ODIs, according to cricinfo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  