-- TCS’s London IPO Ends 11-Month Drought with $1.09 Billion
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-10-22T06:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/tcs-s-london-ipo-ends-11-month-drought-with-1-09-billion.html
Tinkoff Credit Systems sold shares
in the first initial public offering by a Russian company in
London since November, tapping into investor demand for non-state bank stocks.  Global depositary receipts of TCS, the third-largest
provider of credit cards in  Russia , are scheduled to start
trading today after TCS Group Holding Plc, the owner of TCS,
raised $1.09 billion. The IPO was priced at the top end of the
range, $17.50, according to the company’s statement today.  TCS, which has issued more than 3.5 million credit cards in
Russia since it was founded in 2007, seeks to benefit from the
nation’s growing consumer loans. Bank lending to households rose
34 percent as of Aug. 1 from a year earlier, while unsecured
loans surged 39 percent, central bank  data  shows. TCS’s target
range for the GDRs valued the bank from $2.6 billion to $3.2
billion.  “TCS is a fast-growth stock with very high return on
assets and because it’s independent and beyond government
control, investors will pay a premium for that,” Julian Rimmer,
a trader with CF Global Trading UK Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail. “There are few viable investment vehicles in the
financial sector so some diversification is welcome.”  The company sold 10 million new shares, raising $175
million, and 52 million existing shares, raising $912 million,
according to the statement.  No Branches  Chairman Oleg Tinkov, who owns 61 percent of the bank, sold
stock, along with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Baring Vostok
Capital Partners, Horizon Capital, Vostok Nafta and Altruco
Trustees Ltd. Tinkov last year said London was the front-runner
for an IPO because there wasn’t enough liquidity in Moscow and
reporting rules were too stringent in the U.S.  Following the sale, Tinkov will hold 50.9 percent of the
company, Altruco will retain 1.2 percent, while Goldman will
hold 4.5 percent, according to the statement today. Baring
Vostok, Vostok Nafta and Horizon Capital will hold 2.9 percent,
4.8 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively, the statement said.  The bank, which has no branches, is modeled on  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  in the U.S., a pioneer of card distribution by
direct mail, which Tinkov said he learned about while living in
 San Francisco . TCS is a “mono-line retail bank” with 97
percent of its loan portfolio in credit cards, according to an
UralSib Financial Corp. report Oct. 8.  TCS is “a pretty unique company within the financial
industry,”  Bruce Bower , a partner at Verno Capital in Moscow,
which manages about $200 million in assets, said by e-mail
yesterday. His firm planned to buy TCS’s shares. “It’s focused
on areas that have been under-served by the major banks.”  ‘Heightened Risks’  Russia’s consumer-finance banks face an increase in bad
loans in the unsecured retail lending market, Moody’s Investors
Service said on Sept. 12, noting TCS among those with
“heightened risks.”  “While TCS looks capitalized currently, it will have to
significantly increase loan provisions next year and could
easily trade single digits,” Gregory Klumov, portfolio manager
with SBD Global Fund in Cyprus said in e-mailed comments.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Russian stocks in the U.S. dropped 0.1 percent, led by OAO
Mechel. Oil producer OAO Surgutneftegas advanced to the highest
level since Jan. 31, almost wiping out its discount to the
Moscow-traded shares. RTS index futures added 0.1 percent to
151,090 in U.S hours.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge retreated to 104.76, after
rallying to the highest level since Feb. 5. last week. The
 Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S. exchange-traded fund
that holds Russian shares, advanced less than 0.1 percent to
$29.94 yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, increased 0.1 percent to
21.06 in U.S. hours.  Mechel, Rusal  American depositary receipts of Mechel, the nation’s
biggest producer of coal for steelmakers, retreated 1.5 percent
to $3.34. The shares narrowed their premium to the Moscow-listed
stock to 1 percent. Surgutneftegas rallied 1.3 percent to $7.75
in  New York .  United Co. Rusal (486) , a Moscow-based aluminum producer, dropped
3.3 percent to HK$2.36 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:32 a.m.
local time, heading for the biggest loss since Sept. 19. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  