-- Cuba to End Dual Currency System as Castro Seeks Growth
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-10-22T16:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/cuba-to-end-dual-currency-system-as-castro-seeks-growth.html
Cuba’s communist government plans to
eliminate its dual currency system to boost efficiency and trade
as President  Raul Castro  takes measured steps to stoke economic
growth on the Caribbean island.  Cuba, which has maintained a peso used by citizens and a
separate convertible peso mainly used by tourists since the
mid-1990s, will work to unify the system, according to a
 statement  today in the state-controlled newspaper Granma. The
convertible peso has been pegged 1-to-1 with the dollar, with
the regular peso at 25-to-1. The system upends trade and creates
two tiers of wage earners, said Philip Peters, an analyst at the
Cuba Research Center in Alexandria, Virginia.  “It distorts price signals to make economic decisions,”
Peters said in a telephone interview. “The economy will only
benefit by getting rid of it.”  The overhaul is the latest effort by the 82-year-old
Castro, who succeeded his brother Fidel in 2008, to open up the
island’s economy. His government has loosened property laws,
allowed the creation of more cooperatives and expanded the list
of professions people can pursue outside state-run enterprises.
Early this year the government also eased travel restrictions,
letting many dissidents travel abroad more freely and return.  Cuba’s economy, which relies on tourism and nickel exports,
expanded 3 percent last year, up from 2.8 percent in 2011,
according to the nation’s statistics office. Tourism increased
3.8 percent in August from a year ago, with most visitors coming
from Canada and the U.K.  Port Upgrades  The government is also seeking to build golf courses and
theme parks to bolster tourism while expanding the Mariel port
with upgrades by Brazilian construction company Odebrecht SA to
increase trade.  The currency changes will first apply to businesses.
Because of the “complexity” of the overhaul, the government
warned it will “take careful preparation and execution” to
eliminate an exchange system that was initiated after the
collapse of the  Soviet Union .  “The unification of the  exchange rate  isn’t on its own
something that can solve all of the economy’s problems,”
according to today’s statement. “But it’s application is needed
to guarantee the reestablishment of the Cuban peso’s value and
its role as a currency, that is to say, as a unit of account,
means of payment and store of value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  