-- Dana Gas Starts Arbitration Proceedings on Kurdish Contract
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-10-22T08:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/dana-gas-starts-arbitration-proceedings-on-kurdish-contract.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) , a United Arab
Emirates fuel producer, began arbitration proceedings in  London 
on rights and money owed from an oil development contract it
signed with the Kurdistan regional government of  Iraq  in 2007.  The proceedings at the London Court of  International
Arbitration  relate to outstanding receivables owed by the
Kurdish government, Dana Gas said in a statement to the Abu
Dhabi bourse today. The company, along with majority shareholder
Crescent Petroleum Co. and subsidiary Pearl Petroleum Co., also
filed the case to clarify the group’s development and marketing
rights of the Khor Mor and Chemchemal fields in Kurdistan,
according to the statement.  Dana Gas, based in the U.A.E. sheikhdom of Sharjah,
restructured a $1 billion Islamic bond last year after the
Egyptian and Iraqi governments delayed payments for fuel sales.
The company said in August it resumed production of liquefied
petroleum gas in Kurdistan after an explosion there halted
output last year.  Dana Gas started arbitration after the Kurdish Ministry of
Natural Resources declined to engage in formal mediation, it
said in today’s statement. Shares of the company fell 1.5
percent to 66 fils as of 11:48 a.m. in  Abu Dhabi , paring gains
in 2013 to 47 percent.  Second-quarter profit at Dana Gas declined  45 percent  to
100 million dirhams ($27 million) as revenue fell. Iraq provided
50 percent of the company’s sales in the first half, according
to the results. Dana Gas has a 40 percent share of gross
production in Iraq, equivalent to 27,000 barrels of oil per day
in the quarter.  The company was owed 1.47 billion dirhams from the Kurdish
government at the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  