-- Dangdang Leads Slump on Revenue Forecast: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-22T20:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/dangdang-leads-slump-on-revenue-forecast-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities fell for a second
day in  New York  as online retailer  E-Commerce China Dangdang
Inc. (DANG)  retreated after cutting its revenue outlook.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. dropped 0.1 percent to 105.9
yesterday. Dangdang,  China ’s largest online bookseller, plunged
13 percent. Social entertainment website  YY Inc. (YY)  declined after
86Research Ltd. said third-quarter profit margin may come below
analysts’ projections.  Vipshop (VIPS)  Holdings Ltd. slumped for a
second day, while  TAL Education Group (TAL)  advanced after reporting
better-than-estimated earnings.  Dangdang, based in Beijing, lowered its third-quarter sales 
estimate  by as much as 4 percent on Oct. 21. HSBC Holdings Plc
downgraded the stock to neutral from the equivalent of buy.
While the Chinese economy is “stable and trending for the
better,” the foundations of a rebound are “not yet firm,” the
State Council said in a statement Oct. 20 after an Oct. 18
meeting led by Premier  Li Keqiang .  “Dangdang’s miss in sales guidance was quite out of the
expectations of analysts and investors,” Henry Guo, an analyst
at ABR Investment Strategy LLC in  San Francisco , said by phone
yesterday. “Dangdang’s below-estimate sales may cause
investors’ concern that a recovery in the Chinese economy isn’t
that firm.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $38.17
in New York. The Chicago Board Options Exchange China ETF
Volatility Index, measuring predictions of price fluctuations in
the ETF, increased for the first time in a week. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rallied 0.6 percent as weaker-than-forecast
hiring in September fueled speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
will delay trimming monetary stimulus.  Dangdang, Vipshop  Dangdang’s American depositary receipts sank to $10.05,
reducing this year’s surge to 142 percent. Trading volume was
2.3 times the daily average during the past three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chi Tsang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC, lowered a price estimate for Dangdang to
$12.63 from $13.45.  Vipshop, an online seller of branded clothing based in
 Guangzhou , slipped 3.8 percent to $73.58. Its price has
quadrupled this year. LightInTheBox Holding Co., an online
retailer of China-made goods for overseas markets, tumbled 5
percent to $10.37, the lowest level since Sept. 5.  YY, based in Guangzhou, dropped 4.6 percent to $50.94 in
New York, slumping the most in two weeks.  TAL Jumps  The company’s third-quarter gross margin may come below
analysts’ average projection of 50.9 percent, 86Research said in
a note yesterday, adding it sees sales guidance for the fourth
quarter may be in line with analysts’ estimate. “We see it
difficult for YY to report big earnings per share upside,”
according to the report.  TAL Education Group (XRS)  jumped 10 percent to $17.57, the
highest close since November 2010, after reporting better-than-estimated earnings. Trading volume was three times the 90-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Beijing-based company, which provides after-school
tutoring services, said sales jumped 35.1 percent and adjusted
profit surged 38.7 percent from a year earlier in the three
months ended in August. Its sales growth forecast of at least 42
percent for the following quarter also exceeded analysts’
average projection of 26 percent compiled by Bloomberg.  “TAL’s third-quarter sales and margin were both better
than our expectations, and its fourth-quarter guidance beat the
consensus by a big margin,” Ella Ji, an analyst at Oppenheimer
& Co. in New York, said by e-mail yesterday. She has a buy
equivalent rating on TAL with a price target of $17. “Revenue
growth was mainly driven by surging small-class tutoring in
cities outside Beijing and Shanghai, and the momentum will
continue as they expand into more cities.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slipped 0.1 percent
to 10,653.43 yesterday, while the Shanghai Composite Index
slumped 0.8 percent to 2,210.65, declining for the first time in
three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  