-- Delek Climbs as Court Paves Way for Gas Exports: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-10-22T10:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/delek-climbs-as-court-paves-way-for-gas-exports-tel-aviv-mover.html
Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , the holding
company owning stakes in Israel’s two largest natural gas
fields, advanced to a record after the country’s high court
paved the way for exports of the fuel.  The shares of the  company , whose interests include the
offshore Tamar and Leviathan fields, climbed 2.4 percent to
1,219 shekels, the highest since the shares started trading, at
12:59 p.m. in Tel Aviv. Volume was 75 percent of the three-month
daily average, with the stock posting the second-biggest gain by
percentage points on the benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  Index, which increased
0.2 percent.  The Israel High Court rejected appeals by environmental
groups and members of parliament to overturn a government
decision enabling the export of 40 percent of gas production.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas
producer, said the court decision adds certainty to gas policy
and said it anticipates completing a deal agreed to in December
to pay as much as $2.3 billion for a stake in Leviathan.  “This decision lifts the regulatory uncertainty hanging
over the gas explorers,” Hadar Oshrat, head of equity sales &
trading at Deutsche Bank AG in Tel Aviv, said today by e-mail.
“It will help draw investors into gas shares.”  Israel has discovered enough natural gas under the
Mediterranean to supply the country for decades while leaving
plenty left over for exports. Tamar started production in March.
Leviathan, at almost twice the size, is scheduled to come on
stream in 2016.  Delek Group’s shares have advanced 40 percent this year
compared with a 10 percent jump in the benchmark gauge as the
the group has sold non-energy assets to focus on its oil and gas
business.  The Netanya, Israel-based company owns stakes in the fields
via its holdings in  Delek Drilling-LP (DEDRL)  and  Avner Oil Exploration
LLP. (AVNRL)  Delek Drilling increased 2.3 percent and Avner gained 2.3
percent to 3.049 shekels, set for a record close.  Ratio Oil Exploration 1992 LP (RATIL) , also a partner in Leviathan,
surged 7.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  