-- Deloitte to Pay Record-Matching $2 Million Penalty in PCAOB Case
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/deloitte-to-pay-record-2-million-penalty-in-disciplinary-order.html
Deloitte & Touche LLP , one of the
global auditors known as the Big Four, has agreed to pay a
record $2 million penalty for allowing a former partner to
continue work under a suspension order.  The firm let a suspended auditor keep working as a salaried
director, allowing the unnamed employee to review public-company
audits and help develop firm-wide policies, the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board  said yesterday in a statement. The
civil penalty matches the highest ever imposed by the PCAOB, the
industry-funded auditing watchdog overseen by the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  “When the board suspends an auditor, it does so to protect
investors,” said PCAOB Chairman James R. Doty, in a statement.
“Considering the magnitude of the penalty, firms should
recognize the importance of abiding by the limitations imposed
on a PCAOB-suspended auditor.”  Deloitte neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing in the
settlement, which also demands it take internal actions to make
sure there is no repeat of the situation, the PCAOB said.  “Deloitte took several significant actions to restrict the
deployment of this individual,” said Jonathan Gandal, a
Deloitte spokesman in an e-mailed statement. “We recognize more
could have been done at that time to monitor compliance with the
restrictions we put in place. The robust policies and monitoring
procedures we have since instituted fully address the issue.”  Deloitte had previously been faulted by the watchdog in
2011 after the firm was accused of repeatedly failing to support
assumptions in audits examined in a 2007 inspection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 