-- Detroit Retirees Sue Manager Over Health-Care Cuts
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-22T17:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/detroit-retirees-sue-manager-over-health-care-cuts.html
A committee of  Detroit ’s retired
workers sued the city and its state-appointed emergency manager,
claiming a plan to cut funding for retiree health care by 83
percent violates the  Michigan  constitution.  The city-funded committee, which was created at the urging
of emergency manager Kevyn Orr, filed the lawsuit today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Detroit in front of the same judge
overseeing the city’s $18 billion bankruptcy.  “The impact of the city’s decision on the retirees will be
devastating,” the committee said in the complaint. “Many of
them are economically vulnerable, living near the poverty line,
of advanced age and incapable of returning to the workforce.”  After putting Detroit into bankruptcy in July, Orr ordered
funding for retiree health-care benefits reduced to about $30
million a year from about $180 million, according to the
complaint.  By filing the lawsuit on behalf of about 24,000 retired
Detroit employees, the committee and two retiree associations
are trying to reverse the cuts and force Orr to accept court
oversight of the issue. Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code , which the city used to file its bankruptcy, Orr wasn’t
required to seek approval for his decision to cut retiree
benefits from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes.  Pay Less  The committee asked Rhodes to temporarily stop the city
from implementing a plan to pay less for health care by forcing
its older retirees into the federal Medicare program and younger
retired workers onto cheaper insurance plans, like those
available on the health exchanges set up under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Under a notice sent out by Orr’s office, the older retirees
must choose a new health-care plan by Dec. 7 and the younger
retirees by Dec. 15.  Many retirees receive less than $20,000 a year, according
to the complaint.  This week, employees and retirees are fighting to end the
city’s bankruptcy, saying the case illegally threatens protected
benefits. Detroit and its critics return to court tomorrow for a
multiday trial in which city and state officials, including
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , may testify about whether the
bankruptcy case should continue.  Orr’s spokesman, Bill Nowling, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail requesting comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Official Committee of Retirees of the City of
Detroit v. City of Detroit, 13-bk-05244, and the bankruptcy case
is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern
District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  