-- Diebold Settles Foreign Bribery Cases for $48.1 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-22T17:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/diebold-settles-foreign-bribery-cases-for-48-1-million.html
Diebold Inc. (DBD) , a maker of ATMs and
bank security systems, agreed to pay more than $48 million to
settle allegations by the U.S. that it bribed officials in
 Russia ,  China  and Indonesia.  The company will give up $22.9 million in illegal profits
in a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
pay a criminal fine of $25.2 million to resolve Justice
Department charges that the company violated the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, according to papers filed today in federal court
in Washington and Akron,  Ohio .  Some of Diebold’s bribes were made in the form of gifts,
money and leisure travel to Paris, Bali, the Grand Canyon, Las
Vegas and other destinations for Chinese government bank
employees in order to win and retain business, according to
court filings.  “Through its corrupt business practices, Diebold
undermined the sense of fair play that is critical for the rule
of law to prevail,” Mythili Raman, acting assistant attorney
general of the Justice Department’s criminal division, said in a
statement.  Trips were disguised in records as “training,” the SEC
said in its filing.  When an employee of North Canton, Ohio-based Diebold sought
his supervisor’s permission to pay for a European trip for bank
officials in  Indonesia , his boss approved and responded, “Make
this trip successful for upcoming bid, too!,” according to the
SEC complaint.  ‘Acknowledge Responsibility’  “It’s imperative for Diebold to recognize these issues
head on, acknowledge responsibility, put the FCPA investigation
period behind it,” Mike Jacobsen, a company spokesman said in
an e-mailed statement. “Given the experience the company has
gained and its continued focus on global ethics and compliance,
Diebold is confident in its ability to manage ethics-related
issues as they arise.”  The settlements, which include a deferred prosecution
agreement with the Justice Department and a commitment to the
SEC to appoint an independent compliance monitor, are subject to
approval by judges.  The SEC case is SEC v. Diebold Inc., 13-cv-1609, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ). The Justice
Department case is U.S. v. Diebold, 13-cr-464, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Ohio (Akron).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  