-- Disney Reaches Record as Media Stocks Gain on Program Fees
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-22T20:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/disney-reaches-record-high-as-media-stocks-gain-on-program-fees.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  rose the most in
almost two weeks, reaching an all-time high as investors bet
rising fees from pay-television services will extend gains for
media stocks.  Shares of the world’s largest entertainment company  gained 
2.1 percent to $69 at the close in New York, eclipsing the May
15 all-time closing high of $67.67. The stock is up 39 percent
for the year, compared with 23 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX) , which closed at a record 1,754.67 today, and 38
percent for the S&P 500 Media Index of 16 stocks.  Entertainment companies including Disney,  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  and
 CBS Corp. (CBS)  are benefiting from the increasing fees they are able
to charge pay-television services for their broadcast and cable
shows. Analysts  project  shares of Disney, the owner of theme
parks, TV networks and film studios, will reach $72.46 within 12
months, the average of 24 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. CBS
and 21st Century Fox Inc. also made new highs.  Disney’s  profit  is forecast to increase 9 percent to $1.36
billion, or 75 cents a share, in the just-ended fourth quarter,
the average of 19 analysts’ estimates. The company, based in
Burbank, California, reports results after markets close on Nov.
7. Of 34 analysts who rate the stock, 21 recommend buying, while
11 say hold and one says sell.  Profit growth stalled at $1.85 billion, or $1.01 a share,
in the third quarter ended June 29, crimped by costs to market
the July film “The Lone Ranger,” higher TV programming
expenses and lower ratings at the ABC network.  The company said last month that it may double its stock
purchases to $8 billion next year.  Cash Flow  While the buyback cost will exceed discretionary cash flow,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Sept. 12 report that the company
will be able to maintain its A corporate  credit rating .  “Disney remains the preeminent company for monetizing
intellectual property across a breadth of businesses,” Naveen Sarma, a credit analyst at S&P, wrote in the report.  The buyback comes as  capital spending  shrinks from a peak
of $3.78 billion in fiscal 2012. In recent years, Disney has
expanded parks in California and Florida, built  cruise ships  and
developed a resort in Hawaii. A new destination in Shanghai is
scheduled to open at the end of 2015.  Spending on projects and acquisitions will continue, Chief
Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said in September, citing as
examples Marvel, Lucasfilm and purchases in games and
international TV networks. The company is interested in deals
that increase its distribution capability, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  