-- Commodity Currencies Drop Amid Bets on Economic Slowing
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-23T21:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/dollar-near-2011-low-versus-euro-on-fed-stimulus-bets.html
The dollar rose against the
currencies of commodity-exporting countries from Canada to
Australia as investors sought safety amid signs of curtailed
economic growth in the world’s biggest economies.  New Zealand’s dollar slid the most in two months and
Australia’s currency weakened as risk appetite faded and
commodities fell amid bets  China ’s central bank is leaning
toward tightening policy, damping prospects for economic
expansion. Canada’s dollar slid as the central bank cut growth
forecasts. Economists lowered estimates for the U.S. economy
after a 16-day partial shutdown of the government.  “It may very well be that the outlook for U.S. growth has
taken a larger-than-expected hit, and so the demand for
commodities may not be what we expected earlier this year,”
Michael Woolfolk, a global-markets strategist at Bank of New
York Mellon in New York, said in a phone interview.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, slumped as much
as 1.8 percent, the biggest intraday decline since Aug. 5, to
83.57 U.S. cents before trading at 83.93 cents, down 1.4
percent, at 5 p.m. New York time.  Australia ’s dollar declined as
much as 1 percent, the most on an intraday basis since Sept. 12,
to 96.07 U.S. cents before trading at 96.23 cents.  The greenback was little changed at $1.3776 per euro after
depreciating earlier to $1.3793, the weakest level since
November 2011, and gaining to $1.3742.  ‘Best Rock’  The yen gained 0.8 percent to 134.15 per euro, after
climbing as much as 1.2 percent, the biggest intraday advance
since Aug. 27. It depreciated to 135.51 yesterday, the weakest
level since November 2009.  Japan ’s currency strengthened 0.8
percent to 97.38 per dollar and touched 97.16, briefly breaching
its 200-day moving average at 97.28.  “The best rock to hide under appears to be the yen,”
Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak &
Co. in New York, said in a phone interview. “You’ve had global
risk-off catalysts.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 FX Volatility Index increased to
7.63 percent after sliding yesterday to 7.53 percent, the lowest
level since Jan. 8. The gauge reached 10.2 percent on Sept. 3
and has averaged 9.42 percent this year.  China’s benchmark money-market rate, the  seven-day
repurchase rate , surged 47 basis points, or 0.47 percentage
point, to 4.05 percent, the biggest increase since July 29,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. China’s economy is the world’s biggest
after that of the U.S.  ‘Very Sensitive’  The People’s Bank of China, which last week refrained from
adding funds to markets, may lean toward policy tightening
should inflation accelerate, Song Guoqing, a central-bank
academic adviser, said Oct. 20.  “The yen moves show that people are very sensitive to any
notion of tightening,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in  London . “There’s risk aversion
in Asia, which is supporting the yen.”  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of raw materials slid 1.4
percent, the most in six weeks. West Texas Intermediate crude
oil declined to $96.16 a barrel in New York, the lowest level in
almost four months, as U.S. supplies rose more than forecast.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index fell 1 percent last week on
bets that the U.S. government shutdown this month will spur the
Federal Reserve to maintain monetary stimulus, which is seen as
debasing the currency. The closings shaved at least 0.6 percent
from fourth-quarter 2013 gross-domestic-product growth, S&P said
last week in a report.  “For right now, neither commodity currencies nor
commodities themselves seem to have reacted” to prospects for
unabated U.S. easing, Bank of New York Mellon’s Woolfolk said.  Canadian Dollar  Canada ’s currency, known as the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, lost 0.9 percent to C$1.0382 per
U.S. dollar.  Canadian policy makers maintained the benchmark interest
 rate  on overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent
today. While the decision was forecast by all 23 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey, the bank unexpectedly dropped language
about the need for future interest-rate increases that had been
in place for more than a year, citing a slack economy.  The central bank cut its forecast for the nation’s economic
growth this year to 1.6 percent, from 1.8 percent. The outlook
for 2014 was lowered to 2.3 percent, from 2.7 percent. Policy
makers said that “uncertain global and domestic economic
conditions are delaying the pick-up in exports and business
investment,” leaving the economy weaker than had been expected.  Technical Gauges  Europe’s shared currency may have gained too much, too fast
against the greenback, according to a technical indicator. The
euro’s 14-day relative strength index against the greenback
reached 74 yesterday, above the 70 level some traders see as a
signal that a drop may be imminent. It was at 73 today.  Technical gauges also signaled the euro may have reached a
turning point versus the yen. The daily stochastics chart shows
the 17-nation currency’s advance to 135.51 yesterday, the
strongest since November 2009, sent it toward the most
overbought level in three months. Stochastics measure the
velocity of a security’s price movement to identify overbought
and oversold conditions.  The yen has advanced 0.9 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro rose 1.5 percent, while
the dollar weakened 0.8 percent.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $54 billion, about the same as yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and monitored by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the
dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $13 billion, the largest
share of trades at 24 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate
totaled $8.1 billion, or 15 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 137 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 60 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  