-- Don’t Kill Fannie and Freddie
-- B y   J a m e s   K .   G l a s s m a n
-- 2013-10-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/don-t-kill-fannie-and-freddie.html
Five years after they were rescued
with taxpayer money,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  are thriving.  The two giant providers of cash for mortgages now back
almost  9 out of 10 home loans . Fannie, founded during the New
Deal as a federal agency and then converted into a shareholder-owned government-sponsored enterprise in 1968, had its most
profitable year in 2012. Together, the entities paid the  U.S.
Treasury  $66.3 billion in dividends on July 1 -- a sum that
extended the debt-ceiling deadline by a month.  Now, policy makers are poised to eliminate the GSEs’ roles
in home mortgages. They have some justification: Fannie and
Freddie distorted their books and loaned recklessly in the
middle of the last decade. (They weren’t the only guilty
parties, of course. This week,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to a
tentative $4 billion  settlement  with the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  for misleading the GSEs in their purchases of mortgage
bonds.)  Worst of all, Fannie and Freddie gave the green light to
other investors to follow their lead. Even former Representative
 Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat and GSE cheerleader,
 concluded in 2010 : “I hope by next year we’ll have abolished
Fannie and Freddie. ... It was a great mistake to push lower-income people into housing they couldn’t afford.”  Never mind that it was legislators such as Frank who were
doing the pushing. In return for an implicit federal guarantee
on their debt, Fannie and Freddie were pressured by Congress to
take on various social responsibilities -- such as funding
 subprime mortgages  -- that conflicted with their financial
responsibilities.  Systemic Effect  Some kind of reform is necessary, but policy makers should
be careful not to destroy the parts of the GSEs that work as
they seek to expiate their own political sins. They also need to
avoid solutions that needlessly raise the cost of borrowing for
homeowners. In addition, they should be aware of the adverse
effects on the financial system that would be caused by the
seizure of private property -- in this case,  securities  held
faithfully by those investing in a turnaround that, eventually,
occurred.  Last year, in a breathtaking display of greed, the Treasury
and the FHFA changed the terms of the original agreement that
accompanied the 2008 bailout, which gave the Treasury 79.9
percent of the GSEs’ stock and required a rich 10 percent annual
dividend payout.  That payout wasn’t enough for a government running
trillion-dollar  deficits . The dividend was replaced by a
quarterly “net worth sweep” that gives the Treasury almost the
entire net worth of Fannie and Freddie’s balance sheets. The
sweep, Treasury said, will suck up “every dollar of profit each
firm earns going forward.” (See the $66.3 billion dividend
three months ago.) The two GSEs have already repaid $132 billion
of the $188 billion they received. The rest should be paid by
the end of 2014, but the sweeps will go on and on.  The changed payout arrangement prevents the GSEs from
rebuilding their capital and deprives private shareholders of
the value from their investments.  Many in Congress approve. Representative  Jeb Hensarling ,
the Texas Republican who leads the House Financial Services
Committee, has offered a measure that would officially kill off
Fannie and Freddie. It would use new federal agencies to set
rules for the private securitization of mortgages and help
first-time buyers.  A bill by Senators Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, and
 Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, would replace the two GSEs
with a mortgage insurance fund that resembles the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. In August, President  Barack Obama 
indicated he was  leaning toward  the Senate version.  ‘Huge’ Impact  Both bills, however, would have serious negative
consequences:  -- They require outright -- as opposed to implicit --
backing for all of the GSEs’ outstanding debt and mortgage-backed securities, with the “full faith and credit of the
 United States .” As Karen Shaw Petrou of Federal Financial
Analytics Inc. told the  American Banker : “If you give Fannie
and Freddie that explicit guarantee for all their existing
obligations, what’s the budget impact of that? It’s huge.”
Fannie has $3 trillion in debt on its balance sheet; Freddie, $2
trillion. Those would become government liabilities.  -- Neither measure adequately addresses mortgage liquidity,
which was the reason that both Fannie and Freddie were
established. With the lenders gone, it’s unclear what would fill
the gap. Private sources originated just 14 percent of home
loans in 2012, down from 67 percent in 2006.  -- The bills would increase loan payments for consumers.
 Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc.,
calculated that each of the congressional proposals would add
$900 to $1,050 in annual interest for a $200,000 home loan.
“You have to assume that almost in any future model being
drafted, loans will be more expensive,” said  David Stevens ,
chief executive officer of the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  -- Neither bill addresses what happens to the private
investors in Fannie and Freddie, including the community banks
and insurance companies that were encouraged by their regulators
to bolster the GSEs’ capital. The threat of government
confiscation is precisely the wrong message to be sending
investors. Even  Ralph Nader  has cried foul,  complaining  that
federal policies have turned shareholders such as him into
“zombies.” The GSEs’ investors have filed 10 separate lawsuits
seeking damages from the takeover, and U.S. District Judge
Robert Wilkins consolidated the cases on Oct. 9.  A better, simpler solution would be to end the federal
guarantee -- explicit or implicit -- and allow Fannie and
Freddie to rebuild their capital. The GSEs served a highly
constructive purpose until they became political institutions.
They can play an even more important role without special
benefits, providing liquidity while encouraging private
competition on a level playing field. The government should sell
its GSE holdings at a profit, provide a strong regulator, and
treat Fannie and Freddie like Citigroup Inc. or any other large
financial company.  Politicians should promise to stay away. That won’t be easy
for them, but rather than devising plans for sweeping
reorganizations, it is exactly what is demanded of Congress.  (James K. Glassman, a former undersecretary of state, is a
visiting fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute .)  To contact the author of this article:
 jim.glassman@aei.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@blooomberg.net . 