-- Borussia Dortmund Beats Arsenal in Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-23T17:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/dortmund-beats-arsenal-2-1-in-champions-league-as-chelsea-wins.html
Borussia Dortmund beat Arsenal 2-1
and Chelsea defeated Schalke 3-0 on a successful night for away
teams in soccer’s Champions League.  Robert Lewandowski’s goal in the 82nd minute last night
gave Dortmund the win in north  London  that leaves three teams
with six points in Group F. Fernando Torres scored twice in
Chelsea’s victory in  Germany .  “We were always alert and ready to decide the game with
one attack,” Dortmund coach Juergen Klopp, who was suspended
for the match, said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA.
“My team gave it their all. It was a fantastic performance.”  Celtic was the lone home winner last night as Atletico
 Madrid , Napoli and Zenit St. Petersburg also got road victories
and Barcelona drew 1-1 at AC Milan. Eight more matches are
scheduled for today, including record nine-time winner Real
Madrid hosting Italian champion Juventus.  Lewandowski’s goal on a counterattack at the Emirates
Stadium caused a three-way tie in the group and ruined the 64th
birthday of Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger.  Both teams took advantage of mistakes to score in the first
half. Henrikh Mkhitaryan put Dortmund in front after Aaron Ramsey lost the ball, while Arsenal’s Oliver Giroud scored after
a mix-up on a cross between defender Neven Subotic and
goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller.  Breakaway Goal  Dortmund, last season’s runner-up, got the winning goal
after breaking out of its half with eight minutes remaining.
Kevin Grosskreutz crossed from the right to the far post, where
Lewandowski was left all alone to volley past Wojciech Szczesny.  “We put ourselves on the back foot with the first goal and
were a bit naive with the second,” Wenger told Sky Sports. “We
have to look at ourselves for not being mature enough in
situations like that. If you can’t win the game you shouldn’t
lose it.”  Napoli won 2-1 at Marseille on goals from Jose Callejon and
Duvan Zapata to join Dortmund and Arsenal on six points in Group
F after three of six games. The top two teams in each of the
eight groups advance to the round of 16.  In Gelsenkirchen, Torres opened the scoring for Chelsea in
the fifth minute with a far-post header after Branislav Ivanovic
flicked on Frank Lampard’s corner kick. Torres made it 2-0
midway through the second half and Eden Hazard closed the
scoring with three minutes remaining.  It was Chelsea’s second straight win after an opening home
loss to Basel and leaves it tied with Schalke atop Group E.  Mourinho’s Message  “I told the players after the Basel match that the
performance was garbage and we had to correct it,” Chelsea
manager Jose Mourinho said on UEFA’s website. “We have with two
consecutive victories away from home.”  Basel is two points back in the group after drawing 1-1 at
Steaua Bucharest as Leondro Tatu scored in the 88th minute for
the home side.  Barcelona  maintained its two-point lead over AC Milan in
Group H after the teams drew in  Italy .  Lionel Messi’s 23rd-minute goal tied Robinho’s opener.
Messi now has 63 Champions League goals to move within eight of
record-holder Raul Gonzalez.  Celtic moved to third in the group after beating Ajax 2-1
in Glasgow for its first win. James Forrest put Celtic ahead
with a penalty kick just before halftime and Beram Kayal doubled
the lead in the 54th minute. Ajax’s Lasse Schone scored in
stoppage time.  “That’s a fantastic win for us,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon said. “We are on our knees, in terms of injuries in our
squad, so it was a monumental effort for the lads.”  Diego Costa got two goals as Atletico Madrid won 3-0 at
Austria Vienna to maintain its perfect Group G record. Raul
Garcia also scored for Atletico, which has a five-point lead.  Zenit St. Petersburg is second with four points after
beating 10-man Porto 1-0 on Aleksandr Kerzhakov’s goal in the
86th minute. Porto’s Hector Herrera was sent off after receiving
two yellow cards in the opening six minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 