-- Dubai Switches on First Solar Plant to Diversify Energy Mix
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-10-22T10:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/dubai-switches-on-first-solar-plant-in-bid-for-energy-diversity.html
Dubai switched on its first solar
plant and plans to build a second, bigger sun-powered one to
diversify  energy supply  in the  United Arab Emirates , an OPEC
member with 6 percent of global oil reserves.  The new 13-megawatt photovoltaic plant is the largest of
its type in the  Middle East  and North Africa, the head of
Dubai’s state utility said today at an inauguration in a desert
near the Persian Gulf coast.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest U.S.
solar-panel manufacturer, built the facility, which cost 120
million to 130 million dirhams ($33 million to $35 million),
according to officials.  “This is the first part of Dubai’s plan to develop a solar
park with 1,000 megawatts of power by 2030,” said Saeed Al Tayer, chief executive officer of Dubai Electricity & Water
Authority. DEWA plans to invite bids in six months for a private
partner in its next solar project, a 100-megawatt plant in which
it will hold a 51 percent stake, he said.  The government-owned utility is seeking to reduce its use
of natural gas as a fuel for power stations while also boosting
generating capacity to meet a 5 percent annual growth in
electricity demand in Dubai, the U.A.E.’s second-largest
sheikhdom. DEWA expects to complete its second solar plant in
three years as the company expands further into renewable
energy,  Al Tayer  said.  Bank Finance  The planned 100-megawatt facility will cost 700 million to
800 million dirhams, Waleed Salman, DEWA’s executive vice
president for strategy and business development, said at the
ceremony. The utility may borrow some of the money from banks,
he said.  Dubai is targeting by 2030 to generate 5 percent of its
electricity from renewable energy and 12 percent from coal,
while buying an additional 12 percent of its power from nuclear
reactors planned in neighboring  Abu Dhabi . The remaining 71
percent will come from gas, according to a 2011 plan.  The U.A.E. is the fourth-largest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, with Abu Dhabi
holding most of its crude reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  