-- Dutch Utility Unbundling Rules May Be Lawful, EU Top Court Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-22T08:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/dutch-utility-unbundling-rules-may-be-lawful-eu-top-court-says.html
Dutch curbs on utilities’ control
over energy grids may be justified, the EU’s top court said in a
possible defeat for companies forced to split up under the law.  “Maintaining undistorted competition in order to protect
consumers and ensuring security of  energy supply  constitute
overriding reasons in the public interest,” the  EU Court of
Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today, according to a statement.
Restrictions should be “appropriate to the objectives pursued”
and must not “go beyond what is necessary,” the  ruling  said.  Dutch utilities began separating commercial operations such
as production, trading and sales from grid units in 2008 after
parliament approved the unbundling law and had until Jan. 1,
2011, to complete the process. Shareholders of the two biggest
 utility companies , Essent NV and Nuon NV, have since sold their
commercial operations to  RWE AG (RWE)  of  Germany  and Sweden’s
Vattenfall AB, respectively.  Essent, Delta NV and Eneco Holding NV, which were active in
energy production and distribution, were forced to split up or
have their network operations taken by a different company to
comply with the new law.  Arendo Schreurs, a spokesman for Middelburg, Netherlands-based Delta and Cor de Ruijter, a spokesman for Rotterdam-based
Eneco, weren’t immediately available to comment.  The Dutch Supreme Court in February 2012 asked the EU court
whether the rules are in line with the 28-nation bloc’s law.
Eneco has said that a forced unbundling would pose a threat to
the company’s sustainability strategy.  The  cases  are: C-105/12, Essent and Others, C-106/12, Eneco
Holding, C-107/12, Delta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  