-- The Ozone Treaty That Banned Your Asthma Inhaler
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-22T13:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/the-ozone-treaty-that-banned-your-asthma-inhaler.html
The  Food and Drug Administration  has
 outlawed  the only over-the-counter asthma medicine in the U.S.
It has also banned a number of other asthma medicines that
patients like and that doctors have prescribed for them.  In imposing these prohibitions, the FDA hasn’t denied that
the banned asthma medicines are safe and effective for their
intended use. (Disclosure: While serving as administrator of the
White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs during
President  Barack Obama ’s first term, I participated in
discussions of some issues examined here.)  The FDA is supposed to help patients, not hurt them. Why
does it ban asthma medicines?  The answer lies in the  Montreal Protocol , a treaty the U.S.
ratified in 1988. Strongly supported by President  Ronald Reagan ,
the Montreal Protocol was designed to phase out
chlorofluorocarbons and other substances that deplete the  ozone
layer  (and thus increase the risk of skin cancer and cataracts).
The U.S.  ratified  the treaty in part because its benefits were
found to outweigh its economic costs (and by a large margin).  At the same time, the Montreal Protocol has produced some
less-than-ideal consequences. Asthma medicines have long been
delivered through inhalers that use CFCs. Under the language of
the treaty, there is a strong argument that such inhalers must
be banned, even though they contribute very little to depletion
of the ozone layer, and even though such bans can make asthma
medicines  more expensive  and less easily available.  Balancing Risks  Asthma inhaler bans turn out to be a troublesome case study
in “risk-risk tradeoffs,” which arise when a well-motivated
effort at reducing one risk ends up increasing or creating
another risk.  The Montreal Protocol allows exemptions for “ essential
uses .” In 2002 (during the George W. Bush administration, not
usually known for regulatory overkill), the FDA issued a complex
rule intended to establish when an asthma medicine would count
as “essential.”  According to the FDA, a central question is whether there
are “technical barriers” to formulating the product without
ozone-depleting substances. If no such barriers exist, the FDA
indicated that it would not deem the product to be
“essential.” This is a difficult test to meet, because
“technical barriers” can often be surmounted in theory (even
if they aren’t surmounted in reality).  After adopting its 2002 rule, the FDA has taken numerous
steps to ban asthma medicines. Consider a few examples.  For several decades,  Primatene Mist  was the only over-the-counter asthma inhaler sold in the U.S. Several million people
used it every year. For some of them, Primatene Mist was a
“fill-in” drug, purchased when their prescription for asthma
medicine ran out. For those without serious or chronic asthma,
Primatene Mist seemed well-suited to occasional use. Asthma
sufferers lacking health insurance or a regular doctor liked the
over-the-counter option because Primatene Mist was inexpensive
and easy to buy. This group included a number of poor people.  It is true that many doctors, including asthma specialists,
were unenthusiastic about Primatene Mist, which could have
harmful side effects, including headaches and dizziness. In
their view, asthma sufferers should be under regular medical
care, and prescription medicines would do significantly better
in addressing their problem.  Further Bans  But when it banned Primatene Mist (in 2008, in the closing
months of the  Bush administration ), the FDA  didn’t act  for that
reason. Nor did it examine whether, for reasons other than the
Montreal Protocol, the nation’s only over-the-counter asthma
medicine should be removed from the market. Indeed, the agency
explicitly relied on the treaty and acknowledged that the
resulting ban could cost “hundreds of millions of dollars
annually, and increase hospitalizations and emergency department
visits for asthma significantly.”  The FDA has also prohibited numerous prescription
medicines. Again during the Bush administration, it  banned 
widely prescribed albuterol inhalers that used CFCs. The good
news is that CFC-free substitutes are available. The bad news is
that the substitutes have been significantly more expensive, and
many asthmatics don’t think they work as well.  By the end of this year, moreover, asthma sufferers will be
 unable to purchase  the Maxair Autohaler, which has been used by
hundreds of thousands of Americans who say they benefit from its
unique delivery system. Giving notice of the ban in 2010, the
FDA deserves credit for providing consumers with ample time to
seek alternatives. But some asthma sufferers won’t be happy to
learn that their own government has made their preferred asthma
inhaler unavailable.  Asthma is a serious problem in the U.S., particularly among
the poor. We need to be devoting a lot of attention to how to
make effective medicines both cheaper and more available.
Neither the Montreal Protocol nor the FDA can be blamed for the
current situation. But it isn’t terribly helpful if the federal
government is forbidding medicines that are significantly
cheaper and, for some patients, more effective than those that
are allowed on the market.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 