-- EBay Probed by Regulator Over Loans Pioneered by Payday Lenders
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-10-22T15:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ebay-probed-by-regulator-over-loans-pioneered-by-payday-lenders.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  is facing a probe by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau over a loan program that
mimics a structure used by high-interest lenders to evade state
rules before the practice was stamped out by regulators.  The program, called Bill Me Later, is a service of the
online marketplace’s PayPal unit that relies on  Salt Lake City ,
Utah-based Comenity Capital Bank to make loans that are then
purchased and managed by EBay, according to regulatory filings.
Under federal law, banks can lend in any state without being
licensed there, or complying with local interest rate caps.  So-called payday lenders used similar arrangements to avoid
state rules before regulators and state attorneys general ended
the practice, said Margot Saunders, a lawyer with the National
Consumer Law Center.  “The key issues are who have the risk of loss and who has
the primary income,” Saunders said in an interview. “And the
banks typically arrange these deals by having no risk at all.”  San Jose , California-based EBay disclosed the CFPB probe on
Oct. 18, saying it had received requests for information related
to Bill Me Later’s “products and services, advertising, loan
origination, customer acquisition, servicing, debt collection,
and complaints handling practices.” The service is part of its
PayPal unit.  Sam Gilford, a spokesman for CFPB, did not respond to
requests for comment. Kari Ramirez, EBay spokeswoman, said the
companies “take consumer protection very seriously and are
cooperating with the CFPB’s investigation.”  2008 Deal  In 2008 EBay acquired Bill Me Later, which also lets users
finance purchases in online markets run by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
 The Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Customers can avoid the
annual 19.99 percent rate by paying off the loan before the end
of a six-month promotional period. If they pay later, they incur
accumulated interest and fees that effectively raise the annual
rate.  The consumer bureau said in an Oct. 1 report that these
“deferred interest” products can end up being more expensive
for consumers than using a normal  credit card .  Mark Lavelle, a senior vice president at PayPal, said on
Feb. 11 that Bill Me Later, which was founded in 2000,
“probably couldn’t get off the ground today” because of
increased regulatory scrutiny applied to lenders.  The absence of competitors “is good for my company now,
but I don’t think it’s necessarily good for our economy,”
Lavelle told analysts.  Payday Lenders  EBay purchased loans worth $3.2 billion in 2012, according
to regulatory filings. Its total revenue that year was $14.1
billion.  In the late 1990s, so-called payday lenders, which offer
loans due when a borrowers get their next paychecks, linked with
banks to lend in states where the practice is illegal or
requires licensing. Payday loans can carry interest rates of as
much as 521 percent, according to the consumer bureau.  Banks officially made the loans, which payday lenders then
purchased. Regulators including the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. stamped out
the practice over the next decade, arguing it was a reputational
risk to the banks.  A lawsuit in U.S. District Court in  Utah  charges that EBay
has embraced the same approach with Bill Me Later. A customer of
the service in  California , Kyle Sawyer, charged in the suit that
EBay worked with another bank, New York-based  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , to
dodge the state’s interest-rate limits. The rates on Bill Me
Later loans can exceed 100 percent, according to the lawsuit.  Evasion ‘Scheme’  “PayPal, who acquired Bill Me Later, bought a program that
structured a scheme to launder loans to evade state law,” the
plaintiff’s lawyer, Jeff Friedman, said in a 2012 hearing.
“It’s that simple.”  EBay said in its most recent regulatory filing that the
lawsuit is “without merit.”  EBay now uses Comenity Capital, which is owned by Plano,
Texas-based  Alliance Data Systems Corp. (ADS) , to make the loans,
according to regulatory filings in which EBay describes itself
as the lending decision-maker. In its 2012 annual report, it
said that 55.8 percent of Bill Me Later customers had prime
credit scores.  Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Federal Financial
Analytics, said the service resembles a “shadow banking
industry” in which “serious consumer protection issues” can
arise.  “What kind of incentives are there to bypass the rules?”
Petrou said in an interview. Non-bank lenders like EBay can lack
the “compliance culture” that characterizes banks, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  