-- ECB List of Banks Due for 2014 Assessments Includes 124 Lenders
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-10-22T17:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ecb-list-of-banks-due-for-2014-assessments-includes-124-lenders.html
The  European Central Bank  plans to
take on 124 “significant” euro-area banks in its new
supervisory role, according to a list obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Germany has the most banks up for ECB scrutiny, with 24
banks including Deutsche Bank AG, Commerzbank AG and  Bayerische
Landesbank .  Spain  has 16 banks, Italy has 15 and  France  has 13
banks on the list. The Netherlands has 7 institutions
represented on the preliminary list, which was circulated to
European officials at the end of last week.  The ECB will assess the health of the banks’ balance sheets
next year as it prepares to become the euro area’s top
supervisor. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has urged the currency
bloc’s nations to make sure they have public backstops in place
for banks that are deemed to need more capital, and EU leaders
meeting in Brussels this week will press to establish “all
appropriate arrangements.”  The list includes banks which, as of the end of 2012, had
assets of more than 30 billion euros ($41 billion) or that
represent 20 percent of their home country’s gross domestic
product, as spelled out in the law establishing the ECB’s
oversight powers.  Authorities preparing the list also included banks that
might have grown big enough to meet the review’s thresholds by
the end of 2013 by adding in banks who had assets of at least 27
billion euros, or 18 percent of GDP, at the end of last year.  The top three biggest banks in each nation are
automatically included, although in some cases they are
subsidiaries of banks already on the list. Also, as spelled out
in the  Single Supervisory Mechanism law , the list includes banks
that have received or applied for public assistance.  All other euro-area nations have between three and six
banks on the list, except for Malta and Slovakia. All three of
Slovakia’s biggest banks are owned by lenders already on the
list, as is one of Malta’s. Two other Maltese banks are included
on the list.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  