-- ECB Said to Use 8% Capital Buffer on Biggest Banks
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ecb-said-to-use-8-capital-buffer-on-biggest-banks.html
The European Central Bank will
require the euro area’s biggest banks to hold a capital buffer
of at least 8 percent as it takes charge of financial
supervision in the currency bloc, three people familiar with the
situation said.  The ECB will ask banks to hold capital equivalent to 7
percent of risk-weighted assets, plus a supplemental 1 percent
for the largest institutions, said the people who declined to be
identified as the details are confidential. An ECB spokeswoman
declined to comment. The central bank is scheduled to publish
further details at 9 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today.  “That’s a level many banks could cope with,” Dirk Becker,
a banking analyst with Kepler Cheuvreux in Frankfurt, said in an
interview. “Banks will continue to set aside profit as ECB
supervision nears. I don’t see a whole lot of share sales, as it
is pretty tough to justify issuance.”  The ECB is taking charge of bank oversight as policy makers
try to prevent a rerun of a debt crisis that was partly sparked
by banks’ overexposure to sovereign debt. The first step will be
to run tests on the balance sheets of 124 banks from Deutsche
Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest bank, to the Estonian unit of
 Norway ’s  DNB ASA. (DNB)  The operation may force some lenders to seek
more capital.  Lowest Number  A key determinant of how much banks will have to raise will
rest on how the ECB measures the riskiness of bank assets,
guidelines the ECB hasn’t yet published and which may differ
from how banks currently gauge it. That makes it difficult to
calculate which banks may fall foul of the ECB’s capital ratio.  Under current Basel III standards, the weakest of the 19
large banks monitored by Bloomberg Industries still have ratios
above 8 percent.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , which had the lowest number
among the euro region banks, had a ratio of 8.4 percent.  “The ratio is just the starting point, more will depend on
the stress test that is applied on top of them and what happens
to the capital ratios then,” said Cor Kluis, an analyst at
Rabobank International, covering Dutch and Belgian banks. “What
will help increase safety of the European banking system is a
consistent cross-border view and definitions, which is what we
didn’t have so far.”  The benchmarks planned by the ECB effectively bring forward
a European Union standard on the capital ratio that was not due
to fully take effect until 2019. The definition of capital in EU
rules will toughen year by year through 2019 as currently
foreseen, one of the people said.  Three-Pronged Assessment  The ECB is cooperating with the European Banking Authority
in a three-pronged assessment of the continent’s financial
industry.  The ECB will execute a preliminary risk check early next
year to identify asset portfolios needing further examination,
followed by a full review of the quality of banks’ overall
balance sheets. The EBA will then help conduct a stress test in
the course of 2014 that will study how banks might withstand
bouts of market turmoil as well as an assessment of their
sovereign debt holdings.  The 8 percent capital ratio demanded by the ECB is lower
than the average held by financial institutions around the world
when Basel III standards are used.  ‘Full Visibility’  The ECB’s 8 percent threshold consists of a 4.5 percent
common equity tier 1 capital minimum, up from 2 percent under
current EU rules. On top of that is a 2.5 percent capital
conservation buffer. One additional percentage point of capital
against assets would then be required for banks large or complex
enough to endanger the whole financial system if they fail.  “The main aim of the asset review is to allow the ECB to
gain full visibility on the quality of the assets of the banks
which will be under its direct supervision,” said  Marco Valli ,
chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan.
“The lack of balance sheet visibility and comparability across
countries has been one of the main factors weighing negatively
on investors’ perception of the riskiness of the European
banking industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  