-- EMC Declines After Profit, Forecasts Fall Short of Estimates
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-10-22T20:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/emc-third-quarter-profit-sales-fall-short-of-analyst-estimates.html
EMC Corp. (EMC)  shares declined the most
since May 2012 after third-quarter profit fell short of
analysts’ estimates and the company cut sales and earnings
forecasts for the year amid a drop in U.S. government spending.  EMC, the world’s largest maker of storage computers, slid
4.8 percent to $24.04 at the close in  New York . The stock has
fallen 5 percent  this year , while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has gained 23 percent.  The company’s third-quarter sales fell $250 million short
of its own forecasts, hurt by weaker U.S. government sales and
some orders that came in late in the quarter and were therefore
not fulfilled, Chief Financial Officer David Goulden said today
on a conference call. The U.S. government generates 8 percent of
EMC’s revenue, according to a report by Barclays Plc.  The government is “an important customer” for EMC, said
 Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San
Francisco . Federal agencies, which typically buy storage
equipment and software on predictable schedules, have been
either putting off purchases because of questions about budgets
or buying hastily, making forecasting difficult, he said.  “Deals that they thought were going to come in didn’t,”
Noland said in an interview. “They’re taking too long to make a
decision.”  Government Shortfall  For the third quarter, profit before some costs was 40
cents a share, the company said in a statement today. Analysts
predicted 45 cents on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales were $5.54 billion, compared with analysts’
average projection of $5.8 billion.  A  federal budget  stalemate in the U.S. resulted in the
temporary shutdown of some agencies this month, and as the
stoppage approached some government customers held off
purchases. The government shortfall is a concern because the
third quarter is typically the “biggest and most important”
for these customers, Goulden said. Spending from that area
decreased “significantly” compared with the year-ago quarter,
after being unchanged in the first half of the year, he said.  EMC, based in Hopkinton,  Massachusetts , forecast full-year
sales of $23.25 billion and adjusted profit per share of $1.80.
The company in July had projected revenue of $23.5 billion and
profit of $1.85 a share.  2016 Forecasts  The company said in March that it will boost revenue by at
least 8 percent a year and profit will rise 10 percent annually
through 2016 as market share increases. Sales will exceed $30
billion in 2016, Goulden said at the time.  While missing estimates, EMC’s earnings did get a boost
from results at majority-owned  VMware Inc. (VMW)  VMware, a  Palo Alto ,
California-based maker of software that lets computers run
multiple operating systems, reported profit that exceeded
analysts’ projections as corporate customers renewed licensing
deals, sending shares up 2.8 percent to $85.  Profit before certain items was 84 cents a share in the
third quarter, and revenue rose 14 percent to $1.29 billion,
VMware said yesterday in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  