-- Emerging-Market Currency Rout Will Worsen Next Year, Jen Says
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-10-22T10:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/emerging-market-currency-rout-will-worsen-next-year-jen-says.html
Emerging-market currencies will
probably see bigger declines next year when the  Federal Reserve 
actually starts tapering its record stimulus, Stephen Jen, co-founder of hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners LLP said.  The Fed’s signal on May 22 that it may start reducing its
$85 billion of monthly bond purchases caused the JPMorgan
 Emerging Markets  Currency Index to drop 7.2 percent through the
end of August.  India ’s rupee led the declines with a 16 percent
loss during the period, followed by  Brazil ’s real at 14 percent
and Indonesia’s rupiah at 13 percent. The gauge has since
rallied 4.3 percent as the Fed unexpectedly decided to maintain
its debt buying on Sept. 18.  “Emerging-market currencies will have serious moments” in
2014, Jen, the former global head of foreign-exchange at Morgan
Stanley who predicted the rout in April, said at a conference in
 Singapore . “What we have seen this year I think is just a pre-earthquake tremor. It was only the possibility that the Fed will
start tapering that caused this volatility.”  Currency markets in developing economies may see a “period
of tranquility” in the next two months before facing another
bout of weakness as the  U.S. economy  recovers, he said in a
separate interview. The Fed will probably start trimming its
monetary stimulus early next year and currencies of nations such
as India and Indonesia that have large current-account deficits
will be vulnerable to sell-offs, according to Jen.  India’s shortfall in the broadest measure of trade was 4.9
percent of gross domestic product in the April-June quarter,
while  Indonesia ’s gap was 4.4 percent in the same period.  ‘Deep Rooted’  Indonesia has increased prices of subsidized fuel since
June and raised borrowing costs to cool domestic demand and
tackle the current-account shortfall. India has curbed gold
imports and restricted currency derivatives, as well as opened a
window for banks to swap new foreign-currency deposits by non-resident Indians to boost dollar supply.  Structural problems in some developing nations are “deep-rooted,” said Jen. “They need to reform as well, but if these
countries haven’t reformed in the past four years why are they
going to do that in the next four months? Usually politicians
are forced to reform when there’s a crisis because the
electorate understand the need for reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  