-- Emerging Stocks Rise on U.S. Jobs Data as Ibovespa Surges
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-10-22T20:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/emerging-stocks-snap-five-day-advance-as-china-mobile-slumps.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
sixth day as lower-than-forecast growth in U.S. payrolls fueled
speculation the Federal Reserve will refrain from tapering
stimulus.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa climbed to a seven-month high.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.2 percent to
1,044.66. The Ibovespa jumped to the highest level since March
18 as iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE5)  rallied, while  AngloGold Ashanti 
Ltd. drove the FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index to a record in
Johannesburg.  South Africa ’s rand jumped to a one-month high,
pacing gains among 24 developing-nation currencies.  Stocks joined a global rally after a government report
showed that U.S. payrolls climbed less than projected in
September, indicating the economy had little momentum leading up
to the government shutdown. The jobless rate fell to an almost
five-year low. The budget dispute weighed on fourth-quarter
growth and will prompt policy makers to wait until March before
starting to trim stimulus, a Bloomberg survey showed last week.  “The weak employment data we saw this morning would
support a more accommodative Fed going forward,” Kevin Caron, a
 Florham Park , New Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $150 billion, said by
phone. The market is “starting to price in that maybe the Fed
won’t be so tight after all,” he said.  Seven out of 10 groups in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
advanced, led by commodity and utility companies. The benchmark
gauge for developing nations has retreated 1 percent this year
to trade at 10.8 times projected  earnings , compared with the
 valuation  of 14.4 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rallied 1 percent to $43.66. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
advanced 2.1 percent to 19.26.  Brazil’s Ibovespa advanced for a third day as  Vale  rallied
1.3 percent. Airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA surged
after a measure of profitability climbed in September. The real
rebounded from earlier losses, while  Mexico ’s peso snapped a
two-day drop.  Russian equities declined for the first time in three days
as OAO Mechel, the nation’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmakers, slumped 1.6 percent. The Borsa Istanbul National
100 Index gained for a a fifth day, led by Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS. Benchmark gauges in Poland and  Hungary  retreated.  China, India  The Shanghai Composite Index retreated, led by developers,
as surging home prices spurred speculation the government may
tighten property curbs.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  and  Gemdale
Corp. (600383)  paced declines for property companies.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks dropped as some investors bet the benchmark
index’s gain to a three-year high yesterday was excessive.  Hero
MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) , the nation’s largest motorcycle maker, slid for
the first time in four days.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s biggest refining complex, fell the most in two
weeks. Software exporter  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  climbed to a 13-year high.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index rose for a ninth day
in the longest winning streak since October 2007. AngloGold
Ashanti surged 7.9 percent. The rand gained 1.2 percent.  Telecom  Egypt , the country’s landline phone monopoly,
climbed to the highest level since February after Vodafone Plc
expressed interest in buying the shares it doesn’t already own
in the companies’ local joint venture. The benchmark EGX 30
Index rose 1.8 percent.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 315 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ‘Serious Moments’  Emerging-market currencies will probably see bigger
declines next year when the  Federal Reserve  actually starts
tapering its record stimulus, Stephen Jen, co-founder of hedge
fund SLJ Macro Partners LLP said.  “Emerging-market currencies will have serious moments” in
2014, Jen, the former global head of foreign-exchange at Morgan
Stanley who predicted the rout in April, said at a conference in
 Singapore . “What we have seen this year I think is just a pre-earthquake tremor. It was only the possibility that the Fed will
start tapering that caused this volatility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  