-- Employers in U.S. Probably Expanded Payrolls at a Faster Pace
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-10-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/employers-in-u-s-probably-expanded-payrolls-at-a-faster-pace.html
Employers probably added more
workers in September than in the prior month and the  jobless
rate  held at the lowest level since 2008, a sign the U.S. labor
market was picking up before the government’s partial shutdown.  Payrolls rose by 180,000 last month, the most since April,
after a 169,000 gain in August, according to the median forecast
of 93 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The report, delayed by
the 16-day shutdown that ended last week, was originally slated
for Oct. 4.  Sustaining the advance in the labor market hinges on how
quickly the world’s largest economy can bounce back from the
loss of business caused by the fiscal impasse. The budget
dispute may have trimmed fourth-quarter growth, and
Federal Reserve policy makers will probably wait until March to
begin trimming stimulus, a Bloomberg survey showed last week.  “Payrolls will look a little better” compared with the
previous few months, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . “From here on, we’ll see
some impact from the shutdown, though I wouldn’t expect that to
be long-lived. As the overall economy improves, it will lift the
labor market along with it.”  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from payroll
increases of 100,000 to 256,000.  The  unemployment rate , derived from a separate Labor
Department survey of households, held at  7.3 percent  last month,
according to the median projection in the Bloomberg survey.  Faster hiring that leads to bigger gains in wages would
help accelerate  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  Private Employment  Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
increased 180,000 in September following a 152,000 advance the
prior month, economists predicted.  Even as the debate on fiscal policy heated up last month,
retailers began announcing plans to add workers for the holiday-shopping season.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, is
hiring 55,000 seasonal employees, a 10 percent rise from last
year.  Target Corp. (TGT)  said it plans to take on about 70,000
workers.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  will add about 53,000 workers for the
holiday season, about the same as last year.  The projected gain in payrolls for September would still be
below the average 195,000 monthly increase in the first half of
2013. Through August, the U.S. had recovered 6.8 million of the
8.7 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  Government Shutdown  President  Barack Obama  last week signed legislation that
funds the government through mid-January and suspends the
nation’s $16.7 trillion debt limit, for now ending the threat of
default, which economists had warned could tip the U.S. back
into a recession.  The October employment report will be pushed back to Nov. 8
from the originally announced Nov. 1, according to the Labor
Department’s website.  Fed policy makers, scheduled to gather Oct. 29-30, are
trying to gauge the strength of the U.S. expansion without
federal economic data that was suspended when some government
agencies closed.  The central bankers will wait until their March 18-19
meeting to pare the monthly pace of asset buying to $70 billion
from $85 billion, according to the median of 40 responses in a
Bloomberg survey last week.  Fed’s View  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said at a press conference following the Fed’s September
meeting.  While the labor market has shown improvement, the partial
federal shutdown and the debt limit showdown may have been a
source of concern for employers.  San Francisco  based  URS Corp. (URS) , a provider of engineering
and construction services, furloughed about 3,000 employees,
saying the total includes employees idled by the closing of a
government facility where they work as well as those directed by
U.S. officials to halt operations or cut staffing.  Among other companies paring their workforce, San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. mortgage
lender, last week said it eliminated an additional 925 jobs in
its home-loan unit and has cut more than 5,700 since midyear.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  