-- Lenovo Taps Actor Kutcher Who Played Steve Jobs Amid Brand Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-22T09:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/lenovo-taps-actor-kutcher-who-played-steve-jobs-amid-brand-push.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  is turning to
actor Ashton Kutcher, fresh off a film on Apple Inc. co-founder
 Steve Jobs , amid the company’s efforts to boost its brand as it
expands from computers into smartphones and tablets.  Kutcher will join Lenovo for a product announcement to be
streamed live on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube site at 7 p.m. Pacific
Time on Oct. 29, Lenovo said in an e-mailed statement today. A
web  page  set up by the company for the event contains three
videos suggesting the announcement may pertain to a new tablet
computer, or a better way to grip or power such devices.  Lenovo, the world’s top PC maker, in May tapped basketball
player Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers to promote its
smartphones. Lenovo is the latest Asian hardware maker to look
to Hollywood for a boost, after  HTC Corp. (2498)  in August began
running ads with Robert Downey Jr., who starred as Iron Man and
 Sherlock Holmes  in hit movies. Downey’s two-year global
marketing deal was worth about $12 million, two people with
knowledge of the plans said in June.  Kutcher, who stars on the television show “Two and a Half
Men,” has more than 15 million followers of his  microblog  on
Twitter Inc., and had the title role in “Jobs,” a biopic on
Apple’s co-founder released in August.  Brion Tingler, a spokesman for Lenovo, declined to comment
beyond the text of the invitation that describes the event as
Lenovo’s “most exciting product announcement to date.”  Lenovo plans to boost its global tablet shipments to 10
million units this year, from 2.2 million last year, Chief
Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in May.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  