-- ENRC, China Move Toward Platinum Production in Zimbabwe
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-10-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/enrc-china-move-toward-platinum-production-in-zimbabwe.html
Zimbabwe  Mining Development Corp., a
state-owned company, plans to start metal production with
 Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  and a Chinese company on
concessions taken from  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)   A venture with ENRC, controlled by businessmen from
 Kazakhstan  and the government of the former Soviet Union
country, is due to start producing platinum in the first quarter
of next year. An exploration report from an alliance with the
Chinese company, previously identified as  Norinco International
Cooperation Ltd. (000065) , is due by year-end.  “Everything is on course” for the venture with ENRC, , to
start production in the African country by April, Jerry Ndlovu,
managing director of the state-owned Zimbabwean company, said in
an interview in Harare, the capital, yesterday. ENRC declined to
comment when called yesterday.  Zimbabwe, which has the world’s biggest resources of
platinum after  South Africa , is trying to expand its  mining
industry  to help the country recover from a decade of economic
contraction between 2000 and 2009. Failed land reform programs
slashed production of tobacco and roses, increasing the
country’s reliance on metal.  Todal Mining  The country will produce about 365,000 ounces of platinum
as well as metals found in the ore alongside the metal this year
from mines owned by Anglo American Platinum, Impala and  Aquarius
Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , according to the country’s’ Chamber of Mines, an
industry body. Those companies, the rest of whose assets are in
South Africa, are the only producers of the metal in Zimbabwe.  Mining companies operating in Zimbabwe are compelled by law
to cede or sell control of their assets to the government or
black local citizens.  ENRC holds 60 percent of Todal Mining Ltd., which owns a
4,500-hectare (11,120-acre) concession near Shurugwi, 233
kilometers (145 miles) south west of Harare, according to its
last annual report. ZMDC owns the rest.  ENRC acquired the interest when it took over Central
African Mining & Exploration Co., known as Camec. Camec paid
$120 million in cash and shares to Zimbabwe for the stake in
2008 and agreed to lend the government of President  Robert
Mugabe  a further $100 million, it said in a statement at the
time. The concessions were formerly held by Johannesburg-based
Anglo American Platinum.  Shin-Zim  In 2008 Camec said a mine on the Bougai and Kironde
concessions would be built at a cost of $200 million within 18
months and would produce as much as 150,000 ounces of
platinum annually.  ZMDC also has an equally owned venture, Global Platinum,
with a Chinese company, Ndlovu said, declining to give the
identity of the company. The venture will operate as Shin-Zim
Ltd., he said. In 2006 the ZMDC said it formed Global Platinum
with Norinco, a state-owned Chinese engineering company, on
concessions taken from Impala.  “We have spent $40 million on exploration for that
project,” he said. “The final report for exploration shall be
with us before the end of the year.”  Global’s concessions are in Selous, 69 kilometers (43 miles)
south west of Harare.  “We are still at the exploration stage,” Richman Ncube, a
spokesman for Global, said in an interview. Results are
“favorable, these things take time.  The chamber listed other potential producers as RusChrome,
Amari Platinum and ACR, in a report this month.  In August Russia’s Kommersant newspaper reported that Vi
Holding, Rostech and Vnesheconombank, a state-owned  development
bank , were considering buying 40 percent of RusChrome Mining for
$300 million to gain access to the Zimbabwean deposit.
Kommersant cited two unidentified people close to the talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  