-- Merkel’s Second Term Ends as New German Parliament Convenes
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-22T09:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/merkel-s-second-term-ends-as-new-german-parliament-convenes.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s second
term ends today as  Germany ’s lower house of parliament convenes
without a new government, as her Christian Democrats and the
Social Democrats prepare for coalition talks.  German President  Joachim Gauck  granted Merkel permission to
oversee a caretaker government until a new cabinet is sworn in,
as the lower house, or  Bundestag , meets in Berlin a month after
the Sept. 22 election to begin the new term.  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its CSU Bavarian
sister party spent weeks in exploratory talks, including
overtures to the Greens, before deciding to form a government
with the SPD. The SPD this week approved the negotiations after
setting “essential” conditions, including a national  minimum
wage . Talks begin tomorrow.  The session opening the 18th legislative period since the
Federal Republic of Germany was founded in 1949 is procedural,
electing the Bundestag president, the CDU’s Norbert Lammert, and
his deputies, representing each parliamentary caucus.  Merkel’s bloc dominates the assembly with 311 of the 631
seats. The SPD has 193, while the anti-capitalist Left Party and
the environmental Green party have 64 and 63 respectively.  Party leaders have said they plan to negotiate through
November with the aim to have a government by Christmas.
Negotiators will complete an agreement with a two-day meeting on
Nov. 26 and 27,  Leipziger Volkszeitung  newspaper reported today.  SPD Votes  The SPD said it will put the coalition pact to a vote of
its 470,000 members; a mail-in ballot process that the party’s
general secretary, Andrea Nahles, said will take about two
weeks. Merkel’s third government, a repeat of her grand
coalition with the SPD from 2005 to 2009, would then be sworn in
on Dec. 17th or 18th, Leipziger Volkszeitung reported.  Following today’s session, Merkel and her cabinet will be
officially dismissed at the presidential palace.  With the new government, Merkel’s cabinet ministers from
the pro-business Free Democratic Party, including Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle , with whom she’s governed for four
years, will be out of a job. The FDP failed to make the 5
percent threshold to enter the Bundestag for the first time in
Germany’s post-World War II history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  