-- EU Lawmakers Reject Draghi Call for Bank Bondholder Clemency
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   I a n   W i s h a r t
-- 2013-10-22T07:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/eu-lawmakers-reject-draghi-call-for-bank-bondholder-clemency.html
The European Union’s competition
authorities should resist a challenge by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  to the imposition of bondholder losses at
banks that receive public aid, two senior EU lawmakers said.  Draghi has called on Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s antitrust
chief, to avoid an “improperly strict” interpretation of the
bloc’s state-aid rules when the European Commission polices any
public support given to banks that struggle in ECB-led stress
tests scheduled for next year.  “It would to my mind be a mistake to show weakness of
resolve at the first test of bail-in,”  Sharon Bowles ,
chairwoman of the European Parliament’s Economic and Monetary
Affairs Committee, said by e-mail late yesterday, referring to
rules for creditor losses. “That is not what we expected from
the ECB.”  An overly zealous application of the rules, which require
junior bondholders to face writedowns before governments can
inject capital, “may well destroy the very confidence in the
euro-area banks which we all intend to restore,” Draghi said in
a July 30 letter to Almunia.  In his Sept. 3 reply to Draghi, Almunia said the ECB’s
assessment timetable will allow banks that foresee potential
shortfalls to raise capital in advance. Regulators may
“deviate” from imposing creditor losses in “exceptional
circumstances,” subject to case-by-case review, Almunia said.  “The Draghi letter is a demonstration of why central banks
should never get responsibility over banking resolution,” Sven Giegold, a German member of the parliament’s economy committee,
said in an interview. “Banking resolution has to be done in
accordance with the interests of taxpayers,” he said. “We need
to move to a much stronger bail-in regime.”  Top Supervisor  The ECB-led bank tests are being organized as a precursor
to the central bank becoming the euro area’s top supervisor, a
move scheduled to take place by November 2014.  The ECB’s oversight powers, which were formally endorsed by
EU finance ministers earlier this month, have been billed by the
bloc’s leaders as the first step in building a banking union in
the euro area that will sever ties between lenders and
governments, and so boost confidence.  “We made them supervisor to be strong, not just a defender
of weak banks,” Bowles said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Wishart in Strasbourg, France at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  