-- Europe Needs Common Power-Capacity Market to Fill Gaps, EON Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-22T15:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/europe-needs-common-power-capacity-market-to-fill-gaps-eon-says.html
France  and  Germany  should start to
develop a common European market for power capacity to prevent
shortages and the threat of a breakdown in the electricity
system, EON SE Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen said.  “Reliability is reaching an all-time low,” Teyssen told
an energy conference. “We see an ever growing number of power
stations being retired because they are unprofitable.”  A unified market would pay generators for reserve capacity
to ensure sufficient regional production during periods of high
demand like cold spells, according to consulting firm  Cap Gemini
SA. (CAP)  Companies such as EON and  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  are pushing
governments and the European Commission to help the industry by
restricting renewables subsidies, volatility in energy prices
and rising consumer bills.  “We need coordinated national initiatives to reform the
European power market,” Teyssen, who is also president of the
Eurelectric power-industry lobby, told the conference today in
Paris. “In some central regions an aligned system of capacity
reward could be created, and later on other people could
follow.” France and Germany are closely connected, he said.  Carbon emissions rules need to change, Teyssen said.  Heads of 10 of the region’s biggest utilities this month
called on the European Union to shift energy and climate policy
and curb subsidies. Representing half of Europe’s capacity, the
companies including EON,  RWE AG (RWE)  and GDF Suez said the policies
discourage investors and risk an energy crisis in the region.  France is developing a market that would force utilities to
maintain spare capacity by about the third quarter of 2016,
according to Pierre-Marie Abadie, head of energy at France’s
environment and energy ministry. Talks have begun between French
and German authorities on capacity markets, he said.  Estimates suggest the planned system may require additional
production capacity by the time it comes into effect because of
the retirement of outdated coal-fired plants, Abadie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  