-- Euro’s Best-Rated Nation Loses Jobs as Finnish Firms Suffer
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-10-23T06:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/euro-s-best-rated-nation-loses-jobs-as-finnish-firms-bleed-money.html
Finland ’s efforts to protect its
stable AAA rating and keep borrowing costs down aren’t helping
its businesses, which say they need to cut jobs even as the rest
of Europe surfaces from its crisis.  While the government in Helsinki is pegging its recovery
hopes to fiscal restraint, Finland’s biggest hurdle is its
failure to adequately diversify its industries, according to
Tiina Helenius, chief economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in
Helsinki.  After coming to grips with the decline of Nokia Oyj -- once
a provider of growth and jobs to the Finnish economy -- the
northernmost euro member is struggling to find new industries to
pick up the pieces. More than a dozen Finnish companies reduced
their profit outlooks over the past six weeks, while stalwarts
of heavy industry such as  Outotec Oyj (OTE1V)  say they’ll need to cut
hundreds of jobs.  “The difficulties are related to Finland’s industrial
structure,” Helenius said in a phone interview. “The global
industrial and investment cycles are the central drivers for our
economy. Unfortunately, they haven’t performed on the level
we’re used to.”  Finland’s economic pain suggests that governments bent on
protecting their budgets may risk fueling debt relative to gross
domestic product as their economies contract. Prime Minister
 Jyrki Katainen , who leads a six-party coalition, said last month
public debt will breach the European Union’s 60 percent
threshold to GDP for the first time next year even after a
series of budget cuts.  AAA Trap  Companies that cut their profit outlooks in the past month
and a half represent about 16 percent of the market value of
Nasdaq OMX Helsinki, excluding firms listed on the exchange that
are domiciled abroad.  While Finland holds a higher  credit rating  than any other
euro nation, its economy will shrink more than the 17-nation
bloc this year. Finnish GDP will fall 0.6 percent in 2013,
versus a 0.4 percent decline in the euro area, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on Oct. 8. The  unemployment rate  rose to 7.6
percent in September from 7.1 percent a month earlier, the
statistics office said yesterday. Exports dropped 11 percent in
August from a year earlier, bringing the year-to-date decline to
4 percent, the customs office said on Oct. 8. Sales of
machinery, forest industry goods, steel and pharmaceuticals
shrank the most, it said.  Chinese Consumers  Part of Finnish industry’s problem is its failure to latch
on to the growth in consumer demand that’s coming from China,
according to Kim Gorschelnik, head of equity research at Tapiola
Bank Oyj in Helsinki.  Outotec, the Espoo-based smelter supplier, started talks
last week on cutting 500 jobs and lowered its sales and profit
forecasts as mining clients reduce  capital spending . Other
machinery makers suffering from lower demand include Helsinki-based rock-crusher manufacturer Metso Oyj, cargo-handling
equipment maker  Cargotec Oyj (CGCBV)  and Hyvinkaa-based  Konecranes Oyj (KCR1V) ,
a cranemaker for ports and shipyards, which all cut their full-year guidance last week.  “These companies are quite heavily dependent on China’s
growth and infrastructure projects in the country,” Gorschelnik
said by phone. “As Chinese demand shifts toward  consumer goods 
from investment goods, it hits the Helsinki stock exchange
pretty hard.”  Goldman’s Warning  Consumer goods account for about 10 percent of Finnish
exports and investment goods about 29 percent, according to the
customs office. The remaining 61 percent are raw materials and
energy products. Sweden and Germany export twice as much or more
in consumer goods, according to Helenius.  Finnish industrial-machinery makers  Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , Outotec and
Waertsilae Oyj are among companies facing tougher conditions for
years after benefiting from booming markets in the past decade,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report on Oct. 11.  Warnings about Finland’s faltering industry haven’t fallen
on deaf ears. Katainen is due next month to unveil details of
about 9 billion euros ($12.4 billion) in structural measures
intended to boost competitiveness and improve the supply of
labor. He’s also agreed to lower the company tax rate to 20
percent from 24.5 percent starting next year.  Katainen’s National Coalition party fell to third place in
a poll by newspaper  Helsingin Sanomat  today, behind opposition
Center Party and “The Finns” party for the first time since
coming to power in 2011.  Finland’s experience may be a cautionary tale showing how
rapidly an economy’s fate can turn. According to Helenius, the
nation failed to invest in growth industries when the time was
right.  Lost Investment  As a result, even companies catering to consumer markets
are cutting profit forecasts. These include meat producers Atria
Oyj and  HKScan Oyj (HKSAV) , the biggest Nordic tiremaker  Nokian Renkaat
Oyj (NRE1V)  as well as residential builder  YIT Oyj (YTY1V)  and the supplier of
construction equipment  Cramo Oyj. (CRA1V)   “The problem is that our industry hasn’t perhaps invested
enough in product renewal and innovation,” Helenius said. “The
rush before the financial crisis, when many Finnish companies
very successfully rode the boom of  emerging markets , may have
led to many neglecting things like product differentiation,
development and creating new business areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  