-- Ex-Deadbeat Tells Deadbeats to Drop 65% Writedown: Andes Credit
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-10-22T15:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ex-deadbeat-tells-deadbeats-to-drop-65-writedown-andes-credit.html
For  Ecuador  President  Rafael Correa ,
how much a debtor should pay depends on whether he owes you or
you owe him.  When Correa defaulted on $3.2 billion of the nation’s debt
five years ago, he refused to give creditors more than 35 cents
on the dollar to buy back the bonds. Now, he’s demanding 49
cents on the dollar to settle $2.43 billion of debt from
borrowers who failed to keep up with payments after Ecuador
seized 33 lenders during its late-1990s financial collapse.  While the central bank says the plan isn’t comparable with
the government’s debt resolution, a settlement will erase one
vestige of the crisis, which caused a default, a presidential
coup, the currency’s collapse and the emigration of more than
2 million economic refugees. Correa, who has relied on oil
profits, loans from  China  and the public pension system to help
finance Ecuador since his 2008 default, is offering to forgive
penalties and some interest in exchange for the cash.  “The government is looking for some liquidity, which it
needs,” Mauricio Pozo, a former economy and finance minister,
said in a telephone interview from Quito. “There’s a problem of
policy consistency, but I doubt they’re connecting how much they
paid bondholders and how much they want to collect.”  Government Stance  Correa is offering to forgive some interest and fees for
almost 3,000 borrowers who owed money when the banks went under
if the debtors repay the original amount plus 8.2 percent annual
interest compounded over the life of the loan, according to the
central bank. They would have three years to pay the debt before
the government restarts lawsuits to force payment.  Ecuador, which has defaulted three times since 1981, is
demanding full repayment with interest and fees for 2,600 more
borrowers who officials suspect used personal ties to bank
employees to gain access to credit.  Central bank President Diego Martinez, appointed by Correa
in January, said the government needs the funds to help repay
about $850 million to depositors of the failed banks who lost
their savings when the lenders collapsed. The government’s plan
to get 40 percent more from debtors than it paid to bondholders
is fair because the bonds were issued illegally, Martinez said.  “It’s not 100 percent comparable,” Martinez said in an
interview at his office in Quito. “They were legitimate
debts.”  ‘Many Injustices’  The government, which assumed responsibility for collecting
the loan payments and refunding depositors after the banks
closed, also made mistakes keeping track of how much borrowers
owed, when they made payments and how the loans were calculated
after the switch to the  U.S. dollar  as the country’s official
currency, which compounded the problem for debtors over the
following years, Martinez said.  “The people that managed the liquidation of these banks
didn’t do their jobs well,” Martinez said. “They committed
many injustices.”  In the default, Correa stopped payments on bonds due 2012
and 2030. The bonds, sold in 2000, were issued as part of an
earlier debt restructuring following the 1999 default. Correa
said the bonds were illegitimate, partly because of the high
price the government paid when it renegotiated the notes.  Correa continued making payments on bonds due in 2015,
which he considered legitimate. Those securities now yield 6.87
percent, or 6.51 percentage points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, down from a gap of as high as 48 percentage points
when Correa stopped payments on the other notes.  Economic Crisis  Thirty-three banks collapsed in the aftermath of Ecuador’s
 financial crisis , which began after a period of deregulation
weakened oversight, according to data from the country’s banking
superintendent. When the global price of oil, the country’s
biggest export, plunged in 1997 and 1998, the government wasn’t
able to repay its foreign debt, declaring a default in 1999.  Attempts to cut public expenses, reduce fuel subsidies and
raise taxes led to an annual inflation rate that reached 91
percent by 2000.  Correa’s offer is too onerous and doesn’t give borrowers
enough room to pay off their loans before the proposed deadline,
said Cecilia Bossano, a member of a  group  representing some of
the debtors. Her organization has asked the state to offer terms
in line with the 2009 sovereign debt renegotiation.  “They should forgive the debt on the same terms because
that’s how they did it,” Bossano, a 54-year-old freelance
television producer, said in a telephone interview from
Guayaquil.  Currency Collapse  Bossano, who says she’s appreciative of government efforts
to resolve the loan issue, fell behind on her payments during
the crisis as devaluations and the collapse of the country’s
former currency, the sucre, undermined her family’s wages. She
and her husband borrowed the equivalent of $95,000 in sucres in
1994 to build a house, then refinanced the loan in dollars four
years later with a total balance of $115,000.  She said she has paid $80,000 on the loan in the past 19
years and owes $315,000 today.  The government may still improve its terms and offer more
assistance to help repay the debts, such as new loans to set up
businesses or the opportunity to refinance at state-controlled
banks, said Pedro Solines, the nation’s banking  superintendent .
Terms need to be easy enough that borrowers are able to repay
their debts or the problem won’t go away, he said.  “It’s the starting point, but everything could be
revised,” Solines said in an interview at his office in  Quito .
“What we want first of all is to make things easier.”  ‘Alternatives’ Limited  The proposal may also benefit candidates from Correa’s
Alianza Pais political party in provincial and municipal
elections scheduled for next February as voters see the
government fighting to recover money for the state, according to
Sebastian Oleas, an economics professor at the Universidad  San
Francisco  in Quito.  “At the end of the day, he’s demanding a payment for the
state,” Oleas said. “The holders of the 2012 and 2030 bonds
didn’t have many alternatives other than accepting -- it was
that or nothing. The good-faith debtors don’t have many options
either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  