-- Ex-Madoff Employee Was Sick Over High Returns, Jury Told
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-23T20:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ex-madoff-employee-altered-code-for-money-jury-told.html
(Corrects spelling of consultant’s name in second
paragraph.)  A former employee of  Bernard Madoff 
on trial for allegedly aiding the con man’s $17 billion fraud
told investigators in 2008 that he closed his personal
investment account two years before the Ponzi scheme unraveled
because the consistently high returns made him feel “sick.”  Daniel Bonventre, who oversaw Madoff’s legitimate broker
dealer and proprietary trading units, “said he woke up with a
sick feeling in his stomach” in 2006 and later closed his
account at the company’s investment advisory business, Meaghan
Schmidt, a consultant who helped unravel the fraud after its
discovery, told jurors yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Bonventre made the comment, Schmidt said, to her two days
after Madoff’s Dec. 11, 2008, arrest, as employees of the
consulting firm AlixPartners LLP, where Schmidt works, fanned
out across the three floors of Madoff’s high-rise offices to
secure documents and ascertain where the business stood.  AlixPartners had been hired by a court-appointed receiver
through the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, she said.
At the time, Bonventre hadn’t been accused of any crime.  Schmidt told the jury that while she was examining Madoff’s
office the day after his arrest, she found a stack of about 100
checks on his desk that had been written a few days earlier,
totaling about $175 million.  Among them were checks for $8.2 million to Marion Madoff,
the wife of Madoff’s brother  Peter Madoff , who helped run the
company for four decades; $1.37 million to former employee David
Kugel and about $725,000 to Joann Crupi, who managed large
accounts and is also on trial.  Paintings, Bulls  During the testimony, photographs of Madoff’s office were
displayed for the jurors on flat-screen panels. The images
showed Madoff’s black desk covered in papers, black leather
chairs, a black table covered in framed personal photographs,
and bright modern artwork on the wall, including paintings and
large prints of two stylized bulls.  Bonventre and Crupi have pleaded not guilty in the case, as
have the three other defendants, computer programmers George Perez and Jerome O’Hara, and Annette Bongiorno, who worked for
Madoff for 40 years, including as his personal secretary.
Bongiorno helped run the company’s investment advisory business.  The five former Madoff employees are accused of conspiring
for decades to hide Madoff’s fraud by creating millions of fake
documents to trick customers and regulators.  Commissions Received  Schmidt was the fourth witness to testify in the first
criminal trial stemming from the world’s biggest  Ponzi scheme ,
which deprived investors of $17 billion in principal and
billions more in fake profit. U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain said the trial may last as long as five months.  Schmidt testified that the general ledger for the units
overseen by Bonventre regularly received wire transfers of money
from the fraudulent investment advisory business, as a result of
trades “purportedly” executed overseas. She said he expressed
confusion that he’d been receiving transfers of commissions from
trades that weren’t actually taking place.  Earlier yesterday,  Matthew Cohen , an AlixPartners
consultant, testified about a conversation he said he had with
Perez in the days after Madoff’s arrest. Perez told him that
Madoff had asked him in 2006 to alter core computer programs to
permit changes to past account statements for the investment
advisory unit, according to Cohen’s testimony.  Perez said he accepted extra money from Madoff to overcome
discomfort about the requested changes, Cohen said. Perez made
the remark in response to informal questioning about his
personal investment account, he said.  Perez’s account, and another in O’Hara’s name, “stood
out” in a probe of about 8,000 customer accounts because “they
were opened the same day with roughly the same amount,” Cohen
said under questioning from U.S. prosecutors. “I later learned
that no cash had been deposited in order to open these
accounts.”  Salary, Extortion  The U.S. alleges O’Hara and Perez were given $100,000 each
and were permitted by Madoff to name their own salary increases
and annual bonuses after they confronted him about their
discomfort with altering the code. According to the U.S., O’Hara
and Perez extorted Madoff after realizing their code was being
used for fraud. Both men have denied that allegation.  Cohen, formerly a lawyer at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP, said he alerted federal investigators to Perez’s
remarks and didn’t pursue the matter himself because it wasn’t
part of his responsibility in reconstructing the operations of
Madoff’s company.  Under cross-examination by Perez’s lawyer, Larry Krantz,
Cohen said he wasn’t biased in the case even though his
employer, which has a profit-sharing plan with its partners,
made $75 million from the Madoff case in the past five years.  Paper Shredders  Cohen testified that the day after Madoff’s arrest, a
Friday, he began securing the 17th through 19th floors of the
lipstick-shaped skyscraper in Midtown  Manhattan  where Madoff’s
offices were located. He disabled employees’ key cards to the
elevators and hired security guards for each floor, he said.  Cohen said that during his initial sweep of Madoff’s
offices, he found fax machines surrounded by hundreds of faxed
redemption requests from customers seeking to close their
accounts because of Madoff’s arrest just hours before.  Over that weekend, Cohen said, a colleague purchased wire
cutters at a  Home Depot (HD)  so he could cut the electrical cords on
all the paper shredders that might be accessible to employees
the following Monday. He said he also turned off the e-mail and
BlackBerry servers, blocked external access to computer systems
and disabled employees’ computer accounts so that when they
reported to work they just sat at their desks. No employees were
allowed on the 17th floor, where the fraudulent investment
advisory business was located, he said.  Employees who reported to work after Madoff’s arrest were
asked to sign agreements that they wouldn’t alter, destroy or
remove files. Cohen testified that Peter Madoff, a compliance
officer at the company, was later caught by security guards
using a “beach bag” to try to remove his personal life
insurance documents and his last will and testament from the
offices.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  