-- Texas Abortion Laws Will Close Clinics, Witness Testifies
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   M o n t g o m e r y
-- 2013-10-22T18:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/texas-abortion-laws-will-close-clinics-witness-testifies.html
A New  Texas  law requiring abortion
doctors to have local hospital admitting privileges will
probably force more than one-third of the state’s clinics to
close, affecting more than 20,000 women, a trial witness said.  Joseph Potter, a University of Texas demographer, testified
for Planned Parenthood in federal court in Austin, Texas, in a
trial over the group’s challenge to the new law and one barring
anyone except a doctor from administering abortion-inducing
drugs.  Potter, in a second day on the stand, testified on findings
from his privately funded study that the new rules would close
more a third of 30 licensed abortion clinics in Texas. Clinics
closing probably won’t be replaced by new ones that comply with
those rules and new ones signed into law July 18 by Governor
 Rick Perry , Potter told U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel in
testimony yesterday.  “My opinion is that is unlikely,” he said of the creation
of new clinics. Seventy-six family planning clinics closed after
2011 funding cuts and none reopened, Potter said.  Planned Parenthood last month sued to block the hospital
affiliation and drug dispensing requirements set to take effect
Oct. 29, arguing they deprive women of constitutional rights.  Texas Solicitor General  Jonathan F. Mitchell  disputed that
yesterday in his opening statements. He said the group had no
evidence to support its claims and was wrongly trying to shift
the burden of proof to the government.  Law’s Impact  Andrea Ferrigno, vice president of Whole Woman’s Health,
which operates for-profit abortion clinics in five Texas cities,
wept on the stand today as she discussed the potential impact of
the law on two clinics in the Rio Grande Valley.  The company approached 32 hospitals and submitted
15 applications for privileges without success, Ferrigno said.
Abortions account for 90 percent of the company’s business, she
said.  “I’m just really concerned about what women are going to
do when they can’t access state services,” Ferrigno said.  State law also bans abortions after the 20th week of
pregnancy and, as of Sept. 1, 2014, will require clinics to meet
the same standards as ambulatory surgical centers. Those
provisions weren’t challenged in  Planned Parenthood ’s lawsuit.  The affiliation rule will force one in three health centers
providing abortions to stop, ending services in six cities,
Planned Parenthood said in court papers. The requirement may
cause more than 22,000 women a year to be denied access to
abortions, the group said.  30-Mile Rule  The law says any doctor who performs abortions must have
admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles
(48 kilometers) of his clinic. The rule is unjustified because
fewer than 0.3 percent of abortions nationwide result in
hospitalization, according to Planned Parenthood.  Mitchell, the state’s lawyer, disputed the group’s claims
yesterday.  “The  Supreme Court  has recognized that the state’s
interest in promoting fetal life is present throughout
pregnancy,” Mitchell said. “The Constitution allows the state
to protect fetal life in this manner, so long as its regulations
do not impose an ‘undue burden’ on abortion patients.”  The state hasn’t called any witnesses yet.  Paul Fine, a Houston doctor who performs abortions, said
yesterday that the new rules are unnecessary and will harm
women.  Surgery Alternative  Restrictions on drug-induced abortions might deprive many
women of an alternative to the surgical procedure, he said. For
some women who may be at greater risk of complications than
others from that surgery, medicine abortions are a reliably safe
alternative, Fine said.  He told the court many Texas hospitals, including those
affiliated with religious organizations, will probably refuse to
grant privileges to doctors associated with abortion clinics.  Deputy Attorney General John Scott asked Fine in cross-examination if he knew the state had a law barring hospitals and
other medical facilities from discriminating against doctors who
perform abortions.  Fine said he wasn’t aware of it.  Potter, the  University of Texas  professor, identified
himself as the lead investigator for the school’s  Texas Policy
Evaluation Project .  He said he helped compile the study upon which Planned
Parenthood based its claim that 22,000 women will lose abortion
access under the new law.  Potter said he supports abortion rights.  Cross-Examination  During cross-examination by Scott, Potter was unable to
answer some questions including the names of at least two Bexar
County clinics that would probably close as a result of the new
requirements.  Potter said much of the information in the study was
gathered by other researchers.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas Surgical
Health Services v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Montgomery in federal court in Austin, Texas,
at  daveyjoe2005@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 