-- Mexican Oil Bill Has Better Chance to Pass, Opposition Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-10-22T23:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/mexican-oil-bill-has-better-chance-to-pass-opposition-says.html
Mexico  has a “better than ever”
chance of passing a bill this year to break a seven-decade state
monopoly on oil drilling, said the spokesman for an opposition
party needed to gain the reform’s approval.  Talks are advancing in congress to pass electoral changes
that the opposition National Action Party, or PAN, says are
essential for it to back the energy overhaul, PAN spokesman Juan Molinar Horcasitas said in a phone interview. There’s a “good
chance” the PAN and ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party
will reach common ground on specifics of the oil bill, Molinar
said.  President Enrique Pena Nieto is betting on an energy
overhaul to attract companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to
Mexico, saying new investments will lift economic growth 1
percentage point by 2018. Latin America’s second-largest economy
is growing below the regional average, with economic expansion
forecast to slow this year to one-third the pace of 2012. The
energy bill, along with the electoral legislation, known as
political reform, is being debated before the Senate.  “Congress is doing a good job and we’ll soon have a draft
ready for a vote” of the political reform, Molinar said. “If
the political reform passes, the energy reform passes. If not,
bye bye energy.”  Allowing companies to explore and drill in Mexico requires
a constitutional amendment that could only pass with a two-thirds majority in both the lower house and Senate.  Enough Votes  The PAN, along with the Institutional Revolutionary Party
and its allies, have enough votes to approve a charter change.
The third-largest party, the Democratic Revolution Party, has
said it’s against the energy reform.  The comments from the PAN helped strengthen Mexico’s peso
today, according to Marco Oviedo, chief Mexico economist for
Barclays Plc, who said they boosted chances the reform will
pass.  The peso rose 1.2 percent today to 12.8414 per dollar,
strengthening further after Molinar’s comments.  “The PAN is the pivotal party for the energy reform to be
approved,” Oviedo said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“This helps keep peso assets as the preferred choice.”  Pena Nieto presented his oil plan Aug. 12 that offers
profit-sharing contracts to private companies in efforts to stem
eight years of declining oil output. The PAN presented a bill
that goes further by offering companies concessions to drill in
Mexico.  The economy will grow 1.2 percent this year after expanding
3.9 percent last year, according to a survey of analysts
published today by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  The PAN will seek to ensure the oil overhaul is closer to
its own proposal than to Pena Nieto’s, which isn’t sufficient,
Molinar said. It will also require clauses in the amendment that
indicate what secondary energy bills would include, as had been
done in a previous reform to overhaul the telecommunications
sector, Molinar said.  The PAN’s political reform aims to increase transparency in
Mexico’s voting process by allowing re-election of mayors and
legislators and run-off races, among other measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  