-- Mexican Politics Shows Home-Loan Deduction Untouchable
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-10-22T20:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/mexican-politics-shows-home-loan-deduction-untouchable.html
Tax deductions on mortgages are
proving to be the third rail of politics, even south of the U.S.
border.  Mexican lawmakers from all three major parties rejected a
plan sent to Congress last month by President Enrique Pena Nieto
that would have taxed mortgage interest and rent payments. Even
Pena Nieto’s own party spurned the proposal and supported an
alternative bill without the mortgage clause.  The decision to scrap the tax takes pressure off the real-estate industry, which already is smarting from the collapse of
low-income developers and an economic contraction. Home loans
declined 12 percent in the first seven months of the year to
288,100, according to  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)  The
 Mexico Habita index  of four builder stocks rose as much as 7.3
percent in intraday trading, the biggest jump in two months.  “It’s positive for the sector,” Javier Gayol, a housing
analyst at brokerage Corporativo GBM SAB, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “It was a tax that was going to
hurt already weak demand. It could have been a major blow.”  Mexico’s lower house on Oct. 17 approved changes to a bill
to raise taxes, backing away from efforts on mortgage interest
and the value-added levy on rents, and including new proposals
such as a junk food tax to help make up the revenue shortfall.  The overhaul serves as companion legislation to an energy
proposal also presented to Congress this year, which aims to
boost production in the oil industry by opening it up to
increased private-sector participation. To make the industry
more competitive, the government says it needs to cut the burden
on state producer Petroleos Mexicanos, which has an effective
tax rate of more than 99 percent, the highest among the world’s
large oil producers.  Pemex Contribution  Pemex, as the company is known, funds about a third of the
 federal budget  and is headed for its ninth straight year of
declining production.  The initial bill would have levied a 16 percent value-added
tax on mortgages, according to a draft proposal posted on the
Finance Ministry’s website. The draft said that “the wealthiest
households” get most of the benefits from the mortgage
exemptions.  In the U.S., interest on mortgages secured by a taxpayer’s
home or vacation property is deductible. Prior to Congress’s
revisions to the tax code in 1986, interest on all forms of
personal debt, including credit cards, was deductible. President
Ronald Reagan among others argued for retaining the mortgage
deduction to help boost homeownership, and it has been untouched
since then. Costing at least $70 billion a year, the mortgage
interest deduction is one of the largest federal tax
expenditures, according to the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities in  Washington .  Modified Bill  Mexico ’s lower house voted 317-164 on Oct. 17 to approve a
modified version of Pena Nieto’s bill that increased the top
income tax rate to 35 percent from a proposed 32 percent and
created a 5 percent levy on high-fat foods. The bill, which
stripped out the initial plan to tax private education tuition,
mortgage interest and home rental payments, now heads to the
Senate.  The maximum income tax rate would increase to 35 percent
for people making more than 3 million pesos ($235,000) from 30
percent. Pena Nieto had proposed increasing the top rate to 32
percent for more than 500,000 pesos in income. The current level
is 30 percent.  Mexican politicians were willing to back off the real
estate tax proposals because of concern that they would damp
economic growth, according to Eduardo Torres, an economist with
the local unit of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. Torres
said the government sees the housing industry as an engine for
economic recovery.  Growth Projections  Analysts have slashed projections for growth in Latin
America’s second-biggest economy as exports stalled and
construction slowed amid a drop in government spending and
financial woes for the country’s largest homebuilders.  Mexico Finance Minister Videgaray has cut in half his 2013
growth forecast to 1.7 percent from 3.5 percent as exports
slowed this year. It would be the slowest growth since 2009 when
the U.S. mortgage crisis helped fuel a Mexican economic
contraction of 6.2 percent.  Videgaray said in an interview with Radio Formula on Oct.
18 that one of the reasons that Mexico has expanded less than
forecast this year was because of a downturn in construction
fueled by the financial woes of the nation’s biggest
homebuilders focused on lower-income housing.  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Grupo Financiero Santander
Mexico SAB, says that while the housing industry’s problems are
more complicated than taxes, “it’s a positive result” that
politicians decided to back off the push to place additional
levies that would affect the industry.  Housing Subsidies  Federal government housing subsidies and mortgages from
state-backed lenders fueled sprawling low-income communities in
the past decade. As the cost of traveling to work mounted, many
residents started abandoning the outlying villages, prompting
policy makers to redraw the housing strategy that had fueled
builder profits, leaving many builders with remote land reserves
worth far less than prices at which they had originally been
booked.  “It’s a piece of good news that there won’t be taxes,”
Camarena said by phone from Mexico City. “In general, we see
the performance of the sector as being very poor.”  Biggest Builders  The industry’s cash crunch has caused the biggest builders
-- Corp. Geo SAB, Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB and
 Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  -- to default on dollar bond payments
this year. Geo and Urbi were also suspended from the Mexican
stock exchange after failing to report second quarter earnings,
while Homex said land writedowns helped fuel a record loss of
10.2 billion pesos last quarter.  The  Mexico Habita index  of the country’s biggest
homebuilders increased 4.3 percent today in Mexico City, led by
Consorcio Ara SAB’s 5.2 percent advance. That pared the gauge’s
decline this year to 79 percent.  Videgaray said in the radio interview last week that it
would be “a bad use” of Mexican taxpayer dollars to bail out
the three struggling homebuilders and that there were smaller
homebuilders without similar financial problems that the
government has decided to help. He said the government is
allocating resources so the sector is “vigorous and healthy.”  Mexican creditors have loaned 6.8 percent less this year
for a total of 125.8 billion pesos of new mortgages in the first
seven months of 2013, with government-backed housing agencies
accounting for most of the drop, according to BBVA. While
commercial bank lending rose in the period, it’s still just 40
percent of government-dominated market.  ‘Significant Slowdown’  “The economy has gone into a very significant slowdown and
the reform in some ways without a doubt doesn’t generate
incentives for growth,” Torres said in a telephone interview
from Mexico City. “This is the case with what was proposed for
housing and I think it was the right move that they eliminated
it.”  Sare Holding SAB, which develops homes from the capital to
$1 million beachfront condos in Acapulco, had fallen 10 percent
since the bill was announced through yesterday. Consorcio Ara
SAB, which sells 2 million-peso homes in addition to its
government-subsidized housing business, had decreased 2 percent.
Mexico’s IRT Small Capitalization index, of which both companies
are a part, rose 1.1 percent in the period.  Carlos Hermosillo, a housing analyst with Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB, said the bill doesn’t alleviate pressure on the
housing industry.  The new bill is “better in the sense that there isn’t a
direct effect,” he said in a telephone interview. “But there
is an effect in terms of the purchasing power of the population
broadly.”  Construction contracted 5.1 percent in August from a year
earlier, according to the most recent data from the national
statistics agency.  “People weren’t prepared to put the brakes on the housing
sector,” GBM’s Gayol said. It would have been a difficult
“‘moment to hit the sector, to tax it, above all with the data
that we’ve seen in construction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  