-- Ferrovial Cuts Heathrow Stake in Battle Over Airport Fees
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-22T17:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ferrovial-cuts-heathrow-stake-in-battle-over-airport-fees.html
Spanish construction firm  Ferrovial
SA (FER)  sold an 8.65 percent stake in  London Heathrow ,  Europe ’s
busiest hub, as the airport says a battle with airlines over
future fees risks deterring investment.  Ferrovial sold the stake for 392 million pounds ($636
million) to the London-based Universities Superannuation Scheme
Ltd fund, Ferrovial said in a statement today. The transaction
is expected to close Oct. 24, it said.  Heathrow Airport Holding said Oct. 3 that a government
proposal to limit how much it can charge airlines risks driving
away investors. Ferrovial, the largest stakeholder in Heathrow,
now owns 25 percent in the hub. The builder in December already
sold 10.62 percent to Qatar Holding LLC.  “This sale of a stake in HAH is a further part of
Ferrovial’s investment diversification strategy,” Inigo Meiras,
Ferrovial’s chief executive officer, said in the statement. The
Madrid-based company said it will remain “the main shareholder
and industrial partner” at Heathrow for the long term.  The transaction is USS’s largest in U.K. infrastructure, it
said in a separate statement.  In April, a new fee regime governing  London  Heathrow is due
to come into force. The U.K.  Civil Aviation Authority , which
sets the maximum amount that London’s top airport can charge to
airlines, has proposed fees be limited to the rate of inflation
as determined by the country’s retail price index.  Airlines had sought a 9.8 percent annual reduction and
warned higher costs could drive away passengers. Heathrow asked
to be allowed to increase fees at the RPI inflation rate plus
4.6 percent.  The level of charges Heathrow will be allowed to apply are
“very challenging,”  Michael Powell , head of private markets
for USS Investments, said today. Still, the pension fund
management company was a long-term investor, he said. USS has
“confidence that the right incentives will be set in place to
encourage the investment that Heathrow and the U.K. needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  