-- Fidelity to Open Cheapest Single-Industry ETFs in Push
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-22T18:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/fidelity-to-open-cheapest-single-industry-etfs-in-push.html
Fidelity Investments, the second-biggest mutual-fund provider, plans to open the cheapest lineup
of single-industry exchange-traded funds as it seeks to break
into a market dominated by Vanguard Group Inc. and  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)   Fidelity on Oct. 24 will start 10 funds, focused on
industries ranging from energy to telecommunications, with an
annual expense ratio of 0.12 percent, cheaper by 2 basis points
than Vanguard Group Inc.’s lineup of similar ETFs, according to
a regulatory filing and data compiled by Bloomberg. The ETFs,
distributed by Fidelity, will be managed by BlackRock, the
world’s biggest money manager. A basis point is one-hundredth of
a percentage point.  “That tells me they want to be aggressive,” Michael Rawson, a fund analyst in Chicago-based research firm
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a telephone interview. “It’s going to
be very difficult for them to build scale and liquidity in these
products, but it’s a space they have to be in.”  Fidelity has been surpassed in assets by Vanguard and
BlackRock in the past five years, in part because of the growth
of index-based offerings such as ETFs. Fidelity, which offers
only one ETF, has seen assets in its mainstay stock mutual funds
decline 16 percent over the past five years, while management
and advisory fees dropped an estimated 13 percent.  BlackRock Collaboration  Fidelity and BlackRock have been collaborating on the
development of ETFs and their distribution. The two companies in
March expanded to 65 the number of BlackRock funds that Fidelity
brokerage clients can trade commission-free. They are also
working together on developing Fidelity-branded asset-allocation
products built with BlackRock ETFs, Ron O’Hanley, president of
Fidelity’s asset-management unit, said in an interview in June.  Fidelity spokespersons didn’t immediately return a phone
call to the firm’s press office.  ETFs in the U.S. gathered $715 billion in the five years
through 2012, more than twice that collected by actively managed
mutual funds, according to data compiled by the Investment
Company Institute in  Washington . Index mutual funds collected an
additional $263 billion.  State Street Corp. (STT)  has the most popular collection of
single-industry ETFs in the U.S., with $89 billion in assets,
followed by BlackRock at $42 billion and Vanguard with $34
billion, according to Morningstar. State Street’s cheapest funds
in that group charge 0.18 percent, while BlackRock levies no
less than 0.30 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Expense ratios aren’t the only contributor to costs, Rawson
said. Larger and more liquids fund have lower transaction costs,
so frequent traders prefer those products, he said.  ETFs are bundles of securities that trade on a stock
exchange. They have attracted investors with their low costs,
tax advantages and tradability. Most ETFs track an index of
stocks or bonds.  Fidelity managed $1.77 trillion in assets as of June 30,
including $1.56 trillion in mutual funds. Its one ETF is the
$252 million  NASDAQ Composite Index Tracking Stock ETF. (ONEQ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  