-- Co-Operative Ex-CEO Peter Marks Defends Record to Lawmakers
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-10-22T16:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/former-co-operative-ceo-peter-marks-defends-record-to-lawmakers.html
Co-Operative Group Ltd. former Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Marks  defended his role in the
acquisition of Britannia Building Society and the pursuit of
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  branches amid criticism from lawmakers.  “You seem to be very gung-ho about expanding the financial
services,” lawmaker Brooks Newmark said in a hearing of the
Treasury Committee in  London  today. “The responsibility has to
lie somewhere. You are the group CEO, you are the main man, you
are in complete denial.”  The Co-Operative Group yesterday agreed to cede control of
its banking unit to creditors as part of a deal to plug a 1.5
billion-pound ($2.4 billion) capital shortfall. Marks, who
retired as CEO of Co-Operative Group in May after about six
years in the position, denied responsibility for the lender’s
2009 merger with Britannia, which Bank of England Deputy
Governor Andrew Bailey has said was the “main issue” that led
to losses at Co-Operative Bank Ltd.  The Britannia transaction was managed by the bank rather
than the group and was an “error” in hindsight, Marks said.  It was right for the Co-Operative Group, which traces its
roots to Britain’s 19th century industrial north, to consider
buying 632 branches, known as Verde from Lloyds, he said.  “Britannia has turned out to be not a good deal for the
bank,” he said. “I don’t accept it was a mistake to give a lot
of consideration to Project Verde. Project Verde would have
transformed the bank.”  ‘Good Thing’  Co-Operative Group’s loss of control of its banking unit
may be a “good thing” because it will make the company
concentrate on its other units, Marks said. The Manchester,
England-based company owned by seven million members, operates
supermarkets, drug stores, funeral parlors and a  law firm . Even
so, it is a “tragedy,” Marks said.  “If I failed in anything, I failed to get the group to
consider” focusing on some businesses over others, Marks said.
The Co-Operative Group “had been run like that for more than
150 years.”  After today’s hearing, Co-Operative Group Chairman Len Wardle, 69, said he will retire in May, in a statement. He
joined the company in 1992 and has been in his current position
since 2007.  “In August this year, I informed the board that it was my
intention to step down at the end of my term,” Wardle said in
the statement. “The Co-Operative is at its best when it is
reforming and I want this change to continue.”  The company suffered “a lack of personal accountability at
senior levels, ineffective corporate governance and insufficient
experience and expertise among those taking the decisions,”
Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie  said in an e-mailed
statement after the hearing. “Being owned by a mutual, the Co-Op Bank differed from most of its competitors. But on today’s
evidence, its shortcomings did not.”  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  