-- Freeport Indonesia Agrees Wage Increase Deal to Avert Strike
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-10-22T09:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/freeport-indonesia-agrees-wage-increase-deal-to-avert-strike.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
agreed to increase wages for its Grasberg mine workers in
Indonesia in a deal that will avoid a strike at the world’s
second-largest copper mine.  PT Freeport Indonesia  employees will receive 10 percent
annual wage increases for the next two years, as well as higher
pension and other benefits, said Juli Parorrongan, a spokesman
for the workers union. Freeport Indonesia President Director
Rozik B. Soetjipto and Sudiro, the head of the union who goes by
only one name, signed the 2013-2015 labor agreement in Jakarta
today.  The accord follows a threat last month by the union to
strike if its demands were not met. Freeport Indonesia’s workers
went on a three-month stoppage in 2011 that forced the company
to shut operations at the mine in Papua province, driving up
copper prices and hurting the company’s profits.  “We’re quite satisfied with this deal, that can be
achieved without having to go through a strike or conflict,”
Parorrongan said in an interview before the signing. “The
management has shown goodwill in appreciating the employees.”  The labor agreement was reached after five months of
negotiation, Soetjipto said. The union had sought a 20 percent
annual wage increase for the next two years, Parorrongan said
Sept. 19.  The talks came as unionized labor pushes for higher pay
across  Indonesia . Thousands of workers hit the streets of the
Indonesian capital on Oct. 21, demanding the government increase
minimum wages in Jakarta by 68 percent next year, according to
the Jakarta Post, as rising inflation drives up living costs.  Freeport halted operations at Grasberg for more than a
month after a tunnel collapse on May 14 killed 28 workers.
Shipments resumed in July after the government allowed output to
restart. Production may be 20 percent below this year’s target
because of the stoppage, Soetjipto said in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  