-- Germany Wins EU Court Battle Over VW Law, Escapes Fines
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-22T10:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/germany-wins-eu-court-fight-over-vw-law-legality-escapes-fines.html
Germany  escaped fines and defeated
the European Union’s regulator after the bloc’s highest court
said its redraft of the so-called Volkswagen law doesn’t clash
with EU rules.  Germany’s changes to the VW law “complied in full” with a
2007 ruling, the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg said today,
rejecting a challenge by the European Commission, the bloc’s
executive authority.  The commission returned to the top court to argue that
Germany’s overhaul of the VW law, which shielded  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
from takeovers since 1960, continued to violate the bloc’s rules
because government veto powers at the company still existed.
Instead of scrapping three provisions that were earlier ruled
unlawful by the court, the country abolished two and kept the
blocking minority, the Brussels-based EU regulator said.  The commission, which won the 2007 case,  sued Germany  in
2012 again over its “piecemeal approach” to changing the law.
The EU executive authority wanted Germany to pay a penalty of
31,114 euros ($42,560) a day from the 2007 ruling until it
complied or until the ruling in today’s case, plus a 282,725-euro daily fine from today’s ruling until the VW law was
compliant.  ‘Everyone’s Interests’  “The clarification is in everyone’s interest following
prolonged litigation,” said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for
EU Internal Markets Commissioner  Michel Barnier . “Today’s
judgment brings the matter to a close.”  In its 2007 decision, the EU tribunal  overturned  the law
that protected Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen by capping
shareholder’s voting rights at 20 percent, regardless of the
size of their holdings. That matched the stake held during the
previous four decades by the German state of Lower Saxony, where
Wolfsburg is located.  “This finally puts an end to the 11-year fight by VW
workers to maintain the VW law,” Bernd Osterloh, VW labor
chief, said in an e-mailed statement. “This is a good day for
VW staff and for Lower Saxony.”  VW shareholders in 2009 approved a change of the German
automaker’s corporate charter to safeguard veto rights for labor
representatives and the German state of  Lower Saxony  on
important decisions like factory closures regardless of the VW
Law.  No Privileges  Lower Saxony is VW’s second-largest shareholder after
family-controled Porsche Automobil Holding SE with a 20 percent
voting stake. Labor representatives account for 50 percent of
the 20 seats on VW’s supervisory board.  Lower Saxony Prime Minister Stephan Weil said the court
“finally” confirmed the state’s position which will help bring
back calm to the company, according to a statement by his office
today. The VW law no longer privileges any single shareholder,
not even Lower Saxony, Weil said in the statement.  The VW law will in future continue to maintain that for
important decisions an 80 percent majority is needed, which will
count for all shareholders, according to Osterloh’s statement.  Marco Dalan, a spokesman for VW, declined to comment and
referred to the statements by Lower Saxony and labor
representatives.  The case is:  C-95/12 , European Commission v. Federal
Republic of Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  