-- German Pilots Grounded as $92,000 Tuition Can’t Bring Job
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/german-pilots-grounded-as-92-000-tuition-can-t-buy-cockpit-seat.html
     Oct. 23 (Bloomberg)-- Christopher Siem is spending 70,000
euros ($92,000) out of his own pocket to train as a pilot, a job
where the unemployment rate is twice the German average.  Siem, 24, is among Germany’s aspiring pilots whose dreams
of a career in the cockpit have been dented as the country’s
airlines slash their fleets.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which has
about 5,500 pilots, will limit its fleet to 400 planes and cut
3,500 jobs, while  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  is also curbing crew numbers as
it pares the aircraft roster by 27 over two years.  “I doubt I’ll get a job in the cockpit immediately,” said
Siem, who is undergoing two years’ of training mainly at
Frankfurt, where the sight of aircraft using a taxiway above the
road he cycles each morning provides much-needed motivation to
stick with the tuition. His parents help foot the bill.  A pilot glut extends across much of Europe as former flag
carriers drop routes and minor operators get squeezed by high
fuel costs and slow growth. Lufthansa has suspended some
training at its in-house flight school because supply outweighs
demand, pushing the unemployment rate for qualified aircrew to a
record 14 percent in  Germany , a pilot union estimates.  While Germany continues its rebound from the global
recession, with Europe’s largest economy predicted to grow 0.3
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014, Lufthansa, like other
network airlines, is trimming unprofitable European links that
don’t help fill lucrative long-haul flights.  Smaller Fleet  The carrier has dropped plans for a 480-strong fleet and
will now make do with about 80 aircraft fewer than that through
2016, meaning it will require about 1,000 fewer pilots, based on
an average need of 12.5 cockpit crew per plane.  Augsburg Airways, a regional airline that operates on
behalf of Lufthansa, will cease operations at the end of this
month, becoming the third carrier in the country to fold this
year after ACG Air Cargo Germany GmbH, which went bust in March,
and OLT Express Germany, which closed in January.  The failures will collectively put about 350 pilots out of
work, according to Vereinigung Cockpit, a German pilot
association whose spokesman Joerg Handwerg said unemployment
among German aviators “has never been higher.”  Dire job prospects for pilots threaten to undermine the
appeal of a career that for decades lured aspirants with the
promise of global travel, high pay and professional prestige.
These days, industry growth is led by low-cost carriers such as
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , whose relationship with pilots has been
strained as some crew question the airline’s cost-cutting
culture.  Discount Pilots  Dublin-based Ryanair’s pilot roster has swelled to 3,000 in
10 years from 550, while EasyJet plans to add 330 permanent jobs
this year for a total of about 2,300, and has begun seeking
recruits to fill 200 positions in 2014. The Luton, England-based
carrier will require about 50 percent more aircrew in Germany as
it adds four more aircraft to the seven currently based there.  The rise of discount operators has reduced average salaries
for pilots across Europe, with no commensurate reduction in the
cost of gaining the required qualifications.  “Pay isn’t as high as it used to be, or as high as people
think, and it varies a lot among airlines,” said Siem.  Handwerg, the spokesman for the pilot union, said
renumeration ranges from 24,000 euros a year for beginners at
low-paying carriers to more than 200,000 annually for captains
with high qualifications and experience. Lufthansa’s entry-level
salary is about 60,000, while a captain can make more than
110,000 euros later, spokesman Michael Lamberty said.  Pay Range  Would-be pilots may also end up stumping up tens of
thousands of euros more on so-called type ratings -- allowing
them to fly a specific aircraft model -- and on line training,
which familiarizes them with operating procedures, in order to
land a permanent job. Flying 500 hours on an Airbus SAS A320
cost 40,000 euros at Airline Pilot.org in Istanbul -- after type
rating on the plane has been secured for 15,500 euros.  Lufthansa’s pilots last staged a strike in 2010, which was
ended by a mediation process, and are currently in negotiations
over a new tariff. The wider group, which includes the company’s
Austrian and Swiss units, has 8,500 pilots, compared with about
8,400 at  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group.  The aviator glut has made available some “very
experienced, very good pilots,” said Markus Otto, chief
executive officer at Leipzig-based European Air Transport. The
unit of  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL business has hired 86 flight crew
in 18 months and isn’t finished yet, Otto said in an interview.  To improve his own career chances, Siem is pursuing a
degree in aviation systems engineering and management, which
could help land a job with Airbus’s German operations, though
he’s adamant that flying remains the sole long-term focus.  “I can’t think of anything I’d rather do,” said Siem.
“Sooner or later we’ll make it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  