-- Giants Avoid 0-7 Start in NFL With 23-7 Defeat of Vikings
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-22T04:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/giants-avoid-0-7-start-to-nfl-season-with-23-7-defeat-of-vikings.html
The  New York Giants  defeated the
Minnesota Vikings 23-7 for their first win after opening the
National Football League season with six consecutive losses --
their worst start in 37 years.  Eli Manning threw a 24-yard touchdown pass to Rueben Randle,
 Peyton Hillis  scored a touchdown in his Giants debut and  New
York  took advantage of three turnovers by the Vikings last night
at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  “Despite our record, we’ve been fighting hard for six
weeks and unfortunately we’ve been coming up short,” Giants
safety Antrel Rolle said in a televised interview. “It’s good
to go back to having fun.”  The Giants improved their record to 1-6 and dropped the
Vikings, whose only score came in the first quarter on an 86-yard punt return by Marcus Sherels, to 1-5.  Sherels later fumbled a punt at the Vikings’ 3-yard line
that set up a 1-yard touchdown run by Hillis, putting the Giants
up 17-7 midway through the third quarter. Hillis signed with the
Giants last week after injuries to  David Wilson  and  Brandon Jacobs , who was inactive for last night’s game.  ‘Good Job’  Hillis finished with 36 yards rushing on 18 carries, while
rookie Michael Cox had 23 yards on 11 rushes. Hillis also caught
five passes for 45 yards.  “He did a good job, especially being here only a week,”
Manning said of Hillis. “He did a good job just understanding
protections, blocking guys when he had to, getting out in the
routes. He ran the ball hard, so he’s going to be a help for us
down the road.”  Manning completed 23 of 39 passes for 200 yards against a
Vikings defense that entered the game allowing the third-most
yards passing on average in the NFL this season. Manning didn’t
throw an interception for the first time this year.  Josh Freeman got the start at quarterback for the Vikings,
just over two weeks after being cut by the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers ,
and completed 20 of 53 pass attempts for 190 yards and was
intercepted once. It was the fifth-fewest completions by any
quarterback to attempt at least 50 passes in an NFL game,
according to ESPN.  “We’re putting this one behind us and moving forward,”
Freeman said. “I was just a hair off in timing, getting the
rhythm and getting comfortable back there.”  The Giants’ defense also limited running back  Adrian Peterson  to 28 yards on 13 carries.  New York’s 0-6 start had been the franchise’s worst since
opening the 1976 season with nine losses in a row.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  