-- Gjensidige to Pay Special Dividend as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-10-22T08:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/gjensidige-to-pay-special-dividend-as-profit-beats-estimates-1-.html
Gjensidige Forsikring ASA (GJF) ,  Norway ’s
largest insurer, will pay an extraordinary dividend of 6 kroner
a share and increase payouts to shareholders after building up
cash reserves to meet new  capital requirements .  Gjensidige, based in Lysaker, will distribute 3 billion
kroner ($506.2 million) to shareholders in May in the form of an
extraordinary dividend while adopting a new policy from 2014
which targets a pay-out ratio of at least 70 percent of profit
after tax, it said in a statement today. That compares with the
company’s previous policy target of paying out 50 percent to 80
percent of profit after tax, according to its  website .  The insurer, which is seeking to cut costs and boost
earnings as it tries to increase market share in the Nordic
region, reported third-quarter pretax profit of 1.67 billion
kroner, up from 1.61 billion kroner a year earlier, it said in a
separate statement. That compares with the  1.44 billion-krone
average  of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares in Gjensidige gained as much as 10 percent to 111.80
kroner, the  highest intraday level  since the insurer sold shares
in Oslo on Dec. 10, 2010. The stock traded 7.4 percent higher at
 108.80 kroner  as of 10 a.m., extending its gain to 32 percent
during the last 12 months and giving Gjensidige a market value
of 54.3 billion kroner.  Technical Buffer  “We consider the report very positive,” boosted by
“lower large claims and higher run-off gains than expected,”
Pareto Securities AS said in an e-mailed note. “We expect to
make positive underlying estimate revisions post this report,
due to the higher-than-anticipated growth.”  From next year the insurer will pay out any excess capital
over and above its targeted capitalization in the form of
extraordinary dividends, it said. The insurer’s targeted
capitalisation is based on “the most binding capital
requirement plus a technical buffer and a buffer to ensure
financial flexibility,” it said.  At the moment, the most binding capital requirement is the
A-rating requirement from  Standard & Poor’s , the insurer said.
In addition to that, the company will maintain a technical
buffer in excess of this requirement of five percent, it said.  Gjensidige also changed its return on equity target from a
minimum of 15 percent pretax to a minimum of 15 percent after
tax starting in 2015, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  