-- Goldman Ordered to Advance Ex-Programmer Fees in NY Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-10-22T19:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/goldman-ordered-to-advance-ex-programmer-fees-in-ny-case.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  must
advance computer programmer Sergey Aleynikov the legal fees he
needs to fight  New York  state charges that he stole confidential
source code from the company, a federal judge ruled.  Goldman Sachs at this time doesn’t have to pay the fees
Aleynikov incurred defending federal charges that led to his
conviction and imprisonment before the verdict was overturned,
said U.S. District Judge Kevin McNulty in  Newark , New Jersey. He
said the two sides must engage in a pretrial exchange of
evidence on that question.  “Immediate advancement of fees is required, subject only
to an unsecured undertaking to repay them if the applicant is
unsuccessful in the underlying litigation,” McNulty said in an
opinion made public today.  Aleynikov was convicted in federal court in  Manhattan  in
2010 of stealing hundreds of thousands of lines of code and
sentenced to 97 months in prison.  He was ordered freed in February 2012 when the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in New York reversed his conviction. In August of
that year, he was arraigned in Manhattan on state charges of
unlawful use of scientific material and duplication of computer-related material.  Vice President  Goldman Sachs, which employed Aleynikov from May 2007
through June 2009, argued that it didn’t have to pay Aleynikov’s
fees in his state prosecution because he wasn’t an  officer  of
the company, even though he was a vice president.  McNulty disagreed.  “It may be the case that Goldman (or the industry of which
it is a part) has been profligate in conferring the title of
vice president,” the judge wrote. “If so, Goldman must bear
the consequences of that profligacy. Goldman might easily have
chosen to be more sparing with job titles, or to confer them in
some other way.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the ruling.  Aleynikov’s attorney  Kevin Marino  said he will proceed with
evidence exchanges on the question of whether Goldman Sachs must
indemnify his client for the federal case.  “Goldman Sachs used its considerable power and influence
to procure Mr. Aleynikov’s prosecution for crimes he did not
commit,” Marino said in an interview. “It is only fitting that
Goldman should now be forced to bear the cost of his restoring
his reputation.”  The case is Aleynikov v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 12-cv-05994, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  