-- Gordhan’s Budget Risks Angering Labor as Election Looms
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   R e n e e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-10-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/gordhan-s-budget-risks-angering-labor-as-election-looms.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  risks alienating the ruling party’s labor union
allies ahead of next year’s elections as he seeks to rein in
spending to avoid a possible credit-rating downgrade.  Gordhan will present revised economic growth and fiscal
deficit targets when he delivers his mid-term budget speech at 2
p.m. local time in Parliament in Cape Town. A series of strikes
at mines and factories have dimmed hopes of meeting targets set
on Feb. 27 for 2.7 percent expansion this year and a 4.6 percent
budget gap in the year through March 2014.  Signs of a slip in fiscal discipline may raise the risk of
further credit-ratings downgrades from Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service, pushing up debt costs. That gives
Gordhan, 64, little room to ease spending limits as labor unions
push the ruling African National Congress to do more to tackle
poverty in the continent’s largest economy.  “Gordhan is more likely to try and address the negative
sentiments about South  Africa  than dole out handouts in advance
of the election,” Daniel Silke, a political analyst and author
of “Tracking the Future: Top trends that will shape South
Africa and the World,” said in a phone interview from Cape Town
yesterday. “He’s likely to try and send out a message that the
country is responsible, that it needs to rein in excess
expenditure.”  The budget-deficit target in the year through March will
probably be raised to 5 percent, according to the median
estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, while economic
growth projections will be trimmed to 2.1 percent, a poll of 29
economists shows.  Rating Downgrades  Moody’s cut South Africa’s credit rating last year to Baa1,
the third-lowest investment grade level, followed by S&P and
Fitch. Moody’s and S&P hold a negative outlook on South African
debt, indicating a greater chance the rating will be downgraded
than raised.  The 100-year-old ANC has ruled Africa’s largest economy
since the first multi-racial vote in 1994, in alliance with the
2.2-million-member Congress of South African Trade Unions and
the South African Communist Party.  With elections due to take place by July next year, the
unions have become more strident in their calls for the
government to focus less on attracting investors and do more to
create jobs and improve access to services, such as housing and
electricity.  Labor Opposition  “We want to see some clear measures that money will be
made available for industrialization, infrastructure and above
all jobs,” Cosatu spokesman Patrick Craven said in a mobile
phone interview yesterday. “Gordhan shouldn’t allow these
rating agencies to dictate what our policies should be. They
represent international big business, not the people of South
Africa.”  Relations between the ANC and Cosatu have already been
frayed by the government’s decision to toll highways around
Johannesburg and subsidize new entrants to the jobs market. The
union federation also opposes the government’s National
Development Plan, which calls for a review of labor laws to
encourage hiring and create 11 million new jobs by 2030.  The rand has slumped 13 percent against the dollar this
year, the worst performance of 16 major currencies monitored by
Bloomberg, and was trading at 9.7385 per dollar by 5:45 p.m.
yesterday in Johannesburg.  The South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the
nation’s biggest business organization, said Gordhan’s
priorities should be attracting and sustaining foreign investor
interest and reducing spending on civil servant wages.  Wage Bill  “The government needs to borrow funds as cheaply as
possible in the short term to expand our infrastructure network
and accommodate the growing public sector wage bill,” Neren Rau, the chamber’s chief executive, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “The National Treasury must also present a
credible plan on how government debt will be reduced over time
in order to improve our credit rating and facilitate easier
access to finance for the private sector.”  Wages for government workers have increased an average 14
percent annually in the five years through 2012, more than
double the  inflation  rate of 6.3 percent in the period. The
government reached a three-year pay deal with its 1.3 million
employees in August 2012, giving them a 7 percent raise for the
year through March, and 1 percentage point above inflation in
the next two fiscal years.  President Jacob Zuma, who has spent the past few weeks
opening new roads, bridges and rail links to showcase his
administration’s achievements, said the finance minister would
strike a balance between competing interests.  Global Growth  “Minister Gordhan will deliver on our behalf a budget that
the country needs at this point, to stimulate growth under
difficult conditions while also encouraging fiscal discipline,”
Zuma said in a speech at  De Beers (AAL) ’ diamond mine in the northern
Limpopo province yesterday. “It has been drawn up under
difficult economic conditions.”  Gordhan has limited scope to act as the global economy
remains weak and labor relations deteriorate, said Dawie Roodt,
chief economist at Efficient Group in  Pretoria .  “The real economic problems, like labor problems and
global turmoil, are out of Gordhan’s hands,” Roodt said by
phone from Cape Town yesterday. “Economic growth is slow, which
means less tax income and distorted debt and deficit ratios.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  