-- Li’s Hong Kong Sales Signal Peak as European Growth Beckons
-- B y   B e n   S c e n t ,   K e l v i n   W o n g ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-10-23T04:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/li-s-hong-kong-sales-signal-peak-as-european-growth-beckons.html
Hong Kong  billionaire  Li Ka-shing 
made his fortune over a half-century of well-timed bets on
everything from property to power generation. His latest deals
suggest he’s wagering the city’s era of fast growth may be
drawing to an end.  Asia ’s richest man may raise as much as $18 billion selling
stakes in his retail unit and Hong Kong’s second-largest power
supplier. The moves, announced in the past month, would free up
money for Li to buy more assets in  Europe , where his companies
including  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  have spent $14.5 billion on
acquisitions the past three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Li’s dealings reflect the challenge Hong Kong faces in
maintaining economic growth that averaged 4.6 percent in the
past decade, as leaders fight to deflate a property bubble and
 China  sets up free-trade zones that may one day compete with the
territory. BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, is
cutting investments in Hong Kong on concern the city’s equity
and property markets will underperform.  “It’s no coincidence that large tycoons here are starting
to or trying to divest assets,” Andrew Swan, head of Asian
equities at BlackRock, which manages $4.1 trillion, said in an
Oct. 10 interview.  Hong Kong is vulnerable as the U.S. pares stimulus and
China cracks down on speculative lending, reducing inflows that
boosted the city’s equity and property markets the past five
years. It now has the world’s  most expensive  housing, stoking
popular discontent with the city’s leader, Leung Chun-ying.  Cultural Revolution  Li, with a fortune of $29 billion according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index, expanded his empire even as Hong
Kong weathered crises ranging from rioting in the 1960s, a run
on the currency in the 1980s, a property collapse in the late
1990s and the outbreak of the SARS virus in 2003.  The 85-year-old tycoon stepped up investing in Hong Kong
real estate in 1967, after rioting incited by the Cultural
Revolution depressed prices. He correctly forecast in 2007 that
China’s stock-market bubble would burst and in 2009 predicted
the rally in Hong Kong  home prices .  “Li is like  Warren Buffett ,” said Lee Wee Liat, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA, referring to the
billionaire chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. “He looks at
the long term and he likes to pick the bottom.”  Watson Sale  Li is also renowned for selling at the right time.
Hutchison Whampoa, which started Orange Plc’s U.K. mobile-phone
network in 1994, sold its stake in the money-losing business
five years later for a $15 billion profit. His Hutchison
Telecommunications International Ltd. divested its Indian
operations for $13.1 billion in 2007 to  Vodafone Group Plc, (VOD) 
which three years later wrote down a quarter of their value.  Hutchison Whampoa said Oct. 18 it’s considering spinning
off part of A.S. Watson Group, the retail empire that operates
Watsons stores and the Hong Kong supermarket chain ParknShop.
That sale could raise as much as $13 billion, according to
estimates by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Power Assets Holdings Ltd. (6) ,
the utility Li controls, said last month it will seek a separate
listing of its Hong Kong electricity arm to fund investments
overseas.  Selling shares in the Power Assets division may bring in up
to $5 billion, people with knowledge of the proposed transaction
said last month. The company may start the sale as early as this
year, the people said. Jeremy Lau, a spokesman for Hutchison
Whampoa, declined to comment.  Too Pricey  Li had attempted to sell ParknShop to a strategic buyer,
though bidders including Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s
Charoen Pokphand Group and Woolworths Ltd. balked at the price
he was seeking, according to people familiar with the matter.
Hutchison Whampoa was asking for at least $3 billion for
ParknShop.  The sales would give Li added firepower to pursue European
assets as the continent emerges from an economic slump. Li said
in August he plans to bolster his telecommunications market
share in Europe and that “major economies are showing signs of
stabilization and gradual recovery.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Oct. 2 he
expects the region’s economic activity to benefit from rising
demand for exports, while economic confidence as measured by the
European Commission rose for a fifth month in September in signs
that the economy is improving.  Hutchison Whampoa, Li’s biggest company, said in July it is
seeking more telecom assets in  Italy , after agreeing the month
before to buy  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s Irish unit for as much as $1.1
billion. Also in June, a group of companies controlled by Li
agreed to buy Dutch waste processor AVR-Afvalverwerking BV for
$1.3 billion.  Property Slowdown  The billionaire told reporters Sept. 17 he loves Hong Kong
and would “never” move his companies’ headquarters, according
to a transcript of his comments by  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) ,
his flagship property company.  Cheung Kong  in August said earnings from  property sales 
fell about 37 percent in the first half from a year earlier
because of government efforts to rein in prices. John Swire &
Sons Ltd., which controls landlord Swire Properties Ltd., said
in April Hong Kong home prices are close to peaking after more
than doubling since early 2009.  Leung, who took over as Hong Kong’s leader last July, has
vowed to rein in home prices and bridge the city’s record wealth
gap. This year, he has imposed measures such as extra property
transaction taxes and tightened mortgage lending requirements. A
study last month found a fifth of Hong Kong’s population lives
below the poverty line, the first such report commissioned by
the government.  Stocks Discount  By contrast, Hutchison, which gets more than half its
revenue from Europe, boosted first-half  profit  by 23 percent on
growth in its U.K. infrastructure businesses and Canadian energy
unit. Hutchison  shares  have jumped 20 percent this year while
Cheung Kong is up 4 percent.  “They’re seeing more opportunities in Europe compared to
Asia,” Lorraine Tan, director of research at S&P Capital IQ in
 Singapore , said in an interview. “There are simply fewer
opportunities in Hong Kong.”  Companies on the Hang Seng Index  trade  at an average 10.8
times reported earnings, a 38 percent discount to the MSCI All-Country World Index, underscoring investor pessimism. The Euro
Stoxx 50 index trades at 17.4 times earnings.  Li isn’t alone in paring holdings in Hong Kong. Since
August, local lenders Wing Hang Bank Ltd. and Chong Hing Bank
Ltd. have said their founding families are in talks with
potential acquirers.  Shanghai Challenge  Meanwhile, a challenge to Hong Kong’s status as China’s
offshore financial center is looming as  Shanghai  begins work on
a free-trade zone that’s part of efforts to allow freer currency
convertibility.  The 11-square-mile zone inaugurated at the end of September
could pose a “significant threat” to Hong Kong and hurt asset
prices in the city, BlackRock’s Swan said. That’s a sentiment
shared by Li, who said Sept. 17 the zone “will affect Hong Kong
greatly” and that the city “risks falling behind.”  Hong Kong lost its position as the world’s busiest
container port in 2005 and now ranks third, behind Singapore and
Shanghai. It is also being overtaken this year by neighboring
Shenzhen, which handled 15.3 million boxes in the first eight
months compared with Hong Kong’s 14.5 million.  “Hong Kong is a very mature market,” said  Ben Kwong , Hong
Kong-based chief operating officer at brokerage KGI Asia Ltd.
Tycoons like Li “want to make strategic changes in a new
direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Scent in Hong Kong at 
 bscent@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  