-- Miami Is Spared Bowl Ban by NCAA After Booster Investigation
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-22T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/miami-is-spared-bowl-ban-by-ncaa-after-booster-investigation.html
The  University of Miami ’s football
team was spared a bowl ban following a four-year investigation
by the National Collegiate Athletic Association into a decade of
benefits provided by a booster.  Miami, which held itself out of bowl games for the past two
college football seasons while under investigation, will lose
three football scholarships and one basketball scholarship in
each of the next three years, the NCAA said in an e-mailed  news
release .  Frank Haith, a former Hurricanes men’s basketball coach now
at Missouri, was given a five-game suspension, and three former
assistant coaches in football and basketball were each given
two-year show-cause penalties.  The NCAA said it found that the Coral Gables, Florida-based
school “lacked institutional control when it did not monitor
the activities of a major booster, the men’s basketball and
football coaching staffs, student-athletes and prospects for a
decade.”  “Many of Miami’s violations were undetected by the
university over a 10-year period, and they centered on a booster
entertaining prospects and student-athletes at his home, on his
yacht and in various restaurants and clubs,” the governing body
of college sports said in the statement. “Approximately 30
student-athletes were involved.”  Miami said in an e-mailed  news release  that it was
“grateful to the committee for a fair and thorough hearing.”
It said it wouldn’t appeal the NCAA’s decision.  ‘High Ideals’  “The University of Miami moves forward today stronger and
rededicated to the high ideals that have always sustained it,”
Leonard Abess, chairman of the school’s Board of Trustees, said
in a statement. “I am proud of our leadership and staff, who
conducted themselves throughout this process with integrity,
forthrightness, and in the spirit of full cooperation.”  Miami notified the NCAA in November 2009 of an internal
investigation into potential violations. The inquiry became
public in August 2011 when Yahoo Sports said booster  Nevin Shapiro , who was imprisoned for his role in a $930 million Ponzi
scheme, provided thousands of impermissible benefits, such as
cars and yacht rides, to at least 72 athletes from 2002 to 2010.  Britton Banowsky, the commissioner of Conference USA who
serves as chairman of the NCAA’s Division I Committee on
Infractions, said the “sheer volume of the case was enormous.”  Investigation Length  “Typically, we’re able to turn around reports in a six- to
eight-week period of time, which is what we hoped to do,”
Banowsky said on a conference call with reporters.
“Unfortunately, the case not only lasted three-plus years in
the investigation stage but also had a lot of complexities to it
that were extraordinary.”  Miami raised questions regarding the NCAA enforcement
staff’s use of Shapiro’s attorney to obtain information from
depositions conducted in the booster’s bankruptcy case, the
association said in January. All information stemming from those
depositions were excluded from consideration by the infractions
committee.  “I know the COI was disappointed to learn of the use of
the bankruptcy proceedings to obtain information to be used in
the case,” Banowsky said. “It also forced a process to ensure
that the parties had the opportunity to raise concerns over it
and it certainly didn’t factor into the penalty.”  Shapiro had 100 hours of jailhouse interviews with Yahoo in
which the website said he told of giving athletes cash, jewelry,
prostitutes, travel and bounties for on-field performance.
Shapiro also gave the school $150,000 for an athletic lounge.  The Hurricanes’ football team is 6-0 this season, ranked
seventh in the initial Bowl Championship Series standings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  