-- Ibovespa Futures Decline as Bradesco Cuts Ratings on Retailers
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-22T11:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ibovespa-futures-decline-as-bradesco-cuts-ratings-on-retailers.html
Ibovespa  futures  slipped, after the
equity index rose yesterday to the highest since May, as  Banco
Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s brokerage unit cut its outlook on retailers,
citing concern that economic growth in Brazil will falter.  Airline  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL3)  may be active
after saying a measure of profitability known as net yield, or
the average fare paid by a passenger to fly a kilometer,
increased 25 percent in September from a year earlier. Beef
producer  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  may move after Morgan Stanley cut
its recommendation on the stock to the equivalent of hold.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in December sank 0.1
percent to 55,005 at 9:25 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened
0.5 percent to 2.1867 per  U.S. dollar . Bradesco Corretora cut
its recommendation on retailers  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3)  and  Restoque
Comercio e Confeccoes de Roupas SA  to the equivalent of hold.
Online seller B2W Cia. Digital was lowered to sell.  “The sector remains challenging,” Bradesco Corretora
analysts Ricardo Boiati and Pedro Bueno wrote in a note to
clients. “Brazil’s macroeconomic dynamics are uncertain, if not
unfavorable.”  The Ibovespa entered a bull market Sept. 9 after rising 20
percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is still down 14 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a decline of 1.4 percent for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo yesterday was 8.43
billion reais, compared with a daily average of 7.61 billion
reais this year through Oct. 17, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  