-- IEX to Reveal Dark Pool Operations Data in Challenge to Peers
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-10-22T19:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/iex-to-reveal-dark-pool-operations-data-in-challenge-to-peers.html
IEX Group Inc., a dark pool that
plans to convert into a U.S. stock exchange, is breaking with
tradition by publicly releasing the normally private regulatory
filing that explains how it operates.  IEX, which opens for business on Oct. 25, today  put  its
Form ATS on its website, detailing how requests to trade are
prioritized, the types of orders available, price structure and
ways to access the market. New York-based IEX is redacting some
information to protect users’ security, Chief Executive Officer
Brad Katsuyama said during an interview.  Almost 40 percent of U.S. stock volume now takes place
privately on venues such as dark pools, spurring requests from
public exchanges to curb the trading and new disclosure
requirements from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
By revealing its trading rules, IEX hopes to push other
alternative trading systems, or ATSs, to reveal more
information, Katsuyama said.  ModernNetworks IR LLC’s Tim Quast said he cannot recall
another dark pool taking this step.  “It’s a good development, and I can’t think of much bad
that will come of this,” said Quast, the Denver-based president
of ModernNetworks IR, which provides market-structure analysis
to public companies. The decision helps IEX beat back
accusations from exchanges that dark pools aren’t transparent
enough, he said. “Doing this could go some distance to allay
the fears, and it’s a way for ATSs to defend their fort.”  Multiple Venues  Trading in the $20 trillion U.S. stock market is spread
across 13 public exchanges and 44 actively operated ATSs,
according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  research
paper  released this month. Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg
News , runs an ATS called  Bloomberg Tradebook . Transactions are
also handled inside broker-dealers through a process known as
internalization.  IEX has long-term plans to become an exchange, said
Katsuyama. Bats Global Markets Inc. and Direct Edge Holdings LLC
followed a similar path, opening years before officially
converting into exchanges, a designation that carries regulatory
and other obligations.  By releasing the Form ATS, “we plan on blazing a trail and
challenging other ATSs to follow,” said Katsuyama, 35, who
served as head of global electronic sales and trading for  Royal
Bank of Canada (RY) ’s RBC Capital Markets LLC before founding IEX
with ex-RBC executives Ronan Ryan, John Schwall and Rob Park.  “Understanding how a market works is critical to building
trust that a market is truly operating in your best interests,”
Katsuyama said.  Trading Haven  The IEX trading platform, in development since March 2012,
is pitching itself as a haven for long-term investors from
predatory traders. IEX won’t pay firms to buy or sell shares,
shirking a practice that many markets use to lure business from
high-speed traders. Amid industry concern markets are more
vulnerable to mistakes because trading has sped up, IEX will
mandate a 350-microsecond delay between requests to trade and
executions.  IEX’s backers include Capital Group Inc., which manages the
American Funds mutual funds, and Brandes Investment Partners LP.  Joe Mecane, head of U.S. Equities at New York Stock
Exchange owner  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said this month that the
relationship between exchanges and ATSs should be reexamined.
NYSE and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the two largest owners of U.S.
stock exchanges, asked the SEC earlier this year to consider a
trade-at rule, which would keep stock trades away from private
venues unless those markets improve upon prices available on
public platforms.  ‘Out Loud’  Off-exchange trading takes place without also requiring
“an explicit improvement to the process, which in my opinion is
supposed to be the compensation for trading in front of the
person who’s willing to place their liquidity out loud,” Mecane
said at a conference in New York.  “I don’t think we should cap it artificially,” Mecane
said, speaking of the proportion of trading handled off
exchanges. “I think the issue is whether we have the right
incentives or not.”  Earlier this month, Finra issued proposals for ATSs to
release more information about themselves, including weekly
volume reports and how much trading of each stock they handle.
While that will shine some light on dark pools, Katsuyama called
for even more disclosure.  “If you’ve gone out and tried to Google search any of
them, you might come up with a handful of hits,” he said.
“Some of the ATSs, if you go to the broker’s website, it won’t
even come up with a search result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  