-- High-Frequency Trading Targeted in EU Deal, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-23T08:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/high-frequency-trades-face-eu-curbs-in-draft-deal-lawmaker-says.html
European Parliament lawmakers have
reached a draft deal with national governments on high-frequency
trading curbs as part of a push to toughen the bloc’s financial
market rulebook, said the chief legislator working on the plans.  “The negotiation team achieved a significant breakthrough
on this issue,”  Markus Ferber , the lawmaker leading on the
measures, said in an e-mail. “The area of high-frequency
trading is lacking suitable regulation. This is why it was high
time to find a decent solution to this pressing problem.”  The provisional deal, reached by legislators and officials
from Lithuania, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency,
includes a so-called tick size regime limiting the minimum size
of price movements on financial markets, Ferber said. “This
will slow down high-frequency trading significantly,” he said.  High-frequency trading in stocks came under increased
regulatory scrutiny after the so-called flash crash in May 2010,
during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  The practice involves using powerful technology and complex
computer programs to execute orders in milliseconds and profit
from fleeting discrepancies in security prices across different
trading venues. Companies active in high-frequency trading have
warned that interfering with their strategies would raise
investor costs and harm financial stability.  Key elements of the draft deal were reached at a meeting of
officials and lawmakers last week, Ferber said two days ago.  Circuit Breakers  Under the provisional agreement, “traders will have to
have their algorithms tested on venues and authorized by
regulators to minimize systemic risk,” Ferber said in the e-mail. “Moreover, we introduced circuit breakers that will stop
the trading process if price volatility gets too high.”  “Preliminary” agreement has been reached “on a possible
compromise package,”  Lithuania , which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, said in a note to national officials dated
Oct. 21.  While EU parliament lawmakers secured some of the curbs
they had sought on high-frequency trading, they have also had to
give up some of their goals, including EU-wide penalty fees for
traders who cancel excessively large numbers of orders,
according to the document.  Under the draft deal, such fees would be “a national
option for the member states,” according to the document. The
draft deal also excludes a parliament initiative to set a
minimum length of time that orders must be kept in the market.  The draft high-frequency trading measures are part of a
broader overhaul of the EU’s financial-market rules proposed by
 Michel Barnier , the bloc’s financial services chief. Other parts
of Barnier’s proposals seek to push more derivatives trading
onto regulated markets, and restrict commodity speculation.  The measures, which must be voted on by the EU Parliament
and approved by national governments in the 28-nation EU before
they can take effect, would update the EU’s Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive, or Mifid.  A representative for the Lithuanian EU presidency in
Brussels declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  