-- Highbridge Said to Seek $250 Million for New Asia Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-10-22T07:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/highbridge-said-to-seek-250-million-for-new-asia-hedge-fund.html
Highbridge Capital Management LLC,
the JPMorgan Chase & Co. unit that manages about $31 billion, is
starting an  Asia  hedge fund, returning to the market more than
two years after shutting a predecessor fund.  Highbridge plans to raise about $250 million for the Pan
Asia Multistrategy fund when it opens to investors in early
2014, said two people with knowledge of the matter, asking not
to be identified because the information is private. The fund is
led by 32-year-old Asia head Arjun Menon, who is based in Hong
Kong, according to a document seen by  Bloomberg News . Queenie
Tsao, a spokeswoman for Highbridge at RLM Finsbury Ltd. in the
city, declined to comment on the plan, citing legal
restrictions.  The firm liquidated the about $1.5 billion Asia
Opportunities Fund after former Asia head Carl Huttenlocher left
in March 2011 to start his own hedge-fund company, Myriad
Capital Management Ltd. The new Asia fund will focus on
exploiting pricing gaps between related securities, taking less
risk than its predecessor, the people said.  The money Highbridge allocated in Asia to this investment
approach, known as arbitrage, returned 25 percent between
February 2011 and September this year, said one of the people.
The performance is being used to market the new fund, which is
overseen by a six-member investment team led by Menon, according
to the person. That compares with the 12 percent return by the
Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index in the same time period.  Investor Demand  The new fund is opening amid an increase in investor demand
for experienced hedge-fund personnel after the 2008 global
financial crisis. About 43 percent of institutions would not
invest with managers with less than two years’ track record, an
annual Deutsche Bank AG survey in February showed.  “Coming from an established fund helps, but without a
track record it will make it impossible to raise capital,” said
Will Tan, a Singapore-based recruiter at Principle Partners Pte.
“There are less than 10 guys in Asia who can lead a team
similar to the one at Highbridge and most of them are with
international funds or running their own.”  Menon’s team has been running the new Asia fund with only
New York-based Highbridge’s allocation since May before opening
the fund to outside investors, said the people. They will
continue to manage regional investments for Highbridge’s global
fund, they added.  Fund Strategies  The fund will use strategies including credit and
convertible arbitrage, equity long-short and  capital structure 
relative value. The team will be able to allocate assets to the
best opportunities across geographies and asset classes,
according to the document.  Equity long-short funds bet on rising and falling stocks.
Capital structure managers seek to profit from the pricing
disparities between securities issued by the same companies.
Convertible arbitrage funds typically buy the convertible bonds
and sell borrowed common stock of the same issue.  Menon, who is responsible for Highbridge’s Asian
convertible, derivatives and credit investments, has been with
Highbridge since 2003 and moved to Hong Kong in 2006, according
to an official biography in the document. He co-headed the Asian
business after Huttenlocher’s departure and was made sole head
in December 2011, two people said then.  Menon’s trading experience in Asia, including weathering
the global financial crisis in 2008, will help raising money,
said Stephane Pizzo, managing partner at Singapore-based
investment adviser Lotus Peak Capital Pte. For investors
focusing on market experience and risk management, “it’s very
positive the fund is starting small,” he added.  Highbridge has operated in Asia since opening a Tokyo
office in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  