-- Illinois Incompetence Gives Bondholders More Yield: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/illinois-incompetence-gives-bondholders-more-yield-muni-credit.html
Illinois  lawmakers return to their
chambers today with the goal of bolstering the weakest state
pension system. Investors are skeptical of their resolve,
demanding a  record yield cushion  to own the state’s obligations.  The elevated borrowing costs serve as a backdrop for the
latest legislative session aimed at curbing an unfunded
retirement burden that the Civic Federation says has swelled to
about $100 billion. Illinois Senate President John Cullerton,
who championed a pension fix in May that would have cut the
shortfall by about $50 billion, is now pushing a plan that could
save $138 billion over 30 years.  A wider yield spread shows investors are more pessimistic
than in May, when Illinois debt rallied the most since 2011 on
bets lawmakers would agree on a pension measure. Legislators
have failed to enact a fix at least five times in the past 14
months. Over that period Illinois has become the lowest-graded
U.S. state by the three biggest rating companies. Its A- rank
from  Standard & Poor’s , six below the top, is three levels above
 Puerto Rico ’s.  “Illinois’s backlog of unfunded liabilities just continues
to get worse -- there are no steps being made to stabilize the
situation,” said Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident Municipal
Research in  New York . “Until you get beyond somebody having a
plan, it’s very hard to change the outlook.”  Confounding Case  Illinois’s five state pension systems had 43 percent of
assets needed to cover obligations in fiscal 2011, the lowest
ratio among U.S. states, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn , 64, has said coming up with a fix
“has confounded legislatures and governors for 70 years.”  Heading into the session starting today, which lasts at
least through Nov. 7, Cullerton downplayed the urgency of the
issue.  “I don’t think you can use the word ‘crisis’ to describe
it at the state level,” Cullerton said in an Oct. 20 interview
with Chicago’s WGN Radio. “It’s something we have to deal with,
but it’s not something that we’re on the verge of bankruptcy
on.”  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market are betting
the impasse will drag on. The extra yield buyers demand to own
10-year Illinois general obligations instead of top-rated munis
rose to  1.9 percentage points  on Oct. 15, the most this year,
Bloomberg data show.  Climbing Cost  Illinois’s spread is the widest among 17 states tracked by
Bloomberg. While it’s one-third of the premium demanded on
securities from Puerto Rico, which has commandeered the
attention of investors in recent months, the penalty is almost
six times as great as that on  California .  Lawmakers’ inaction has had consequences beyond the state’s
credit rating. Moody’s Investors Service in July dropped its
grade on Chicago, the third-most-populous U.S. city, three
levels to A3, the same rank it assigns the state. Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  presents his budget proposal for fiscal 2014 tomorrow.  Moody’s has lowered at least $41.5 billion of debt from
Illinois issuers since the state’s last legislative session
ended May 31, including the  University of Illinois , Cook County
and the  Chicago Board of Education  because of ties to the state.
That represents about 1.1 percent of the U.S. municipal market,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Snowball Effect’  Dan Cronin, who as board chairman of DuPage County,
Illinois, is the jurisdiction’s highest-ranking elected
official, said issuers in the state have to pay a penalty of as
much as 0.35 percentage point because of the political
dysfunction. Cronin, a Republican, is a former state legislator.  “Every day that they wait only makes it harder for the
Chicago-area governments,” said  Richard Ciccarone , chief
research officer at  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonnell
Investment Management, which oversees $8 billion of munis.
“There’s a snowball effect.”  Taxable Illinois pension-obligation bonds maturing in June
2033 yielded an average of 6.23 percent yesterday, or 3.11
percentage points more than Treasuries, close to the most since
at least February, Bloomberg data show. In comparison, A rated
corporate bonds yield about  4.69 percent , according to a Moody’s
index.  Taxable Chicago general-obligation debt maturing in January
2042 traded yesterday at 3.6 percentage points more than
Treasuries, compared with an average of 3.1 percentage points
since the Moody’s rating cut.  May Failure  In May, each legislative chamber approved a separate
pension-overhaul bill. The house plan would have saved $187
billion over 30 years, while the Senate version, endorsed by
public-employee unions, would have cut the shortfall by about
$50 billion. The proposals spurred the steepest rally in the
Illinois pension bonds in at least three years.  The subsequent collapse of pension-rescue efforts was the
result of a standoff between house Speaker Michael Madigan and
Cullerton, both  Chicago  Democrats. Cullerton said Madigan’s
proposal was unconstitutional, while Madigan argued the senate
plan didn’t go far enough. The inaction led to the appointment
of a committee to develop a compromise. Members haven’t agreed
on a plan.  This time, Cullerton enters the legislative session with a
proposal that narrows the savings gap between his original plan
and a competing one backed by Madigan.  ‘Striking Distance’  The latest proposal backed by Cullerton and some Democrats
would save $138 billion over 30 years by cutting retirees’ 3-percentage-point annual compounded cost-of-living allowance to
half the rate of inflation. It would also reduce employee
contributions by one percentage point.  “We are unbelievably close and well within striking
distance,” said Senator Daniel Biss, a Democratic member of the
committee trying to develop a compromise.  Familiar obstacles lie ahead, including creating bipartisan
support and passing a bill that would withstand any legal
challenge. The Illinois constitution says retirement benefits
“shall not be diminished or impaired.”  Lawmakers are scheduled to be in session today through Oct.
24 and Nov. 5-7.  “We’re hopeful that we’re going to be surprised when the
legislature comes up with a more significant plan than we’re
expecting,” Ciccarone said. “We’re all anticipating it may not
be much of a fix at all.”  Issuers from  Connecticut  to California are offering about
$8.1 billion in long-term debt this week, the most since July.
They’re issuing with yields near a one-month high.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.82 percent ,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with  2.6 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 108 percent, compared with an average of 94 percent since
2001. It has been above 100 percent since June 24. The higher
the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  