-- India’s Rupee Weakens as Inflation Spurs Rate-Rise Speculation
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-22T04:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/india-s-rupee-weakens-as-inflation-spurs-rate-rise-speculation.html
India ’s rupee fell for a third day
on speculation resurgent inflation will force the central bank
to boost borrowing costs, setting back efforts to arrest an
economic slowdown.  Interest-rate swaps  climbed.  Wholesale prices  rose 6.46 percent in September, the most
in seven months, and consumer-price gains quickened to 9.84
percent, official data showed Oct. 14. The  Reserve Bank  of India
will boost the benchmark  repurchase rate  by 25 basis points on
Oct. 29 after raising it to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent last
month, according to  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  The RBI is said to be
considering closing a dollar-swap window for oil refiners.  “There are now more calls for a rate hike as inflation
readings have not been comfortable,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of
currency and money markets at FirstRand in Mumbai. “Bond
markets too are a bit nervous” as rupee weakness raises
questions on whether the RBI will reverse liquidity-tightening
measures it took to support the currency, he said.  The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 61.7663 per dollar as of
9:46 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The one-year interest-rate swap, a
derivative contract used to guard against fluctuations in
funding costs, increased two basis points to 8.46 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  India’s economy  expanded 5 percent in the year through
March, the least in a decade, official data show.  The central bank is looking at ending the emergency
facility under which it has directly sold dollars to state
refiners since late August, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  Currency Risk  The RBI is in talks with the companies to gauge the
potential impact of withdrawing the measure on the  exchange rate ,
two of the people said, asking not to be named as the
discussions are private. The facility stays operational and
“any tapering of the window, as and when it occurs, will be
done in a calibrated manner,” the RBI said Oct. 18. A central
bank facility offering concessional swaps for foreign currency
raised by banks is also set to close on Nov. 30.  The removal of the measures “poses a risk for the currency
and highlights the need for further interest-rate adjustment,”
analysts at Morgan Stanley, including New York-based Rashique Rahman, wrote in an Oct. 18 research report.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, rose 11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, to 12.79 percent.  The yield on the 7.16 percent government bonds due May 2023
was little changed at 8.6 percent, according to prices from the
central bank’s trading system. The rate climbed six basis points
last week.  Forwards Fall  Ten-year notes fell in each of the last four months, the
longest run of losses since 2009, as the RBI raised rates and
curbed funding support to banks to stem a slide in the rupee.
The currency has rebounded from a record low of 68.845 per
dollar on Aug. 28, allowing the central bank to scale back some
of the measures. Rajan twice cut two rates at which the RBI
supplies cash to lenders in the past month.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.4 percent to
63.17 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts declined 0.4 percent to 63.26. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  