-- Indonesia’s Natalegawa Visits North Korea to Boost Trade
-- B y   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e   a n d   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-23T01:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/indonesia-s-natalegawa-visits-north-korea-to-boost-trade-ties.html
Indonesia ’s foreign minister held
talks with his North Korean counterpart during a rare official
visit to the secretive nation, seeking to boost trade ties and
nudge the North toward abandoning its nuclear ambitions.  North Korea  “declared the principled stand on the issue of
the Korean Peninsula” when Marty Natalegawa met with  Foreign
Minister Pak Ui Chun in Pyongyang yesterday, the North’s
official Korean Central News Agency said today.  The trip comes amid a nuclear deadlock between North Korea
and major powers such as the U.S. and  China . After conducting
its third nuclear test in February, North Korea came under
tougher United Nations sanctions and continues to refuse U.S.
and South Korean demands to roll back its weapons program before
international negotiations can restart.  The KCNA statement indicates “North Korea still isn’t
willing to invite nuclear monitors or stop testing nuclear
devices before resuming” talks on its weapons program, said Oh
Gyeong Seob, a North Korea researcher at the Sejong Institute
just south of  Seoul . “It won’t be easy for Indonesia to achieve
what North Korea’s top ally, China, hasn’t been able to,” Oh
said by phone today.  North Korea and Indonesia have maintained friendly
relations since the mid 1960s, when North Korean founder  Kim Il Sung  visited Jakarta. Natalegawa, on his first trip to the
country, carried a letter from President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono saying peace in the region was a precondition to
economic development.  Mongolia Visit  Mongolian President Tsakhia Elbegdorj will also visit North
Korea from Oct. 28 and meet with leader Kim Jong Un, Kyodo News
reported today, citing unidentified Mongolian government
officials.  North Korea’s official media made mention of Natalegawa’s
trip in several reports, with KCNA saying yesterday he visited a
palace in Pyongyang where former leaders Kim Il Sung and  Kim Jong Il  lie in state, and paid tribute.  “The president of the Republic of Indonesia emphasizes the
need for breakthroughs to intensify communication between the
two Korean nations, including through non-traditional ways,”
Natalegawa said in a statement yesterday. He also met with Kim Yong Nam, the president of North Korea’s parliament.  Natalegawa suggested that there could be an Indonesian
business delegation visiting North Korea to study opportunities
for economic cooperation, as special economic zones are opened
in North Korea. Trade between Southeast Asia’s largest economy
and North Korea grew more than 45 percent over the past five
years, Natalegawa said in the statement.  ‘Right Choice’  North Korea plans to jointly build a high-tech industrial
park and a highway between Pyongyang and its airport with a
consortium of foreign firms, including some in  Southeast Asia 
and the  Middle East , KCNA said Oct. 17.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye visited Indonesia
earlier this month and called on the country to “play a role
that helps North Korea make the right choice,” according to the
website of her presidential office.  North Korea in 2009 formally abandoned international
nuclear disarmament talks that would provide the impoverished
nation with economic aid. The U.S. and South Korea say new six-nation talks -- that include China,  Russia  and  Japan  -- should
not be held until the North starts rolling back its nuclear arms
program.  Reactor Restart  The North restarted its Yongbyon nuclear reactor, a South
Korean ruling party lawmaker Cho Won Jin said earlier this
month, citing information from his country’s  National
Intelligence Service . Running the reactor at Yongbyon would mean
the North is making good on promises made in April to restart
the facility as part of efforts to produce energy and improve
its nuclear armed force.  “It’s possible that North Korea may have invited
Natalegawa to offset the influence of  South Korea  in the
Southeast Asian region,” Hwang Jae Ho, an international
relations professor at Seoul’s Hankuk University of Foreign
Studies, said yesterday by phone.  “That region has a host of countries that together can be
influential in the circle of international diplomacy,” Hwang
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Chatterjee in Jakarta at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  