-- Minmetals Said Likely to Drop Out of Rio’s Canada Bidding
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-22T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/minmetals-said-likely-to-drop-out-of-rio-s-canada-bidding.html
China  Minmetals Corp., the nation’s
biggest state-owned metals trader, is likely to drop out of the
bidding for  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s controlling stake in  Iron Ore Co.
of Canada , according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Minmetals considers Rio’s asking price too high and has
decided to focus more on its bid for a  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) 
copper project in  Peru , one of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the information is private. Rio’s 59 percent
stake in Iron Ore Co. may be valued at as much as $3.5 billion,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said in June.  Global mining companies including Rio,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  are seeking to sell some of their less-promising assets after a worldwide economic slowdown reduced
consumption of raw materials. Steel-demand growth from China
will slow in the next two years, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Rio began a sale of its Iron Ore Co. stake this year to cut
costs and strengthen its balance sheet, hiring Credit Suisse and
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce to sell all or part of its
interest, a person close to the matter said in March.  He Jinglin, a media-relations official at Beijing-based
Minmetals, said he had no information regarding the sale. Illtud
Harri, a spokesman for London-based Rio, declined to comment.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) ,  Canada ’s second-largest mining
company, is also considering abandoning its bid for the Rio unit
because of a wide valuation gap, two people familiar with the
matter said earlier this month.  Failed Sales  Rio has struggled to sell other units. In June, the company
said it backed away from divesting its diamond division after
failing to find a buyer and deciding not to pursue an initial
public offering of the unit. In August, Chief Executive Officer
Sam Walsh said a sale of Australian and New Zealand aluminum
units “for value is not possible in the current environment.”  Minmetals is leading a group to bid for Glencore Xstrata’s
Las Bambas mining project, which would be valued at about $5
billion, two people familiar with the matter said this month.  The metals trader plans to contribute about half the
funding for the offer, while a unit of Chinese state-backed
conglomerate Citic Group Co. would put in about 30 percent, the
people said. China Reform Holding Corp., an investment company
backed by China’s state assets regulator, may contribute the
remaining 20 percent of the financing, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  