-- Lira Carry Trade Rebounds as Hot Money Earns 2.3%: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-10-22T08:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/lira-carry-trade-rebounds-as-hot-money-earns-2-3-turkey-credit.html
Investors who bet on lira bonds
using the carry trade this month are making the region’s third-biggest returns as speculation mounts the  Federal Reserve  will
delay the start of scaling back monetary stimulus.  Traders who borrowed in U.S. dollars and used the proceeds
to invest in the Turkish local-currency debt earned 2.3 percent,
the most among  emerging markets  in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  after Hungary’s forint and Poland’s zloty, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation offers the highest two-year yields in  developing countries  after Brazil and India.  Turkish assets are headed for a second month of gains after
the Fed unexpectedly refrained from reducing bond purchases on
Sept. 18. Policy makers probably won’t start cutting stimulus
until March after a U.S. government shutdown slowed the economy,
a Bloomberg survey showed.  “The Fed is now likely to continue its quantitative-easing
program well into next year that is supporting risky assets,”
Thu Lan Nguyen, a Frankfurt-based currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in e-mailed comments yesterday. “The lira
is outperforming now, because it was also one of those
currencies which was hit the most by the quantitative-easing
tapering storms before.”  The yield on two-year lira  notes  rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 7.85 percent at 11:06 a.m. in
Istanbul, increasing from their lowest in a month yesterday,
when local trading resumed after being closed for a holiday most
of last week. The two-year rate peaked at a 19-month high of
10.16 percent on Aug. 26.  Budget Impasse  The U.S. government opened last week after a 16-day
shutdown because of a congressional deadlock over the nation’s
debt ceiling. The Fed will pare the monthly pace of asset buying
to $70 billion from $85 billion at their March 18-19 meeting,
according to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The budget impasse in  Washington  reduced growth by
0.3 percentage point this quarter, economists said in the
survey.  Turkey ’s carry trade, which offered the best monthly
returns in the EMEA region intraday yesterday, should perform
relatively well as concern eases over the U.S. fiscal situation
and the global economy improves, according to Henrik Gullberg, a
London-based strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest
currency trader.  “However, it is undermined by some weak fundamentals,” he
said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “The  current-account
deficit  remains very large and it is showing few signs of
narrowing.”  Widening Gap  Turkey’s shortfall will probably widen to 7.4 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 6.1 percent last year,
according to International Monetary Fund data this month.  The current-account gap is forecast to increase as the
economy rebounds from its slowest growth since the recession in
2009. Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has pledged not to raise
 interest rates  this year to support the recovery.  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.9835 per dollar today,
paring this month’s advance to 1.8 percent, the biggest
appreciation in emerging Europe after the Hungarian forint and
the Polish zloty. Turkey’s currency depreciated to a record
close of 2.0685 against dollar on Sept. 5 and, even after recent
gains, is down 9 percent in the past six months.  “The market simply got too negative,”  Nigel Rendell , a
senior analyst at Medley Global Advisors in  London , said by e-mail yesterday. “Relative global calm should make high yielders
look attractive and the yield pickup in Turkey is still high
versus most other markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  