-- Third Point Takes Nokia Stake as Loeb Targets Record Cash
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-23T08:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/third-point-takes-nokia-stake-as-loeb-to-return-10-to-investors.html
Activist  Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point
LLC took a stake in  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  in anticipation of dividends after
a division sale to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , adding pressure on the
telecommunications-gear maker to disclose plans for its cash.  Nokia’s cash pile is set to expand to more than 14 billion
euros ($19 billion), the highest on record, after it receives
5.44 billion euros for selling its mobile-devices unit to
Microsoft. Either a special dividend or stock buyback is
possible, Loeb said yesterday in his quarterly investor  letter .
Third Point bought Nokia shares late in the third quarter.  “At our purchase price, we seized an opportunity to create
new Nokia at a substantial discount to target value,” Loeb
said. He didn’t specify the size of his  Nokia stake .  Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , will become a manufacturer
focusing on wireless networks after selling its unit making
smartphones, tablets and basic mobile phones to Microsoft. Nokia
said last month it is evaluating its strategy and capital needs
and that excess capital would be returned to shareholders.  Activist funds generally buy stakes in companies and try to
force corporate management and boards to make changes that boost
share prices and investor returns. CF Industries Holdings Inc.
raised its dividend by 150 percent about two months after  Third
Point  demanded the fertilizer maker raise its payout.  Nokia shares rose 0.4 percent to 5.29 euros at 11:52 a.m.
in Helsinki, valuing the company at 19.8 billion euros.  James Etheridge, a Nokia spokesman, declined to comment.  New Nokia  Nokia needs to balance shareholder demands for cash rewards
with spending needed to run and expand its business. Seeking to
challenge Ericsson AB and Huawei Technologies Co. in mobile-phone networks, the company is evaluating buying the wireless
unit of  France ’s  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , a person with knowledge of
the matter said last month.  With analysts’ estimates for the price of the Alcatel-Lucent wireless unit ranging from 1 billion euros to 2 billion
euros, Pohjola Bank has said Nokia will also be able to resume
paying a  dividend  of as much as 40 cents a share. Nokia’s net
cash, or cash minus debt, will be about 8 billion euros after
the unit sale to Microsoft, Loeb said.  While targeting Nokia’s cash, Loeb also expressed
confidence in Nokia’s remaining businesses. After buying out
partner  Siemens AG (SIE)  from its networks unit, Nokia now has greater
control over the business’s operation and strategy, Loeb said.  “The repositioning of the ‘new’ Nokia story will take time
for the broader investment community to absorb, which allows us
to initiate the position at such a significant discount,” he
said.  This year, Loeb’s Third Point has also built up a 6.9
percent stake in Sony Corp. and bought a $113.7 million stake in
Walt Disney Co. as the billionaire seeks higher returns.  Completion Nearing  Nokia’s sale of the mobile-phone business to Microsoft was
announced Sept. 3 and is expected to be completed in the first
quarter, handing the company cash of 3.79 billion euros for the
phone division plus 1.65 billion euros for patents.  One of the first smartphone makers, Nokia dominated with a
global market share topping 50 percent before Apple Inc.’s
iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android software were introduced about
six years ago. Nokia’s market share has since collapsed to about
3 percent, according to IDC. The slump has pushed Nokia to
losses and forced it to cancel its dividend for the first time
in at least 143 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  