-- IRS Delays Start of 2014 U.S. Tax Filing Citing Shutdown
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-10-22T21:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/irs-delays-start-of-2014-u-s-tax-filing-citing-shutdown.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
delayed the start of the tax-filing season for one to two weeks,
citing the recent 16-day federal government shutdown.  The IRS, which had been scheduled to open filing Jan. 21,
2014, will now begin accepting returns for tax year 2013 as
early as Jan. 28. The agency will make a final decision on the
date in December, according to a statement today.  “Readying our systems to handle the tax season is an
intricate, detailed process, and we must take the time to get it
right,” Danny Werfel, the acting IRS commissioner, said in the
statement.  This is the second year in a row that the IRS has postponed
the filing season. Returns for 2012 were accepted starting on
Jan. 30 after Congress delayed setting some tax policies.  “Considering the IRS has dealt with much larger changes on
far shorter notice over the past years without delay, its
reasons are suspect,” Sarah Swinehart, a spokeswoman for the
Republican-led House Ways and Means Committee, said in an e-mail.  The IRS furloughed more than 90 percent of its employees
during the shutdown, which began Oct. 1 when Congress was unable
to pass a spending bill and ended after midnight Oct. 17.  ‘Adds Insult’  “This is yet another unfortunate effect of a shutdown that
Republicans should have never caused,” Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the Ways and Means
Committee, said in a statement. “This tax-filing delay just
adds insult to injury for Americans hoping to get a jump-start
on their tax refunds in January.”  The delay won’t alter the April 15 deadline for taxpayers
to file their returns or seek extensions.  At the start of the filing season, the IRS largely issues
refunds to taxpayers who file as soon as they can. This year,
the IRS issued  $135 billion  in refunds from Jan. 30 to March 1.
That’s more than was paid from March 2 to May 10, when the
agency received 50 percent more returns.  Delaying refunds could have an additional consequence in
2014. The U.S.  debt limit  is suspended through Feb. 7, and
changes in the government’s projected spending after that date
will affect the timing of how long the Treasury Department’s
extraordinary measures to prevent a default will last.  Because the government may issue more refunds after Feb. 7
than previously anticipated, a potential lapse in borrowing
authority could come a few days sooner than projected, said
Loren Adler, research director at the Committee for a
Responsible  Federal Budget  in  Washington .  The delayed start of tax-filing season probably will create
a backlog of potential returns for the start date, rather than
delaying all returns equally.  “Those are folks who are trying to do this as soon as
their books are in order,” Adler said.  The Bipartisan Policy Center projects that the U.S. will
run out of borrowing authority between the end of February and
mid-March 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  