-- Ivory Coast Commerce Minister Says Roads, Taxes Limit GDP
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-10-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ivory-coast-commerce-minister-says-roads-taxes-limit-gdp.html
Ivory Coast ’s tax rates and decaying
infrastructure are limiting private investment in the world’s
largest producer of cocoa, Commerce Minister Jean-Louis Billon
said.  “We need more investments from the private sector,” said
Jean-Louis Billon on Oct. 19 in an interview in Abidjan, the
commercial capital. “Expectations for an economic boom were
high after years of stagnation. The situation has turned out to
be more complicated because of the general state of the
infrastructure and institutions.”  The West African nation is bouncing back from a decade of
crisis sparked by an army mutiny in 2002 that split the country
into a rebel-held north and a government-controlled south.
Unrest flared again after President Laurent Gbagbo’s didn’t hand
over power after 2010 elections. More than 3,000 people died
after Gbagbo refused to accept defeat to  Alassane Ouattara   The
economy contracted about 5 percent in 2011. President Ouattara
took office in May 2011.  Ivory Coast’s economy will expand more than 8.5 percent
this year after growing 9.8 percent in 2012 as the country
builds roads and increases power generation, the  International
Monetary Fund  said last month. The government is working on
improving infrastructure to make it more competitive, Billon
said. The corporate tax rate is 25 percent in Ivory Coast.  Donors Pledge  Foreign donors have pledged $8.6 billion to fund Ivory
Coast’s $19 billion of investments in the next two years. The
money will go to building highways, railroads, a third bridge
spanning the lagoon in Abidjan and an expansion of Abidjan and
San Pedro ports. A hydroelectric dam is being built near the
western town of Soubre.  Ivory Coast needs to reduce tax rates to attract more
investors, Billon said. While commerce courts set up last year
and a competition commission have improved the business
environment, governance issues remain a concern for investors,
Billon said.  “We don’t get rid of bad habits easily,” he said. The
proportion of public contracts awarded without bidding rose to
57 percent in the first three months of the year from 40 percent
a year earlier, according to the National Public Procurement
Regulating Authority .  “Many people are trying to take advantage of the economic
recovery,” Billon said. “There is more money coming through,
the budget is more ambitious and the temptation is higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net  