-- J&J-Medivir’s Drug Works Against Hepatitis C
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-22T20:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/j-j-medivir-s-drug-works-against-hepatitis-c.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s and  Medivir AB (MVIRB) ’s
experimental hepatitis C treatment is safe, U.S. regulators said
in a report suggesting that it may be less effective in some
potential users.  Hepatitis C patients should be screened for a genetic
mutation called Q80K polymorphism that causes the simeprevir
drug not to work as well, Food and Drug Administration workers
also said in the  review  today ahead of an Oct. 24 meeting of
agency advisers to discuss the medicine. People with the
mutation should seek other therapies, the report said. J&J
agreed with the recommendation in the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company’s meeting  document  also released today.  The FDA asked its advisers to review simeprevir and  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s hepatitis C therapy sofosbuvir this week. The
market for the new pills may reach more than $100 billion over a
decade, according to Bloomberg Industries. The screening
requirement may prove positive for Gilead because sofosbuvir
isn’t expected to need such a distinction between patients,
Brian Abrahams, an analyst with Wells Fargo & Co., said.  Today’s FDA report reaffirms Wells Fargo’s position “that
sofosbuvir-based regimens will be the market leaders in 2014 and
beyond,” Abrahams wrote in a note to clients today.  The regulatory agency is scheduled to decide whether to
approve simeprevir for sale by Nov. 27.  Medivir Falls  Medivir, based in Huddinge,  Sweden , fell 10 percent to
99.25 kronor at close of trading in  Stockholm . J&J rose 1.3
percent to $92.36 in New York. Gilead, based in Foster City,
 California , rose 1.6 percent to $68.09.  J&J and Medivir are seeking approval for their once-daily
pill to treat chronic hepatitis C patients with the genotype 1
infection, the most common form of the condition, who have liver
disease and haven’t been treated before or who have failed
interferons. The disease can lead to a liver transplant.  The Q80K is a “known mutation for simeprevir,” Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note to
clients today.  The Q80K polymorphism was found in 48 percent of U.S.
patients with a genotype 1a infection in clinical trials
compared with 19 percent of patients in Europe, J&J said in its
document. The mutation is almost nonexistent in those with a
genotype 1b infection.  Hepatitis C  Hepatitis C is classified into six genotypes with multiple
subtypes such as genotype 1a and genotype 1b. Genotypes 1a and
1b make up 60 percent of global hepatitis C infections, with 1a
accounting for as many as 70 percent of patients in North
America, J&J said.  Treatment for hepatitis C patients now includes an injected
medicine call interferon, which can cause flu-like symptoms.
About 4 million Americans have the disease, which can cause
liver cirrhosis, according to the National Institutes of Health.
The disease can be passed through infected blood or body fluids,
most commonly through needle-sharing by drug users.  The major side effect identified with simeprevir was rash
and sensitivity to light, FDA workers said.  Merck, Vertex  Patients now are treated with pegylated interferon and
ribavirin, a pill, combined with Merck & Co.’s Victrelis or
 Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s Incivek for as long as 48 weeks.
Simeprevir is in a class of drugs called protease inhibitors
that also include Victrelis and Incivek.  Clinical trials found about 80 percent of patients on
simeprevir in combination with interferon and ribavirin who had
never been treated before had undetectable levels of hepatitis C
in the blood 12 weeks after discontinuing treatment, compared
with 50 percent who took only pegylated interferon and
ribavirin. Seventy-nine percent of treatment-experienced
patients had undetectable levels after 12 weeks compared with 37
percent of patients who took only the older drugs, according to
J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care products.  Clinical trials found that simeprevir reduced treatment
time in half to 24 weeks for patients with genotype 1 hepatitis
C. Gilead’s sofosbuvir may shrink the treatment time for those
patients to 12 weeks and would eliminate the need for an
interferon injection for other patients.  Patient Convenience  “Convenience for the patients results in better adherence
and better adherence usually results in more efficacy,” said
Gaston Picchio, hepatitis disease area leader at J&J’s Janssen
unit.  The companies are competing with  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. and Vertex, among others, to bring patients all-oral
treatments. J&J will study interferon-free combinations of
simeprevir with an investigational drug acquired earlier this
year from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   “We’re’re going through a period where we’re all
learning,” Picchio said. “The ultimate goal is to come up with
the best possible regimen for patients.”  Data from a mid-stage study on a combination of simeprevir
and Gilead’s sofosbuvir with or without ribavirin are expected
to be released in early November at the American Association for
the Study of Liver Diseases’ annual conference in Washington,
D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  