-- Jaiprakash Said in Talks to Sell Two India Power Plants to Taqa
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-22T08:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/jaiprakash-said-in-talks-to-sell-two-india-power-plants-to-taqa.html
Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd. (JPVL)  is in
talks to sell two hydropower plants to  Abu Dhabi National Energy
Co. (TAQA) , said two people familiar with the matter.  The plants in Himachal Pradesh in Northern India, which
generate a combined 1,300 megawatts of power, may fetch about
130 billion rupees ($2.1 billion) including debt, said another
person familiar with the proposed sale, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  Jaiprakash Power, a subsidiary of  Jaiprakash Associates
Ltd. (JPA) , is trying to reduce debt that swelled to  228 billion 
rupees as of March 31 from 68 billion rupees two years earlier.
Last month, Jaiprakash Associates agreed to sell a cement unit
to  UltraTech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM)   Abu Dhabi National Energy, the United Arab Emirates-based
utility known as Taqa, increased capacity in India to 350
megawatts when it bought a stake in a hydroelectric plant
developed by  Himachal Sorang Power Ltd ., according to its
website.  Spokesmen for both companies declined to comment. The Hindu
Business Line reported on the talks last month, citing an
unidentified person.  Taqa is also expanding capacity at its lignite power plant
in the Neyveli region of the southern Indian state of  Tamil Nadu 
to 500 megawatts from 250 megawatts, according  to the website .  Jaiprakash Power would need approval from India’s Ministry
of Environment for the deal, one of the people said.  Jaiprakash
Power may fail to reach a deal with Taqa and another bidder for
the two power plants could emerge, one person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  