-- Japan’s Uehara Closes in on MLB Postseason Mark for Red Sox
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-23T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/japan-s-uehara-at-38-closes-in-on-record-mlb-playoff-for-red-sox.html
Koji Uehara is closing in on a
record-setting postseason for the  Boston Red Sox  with a breakout
performance that’s left him surprised, scared and sick to his
stomach.  The 38-year-old Japanese relief pitcher has five saves
through the first two rounds of the playoffs to help the  Red Sox 
reach the World Series against the  St. Louis Cardinals , with
Game 1 tonight in Boston. He’s allowed one run over nine
innings, with no walks and 13 strikeouts, and was voted the Most
Valuable Player of the American League Championship Series.  Uehara took over as Boston’s closer this year and recorded
21 saves to help the Red Sox tie the Cardinals for the best
regular-season record in  Major League Baseball , at 97-65. He had
a 4-1 record, a 1.09 earned run average and 101 strikeouts in 74
1/3 innings, while issuing only nine walks.  “Honestly, I feel almost scared,” Uehara said through a
translator after pitching a scoreless ninth inning in Game 6 of
the ALCS. “I’ve been doing too well this year. But I just have
to keep going at full throttle for the rest of the season.”  Before this year, Uehara had a 19.31 ERA in the postseason.
Now he’s almost unhittable, recording two saves in Boston’s 3-1
series win over the  Tampa Bay Rays  in the opening round of the
playoffs and saving three of the team’s four wins in the ALCS
against the  Detroit Tigers .  With three more saves in the World Series, Uehara would
break the record of seven in a single postseason set by John Wetteland with the  New York  Yankees in 1996 and matched by Troy Percival of the Anaheim Angels and Robb Nen of the  San Francisco
Giants  in 2002, and Brad Lidge of the  Philadelphia Phillies  in
2008.  Season Turnaround  “When you talk about his season June on, that’s
untouchable,” Dennis Eckersley, a Hall of Fame reliever who had
390 saves, said in a telephone interview.  Uehara this season allowed the lowest percentage of walks
and hits per inning of any pitcher in major league history to
throw more than 50 innings, breaking Eckersley’s record from
1989.  Sent out to protect a three-run lead in the sixth game
against the Tigers, Uehara said later with a laugh that he
almost threw up because of the pressure. Eckersley said he could
relate to that feeling.  “You get that initial blast of adrenaline,” said
Eckersley, whose 15 postseason saves rank third behind the
Yankees’ Mariano Rivera (48) and Lidge (18). “You know it’s
coming. That’s how I pitched. It makes you as good as you can be
if you can handle it. It’s not just being scared. It’s a sort of
exhilarating fear.”  Top Pick  Uehara was taken by the Yomiuri Giants with the first pick
in Japanese baseball’s draft and captured rookie of the year
honors in 1999 after winning 20 games, including a record 15
straight. He pitched for  Japan  in two Olympics, struck out major
league home run leader  Barry Bonds  three times in a game during
the 2002 MLB All-Star Series in  Tokyo , and won a World Baseball
Classic title with Japan in 2006. Uehara left Japan after the
2008 season and joined the  Baltimore Orioles  in 2009 at age 34.  “He was always winning at the highest level of the
Japanese game and made it clear after he joined the Giants he
wanted to go to the major leagues,” said Robert Whiting, an
author who has written several books on Japanese baseball.  Bobby Valentine , who managed in Japan and the majors, said
he tried to draft Uehara when he was coming out of college.  “He started out his career as the most successful pitcher
in Japan,” Valentine said in a telephone interview. “He could
have been the first collegiate player to sign a professional
contract to come to the  United States  in about ’97, so he was
that sought after. He’s a star, he has pedigree.”  Bullpen Bound  After going 2-4 with a 4.05 ERA in 12 games as a starter in
his first year with Baltimore, Uehara moved to the bullpen in
2010 and has flourished since.  In 145 relief appearances for Baltimore and the  Texas
Rangers  from 2010 to 2012, Uehara had a 2.35 ERA with 183
strikeouts in 145 innings. He signed a two-year, $9.25 million
contract with Boston as a free agent before this season, joining
another Japanese reliever, Junichi Tazawa.  “People in baseball circles knew about Koji,” Red Sox
reliever Craig Breslow said in an interview. “He’s been a
dominant reliever for a long time. The difference now is that
he’s being Koji in the ninth inning, in a major market, for a
team that’s going to the  World Series . But to say he came out of
nowhere would be selling his career short.”  37 Straight  Over a three-week period in August and September, Uehara
retired a team-record 37 straight batters, recording 10 more
outs than in a perfect game. Without an overpowering fastball he
relies on command and control, along with what Eckersley said is
the most consistent split-finger pitch since Hall of Fame
reliever Bruce Sutter, who played in the majors from 1976
through 1988.  “He’s probably 85 percent strikes,” Eckersley said.
“That’s just crazy. And it looks so easy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in  Boston  at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  