-- JPMorgan Settlement Said to Include Money for Investors
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-22T18:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/jpmorgan-settlement-said-to-include-money-for-investors.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s tentative $13
billion settlement will include about $3 billion for states and
federal regulators, much of which may be passed on to investors
who bought faulty mortgage-backed securities, according to two
people briefed on the matter.  The settlement will also cover a $2 billion penalty against
the bank, $4 billion for the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and about $4 billion
to help homeowners in hard-hit metropolitan areas, according to
the people, who asked not to be identified because the accord
hasn’t been finalized and negotiations aren’t public.  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, 57, is seeking to
settle multiple civil claims that the company misrepresented the
quality of mortgage-bonds that were packaged and sold at the
height of the U.S. housing boom by JPMorgan as well as by Bear
Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc., both of which were
acquired by the New York-based bank in 2008.  While the settlement will help compensate investors who
bought securities from all three entities, the bank won’t pay
fines for misdeeds committed by Bear Stearns and Washington
Mutual, the people said. The accord wouldn’t release JPMorgan or
its executives from possible criminal liability, a person
familiar with the settlement’s terms said on Oct. 19.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, is still working
out final details of the record settlement with the U.S.
Department of Justice, including a statement of facts, the
people said.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan in New
York, didn’t reply to calls and e-mails seeking comment. Adora
Andy Jenkins, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, declined
to comment.  New York  Some pieces might not be concluded by the time a deal is
announced, they said. Both sides are still working out the
details of how to disburse the relief to homeowners and
investors, the people said.  The $3 billion portion will be split between California
Attorney General Kamala Harris, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., National
Credit Union Administration and possibly another state, the
people said. New York state will receive about $500 million and
will probably use it to reimburse investors, they said.  The Wall Street Journal and New York Times reported the
breakdown of the settlement earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  