-- Juniper Cuts 3% of Workforce as Forecast Trails Estimate
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/juniper-forecast-trails-as-carrier-spending-choppy.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  forecast
revenue for the current quarter that may miss analyst estimates
and is cutting 3 percent of its workforce, indicating that
demand for telecommunications equipment remains inconsistent
even though mobile-Internet traffic is surging.  Profit excluding certain items in the fiscal fourth quarter
will be 35 cents to 37 cents a share on sales of $1.2 billion to
$1.23 billion, Juniper said in a statement yesterday. Analysts
on average are projecting adjusted profit of 36 cents on $1.23
billion in revenue, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Kevin Johnson , chief executive officer of the second-biggest maker of computer-networking equipment behind  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , said in an interview that Juniper is cutting 280
jobs immediately. The cuts will take place across the business,
he said.  The company is being hurt by a shift in the networking
industry to software for handling tasks instead of just hardware
such as routers and switches, according to  Scott Thompson , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets & Co.  “When we saw a guide that was essentially in-line to
slightly below expectation, many are likely thinking there might
be more risk to the fourth quarter than they might want to take
on,” said Thompson, who has an underperform rating, the
equivalent of a sell, on Juniper shares. “There’s a definite
shift going on, especially in the service provider space. If
you’re not benefiting from that shift, you’re probably losing
out on the opportunities you might have otherwise.”  Shares Fall  Telecommunications companies spend billions of dollars
upgrading their networks. It comes in chunks, and many have
delayed costly network retrofitting to squeeze more profit out
of existing infrastructure as economic troubles have hurt
 consumer spending .  In the fiscal third quarter ended Sept. 30, adjusted profit
was 33 cents a share, versus analysts’ average projection for 31
cents. Sales were $1.19 billion, compared the average estimate
of $1.17 billion.  Juniper declined as much as 4.5 percent in extended
trading. The shares fell 2.4 percent to $20.36 at the close in
 New York  yesterday, leaving them up 3.5 percent so far this
year.  The CEO said the job cuts are a result of “looking at our
top-line growth agenda for 2014.” Johnson declined to indicate
the projected savings from the move.  Industry Challenges  Cisco also trimmed jobs earlier this year. With the latest
round of 4,000 cuts, or 5 percent of staff, announced in August,
Cisco will have eliminated 12,300 jobs over the past two years
as it has exited consumer businesses and focused on technology
services and software.  Demand from large service providers in  Europe  was “mixed”
while U.S. enterprise sales were lower in part as customers held
off on spending because of the government shutdown and debt-ceiling fight in Congress, Johnson said. The uncertainty was
reflected in the fourth-quarter revenue forecast, he said.  Johnson also said the company is in the “final phases” of
its search for his replacement. He declined to provide
specifics. The Sunnyvale, California-based company said in July
that Johnson, a former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive who has been
Juniper’s CEO for five years, is retiring.  Johnson said at the time that the decision was personal and
unrelated to Juniper’s performance. Juniper’s stock has declined
about  19 percent  since Johnson’s arrival as CEO in September
2008.  Juniper disclosed in August that it’s being investigated by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and  Department of
Justice  for possible violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from paying bribes
to foreign officials to win business. Juniper is cooperating
with the investigations and “can’t predict the scope or
duration,” Michael Busselen, a spokesman for the company, said
in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  