-- Kone Stock Falls as New Orders Miss Estimates on Europe
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-10-22T11:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/kone-stock-falls-as-new-orders-miss-estimates-on-europe.html
Kone Oyj (KNEBV) , the elevator supplier to
 London ’s Shard skyscraper, fell the most in three months after
third-quarter order growth missed analyst estimates.  Kone dropped as much as 3.4 percent, the steepest intraday
decline since July 22, and was trading down 0.8 percent at 66.75
euros at 2:23 p.m. in Helsinki. That pared the stock’s gain this
year to 20 percent, valuing the manufacturer at 17.4 billion
euros ($23.8 billion).  New sales contracts in the quarter rose 2.4 percent from a
year earlier, slowing the nine-month order increase to 12
percent, amid a “mixed” global market, the Espoo, Finland-based company said in a statement today. Demand for new and
replacement equipment in  Europe  “continued to decline” amid a
general economic “weakness” and delays in construction
projects, Kone said.  “Orders were a little bit soft,” Pekka Spolander, an
analyst at Pohjola Bank Oyj in Helsinki said by phone.
“Unfavorable currency exchange rates explain a part of it, but
not all.”  Third-quarter net income rose 13 percent from a year
earlier to 203 million euros, exceeding analyst estimates by 2.8
percent. Kone proposed an extra dividend of 1.30 euros per B-class share, and its board is seeking a share split that
shareholders will vote on at a meeting in December.  Last month, Kone raised its forecast for the third time
this year, citing strong demand in  China  due to the economy’s
improved liquidity, even as it predicted slowing industry
growth. A track record that has helped Kone quadruple its market
value in five years has raised investor expectations to an
almost unattainable level, according to Spolander.  “It’s a case where nothing is quite enough,” the Pohjola
Bank analyst said. “When people have come to expect at least
the norm and rather a bit more from Kone, the slightest soft
spot isn’t good enough, even if it’s a good figure as such.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  