-- KPN Reports Third-Quarter Loss on German Impairment Costs
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-22T07:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/kpn-reports-third-quarter-net-loss-on-german-impairment-costs.html
  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the phone company
partly owned by America Movil SAB, reported a third-quarter net
loss on an impairment charge in  Germany  and forecast its
shrinking business in  Netherlands  to stabilize next year.  The loss was 243 million euros ($332 million), compared
with a profit of 267 million euros a year earlier, The Hague,
Netherlands-based carrier said today. KPN slashed the value of
its German business by 529 million euros. Stripping out the E-Plus unit being sold to Telefonica SA, earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization fell 14 percent to 743
million euros from a year earlier.  KPN, which has agreed to sell E-Plus to Telefonica in a
sweetened 8.55 billion-euros transaction, last week rejected a
7.2 billion-euro offer by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil for
control in KPN after talks broke down over price. The Dutch
carrier, which made 64 percent of its revenue last year in the
Netherlands, will focus on its home market as it faces
increasing price pressure from wireless competitors.  “The underlying fundamentals were a touch better in the
Netherlands, especially in consumer residential,” said Frank
Claassen, an analyst at Rabobank International.  While KPN’s Ebitda in the Netherlands declined 12 percent
to 695 million euros during the quarter, revenue for the
consumer residential business, which offers broadband Internet
and television packages, climbed 7 percent to 489 million euros.
Ebitda for the unit increased 5.1 percent.  ‘Reversing Trend’  “That’s definitely a reversing trend,” Claassen said.  KPN  shares  climbed as much as 2.8 percent and traded 1.9
percent higher at 2.28 euros as of 9:36 a.m. in Amsterdam. That
pared the stock’s decline in the past 12 months to 35 percent.
 America Movil  was working on a bid of 2.40 euros a share.  “Market conditions remained challenging in the third
quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said in the
statement. “Nevertheless, our businesses in the Netherlands and
 Belgium  are showing positive operational momentum.”  KPN is rolling out a high-capacity fiber-optic network in
the Netherlands to offer high-speed  Internet access  and enable
mobile traffic to be offloaded. Ziggo NV, a TV and Internet
provider, plans to sell wireless service this year, competing
with Sweden’s Tele2 AB, Vodafone Group Plc and Deutsche Telekom
AG, as well as KPN for Dutch mobile users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  