-- Netanyahu to Prod Kerry on Iran After Vatican Visit Scrapped
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-10-22T08:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/netanyahu-to-prod-kerry-on-iran-after-vatican-visit-scrapped.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, mistrustful of warming ties between world powers and
 Iran , flies to Rome today to discuss Iranian nuclear talks and
Middle East peace efforts with Secretary of State John Kerry.  While Netanyahu had planned to meet Pope Francis, he had to
scrap the visit after the Vatican said busy schedules wouldn’t
permit it this time. Kerry’s travels through Europe still allow
the Israeli leader to express his opposition to easing sanctions
against Iran and doubts about resolving Israel’s conflict with
the Palestinians.  “He will remain the skeptical observer on the Obama
administration’s warming to Iran while seeking to relieve some
of the pressure Kerry is exerting to make concessions to the
Palestinians,” said Benedetta Berti, a research fellow at Tel
Aviv University’s Institute for National Security Studies.  In Moscow yesterday, Russia’s chief negotiator at the talks
said Iran and world powers may strike an accord allowing the
Islamic republic to continue enriching uranium up to 5 percent
purity. That level would require more time to turn into weapons-grade material than the 20 percent enriched uranium Iran is also
producing. A Netanyahu spokesman, Mark Regev, said the Israeli
leader would comment on that in  Rome .  No Decisions  Kerry, shuttling this week to Paris,  London  and Rome, met
yesterday with Arab foreign ministers also concerned about U.S.
positions on Iran and the Israeli-Palestinian talks. Tomorrow,
he will try to reassure Netanyahu that no decisions on easing
Iran sanctions have been made and that any such action would
depend on Iran first taking verifiable steps to show it won’t
produce nuclear weapons, according to a U.S. official who spoke
on condition of anonymity because Kerry hasn’t said publicly
what he will tell the Israel leader.  Iran denies it is working to build nuclear weapons.  Netanyahu has urged the U.S. and five other powers taking
part in talks with Iran in Geneva to reject any proposal that
would not ensure a halt to all uranium enrichment. Iran must
also stop building a plutonium-producing reactor and curtail
other capabilities to make sure it can’t build a nuclear weapon,
the Israeli leader says.  Beyond advocating for sanctions, Netanyahu has said  Israel 
may take military action to stop Iran from producing nuclear
weapons. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s gestures to the West
drew scorn from Netanyahu, who warned in an address to the
United Nations this month that Iran is determined to continue
uranium enrichment.  Maintain Pressure  “The pressure has to be maintained on Iran, even increased
on Iran, until it actually stops the nuclear program, that is,
dismantles it,” Netanyahu said in an Oct. 20 appearance on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “There are a lot of countries
that are waiting for a signal, just waiting for a signal to get
rid of their sanctions regime.”  The Israeli leader is scheduled to meet this evening with
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta. While Pope Francis would
like to meet Netanyahu, his schedule did not permit it, said
Ciro Benedettini, a spokesman for the Vatican.  Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas met with the pope last
week. Both Abbas and Israeli President Shimon Peres have invited
Francis to tour the Holy Land, a pilgrimage his predecessor Pope Benedict made in 2009.  On Track  Following remarks from Israeli and Palestinian officials
suggesting peace process has stumbled, Abbas said the talks
shepherded by U.S. envoy Martin Indyk remain on track. The
Palestinian leader received a pen from the pope and said he
hopes to use it to sign a peace agreement with Israel.  “We will go forward in sincere and good faith with our
minds open and a strong will to succeed,” Abbas said Oct. 18 in
Berlin, adding an agreement is possible within the nine months
alloted by Kerry in late July.  In Paris yesterday, the secretary of state said the talks
were intensifying, with 13 rounds held so far.  Reflecting on the Kerry-sponsored talks in a speech at Bar-Ilan University Oct. 6, Netanyahu again called on the
Palestinians to recognize Israel as a Jewish state, a step
they’ve shunned because Arabs comprise about 20 percent of
Israel’s population and doing so could compromise demands to
repatriate Palestinian refugees.  “As long as you refuse to do so, there will never be
peace,” the prime minister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  