-- New Zealand Said Poised to Raise $1.7 Billion in Biggest IPO
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-10-22T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/new-zealand-said-poised-to-raise-1-7-billion-in-biggest-ipo.html
New Zealand  is poised to raise more
than NZ$2 billion ($1.7 billion) in the initial public offering
of Meridian Energy Ltd., bolstered by demand from individual
investors, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Prime Minister John Key’s government will probably price
Meridian shares at the NZ$1.60 cap for retail investors, said
the people, who asked not to be identified before an official
announcement. New Zealand is marketing the IPO shares at NZ$1.50
to NZ$1.80 to institutional investors.  Key, seeking to drum up demand for the biggest IPO in New
Zealand’s history, capped the price for retail buyers after
state-owned Mighty River Power Ltd. fell from its May offering
price. Individual investors could account for more than 60
percent of the Meridian IPO, one of the people said.  Selling up to 49 percent of Meridian will bring Key closer
to his target of raising about NZ$5 billion by the end of 2014
through divesting state assets. He has also pledged to sell
shares in Genesis Power Ltd. and reduce the government’s stake
in Air New Zealand Ltd. The Mighty River IPO raised about NZ$1.7
billion.  The government will announce final pricing for Meridian
this evening local time. Investors will be allowed to pay for
their shares in two installments, with NZ$1 per share upfront
and the remainder 18 months later. A spokesman for Finance
Minister  Bill English  declined to comment on pricing.  Retail Demand  Of the 1.26 billion Meridian shares available, 800 million
to 900 million may be sold to retail investors, one of the
people said. The retail offer closed last week and demand has
exceeded the Treasury’s expectations, this person said.  Offshore and domestic institutions are now bidding for the
remainder of the shares in a bookbuilding period that closes
tomorrow. Should the institutional portion be priced above
NZ$1.60, the price for retail buyers will still be capped at
that level.  The Treasury may opt for lower pricing even if demand from
institutions allows it to sell shares at the top end of the
marketed range, as officials seek to ensure Meridian advances
after it starts trading on Oct. 29, one of the people said.  Meridian is New Zealand’s biggest power company, with seven
hydroelectric dams and four wind farms generating about 30
percent of the country’s electricity needs. It also has a wind
installation in  Australia  and another under construction.  “It is a 100 percent renewable energy producer, which is
unusual in a global context, so for that reason it will attract
some interest,” said Shane Solly at Mint Asset Management Ltd.
in Auckland, who is bidding for Meridian stock.  Meridian had assets of NZ$7.74 billion at June 30 and
revenue of NZ$2.7 billion in the 12 months through June,
according to its IPO prospectus.  New Zealand appointed Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Macquarie
Group Ltd. and a partnership of Deutsche Bank AG and Craigs
Investment Partners Ltd. in May to manage the Meridian IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  