-- Nokia Shows Larger Lumias to Help Microsoft Wireless Push
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-10-22T11:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/nokia-shows-larger-lumias-to-help-microsoft-wireless-push.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , in its first product
introduction since agreeing to sell its handset business to
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , showed a tablet and smartphones that give a
glimpse of how the merged businesses will try to revive demand.  The Lumia 2520, Nokia’s first tablet, runs Microsoft’s
Windows RT 8.1 software and has a 10.1-inch display. It costs
$499 before taxes and carrier subsidies and will start selling
this quarter, initially in the U.K.,  Finland  and the U.S. by
carriers including  AT&T Inc. (T)  Nokia also showed two smartphones
with six-inch screens, a category often dubbed phablets.  The products expand the Windows mobile-device lineup and
signal the type of features that Microsoft will bet on in its
hardware push after its first products failed to win over users.
Its $7.2 billion deal for Espoo, Finland-based Nokia’s devices
unit, set to be completed next quarter, are part of the
company’s plan to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
Co.’s dominance of the tablet and smartphone markets.  “We talk a lot about Lumia and Nokia and Microsoft talks
about Microsoft and Windows Phone. As we market our products you
get a cacophony of different brands,” Stephen Elop, head of the
Nokia device unit being sold to Microsoft, said today in an
interview in  Abu Dhabi . “You’ll see us simplify those brands.”  Elop, who stepped down as Nokia’s chief executive officer
to move to Microsoft as part of the deal, is a candidate as the
software maker seeks a new CEO to lead the fight against Apple.
Apple CEO  Tim Cook  is set to unveil new iPads at a San Francisco
event today, people with knowledge of the plans have said.  Hardware Push  The Lumia 2520, complementing two new models of Microsoft’s
Surface tablet, comes in red and white in a glossy finish and
blue and black in a matte finish. The six-inch Lumia 1520,
Nokia’s largest smartphone, will compete with Samsung’s 5.7-inch
Galaxy Note 3 and comes in yellow, white, black and glossy red.
It’ll start selling this quarter for $749 before taxes and
subsidies. The other new smartphone, the Lumia 1320, is $339.  “Nokia’s phablet brings it and Microsoft into a segment
that has high volume and a higher average selling price that
previously it hasn’t addressed,” said Richard Windsor, an
independent analyst with Radio Free Mobile. “It’s a welcome
addition to their lineup.”  AT&T said it will sell the Nokia tablet and the Lumia 1520
ahead of the  holiday shopping season . The carrier, which
dominates the U.S. market with  Verizon Wireless , also offers
devices such as the iPhone and the Note 3, an Android device
Samsung introduced last month.  Surface Writedown  “We see no obvious stand-out feature that looks likely to
persuade large numbers of people who are in the market for a
Note 3 to change their minds and choose a Lumia 1520 instead,”
John Delaney, an analyst at researcher IDC, said in an e-mail.  Nokia shares  fell  0.8 percent to 5.25 euros at 2:38 p.m. in
Helsinki. They had added 81 percent this year through yesterday,
boosted by the Microsoft deal. Microsoft rose 0.1 percent to
$34.99 in  New York  yesterday and is up 31 percent this year.  Microsoft jumped into the touch-screen tablet market,
dominated by Apple’s iPad and models running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software, in June 2012 with the announcement of its
first Surface. Designed to keep its Windows software relevant as
consumers shift to tablets from personal computers and laptops,
the Surface instead generated such little demand that Microsoft
said in July it took a $900 million inventory writedown. It
introduced two new Surface models last month.  Instagram, RT  Tablets running the RT version of Microsoft’s operating
system were criticized for being too basic, and the company cut
the price of some such models. That may not bode well for the
new Nokia tablet, which uses the same software, Windsor said.  “Nokia’s tablet is a disaster waiting to happen,” Windsor
said. “It’s running Windows 8.1 RT which is likely to ensure
that no one buys this device.”  In a potential boon for Windows, Nokia said the photo-sharing app Instagram will be available for its new devices.
Popular among Apple and Android users, Instagram has been one of
those missing from Windows as Nokia and Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft have struggled to attract developers to build
programs for their devices.  Microsoft’s Surface accounted for 0.7 percent of the 44.3
million tablets sold in the second quarter, according to
researcher IDC. Android controlled 62.6 percent of the tablet
market and Apple had 32.5 percent, according to IDC. Android
software is used in tablets manufactured by companies including
Samsung and Sony Corp.  Tablet shipments will top those of PCs for the first time
in the fourth quarter, IDC said last month. Some 84.1 million
tablets will be shipped, compared with 83.1 million PCs, the
researcher said.  New Ashas  Nokia agreed to sell its mobile devices to Microsoft after
struggling to regain relevance in smartphones following Apple’s
introduction of the iPhone in 2007. Among the products that
Nokia bet on to try to keep its leadership position were early
tablet-like devices called the 770, introduced in 2005, and
N800, introduced in 2007, which both failed to catch on.  Microsoft’s plan to buy Nokia’s mobile-devices division
also means it gains a business making more basic mobile phones,
which compete with lower-end Android devices in markets
including China and  India . Nokia today unveiled the Asha 500,
502 and 503, which cost less than $100 yet have smartphone-like
features.  Nokia, set to become a manufacturer focusing on wireless-network equipment after the sale to Microsoft is completed, is
scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on Oct. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  