-- Novartis Raises 2013 Forecast on Lack of Diovan Generic
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-10-22T08:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/novartis-raises-2013-forecast-on-lack-of-diovan-generic.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s biggest
drugmaker by sales, raised its forecast for the second time this
year after a generic competitor to one of its biggest-selling
medicines failed to appear.  Sales this year will increase at a low- to mid-single-digit
percentage rate in constant currencies, and core operating
income will be in line with or better than the previous year,
Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis said in a statement today. In
July, the company predicted a low-single-digit percentage
decline in earnings, with sales rising at a similar rate.  Novartis is benefiting from  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ’s
inability to begin selling a copy of the Diovan blood-pressure
treatment in the U.S., where regulators are assessing the Indian
company’s quality control. New products such as the Gilenya pill
for multiple sclerosis and the cancer drug Afinitor also now
make up about a third of revenue, Chief Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  said.  “All in all, this was a strong quarter, particularly for
the pharma division, with Gilenya the star performer,”  Alistair Campbell , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London, wrote in a
report today. The higher forecast “is not due to fundamental
over-performance in the underlying business and will be viewed
as a one-off.”  Novartis Competitors  Novartis’s crosstown rival,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , last week
maintained its forecasts for the year. European companies
including  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Shire Plc (SHP)  report later this
week, with analysts predicting Glaxo’s sales in China will be
hit by a probe into alleged corruption.  Third-quarter profit fell 3 percent as currencies in Asia
and  Latin America  fell against the dollar amid signs of slowing
economic expansion. Earnings excluding some costs declined to
$3.1 billion from $3.2 billion a year earlier. Analysts
 predicted  profit of $3.12 billion, according to the average
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Novartis climbed 1 percent to 68.55 Swiss francs at 10:25
a.m. in Zurich. The stock has returned 23 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends, through yesterday, beating the
20 percent  return  for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Sales Gain  Sales increased 4 percent to $14.3 billion, matching the
average estimate. Sales of Gilenya rose 63 percent at constant
exchange rates to $518 million, and Afinitor gained 65 percent
to $337 million.  Chairman Joerg Reinhardt started a review of the
drugmaker’s businesses after taking his post in August, saying
they should either rank among industry leaders or be looked at
for possible sale. The process is continuing, Jimenez said today
on a call with journalists.  Slowing economies in  emerging markets , where Novartis
generated  24 percent  of sales in 2012, prompted the
 International Monetary Fund  on Oct. 8 to cut its global growth
forecast for 2013. The Indonesian rupiah and Indian rupee
declined against the dollar during the quarter and, among
developed markets, Novartis was hurt by weakness in the yen.  Sales in the pharmaceutical division grew 1 percent, to
$7.9 billion, as the company raised prices and sold more drugs.
The Alcon eye-care unit saw revenue grow by 3 percent to $2.5
billion on sales of its surgical products.  Revenue at Sandoz, the company’s generics unit, grew 11
percent to $2.3 billion, aided by last year’s acquisition of
Fougera. Vaccines sales rose 2 percent to $594 million, and
sales of consumer health products rose by 11 percent to $1
billion.  For Related News and Information:
Novartis Raises Full-Year Forecasts on Lack of Diovan Rival  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  