-- Nuclear Is Viable Option for Baltic Energy Needs, Neverovic Says
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-10-22T16:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/nuclear-is-viable-option-for-baltic-energy-needs-neverovic-says.html
Building a new nuclear plant for the
Baltic nations is a viable way to replace power-producing
capacity the region lost when  Lithuania  closed two Soviet-built
reactors, Energy Minister Jaroslav Neverovic said.  “Under current market conditions, a nuclear plant remains
one of the most attractive solutions for our region,” Neverovic
told reporters today after meeting representatives of Japan’s
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital.  Hitachi, the strategic investor for a nuclear power plant
that Lithuania is considering building in partnership with
Latvia and  Estonia , has proposed “obvious improvements” to a
previous project that was too expensive, the minister said.  After closing the Soviet-built Ignalina nuclear plant in
2009, Lithuania imports more than half its electricity, mostly
from  Russia . Insufficient or inefficient local generation
capacity has pushed up power prices throughout the Baltic
region, Lithuanian grid operator Litgrid said today, calling for
easier access to competitively priced power from the east.  Energy Independence  “When we shut Ignalina, we lost all our competitiveness in
power production,” Neverovic said. “Free and independent
countries” can’t depend on others for a majority of their
energy needs, he said.  Heads of government from the three Baltic nations will meet
next month to discuss evolving terms for the long-debated joint
project, which Neverovic said now are “much more realistic and
accessible to the partners” than before.  In a non-binding referendum last year, Lithuanian voters
rejected the previous government’s plan to hire  Japan ’s Hitachi
to build a 1,300-megawatt reactor in the town of Visaginas.  Rather than cancel the project, Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius called on partners to study whether and how the
Visaginas plant could be viable.  “I’d like to move forward,” Butkevicius told reporters
today. That means working out remaining technical and financial
issues to guarantee the project’s commercial viability, getting
partners to sign on to the changes, and working to boost public
support, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  