-- O’Leary Fields Ryanair Twitter Views in Charm Offensive
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-10-22T12:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/o-leary-fields-ryanair-twitter-views-in-charm-offensive.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  Chief Executive
Officer  Michael O’Leary  threw himself into the airline’s new
charm offensive, using its recently started Twitter feed to
engage in an often heated exchange with customers.  The CEO, 52, took  questions  on the Irish carrier’s stance
on issues ranging from the trumpet-fanfare recordings played in
the cabin when a flight arrives on time to why Ryanair,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, is trying to improve its image.  O’Leary, who has cultivated a take-no-prisoners
outspokenness, said last month that he may need to moderate his
comments to win over fliers in the U.K. and  Germany  who view his
Dublin-based company as too down-market. He hasn’t entirely
abandoned the tongue-in-cheek approach, using a picture of
himself in leprechaun costume on the Twitter discussion
yesterday and scheduling the release tomorrow of Ryanair’s
annual calendar featuring bikini-clad employees.  “We are no longer the Robin Hood, we’re no longer the
challenger, we’re now the establishment,” O’Leary said at a
conference in London today. “We do need to evolve certain
aspects of our business so we’re more facilitating.”  More than 1,500 questions were submitted for the Twitter
session, and O’Leary will host another discussion in coming
months, the CEO said. Ryanair is looking to “communicate a more
sophisticated message,” he said.  Mobile-Phone App  In addition to the Twitter feed, Ryanair’s reputation-upgrade work has included offering its mobile-phone application
for free and outlining an overhaul of its  website  to close the
gap to what O’Leary has said is a superior, customer-friendly
booking process at  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)   Ryanair said on Sept. 20 that it will drop a security
software link at the end of this month for individuals seeking
to reserve flights. O’Leary said today that the website’s
complete revision will go online in mid-December.  The airline is developing family-oriented and group-friendly products for later this year, the CEO said. The offers,
to be announced next month, will be linked to a new registration
system that stores travel details such as customer names, credit
card numbers and address for future bookings. Incentives under
consideration include allowing families to pool bags and
discount packages for ancillary services like reserved seating,
O’Leary said.  Reviewing Fees  Ryanair is also reviewing some fee and baggage policies,
such as charging passengers who fail to print their boarding
pass before arriving for a flight, O’Leary said. At  London 
Stansted, its biggest base airport, Ryanair is softening its
stance limiting customers to a single carry-on item. As of Nov.
1, passengers will be allowed to carry a small bag of airport
shopping in addition to their hand luggage, he said.  The airline is working on a less confrontational
relationship with airports, O’Leary said. Ryanair announced a
new 10-year growth agreement with Stansted airport last month,
with a goal of increasing it passenger numbers there by 50
percent to more than 20 million. London needs three more
runways, with one each at Heathrow, Stansted and Gatwick
airports, he said during the Twitter discussion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  