-- Hockey Injects A$8.8 Billion to RBA, Boosting Currency Options
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-22T23:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/hockey-injects-a-8-8-billion-to-rba-fund-amid-global-volatility.html
Australian Treasurer Joe Hockey will
inject A$8.8 billion ($8.5 billion) into the central bank’s
depleted reserve fund, increasing its flexibility to tackle
renewed currency strength.  The transfer will bring the balance of the Reserve Bank of
 Australia ’s main capital buffer equal to 15 percent of its
assets at risk, a level deemed by the RBA board as sufficient to
place it in a strong financial position, Hockey said today in a
statement. It currently stands at 3.8 percent.  “This injection of funds puts beyond any doubt the Reserve
Bank’s continued ability to perform its core monetary policy and
foreign exchange functions, in an environment of heightened
financial market volatility,” Hockey said.  The RBA’s capital buffer has been depleted by the sustained
strength of the Australian dollar, which weighs on the local
value of its foreign assets. Governor Glenn Stevens urged
Hockey’s predecessor to refrain from taking a dividend for the
year to June 2012 to allow the central bank to rebuild the fund.
Then-Treasurer Wayne Swan, in defiance of Stevens’s advice,
requested and received a A$500 million payment from the RBA as
the government sought to balance its books.  “The RBA now has more capacity to absorb unforeseen losses
on foreign-exchange and bond holdings,” said  Sally Auld , a
interest rate strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co in Sydney.
“This will make some people consider whether the RBA are about
to meaningfully up their foreign-exchange reserves or
intervention.”  Shock Absorber  The reserve fund stood at A$1.9 billion, Stevens told a
parliamentary panel in Canberra on Feb. 22. Hockey’s statement
shows the balance at A$2.5 billion.  The Australian dollar has risen 9 percent since Aug. 30,
the best performing group of 10 currency after New Zealand, as
confidence indicators rebound and the U.S. Federal Reserve is
expected to delay tapering.  The transfer will detract from the underlying cash balance
in the 2013-14 financial year, Hockey said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  