-- Lockheed Raises Earnings Forecast as Profit Rises 16%
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-10-22T16:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/lockheed-forecasts-higher-profit-as-net-income-rises-16-.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the biggest
U.S. government contractor, raised its full-year forecast as
third-quarter profit jumped 16 percent, defying Pentagon budget
cuts.  The company’s profit from continuing operations climbed to
$842 million, or $2.57 a share, from $727 million, or $2.21 a
share, a year earlier, Lockheed said today in a statement. That
exceeded the $2.27-a-share average  estimate  of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales declined  4.4 percent to $11.35
billion.  Lockheed so far has weathered automatic federal spending
cuts under a process known as sequestration. The Defense
Department has protected large programs such as the company’s
F-35 jet, the military’s costliest weapons system. The
contractor also has reduced costs, most recently by firing 600
workers last week.  “We can size our company for the environment that we work
in,”  Bruce Tanner , chief financial officer of Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed, told reporters during a conference call
today.  Lockheed rose 2.9 percent to $128.88 at 12:45 p.m. in  New
York . Even amid the defense cuts, investors have sent Lockheed’s
 shares  up 36 percent this year through yesterday, exceeding the
22 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Industry ‘Uncertainty’  Lockheed was among the first of the top federal contractors
to announce third-quarter results.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the No. 6 U.S. government
vendor, said today that  defense spending  cuts contributed to the
company’s reduced full-year sales forecast. The Hartford,
Connecticut-based company predicted annual sales of about $63
billion, down from an earlier $64 billion forecast. Net income
rose 1.2 percent to $1.43 billion in the quarter.  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD)  are scheduled to report tomorrow.  While Marillyn Hewson, Lockheed’s chief executive officer,
referred in the statement to “the uncertainty surrounding our
industry,” the company raised its financial outlook for the
second consecutive quarter.  Lockheed today projected full-year  earnings  per share of
$9.40 to $9.70, an increase from $9.20 to $9.50 estimated in
July. It forecast sales for the year of about $45 billion,
compared with $44.5 billion to $46 billion estimated in July.  Automatic Cuts  The forecast reflected sequestration and the impact of the
16-day partial government shutdown that began Oct. 1. The
automatic cuts and the shutdown will slice revenue for the year
by about $450 million, compared with an estimate of $825 million
in April, Tanner said.  Sequestration accounted for almost all the expected
reductions in sales, he said. The shutdown had minimal effects
on revenue -- about $15 million to $20 million a week, Tanner
said.  Earlier this month, Lockheed furloughed 2,400 employees,
most of them tied to nondefense programs, during the shutdown.
The workers were sent home because government sites were closed
or the company received an order from agencies to stop work.  Looking further ahead, the company said it expects sales in
2014 “will decline slightly from 2013 levels and that business
segment operation margin will remain above 11.5 percent.”  International Sales  Lockheed said it had a backlog of $78.7 billion at the end
of the quarter, compared with $75.1 billion at the end of the
second quarter. The company also is expanding its international
sales, Hewson said on a conference call with investors and
analysts.  “Our international work is expected to grow and help
mitigate domestic pressures in 2014,” Hewson said.  The Defense Department must cut about $50 billion from its
planned spending in the year that began Oct. 1 under
sequestration.  The company has been largely sheltered from those cuts
since they began in March as Pentagon officials locked in
contracts for systems they deemed a high priority, including the
F-35 aircraft.  While third-quarter sales and operating profit declined in
the company’s largest unit, aeronautics, F-35 production
contracts provided gains in the segment.  Of Lockheed’s five  segments , Missiles and Fire Control was
the only one with both higher sales and operating profit. The
unit’s sales rose 2.7 percent to $2 billion in the quarter, with
boosts from air and missile defense programs.  The 600 jobs cut last week came from the company’s Mission
Systems and Training unit, where sales fell 8.8 percent to $1.7
billion in the quarter from a year earlier.  Discontinued operations in the third quarter generated $31
million, which the company described as a “benefit resulting
from the resolution of certain tax matters related to a business
previously sold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  