-- OECD Says Brazil Central Bank Needs Greater Independence
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-10-22T17:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/oecd-says-brazil-central-bank-needs-greater-independence.html
Brazil  needs to increase the
independence of its central bank and should raise  interest rates 
to meet its inflation target, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report.  Policy makers need to establish fixed terms for the central
bank directors and its governor, the OECD said in its Economic
Survey on Brazil report sent by e-mail today. Communication
regarding interest rates should be limited to the central bank,
it said.  Brazil’s policy makers reduced the Selic rate to a record
low last October as President  Dilma Rousseff  vowed to lower
borrowing costs to “civilized” levels. Officials have since
raised benchmark borrowing costs more than any other major
economy tracked by Bloomberg. Statements on interest rates from
officials outside the central bank risk confusing market
participants and hurting policy makers’ independence, according
to the OECD.  “Both could result in inflationary expectations becoming
unanchored from the inflation target,” according to the report.  Brazil’s policy makers should continue raising the Selic to
bring inflation to target and bolster policy credibility,
according to the OECD. Inflation has remained above the 4.5
percent target for three years.  The central bank has raised the benchmark Selic by 225
basis points, or 2.25 percentage points, since April. That’s 75
basis points more than  Indonesia , the only other major world
economy tracked by Bloomberg that has lifted borrowing costs
from last year’s levels.  ‘Right Direction’  “These are steps in the right direction,” the report
said. “Under the assumption that the economic upturn continues,
the Selic rate should be raised further as needed to ensure that
inflation returns to the target.”  The OECD also recommended boosting budgetary transparency
by limiting “quasi-fiscal operations” and raising retirement
ages.  The government in 2012 tapped state company dividends and
discounted some investments to help meet its primary budget
surplus target. Officials this year lowered the 2013 primary
budget surplus target by 0.8 percentage point and proposed a 12
percent spending increase for 2014. The primary target excludes
interest payments.  “Sometimes we had a bit worse results, but even so better
than many countries,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
reporters in Brasilia today about Brazil’s fiscal policy when
asked about the OECD report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  