-- Ohio Medicaid Expansion Plan Challenged in Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ohio-medicaid-expansion-plan-challenged-in-lawsuit.html
Ohio Governor  John Kasich ’s plan to
expand Medicaid under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul, approved two days ago by a state legislative panel,
was challenged in a lawsuit brought by a group of Ohio
lawmakers.  Six Republican state representatives, joined by anti-abortion organizations based in  Cleveland  and Cincinnati, filed
the complaint challenging the panel’s action yesterday at the
state’s Supreme Court in Columbus.  The plaintiffs asked Ohio’s top court to void the Ohio
Controlling Board action, arguing it exceeds that body’s lawful
authority. Kasich, a first-term Republican, sought approval from
the board after he was unable to persuade his party members who
control the state legislature to agree to the plan.  “The governor is not king,” Maurice A. Thompson, the lead
lawyer on the case, said in a telephone interview yesterday. The
purpose of the lawsuit he said, is to “protect Ohio’s checks
and balances.”  An entity separate from the state’s General Assembly, the
Controlling Board considers agency spending requests. It voted
5-2 yesterday to take $2.56 billion in U.S. funds through fiscal
2015 to add 275,000 adults to Medicaid, the state-federal
program for the poor.  The body consists of four Republican and two Democratic
lawmakers, plus a chairman from the state budget office named by
Kasich.  Income Levels  Under the Affordable Care Act, states can expand Medicaid
to cover those earning about a third more than the federal
poverty level, or $15,856 annually for an individual and $26,951
for a family of three this year, according to the  Kaiser Family
Foundation , a  Menlo Park , California-based nonprofit that
studies health issues.  It said Ohio will be the 25th state, and the eighth with a
Republican governor, to take that step. The U.S. government will
pay all the added cost for the first three years and at least 90
percent after that.  Kasich said expansion will bring about $13 billion from the
federal government over seven years. He also said the state has
a moral duty to help people without health insurance, especially
those with mental illnesses and drug addictions.  ‘Don’t Understand’  “Why is that some people don’t get it?” Kasich asked
during an Oct. 18 event at the  Cleveland Clinic  promoting the
expansion. “Is it because they’re hard-hearted or cold-hearted?
It’s probably because they don’t understand the problem because
they have never walked in somebody’s shoes.”  Dan Tierney, a spokesman for  Ohio  Attorney General Mike DeWine, didn’t immediately reply to an after-hours voice-mail
message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  “The Ohio Constitution forbids the delegation of such
major policy making authority to a small administrative board of
legislators and executive branch officials where those policy
outcomes diverge from the expressed intent of the Ohio General
Assembly,” according to the complaint filed yesterday.  The board must act consistently with the state’s
legislature, Thompson said. He is executive director of the
Columbus-based 1851 Center for Constitutional Law, which is
“dedicated to protecting the constitutional rights of Ohioans
from governmental abuse,” according to its  website .  The case is State, ex rel. Cleveland Right to Life Inc. v.
State of Ohio Controlling Board, 13-1668, Ohio  Supreme Court 
(Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  