-- Overflowing Canada Grain Bins Compound Global Glut: Commodities
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-10-22T13:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/overflowing-canada-grain-bins-compound-global-glut-commodities.html
Canadian wheat and canola grower
Mike Bast spent five years building silos to store 100,000
bushels on his 2,000-acre farm in La Salle, Manitoba. It wasn’t
enough. He’s already dumping grain into his neighbor’s bins.  Harvests this year across the Prairie provinces of  Canada ,
the world’s top canola producer and the second-largest exporter
of wheat, will jump 14 percent to a record 80.8 million metric
tons, the government said Oct. 16. The supply surge is eroding
prices and testing the limits of domestic storage. Farmers are
leaving crops in uncovered mounds amid a shortage of silage bags
and a lack of space at grain elevators and export depots.  “I’ve never seen this much grain out in fields, in bags or
in piles,” said Tyler Russell, the national grain-marketing
manager for processor Cargill Inc.’s Canadian unit in Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan. “We have a monster crop.” Most storage space
will be “pretty much full” during harvest months, he said.  Bin-busting output in Canada is compounding record global
supplies as planting expanded from  Brazil  to Ukraine to the U.S.
Midwest after last year’s drought sent futures surging. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc. and Rabobank cut their price
forecasts in the past month. Global food costs that reached a
three-year low in September probably will drop 6 percent in
2014, the International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 8.  Grain Slump  Wheat, Canada’s biggest crop, fell 10 percent this year to
$6.975 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, and canola in
Winnipeg slid 15 percent to C$498.60 ($484.50) a ton. Grain and
oilseed prices during the 12 months that began Aug. 1 will be as
much as 30 percent lower on average than a year earlier, the
government’s Agriculture & Agri-Food Canada said Oct. 16, after
boosting its harvest forecasts by 5.7 percent from September.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
commodities dropped 16 percent this year, including a 37 percent
slump for corn, the biggest decline among 24 raw materials
tracked by the S&P GSCI Spot Index, which is down 1.6 percent.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities advanced 17 percent
since the end of December. The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond
Index lost 2.2 percent.  Improved yields and expanded acreage will boost Canadian
wheat output by 22 percent this year to a record 33.17 million
tons, the government estimates. Canola production will jump 16
percent to an all-time high of 16.03 million, while barley
expands 18 percent to 9.43 million, the most since 2009. Corn
was forecast to match last year’s record of 13.1 million tons.  No Bags  While capacity at grain  elevators  has increased 5.4 percent
in the past decade to 11.6 million tons, that’s down from 14
million in 1990, when the country had four times as many
elevators, Canadian Grain Commission data show. The government
doesn’t track storage on the nation’s farms, where production of
grain and oilseeds are up 38 percent since 2003.  Grain Bags Canada , the largest seller of plastic sheets
used as a cheaper alternative to metal bins for keeping
harvested crops dry, has been sold out for the past month. It’s
the first time in its seven-year history that the Humboldt,
Saskatchewan-based company had none to sell, including the
popular 10-foot-by-300-foot (3-meter-by-91-meter) bag that can
hold as many as 15,000 bushels, President Aaron Yeager said.  “We knew before harvest there was going to be a shortage
of grain bags,” said Yeager, adding that he plans on ordering
as much as 40 percent more next year so he doesn’t run out.
“Every direction I look, I can see a bag or two in the
distance, and they’re not all mine.”  Bumper Crops  Output in North America has rebounded after drought last
year cut U.S. corn production by 13 percent and soybeans by 2.6
percent. Hail and adverse weather in 2012 reduced Canada’s
canola crop by 5.1 percent, and wheat and barley yields fell.  While planting in western Canada was delayed this year
because of excess rain and cool weather, crops progressed as the
weather improved. Wheat yields will be a record 3.23 tons per
hectare, up 13 percent from last year; barley yields will jump
27 percent; and canola fields will produce 2.07 tons per
hectare, up 31 percent from 2012, government data show.  “No one anticipated the size of the crop that we’ve
actually got,” which may take more than a year to market, said
Brent Watchorn, executive vice-president of marketing for
Winnipeg-based grain handler Richardson International.  Exports Rising  Export demand may soak up some of the surplus and help
limit price declines. Canada will ship 20.5 million tons of its
 wheat crop  to foreign buyers in the current crop year, the most
since 1995, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Canola sales will jump 10 percent to 8 million tons, Agriculture
& Agri-Food Canada said Oct. 16.  Canola futures probably will rise to C$505 by the end of
March, fueled by increased export demand, said Terry Reilly, a
senior commodity analyst for Futures International in Chicago.
Exports of oilseeds including canola may gain 12 percent on
demand from China, Japan and Mexico, said Ken Campbell, a vice
president of North American Softseed Crushing for Decatur,
Illinois-based processor  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)   Farmers with storage may be reluctant sellers, and grain
buyers may be eager to restock inventories depleted by last
year’s smaller crops, Richardson’s Watchorn said. Wheat  reserves 
before this year’s harvest tumbled to a five-year low of 5.057
million tons, down 15 percent from a year earlier, and canola
inventories fell 14 percent to 608,000 tons, Statistics Canada
said Sept. 6.  Global Glut  A bumper crop in Canada will help  global wheat  output jump
by 5.8 percent to 692.6 million tons, the most ever, in the 12
months that began July 1, the International Grains Council said
on Sept. 26, boosting its forecast from a month earlier by 2
million tons. The council predicted corn production will rise
9.3 percent to a record 943.2 million tons.  The prospect of ample world supplies has kept hedge funds
and other large speculators betting on a drop in wheat prices
for the past nine months. Their  net-short position  on Sept. 27
was 35,000 futures and options contracts, while corn holdings
were the most-bearish since the data began in 2006, at 126,345
contracts, according to the most-recent report from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Data was suspended this
month because of a partial U.S. government shutdown.  Wheat futures in  Chicago  will drop to $6.35 in the fourth
quarter as output grows in Argentina,  Australia  and the Black
Sea region, Rabobank analysts including Luke Chandler said in an
Oct. 2 report. On Sept. 30, Damien Courvalin, a Goldman analyst,
forecast $6.50 in three months. Corn, after touching a record
$8.49 a bushel last year, may drop below $4 within 12 months,
Citigroup said on Oct. 3. The grain was at $4.4275 today.  Canola Forecast  Canola probably will average C$470 in the 12 months through
July, said Neil Townsend, the head of market research for
Winnipeg-based CWB, formerly the Canadian Wheat Board. Prices
averaged C$600 a year earlier.  Global food costs tracked by the United Nations dropped for
a fifth straight month in September, led by a 25 percent plunge
in cereal prices, the agency said Oct. 3. The “favorable supply
outlook” will mean lower prices next year, the IMF said Oct. 8.  Grain supplies in Canada also may wait longer than normal
on farms or in storage because there isn’t enough shipping
capacity by a rail industry that transports about 95 percent of
the nation’s crops, said Wade Sobkowich, executive director of
the Winnipeg-based Western Grain Elevator Association, which
represents grain-handlers including Cargill and  Glencore Xstrata
Plc (GLEN) ’s Viterra unit. Companies may need twice as many rail cars
as normal to move all the grain this year, he said.  On Ground  Most of the export-terminal capacity is sold out through
November and some buyers are booking deliveries into April to
make sure they’re not waiting for supply, Richardson’s Watchorn
said. Three elevators that have exceeded their capacity are
storing a total of 96,000 tons on the ground in the first week
of October, according to the  Canadian Grain Commission  in
Winnipeg.  Bast, the Manitoba farmer, said he spent C$150,000 this
year to add 10,000 bushels of storage capacity, an 11 percent
increase, including new silos and a grain dryer. That only gives
him enough room to store about 60 percent of his crop, which
means the rest will have to be sold at low prices or into
someone else’s bins.  “If the terminals are plugged and can’t take more grain,
then everything has to sit at a standstill,” Bast said.
“Everything is full at the farm right now, and we’ve got some
more that’s got to come off the field yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  