-- How Congress Can Get Its Groove Back
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-22T20:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/how-congress-can-get-its-groove-back.html
Americans have little  faith  left in
Congress. There is mounting evidence that members of Congress
have developed a  similarly low opinion  of themselves (Senator
 Ted Cruz  of  Texas  emphatically excepted). What everyone needs
now is a confidence booster.  To break the cycle of failure, partisan recrimination and
stalemate on  Capitol Hill , Democrats and Republicans need
something that looks, smells and feels like bipartisan success.
And they could achieve that by aiming for modest goals. Rather
than try right away to fix the  federal budget  or agree on
health-care policy, they need small, achievable steps -- as if
they were a couple on one of those weekend getaways intended to
rekindle a chilly marriage.  One such step could be to  reauthorize  a law supporting
adoptions of foster children. Legislation to accomplish this is
working its way through the House, and a similar bill is
circulating in the Senate Finance Committee. Both could enable
Congress to exercise its bipartisan muscle, currently at risk of
atrophy. There is unlikely to be a wide gulf on this issue
between Republicans and Democrats, or between the House and
Senate. And passage would enable Congress to accomplish
something useful to some Americans.  With that success under its belt, Congress could make a
structural change that would both please members and grease the
wheels for future cooperation: Bring back earmarks.  Congress reformed earmarks -- spending targeted to a
specific legislator’s district, allies or pet project -- in
2007, after spending on them had skyrocketed and the “Bridge to
Nowhere” and other boondoggles gave them all a bad name. A new
rule required disclosure of the names of earmark sponsors, a
justification of the expense and a vow that the sponsor wouldn’t
benefit financially. Republicans killed earmarks altogether when
they gained control of the House in 2011.  This hasn’t been an unqualified improvement, however. With
no earmarks to dole out, leaders have a harder time maintaining
order in the ranks, and legislators have an incentive to
pressure executive branch agencies behind closed doors to fund
pet projects.  So one good way to jump-start a stalled Congress would be
to resurrect earmarks -- complete with the 2007 reforms and an
extra  bipartisan twist . Any legislator who proposes an earmark
should be required to enlist a sponsor from the other party. The
earmark would have to have sufficient merit that a partisan
opponent would be willingly associated with it. At the very
least, this would spur bipartisan horse trading, building
valuable working relationships -- and, who knows, maybe even a
little trust -- across the partisan divide.  Productive communication is as important in Congress as in
any other work environment. We have just witnessed, once again,
the destructive power of hyperpartisanship. What a relief it
would be now to see Democrats and Republicans move forward
cooperatively, even just a couple of steps.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 