-- Howard Buffett Finds 40 Chances to Get Philanthropy Right
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-10-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/howard-buffett-finds-40-chances-to-get-philanthropy-right.html
Howard G. Buffett has photographed
an African warlord at close range and witnessed 50 children
bound in shackles in  Senegal .  In Barranquilla,  Colombia , he sat next to the pop star
Shakira in an SUV as kids banged on the windows until their idol
emerged to sign autographs.  Buffett, son of the second-richest person in the U.S.,
could have written a vanity book to chronicle his philanthropic
work battling world hunger. Instead, he offers insight, self-deprecation, solutions and heart in “ Forty Chances: Finding
Hope in a Hungry World .”  Warren Buffett  and his late first wife, Susan, gave and
pledged billions to each of their three children to fund
charitable foundations. Howard, an  Illinois  farmer, picked
global hunger as his target.  In the book’s foreword, the elder Buffett describes “Forty
Chances” as a “guidebook for intelligent philanthropy.”  It’s more than that.  Howard Buffett  has figured out a way
to tell 40 stories about hunger, farming, poverty and war, while
delivering a readable account of a formidable challenge.  Philanthropists will take much from “Forty Chances,” and
the layperson will benefit, too, coming away wiser about the
powerful forces that keep poverty and hunger alive -- and ways
to fight those forces.  Farm Equipment  The “forty chances” of the title are inspired by a talk
Buffett heard in 2001 at a farm-equipment store in Assumption,
Illinois. Farmers tend to think of their job as a continual
process of planting, fertilizing, harvesting and starting all
over again, the speaker said. But it’s actually something most
farmers get only about forty shots at, he said, so they’d better
make the most of every opportunity to get it right.  Forty “didn’t seem like all that many chances,” Buffett
writes. The lecture that day changed his thinking about both
farming and life, and he began to question whether he was
listening to people who had new ideas and learning the right
lessons from his mistakes.  In the  book , he shares many mistakes philanthropists make,
including having the wrongheaded assumption that other cultures
desire Western amenities.  Buffett’s foundation built homes for several employees in
 South Africa ; as he was driving by one day, he saw a new stove
in the front yard of one of his workers. The family had removed
the stove and replaced it with an open fire pit on the kitchen
floor. “Nobody ever asked them if they wanted the stove,” he
writes.  Reducing Conflict  On a larger scale, Buffett cites preliminary data that
suggest that while some kinds of foreign aid reduce conflict in
a region -- notably agricultural development and food aid --
other assistance, such as projects for building infrastructure
and improving government administration, can increase the risk
of conflict.  Buffett says that as more-detailed data become available,
the information will help groups like his “advocate for smarter
ways to provide aid.”  There are many success stories. Efforts to support private
seed companies in  Africa  feed hundreds of thousands of people a
year. In  Nicaragua , helping farmers with the legal work
necessary to get title to their land provides an incentive for
them to invest in long-term projects that enhance the soil.  Family Stories  Buffett doesn’t overplay the marquee value of his family,
but he tells us enough to understand how he wound up on a
mission against hunger -- and to entertain. He once went to see
an Omaha businessman who owned a construction company and said
he’d like to learn how to operate bulldozers and other big
equipment.  The exchange was not warm: “Kid, you were born with a
silver spoon in your mouth,” the man said. “You wouldn’t last
five minutes with my union guys. Get the hell out of my
office.”  Buffett jokes that his last name got him in the door and
then got him tossed out.  But he left that day “with an ‘I’ll show you’ chip on my
shoulder,” he writes. From the looks of things, that’s exactly
what Howard Buffett did.  “Forty Chances,” by Howard G. Buffett, written with his
son, Howard W. Buffett, is published by  Simon & Schuster  (443
pages, $26). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Susan Antilla  writes for Bloomberg Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . She is the author of “Tales
From the Boom Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment on
 Wall Street . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining and  Amanda
Gordon ’s  Scene Last Night .  To contact the writer on the story:
Susan Antilla in  New York  at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 