-- Toyota’s Lexus IS Fails to Win Magazine’s Endorsement
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-10-23T00:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/toyota-fails-to-win-consumer-reports-recommendation-for-lexus-is.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  failed to win the
coveted recommended rating for its new Lexus IS 250 sedan from
 Consumer Reports  magazine, which cited reasons including fuel
economy and handling.  The IS 250, which starts from $35,950, is “neither sporty
nor luxurious” and had the “worst road test score posted by
any Lexus sedan in recent memory,” Consumer Reports said in an
e-mail. The handling is “short on finesse” and road noise is
elevated, according to the magazine, which tested the 2.5-liter
V-6 version of the car.  The review undermines Toyota’s efforts to regain its lead
in the U.S. luxury-vehicle market, which it lost in 2011 to
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Daimler AG’S Mercedes-Benz
following production disruptions from natural disasters in
 Japan . Reviews published by Yonkers, New York-based Consumer
Reports are considered objective because of policies of
accepting no advertising and buying every vehicle it tests.  “As the Consumer Reports evaluation includes many factors,
Lexus is unclear on the cause for the low rating,”  Brian Lyons ,
a Toyota spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We look forward to
engaging in a discussion with them to get more direct feedback
on their experience with the car.”  Honda Motor Co. rolled out a new version of the Civic sedan
in about 19 months, the quickest turnaround of a car in the
company’s history, after failing to win the recommended status
from Consumer Reports for the model in 2011.  Infiniti Q50  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Infiniti Q50 sedan also failed to get
the recommended rating, Consumer Reports said. While the car
posted a “very good” score for its road test, it gave an
“underwhelming driving experience” compared with its
predecessor, according to the magazine’s review.  “Infiniti’s engineering team is currently reviewing their
test of the Infiniti Q50,” Stefan Weinmann, an Infiniti
spokesman, said in an e-mail, referring to Consumer Reports.
“Q50 scored well, but in line with CR’s normal practice, is
still too new for the publication’s reliability results which is
necessary to categorize the car as recommended.”  Infiniti is confident it can obtain the recommended rating
“once the reliability results are in,” Weinmann said.  Toyota’s U.S.  Lexus  sales gained 12 percent in the first
nine months of this year, while Nissan’s Infiniti brand
deliveries declined 6.6 percent, according to industry
researcher Autodata Corp. That compares with a 14 percent
increase in BMW sales and 11 percent for Mercedes-Benz,
according to Autodata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  