-- P&G’s CEO Lafley Won’t Speak on Most Earnings Calls
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-10-22T20:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/p-g-s-ceo-lafley-won-t-speak-on-most-earnings-calls.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Chief Executive
Officer A.G. Lafley won’t speak on the company’s first-quarter
earnings call Oct. 25 and only will participate at major
investor meetings and the year-end call in August.  The move will free him from the demands of preparing for
the quarterly calls, Paul Fox, a spokesman, said today in a
telephone interview. Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller will be
joined on the calls by John Chevalier, the company’s head of
 investor relations , Fox said.  Lafley, who began his second stint as CEO of the world’s
largest consumer-products company in May, led the company’s
fourth-quarter earnings call in August. He told listeners that
P&G had dedicated itself to “really understanding the consumer,
really winning with the consumer.”  Lafley, 66, previously led the company from 2000 to 2009.
He was brought back to replace Bob McDonald after sales  growth 
trailed competitors and the company lost market share in
important categories such as beauty products.  P&G earlier this year said it would move to issuing
guidance only on an annual basis instead of quarterly.  Having Lafley on the calls only once a year “reflects our
focus on annual results and trends rather than quarterly results
and is consistent with our recent move to fiscal guidance,” Fox
said in an e-mail.  P&G, based in Cincinnati, rose 1.8 percent to $80.38 at the
close in New York. The shares have gained 18 percent this year,
 compared  with a 20 percent increase for the 40-company Standard
& Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples Index.  Linda Bolton Weiser, an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in  New
York , reported Lafley would skip the calls in a note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  