-- Pakistan Leader Trumpets Colgate Profit Before Obama Meeting
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-10-22T11:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/pakistan-leader-trumpets-colgate-profits-before-obama-meeting.html
Pakistani Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  trumpeted record profits by Colgate-Palmolive Co. and
Nestle SA to investors in the U.S. as he seeks to improve ties
between the two nations and turn around a struggling economy.  Sharif, who will meet President  Barack Obama  tomorrow at
the White House, told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce that his
government was focused on providing a secure environment for
investments. Pakistan wants good relations with the U.S. and its
South Asian neighbors, he said.  “It is true that there have been difficulties in the
recent past,” Sharif said, according to a transcript of his
remarks, referring to ties with the U.S. “However, the
important thing is that both sides have remained fully engaged,
even in that difficult phase. Happily, we have been able to put
the relationship back on a stable and upward trajectory.”  Sharif’s comments reflect his four-month-old government’s
efforts to put aside differences with the U.S. over drone
strikes in tribal areas in an effort to revive an  economy  hurt
by power blackouts and a Taliban insurgency. Pakistan averted
the risk of a  default  on its foreign debt after the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  agreed to provide a three-year, $6.6 billion bailout package last month.  Top Priority  “For Sharif, the economy is the top priority,” said
Rashid Ahmed Khan, a professor of international relations at the
 University of Sargodha  in Punjab province. “Sharif knows this
very well that the U.S. will not end its drone campaign as long
as al-Qaeda remnants operate from Pakistan and his government is
unable to enforce its control over the tribal belt. I don’t
think he is going to push too hard on the drone issue.”  Profits at Nestle Pakistan Ltd., a unit of the world’s
biggest food company, Colgate-Palmolive, the world’s largest
toothpaste maker, and Unilever  Pakistan  Ltd. have touched record
highs in the past two years. Nestle reported a 26 percent
increase in earnings for the year ended December, while Unilever
profit surged 34 percent in the same period. Colgate profits had
surged 39 percent in the year ended June 2012.  “At a time when most countries confront the worrisome
prospect of greying populations and the burden of demographics
fatigue, Pakistan faces no such challenge,” Sharif said.
“Nearly sixty percent of our population is under the age of
thirty, thus offering huge demographic dividends.”  Share Sales  Pakistan is the world’s sixth most-populous nation with
about 193 million people. Sharif, a former businessman, is
moving to overhaul the economy through share sales of state-run
companies and improved infrastructure to expand the economy by
more than 6 percent in the 2016 fiscal year, up from an
estimated 3.6 percent in the year ended June 30.  Relations with the U.S. remain delicate after a tumultuous
2011, when an American raid killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, who was living in a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. The
deaths of two dozen Pakistani soldiers by U.S. helicopters soon
after compounded the falling out, prompting Pakistan to close
supply routes for American forces in  Afghanistan  for more than
six months.  Sharif strongly opposed the U.S. drone attacks in Pakistani
tribal areas during his election campaign and promised to halt
the program run by the Central Intelligence Agency that targets
al-Qaeda, Taliban and other militants operating near the
Afghanistan border.  ‘Unlawful Killings’  London-based  Amnesty International  said in a report
released today that the U.S. drone strikes have killed
civilians. The group, which reviewed 45 known drone strikes that
took place in northwestern Pakistan between January 2012 and
August 2013, found that a 68-year grandmother and 18 laborers
were among those killed in multiple attacks.  “The U.S. has carried out unlawful killings in Pakistan
through drone attacks, some of which could even amount to  war
crimes ,” the group said, demanding information about
investigations into the deaths and calling on the Obama
administration to explain the legal basis for the strikes.  The U.S. plans to give Pakistan $1.6 billion in security
and civilian assistance that had been held over from previous
years,  State Department  spokeswoman Marie Harf told reporters in
 Washington  yesterday. The funds would partly go to help
Pakistan’s military fight al-Qaeda in western border regions,
she said.  “The prime minister’s official visit comes as we are
strengthening U.S.-Pakistan relations,” White House spokesman
 Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday. “We want to find ways for
our countries to cooperate even as we have differences on some
issues,” he said.  Militant Groups  Pakistani Taliban and allied groups have killed more than
1,200 civilians, soldiers and police this year, according to
Sharif’s government. The escalation in violence since Sharif
took office will remain a main concern for the Obama
administration as Pakistan appears unable to tackle militants
operating from its tribal areas, according Talat Masood, a
retired lieutenant general and analyst based in Islamabad.  “Obama will be asking Sharif to clean the house,
especially the security situation,” said Masood in a phone
interview. “Americans want Sharif to deal firmly with
insurgents who they think use Pakistani territory to attack
Western forces in Afghanistan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  