-- Pemex Plans Drilling, Logistics Companies as Energy Reform Looms
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-10-22T17:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/pemex-plans-drilling-logistics-companies-as-energy-reform-looms.html
Petroleos Mexicanos  plans to group
drilling and logistics subsidiaries into single entities to
streamline operations as the state-run company prepares for
energy reforms that would end a 75-year-old oil monopoly.  Pemex, as the company is known, is readying a series of
structural changes in anticipation of revisions to national
energy legislation, Chief Executive Officer Emilio Lozoya said.
The creation of  drilling and logistics companies will help
maximize profitability and extend the company’s international
reach, he said.  “If Pemex put all its drilling subsidiaries into one
entity, it would be the second-largest drilling company in the
world,” Lozoya said at the Mexico Business Summit in
Guadalajara. “It would be able to provide services to not only
Pemex, but to other companies in the world.”  President Enrique Pena Nieto presented a bill to Congress
on Aug. 12 that would permit foreign companies to pump crude
from  Latin America ’s third-largest reserves for the first time
since 1938.  Lozoya said competition is “the best thing that could
happen for Pemex” as it will impel the company to correct
inefficiencies that contribute to problems such as refining
losses. The losses are subsidized by the government and forecast
to be 100 billion pesos ($7.7 billion) this year, Lozoya said.  The logistics company will synchronize pipelines and ports
to improve the transportation of hydrocarbons. The company
oversees more than 80,000 kilometers (49,710 miles) of pipelines
in Mexico, Lozoya said.  “When all this logistic infrastructure of ports and
pipelines are together in a single entity, it could be one of
the biggest logistics companies in Latin America,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in  Mexico  City at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  