-- Pick n Pay First-Half Profit Gains as Retailer Cuts Costs
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-10-22T15:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/pick-n-pay-first-half-profit-gains-as-retailer-cuts-costs.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK)  rallied the
most in five years after  South Africa ’s second-biggest grocer
said first-half profit climbed as it reduced costs, added new
stores and its market share decline slowed.  The  shares  gained as much as 9.4 percent, the most since
October 2008, and closed 7.8 percent higher at 45.53 rand in
Johannesburg. More than 5 million shares traded, or 8.8 times
the three-month daily average.  The retailer is working to regain customers from
competitors such as  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,  Africa ’s largest
grocer, and has been trying to cut costs and improve its supply
chain amid a downturn in  consumer confidence . The outlook for
South African household spending remains uncertain as high wage
settlements are counterbalanced by low employment, high debt
levels and rising prices, Reserve Bank Deputy Governor Francois Groepe said on Oct. 11.  “The results certainly exceeded my expectations, but the
company is not out of the woods yet,” Alec Abraham, an analyst
at Afrifocus Securities in Johannesburg, said by phone. “Pick n
Pay needs to not just stem the hemorrhage, it needs to gain
market share.”  Net income increased 6.2 percent to 192 million rand ($19.5
million) in the six months through August, the Cape Town-based
company said today in a statement. Earnings per share excluding
one-time items gained 14 percent to 40.81 cents, while sales
rose 6.2 percent to 30.1 billion rand.  More Headwinds  “I’m encouraged, but far from satisfied -- we can do
better,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Brasher  said in a
presentation in  Cape Town . “We are determined to control our
costs and invest in growth.”  Pick n Pay will open 64 new stores in the second half,
Brasher said in the presentation. That compares with 44 new
outlets opened across all formats during the first six months of
the year, alongside nine closures. While the company has faced
“a few more headwinds than perhaps this time last year,” it
stemmed some losses in market share, Brasher said.  The gap in year-on-year sales growth rate between Pick n
Pay and the total market was 4.8 percent in March to August
2012. That gap narrowed to 0.7 percent this year, Brasher said
in the presentation.  Like-for-like sales growth in stores was 4 percent in the
first half, compared with 3.2 percent in the same period a year
ago. That’s a “strong indication” market-share losses are
being eroded, the company said.  Brasher, the former head of  Tesco Plc’s (TSCO)  U.K. unit, joined
the retailer in February to lead a sales-growth revival. The
company has cut about 400 support office jobs as it seeks to
lower operating costs. The savings from this will be felt in the
next year, Brasher said.  “For too long we put too much in and got too little out,”
he said. “When we add people we need to make sure it’s done
efficiently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  