-- Poland May Keep Rates at Record Low Into 2014 to Aid Economy
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-22T15:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/poland-may-extend-pledge-to-keep-rates-at-record-low-belka-says.html
Three Polish central bankers
signaled  interest rates  may remain at a record low into 2014 to
help energize a sluggish recovery in the European Union’s
largest eastern economy.  The 10-person Monetary Policy Council is “closer to
extending” its pledge to keep borrowing costs at 2.5 percent
until at least year-end, Governor  Marek Belka  told reporters
today. The bank should leave its “neutral stance” for “one or
two” quarters next year, fellow rate-setter Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said on the sidelines of a Warsaw banking conference.  Policy makers have kept borrowing costs unchanged after
cutting them by 2.25 percentage points between November and July
and Belka said this month that the economy is recovering “very
gradually” from its worst slowdown in a decade.  Gross domestic
product  rose 0.4 percent from the previous three months in the
second quarter as the euro area, which buys 51 percent of Polish
exports, emerged from a record-long recession.  The zloty rose 0.2 percent to 4.1659 per euro as of 4:58
p.m. in Warsaw. It’s lost 1.9 percent against the common
currency this year, the fourth-best performance among 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Extending Bias  “Recent data bring us closer to extending the period
during which our policy bias is neutral,” Belka said after his
speech in Warsaw. “I don’t know when we’ll take that decision
and for how long.”  Retail sales  rose 3.9 percent from a year earlier last
month, less than the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 29
economists, the  Central Statistical Office  reported today.
Inflation slowed to 1 percent in September, according to an Oct.
15 report. Consumer price growth has stayed below the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target for nine months.  Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, an MPC member who sought rate cuts as
early as last July, told TVN CNBC today that policy makers may
need to consider reducing borrowing costs again after they
receive staff projections for inflation and economic growth next
month. The economic recovery is proceeding “unusually slowly,”
she said in an interview.  November’s projection will be key in deciding the central
bank’s next “forward guidance” on  interest rates , according to
Zielinska-Glebocka, who opposes further cuts. GDP growth should
accelerate to more than 2.5 percent in 2014, driven by  Germany ,
she said.  Belka’s view doesn’t differ significantly from those MPC
members who say rates should stay on hold until at least the
middle of next year, the central bank governor said in an
interview in  New York  on Sept. 27.  “There’s no doubt the recovery is under way,” Belka said
today. “But it’s a slow one and it’s not creating  inflation (POCPIYOY) 
pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  