-- Port Authority Weighs Subleasing World Trade Center Space
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-10-22T22:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/port-authority-weighs-subleasing-world-trade-center-space.html
The Port Authority of  New York  and
 New Jersey  is considering subleasing as much as a quarter of its
new headquarters at 4 World Trade Center, the lower  Manhattan 
tower it owns and is scheduled to open next month.  The agency, which oversees the region’s interstate ports
and transportation infrastructure, last month issued a  request
for proposals  from commercial-property real estate brokers to
advise it on finding tenants for as much as 150,000 square feet
(14,000 square meters) of its 601,000 square feet of offices in
the skyscraper. The space is between the 18th and 21st stories,
according to the document.  “The authority has determined that it no longer requires
the entire leased area,” the agency said in the document. “The
authority intends to sublease this area in a manner that
maximizes the potential financial return.”  The 72-story  tower,  developed by  Larry Silverstein , will
become the first office building to open on the 16-acre (6.5-hectare)  World Trade Center site  since the 2001 terrorist
attacks destroyed the original twin towers. With about 1 million
of its 2.3 million square feet unleased, it’s one of several
top-quality office towers with large vacancies in  lower
Manhattan , including the bigger 1 World Trade Center, scheduled
for completion next year.  The marketing of the space is consistent with instructions
from the governors of New York and New Jersey, who each appoint
an equal number of trustees to the agency’s board, to use its
real estate in the most cost-effective way possible, Authority
Director Patrick Foye said in a telephone interview.  No Decision  At 4 World Trade Center, “we’re preserving our optionality
to sublet a portion of that space,” he said. “We have not made
any decision, and we’re taking the same approach to that expense
as we are to every other cost item across the agency.”  The  Port Authority  owns the building and the 16 acres of
grounds. Silverstein is responsible under a net-lease agreement
with the authority for the 4 World Trade Center site and two
other nearby skyscrapers, which are unbuilt. The lease, which
runs through 2100, makes him responsible for the economic
success of those projects.  Silverstein’s firm, Silverstein Properties Inc., declined
to comment on the potential sublease, Dara McQuillan, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  As part of the deal that enabled Silverstein to start the
project, the Port Authority and the city of New York agreed to
lease about half of the Fumihiko Maki-designed glass tower, the
shortest of the four planned for the site.  Liberty Bonds  The agency’s rent, which starts at $65 a square foot, would
cover payments to holders of $1.2 billion of tax-exempt  Liberty
Bonds  that paid for most of the tower’s construction, according
to the offering statement for the securities. The agreement
originally was struck in 2006 and amended in 2010.  The city, which plans to move its Human Resources
Administration to 4 World Trade Center, leases 582,000 square
feet at the tower starting at $56.50 a square foot, and those
payments are similarly pledged to cover the building’s debt
service, according to the document.  Julie Wood , a spokeswoman
for New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , said the city has no plans
to sublease any of its space.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  