-- Pretium Plunges After Report on Canadian Gold Resources
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-10-22T20:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/pretium-plunges-after-report-on-canadian-gold-resources.html
Pretium Resources Inc. (PVG) , the company
exploring the Valley of the Kings gold project in British
Columbia, fell to its lowest since its initial share offering
after reporting that an independent geologic consultant found
“no valid gold” resources.  Pretium plunged 28 percent to C$3.45 in Toronto, the lowest
closing price since the shares began trading in December 2010.
The Vancouver-based company has fallen 74 percent this year.  Pretium today reported preliminary results from the
processing of a bulk sample from Valley of the Kings, or VOK,
that is within the Brucejack exploration area. The report comes
two weeks after Pretium said Strathcona Mineral Services Ltd.,
one of two companies that had been hired to evaluate ore
samples, resigned from the project.  In withdrawing, Strathcona said ore samples showed “there
are no valid gold  mineral resources  for the VOK Zone, and
without mineral resources there can be no basis for a
feasibility study,” Pretium said today in a statement.
Strathcona resigned from the project on Oct. 8 “before any
results from the processing of the bulk sample were available,”
Pretium said.  In an Oct. 9 interview, Pretium Chief Executive Officer
Robert Quartermain said Strathcona quit because of a
disagreement with Snowden Mining Industry Consultants Ltd., the
other company hired to vet the ore.  ‘Sample Towers’  “Snowden believed that reconciliation is best achieved
through processing all the sample through the mill, which we’re
doing,” Quartermain said. “Strathcona believed that sample
towers would be representative, but they are a very small
fraction of the overall sample size.”  No one from Strathcona’s Toronto offices was immediately
available to comment on the Pretium statement.  Quartermain said today his company is concerned about the
stock market’s reaction.  The company expects Snowden to report later this year on
the results of a comparison of the latest Valley of the Kings
ore samples with theoretical results from computer modeling,
Quartermain said in a telephone interview.  “The key thing from today’s release is the fact that we
have recovered gold from the Valley of the Kings,” he said
today. “We were pleased with the material that we have and we
want to continue to provide data to the market place.”  Pretium said in today’s statement that Snowden “has taken
steps to involve a third party peer review in its up-coming
mineral resource update.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  