-- Rabobank Said to Reach $1 Billion Settlement in Libor Inquiries
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-10-23T04:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/rabobank-said-to-reach-1-billion-settlement-over-libor-claims.html
Rabobank Groep, the Netherlands’
biggest mortgage lender, will pay about $1 billion to resolve
regulators’ claims that it tried to manipulate benchmark
 interest rates , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The settlement, which could be announced as soon as next
week, will resolve complaints from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and  Justice Department , the U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority, and Dutch regulators, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the agreement isn’t public.  Rabobank would join financial firms including  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc that have already paid a
total of about $2.6 billion in penalties over accusations that
their traders attempted to rig the London interbank offered
rate. In December, UBS AG reached a $1.5 billion settlement, the
largest to stem from the investigation so far, with authorities
in the U.S., U.K. and  Switzerland .  Rabobank’s pact would resolve claims related to attempts to
manipulate a benchmark rate for Japanese yen, one of the people
said. The settlement had been delayed because of the U.S.
government shutdown this month that limited support staff
available to work the deal, according to the one of the people.  Regulators around the world are examining alleged abuses of
financial benchmarks by companies that play a central role in
setting them. European regulators are reviewing accusations of
collusion in crude oil and biofuels markets, while the U.S. CFTC
and Britain’s FCA are probing the potential manipulation of
ISDAfix, a benchmark for  interest-rate swaps .  ‘Active’ Investigation  Peter Carr , a spokesman for the Justice Department, said in
an e-mailed statement that it “has an active, ongoing
investigation into possible manipulation of Libor and other
international benchmark rates.” He declined to comment on
Rabobank.  “The Libor case will be completed within the foreseeable
future,” Ben Feiertag, a spokesman for the Dutch central bank
said, declining to comment further. Stewart Todd, a spokesman
for the FCA,  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, and Hendrik Jan Eijpe, a spokesman for Rabobank, declined to comment.  The accord was reported yesterday by the Financial Times.  UBS’s Libor fines included $1.2 billion paid to the Justice
Department and CFTC, and 160 million pounds ($260 million) to
the U.K. Financial Services Authority. The Zurich-based firm
also was forced to was forced to disgorge 59 million francs ($66
million) in estimated profits to the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority.  Royal Bank of Scotland, based in Edinburgh, was fined $612
million by U.K. and U.S regulators on Feb. 6 for making hundreds
of attempts to rig rates including yen, Swiss franc and U.S.
dollar Libor between 2006 and 2010. London-based Barclays paid a
290 million-pound fine to U.K. authorities over Libor-rigging
accusations.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker of
transactions between banks, was fined $88 million last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  