-- RadioShack Gets $835 Million Financing Amid Net Loss
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-10-22T21:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/radioshack-posts-loss-agrees-to-835-million-financing.html
RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  posted a seventh
straight quarterly net loss and said it received commitments for
$835 million in new five-year financing to boost liquidity amid
a turnaround effort.  The consumer-electronics retailer’s net loss widened to
$112.4 million, or $1.11 a share, in the three months through
Sept. 30, trailing the average loss of 37 cents  anticipated  by
analysts. RadioShack said in a statement that it ended the
fiscal third quarter with total liquidity of $613 million.  Chief Executive Officer Joe Magnacca had sought new
financing to give vendors the confidence to supply him with
exclusive products to distinguish RadioShack’s offerings from
rivals’ merchandise. The retailer’s sales have declined as it
lost customers to Best Buy Co. and Amazon.com Inc. and a
stockpile of unwanted inventory forced it to sell merchandise at
steep discounts.  The results “do not provide much reason for optimism,”
 Anthony Chukumba , an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in  New
York , wrote today in a note. He recommends holding the shares
and said the new financing gives the company “adequate
liquidity to make it through the upcoming holiday selling season
and attempt to execute” Magnacca’s turnaround plan.  RadioShack’s gross margin narrowed to 30.1 percent from 38
percent a year earlier.  The  shares  sank 18 percent to $2.89 at the close in New
York for the biggest decline since July 25, 2012. The stock has
gained 36 percent this year, compared with a 23 percent advance
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  New Financing  The new financing will comprise $585 million in a new
asset-based lending facility and a $250 million secured term
loan, RadioShack said. The lenders include  GE Capital , Salus
Capital Partners LLC,  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  and RBS Citizens NA. It
will provide $175 million in additional liquidity, the company
said.  RadioShack continues to have “ample liquidity,” with the
new financing giving “us the time we need to complete our
work” including remodeling stores, Magnacca told analysts today
on a conference call. The financing was arranged at competitive
rates, interim Chief Financial Officer Holly Etlin said.  The company also today said it named Paul Rutenis chief
merchandising officer. Rutenis, who previously served as senior
vice president for the home division at J.C. Penney Co., will be
in charge of improving assortments of name brands and private
brands in stores. Janet Fox, a former Under Armour Inc. senior
vice president, joined RadioShack as senior vice president for
global sourcing.  Slow-Selling Goods  During the quarter, the retailer accelerated its effort to
reduce slow-selling and duplicate merchandise, leading to an
increase in costs of goods sold. A year earlier, the company
posted a loss of $47.1 million, or 47 cents a share.  At the heart of Magnacca’s turnaround strategy is “Let’s
Play!” -- an effort to make the retailer “a neighborhood
technology playground.” Prototype stores have a cleaner look, a
change from the tangled collection of cables, cords, adapters
and batteries that many customers associate with RadioShack.
Magnacca plans to reduce the number of stocked items at stores
to 3,000 from 4,000.  Earlier this year, Magnacca, RadioShack’s fourth CEO in
three years, hired turnaround adviser AlixPartners LLP where
interim CFO Etlin is a managing director.  RadioShack began life in 1921 as a Boston-based mail-order
retailer serving radio officers aboard ships and amateur ham
operators. It opened the first U.S. audio showroom in 1947 and
sold the first mass-produced personal computer, the TRS-80, in
1977.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  