-- Ranieri’s Shellpoint Cancels Plan for Second Mortgage-Bond Deal
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-22T13:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ranieri-s-shellpoint-cancels-plan-for-second-mortgage-bond-deal.html
Shellpoint Partners LLC , the lender
backed by mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri, canceled a
planned sale of U.S. home-loan securities without government
backing, saying it would instead sell the loans without
packaging them into bonds.  The company last week reduced the size of the potential
deal, originally planned for September, to include $250.8
million of jumbo mortgages, down from $308.6 million, according
to Kroll Bond Rating Agency reports. It’s now pulling the
transaction, which would have been its second, because it can be
paid more selling the whole loans, the New York-based firm said
today in a statement on Business Wire.  “This is not a decision we’re undertaking lightly,”
Chief Investment Officer Bob Magee said in a statement. “But at
some point we can’t ignore best execution. The current RMBS bid
is not competitive with the whole-loan bid, even accounting for
the qualitative cost of pausing our RMBS program.”  Banks including  Wells Fargo & Co . and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
have been offering jumbo loans at rates less than those
available on traditional debt, crimping opportunities for
creators of residential mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS, as
investors demand wider relative yields. In a report last month,
JPMorgan analyst John Sim cited competition from “asset-starved
banks” in cutting his 2013 issuance forecast to “closer to”
$15 billion, from $20 billion.  Sales Slow  While non-agency bond issuance has grown this year after
halting five years ago amid tumbling home values and soaring
defaults, sales have slowed since July. About $12.5 billion in
deals tied to new loans have been completed this year, up from
$3.5 billion in all of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales in 2013 probably won’t surpass $15 billion, though
they could exceed $50 billion next year, especially if the
government cuts the size of mortgages that federally backed
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac can guarantee, Barclays Plc analysts
said in a report this month. Issuance peaked at $1.2 trillion in
each of 2005 and 2006.  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in high-cost areas. For Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for most types of
borrowers, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  Shellpoint, which had cut the size of its planned deal
partly by removing riskier loans including ones to foreign
nationals, offered its first mortgage-backed securities in June.
The company also restructured that transaction, and then offered
higher relative yields to attract investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  