-- Reckitt to Start Strategic Review of Pharmaceutical Unit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-22T07:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/reckitt-to-start-strategic-review-of-pharmaceutical-unit.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc, (RB/)  the
maker of Nurofen painkillers and Durex condoms, said it will
start a strategic review of its pharmaceutical unit following
calls from analysts for it to exit the business.  The review will take “some time” and Reckitt Benckiser
plans to update investors during 2014, the Slough, England-based
company said today in a statement. It also raised its full-year
revenue guidance, sending the  shares  up as much as 5.1 percent.  Analysts including  Andrew Wood  at Sanford C. Bernstein have
advocated a sale of the pharmaceutical unit, whose main product
is the opiod-dependency drug Suboxone. The division’s sales fell
16 percent at constant exchange rates in the third quarter,
Reckitt Benckiser said today, hurt by a decision to stop making
tablet versions of Suboxone amid increased generic competition.
Since 2010, the drug has been sold in a film-strip format.  “We’ve always said it’s a fantastic business, but it’s not
core to the company,” Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Kapoor
said in a telephone interview. “I’ve said that several months
after the entry of generics we will confirm the resiliency of
the film business and the impact of generics. We are now in that
phase. Nothing is ruled out.”  The review will consider “all options for maximizing value
for our shareholders,” Kapoor said in the statement.  Reckitt Benckiser  rose  4.6 percent to 4,705 pence at 8:17
a.m. in  London . The stock has gained 21 percent this year.  The company said it expects full-year revenue to grow at
least 6 percent, including acquisitions and divestments and
excluding results from the pharma unit. Non-pharmaceutical sales
advanced 5 percent on a comparable basis in the third quarter.
The median  estimate  of 10 analysts was for a 4.7 percent gain.  The company had previously expected non-pharmaceutical
revenue growth at the upper end of 5 percent to 6 percent in
2013, including acquisitions and disposals, and stable operating
profit margins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  