-- Reggie Jackson Says Cards’ Beltran May Be New ‘Mr. October’
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-22T18:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/reggie-jackson-says-cardinals-beltran-may-be-new-mr-october-.html
Carlos Beltran  has a chance to swipe
more than headlines or bases as his  St. Louis Cardinals  prepare
to face the  Boston Red Sox  in the World Series.  “Beltran, man, he’s going to steal my name from me,”
 Reggie Jackson , the Hall of Fame outfielder known as “Mr.
October” for his five World Series home runs in 1977, said in a
telephone interview. “He’s been a great player in the
postseason.”  Jackson, 67, is tied with  Mickey Mantle  and  Albert Pujols 
for fourth on the career list with 18 postseason home runs.
That’s just two more than the 36-year-old Beltran.  Thirty five years after helping the  New York Yankees  to
consecutive World Series titles, Jackson still is working on his
defense, writing the book “Becoming Mr. October” in response
to his portrayal in the 2007 ESPN miniseries “The Bronx Is
Burning.” The eight-episode series chronicled the Yankees’ run
to the 1977 championship amid turbulence in New York City
including the Son of Sam murders and mayoral election.  “I wanted to get my chance to write what really
happened,” Jackson said of his reaction to the TV program,
which depicted his often-public spats with manager  Billy Martin 
and teammates such as Thurman Munson, the Yankees’ captain.
“There was a lot that I learned that I didn’t realize.”  Jackson, who retired in 1987 and is currently a Yankees
adviser, said he spoke with family and friends such as former
teammate Fran Healy to learn about what the team thought of him
as a 31-year-old black athlete who was its highest-paid player.  Racial Intolerance  “I didn’t realize that there was so much conversation
about different types of people on the team, that the fact that
I was an African American made such a difference, the fact that
I was the highest-paid player made such an impact on people’s
feelings,” Jackson said. “After I got into it, I was kind of
shocked that it just wasn’t a baseball story.”  Jackson was drafted by the Kansas City Athletics in 1966
and reached  Major League Baseball  in 1967, the year before civil
rights leader  Martin Luther King Jr . was assassinated. He wrote
that racial intolerance influenced his upbringing in suburban
Philadelphia, the future choices he made and the way he was
treated by Martin, who wouldn’t let Jackson consistently bat
cleanup in the lineup and occasionally benched him, often citing
Jackson’s poor defense in right field.  While he sometimes spoke up rather than hold his tongue,
Jackson wrote that reporters often misquoted him or completely
fabricated comments attributed to him.  “I was not the revolutionary these people perceived me to
be,” Jackson wrote. “But in retrospect, I was clearly a new
breed of black player in New York. Everyone else had acted like
they were lucky to be there, but I was seen as someone who
expected to be there, too cocky for my own good.”  Positive Legacy  Asked what he would have done differently, Jackson said he
would have made a greater effort to learn more about other
people.  “It’s easy to look back when you’re in your 60s and say
what you would have done when you were 29 or 30,” he said.  Regardless of the criticism he faced in 1977, Jackson’s
 World Series  heroics left him a much more positive legacy and a
long-term role as an ambassador for the team. On Oct. 18, 1977,
he homered on three consecutive swings in Game 6 of the World
Series against the  Los Angeles Dodgers  at Yankee Stadium in the
Bronx. The last one flew well over the fence in center field as
New York took the series with an 8-4 win.  “I remember seeing a picture of me running out that third
home run the next day,” Jackson wrote. “One they took of me
when I was between second and third and both my feet were off
the ground. That was exactly how I felt, just like I was off the
ground, the whole way around the bases.”  No Favorite  Beltran, a .337 hitter in 45 postseason games with Houston,
the  New York Mets  and  St. Louis , will have a long way to go to
match Jackson’s achievement when the World Series begins
tomorrow night at Fenway Park in Boston. The Cardinals and  Red
Sox  both won their league championships in six games, with St.
Louis beating the Los Angeles Dodgers and Boston ousting the
 Detroit Tigers .  “I think the two best teams are in there and I’m really
looking forward to it,” Jackson said. “I don’t have a
favorite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  