-- Regions Misses Estimates as Expense Cuts Fail to Materialize
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g
-- 2013-10-22T14:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/regions-misses-analysts-estimates-as-mortgage-refinancings-drop.html
Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  posted a 5.3
percent drop in profit, missing analysts’ estimates, as the bank
failed to cut expenses and mortgage refinancings declined.  Net income at Alabama’s biggest bank dropped to $285
million, or 20 cents a share, from $301 million, or 21 cents, a
year earlier, the Birmingham-based company said today in a
statement. The average  estimate  of 27 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 21 cents. The shares fell as much as 3.1 percent
in  New York  trading.  Regions, run by Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall, 56,
has said it was focusing on cutting costs as tepid economic
growth restricts lending. Mortgage income declined $17 million
from the second quarter and non-interest expenses totaled $884
million, unchanged from the previous quarter. Chief Financial
Officer  David Turner  said in July the bank was “looking very
hard” at all of its expenses.  “While its net interest margin came in higher than
expected and loan balances increased, the company was unable to
reduce expenses in the face of lower fee income,”  Jason Goldberg , a Barclays Plc analyst, said in a note.  Regions fell 2.2 percent to $9.82 at 10:33 a.m. in New
York. The shares had gained 41 percent this year through
yesterday, the third-best performer in the 24-company KBW Bank
Index.  Mortgage refinancings slumped after rates on 30-year loans
jumped from historical lows of less than 3.5 percent earlier
this year to an average of 4.32 percent at the end of September,
data compiled by Freddie Mac show. Applications, which accounted
for 82 percent of all requests for home loans last year,
comprised 63 percent in the third quarter, according to the
 Mortgage Bankers Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fanni Koszeg in New York at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  