-- Ringgit Declines Most in Three Weeks After Rally; Bonds Steady
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-10-22T01:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/ringgit-declines-most-in-three-weeks-after-rally-bonds-steady.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit fell the most in
three weeks on speculation investors took advantage of the
currency’s rally to buy the greenback before the government
presents its budget this week. Sovereign bonds were steady.  The ringgit has climbed 2.3 percent this month, the best
performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The budget, which Prime Minister
Najib Razak will present in parliament on Oct. 25, may include
measures such as a consumption tax to bolster the nation’s
finances, United Overseas Bank Ltd. Singapore-based economist Ho Woei Chen wrote in an Oct. 14 report.  “Ahead of the budget on Friday, people are just taking
profit,” said  Nizam Idris , head of strategy for fixed income
and currencies at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “There’s a
lot of pressure on the government to show a real intention to
reform the fiscal account.”  The ringgit retreated 0.7 percent, the most since Sept. 30,
to 3.1905 per dollar as of 8:45 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 3.1413 per dollar on
Oct. 18, the strongest level since June. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange rates used
to price options, fell one basis point to 8.61 percent.  Malaysia, which has a long-term foreign-currency
denominated debt rating of A- at  Fitch Ratings , has run annual
budget shortfalls every year starting 1998. The  current-account
surplus  shrank 70 percent to 2.6 billion ringgit ($816 million)
in the second quarter, the closest the nation has come to a
deficit in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1999.  Credit Downgrade  Fitch cut Malaysia’s credit outlook to negative in July,
citing rising debt levels and a lack of budgetary reform. A
downgrade in the nation’s rating is “more likely than not”
over 24 months,  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific
sovereigns at Fitch, said July 31.  The budget creates another opportunity to enter short
dollar-ringgit positions, according to a Morgan Stanley research
note dated yesterday.  Sovereign bonds were little changed. The yield on the 3.26
percent notes due March 2018 held at 3.38 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 