-- Rolls-Royce Starts Engine Work to Replace Trents on Future Jets
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-22T11:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/rolls-royce-starts-engine-work-to-replace-trents-on-future-jets.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  has begun
work on a jet-engine design that would be the foundation of a
new family of powerplants to replace the Trent series used on
Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  wide-body airliners.  Development efforts on the concept engine, which is
designated the RB3039, may result in the flight of a
demonstrator within seven years, Ric Parker, director of
research and technology at Rolls-Royce, said today. The engine
may enter service in the first half of the next decade, he said.  Rolls-Royce is developing Trent models for the Airbus A350,
which first flew in June, and future versions of Boeing’s 787.
The company, which also builds Trent 900s for Airbus A380 super
jumbos, worked on the RB3025, its most powerful turbine, for
Boeing’s 777X before losing out to  General Electric Co. (GE)   The RB3039 “will be quite radically different,” Parker
said. The new engine “will probably not carry the Trent name.”  The engine will likely be Rolls’s first modern powerplant
to feature a composite fan that would aim to cut weight and
improve efficiency. A prototype fan could be flying on a
demonstrator in two years, Parker said in an interview at a
Royal Aeronautical Society conference in London.  The engine architecture will use a three-shaft design that
is a hallmark of the London-based engine maker’s large jet
offering, which differs from those of rival GE and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney .  The effort comes as Rolls-Royce Chief Executive Officer
John Rishton has tightened the company’s focus on costs.  For the past decade the engine maker has increased research
spending, Parker said. The company spent 919 million pounds
($1.48 billion) on research and technology last year, he said.  Funding for the demonstrator will be partly provided by a
U.K. government research support program and European Union
aerospace funding, Parker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  