-- Romania Picasso Thief Claims Stolen Artworks May Be Fakes
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-10-22T14:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/romania-picasso-thief-claims-stolen-artworks-may-be-fakes.html
The accused ringleader of Romanian
thieves who stole seven works by artists including Picasso and
Matisse claims they may have been fakes and he fell victim to a
set-up aimed at pocketing the insurance money, his lawyer said.  Radu Dogaru, who admitted to stealing the artworks, had an
as-yet-unidentified accomplice working inside the Kunsthal
museum in Rotterdam who helped him enter the premises and avoid
police patrols, attorney Catalin Dancu told reporters in
Bucharest today. The museum won’t comment on “allegations of
lawyers from suspects,” spokeswoman Sabine Parmentier said in
an e-mailed response to a Bloomberg question.  A court in the Romanian capital is hearing statements from
the perpetrators of the October 2012 theft of the artworks,
insured for a combined 18 million euros ($24.6 million). Dancu’s
account differs from statements in the prosecutors’ file, which
outlines how thieves stole the paintings in less than three
minutes from the Kunsthal after they forced an emergency door
open with a set of pliers.  “What serious person would have original paintings with a
market value of 100 million euros exhibited in such a way?”
Dancu said. “The answer is that they’re either irresponsible,
in which case they have to pay, or the paintings were perfect
copies and someone duped the insurance company.”  Insurer  Aon Plc (AON)  paid 17 million euros to Triton Foundation,
which owned the artworks at the time of the theft, Dancu said in
September. Judge Adrian Chitoiu said the admissions to the crime
may reduce the defendants’’ sentences by a third.  Burned Paintings?  The theft of works by Pablo Picasso, Claude Monet, Lucian Freud, Henri Matisse, Paul Gauguin and Meyer de Haan ranks among
the most spectacular art heists of the last decades. The case
has turned on whether any of the artworks still survive after
Dogaru’s mother, Olga Dogaru, first confessed to burning all of
them in her stove, only to withdraw her statement on July 22.
She now claims that none were incinerated.  If Kunsthal and other Dutch authorities refuse to
cooperate, Dogaru will hire lawyers to press charges against the
museum and Rotterdam city council for neglectful management of
the art works, Dancu said. Dogaru wouldn’t reveal the name of
the museum employee who allegedly helped him and his accomplices
enter the museum and on the night of the heist, Dancu said.  A scientific analysis of the ashes in Olga Dogaru’s stove
showed they contained fragments of oil paintings, according to
Ernest Oberlander-Tarnoveanu, the director of the Romanian
museum that carried out the tests.  The stolen paintings belong to a private collection managed
by the Triton Foundation, started by Rotterdam port entrepreneur
Willem Cordia. The collection consists of about 250 paintings,
drawings and sculptures from the period 1860 to 1970.  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on food,  Frederik
Balfour  on Asian art,  Farah Nayeri  on film and  Amanda Gordon’s 
Scene Last Night.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 