-- Russian Suicide Bomb Spurs Terror Alert as Putin Meet Muftis
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-10-22T13:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/russian-suicide-bomb-sparks-terror-alert-as-putin-to-meet-muftis.html
Russian investigators probed
yesterday’s suicide bombing that killed six bus passengers in
Volgograd as the southern region was  placed  on high alert hours
before President  Vladimir Putin  met Muslim clerics.  The suspected female suicide bomber arrived from the
capital of the mainly Muslim region of Dagestan, disembarking
from a bus that was en route to the Russian capital about an
hour before she blew herself up in Volgograd, the Investigative
Committee in Moscow  said  on its website today.  “We know the footprint of these people, criminals,
terrorists who have killed many people in Russia, including
Islamic clerics,” Putin said at a meeting of the State Council
in Ufa, the capital of the predominantly Muslim Bashkortostan
republic between the  Ural Mountains  and the  Volga River .  The bomber’s partner, an ethnic Russian Muslim convert
accused of involvement in previous terror attacks, is suspected
of preparing yesterday’s strike, the Kommersant newspaper
reported, citing unidentified law-enforcement officials. The
regional government  set  the terrorist threat level at
“yellow,” the second highest, meaning authorities have
reliable information further attacks are possible.  Nationalist Riots  The bombing is one of the biggest terror attacks in  Russia 
since a suicide bombing claimed by Islamic militants killed at
least 37 people at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport in 2011. Putin
discussed measures to prevent nationalist conflicts in Russia at
the meeting in Ufa. The murder of an ethnic Russian in Moscow
this month provoked the biggest nationalist riots in almost
three years. Police have detained a suspect from  Azerbaijan .  “Some people are using extremist trends not customary for
Muslims to weaken our state, provoke artificial conflicts and
separatism in certain regions,” Putin said.  Unidentified attackers late last night smashed the windows
and hurled two Molotov cocktails into a prayer hall of a private
home belonging to a Muslim leader in Volgograd, the  Interior
Ministry  said. The fire was put out by the cleric, the ministry
said.  Volgograd, once known as Stalingrad, is located less than
700 kilometers from Sochi, the Black Sea resort that will host
next year’s Winter Olympics. Russian federal troops have fought
two wars after the collapse of the  Soviet Union  against
separatists in nearby regions of the North Caucasus and violence
by Islamic militants represents a continuing threat.  Death Toll  The Investigative Committee identified the six casualties
of the explosion and said the bomb had the force equivalent to
500 grams to 600 grams of TNT. Volgograd’s airport was evacuated
today after a report that a bag was left unattended, RIA Novosti
reported. Thirty people injured in the blast remain
hospitalized, according to Russian state television broadcaster
 Rossiya 24 .  The Investigative Committee said 50 eyewitness and
bystanders have been questioned in connection with the attack.
Authorities were interrogating the suspected suicide bomber’s
mother in Dagestan, the regional Dagestan capital on the western
shore of the  Caspian Sea , state-run RIA reported, citing
unidentified local security officials.  Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the brothers accused in
April’s Boston Marathon bombing, were immigrants of Chechen
descent who had moved to the U.S. from Dagestan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Ufa, Russia at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  