-- S&C Advises AT&T on Phone Tower Deal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/s-c-advises-at-t-on-phone-tower-deal-business-of-law.html
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Bryan
Cave LLP advised  AT&T Inc. (T)  in an agreement to sell or lease
9,700 wireless towers to  Crown Castle International Corp. (CCI)  for
$4.85 billion, giving it extra cash as it considers a European
expansion.  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP represented Crown Castle.  The S&C team includes corporate partners Eric Krautheimer,
Joseph Frumkin, Arthur Adler and Anthony Colletta. Partner Bob Downes also worked on the deal on financing matters. Bryan Cave
LLP partners Daniel F. Cullen and Philip B. Wright provided tax
counsel to AT&T as part of the transaction.  The Cravath team included partners Stephen L. Burns, Erik R. Tavzel and Johnny G. Skumpija.  The deal makes AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, the
latest carrier to offload towers to independent operators,
allowing the company to focus on growth areas or more profitable
parts of the business.  The money will bolster AT&T’s balance sheet as it
undertakes a $14 billion network upgrade, plans a stock buyback
that may top $11 billion and contemplates acquisitions in
Europe. AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson spoke at
a carrier industry event in Brussels this month, outlining a
wish list of wireless policy changes that could make the region
a more attractive market.  Crown Castle will buy 600 AT&T towers and get the exclusive
right to lease and operate about 9,100 others for an average of
28 years, the companies said. Crown Castle said it will have the
option to buy the leased towers for $4.2 billion beginning in
2032.  Crown Castle and top competitor  American Tower Corp. (AMT)  have
been increasing their role in the wireless industry, with many
carriers selling their cell sites to the companies and leasing
space back.  For more, click here.  Law Firm News  Singapore Says Clifford Chance Publicity Statements ‘Inaccurate’  Senior officials in Singapore’s law ministry have told
Clifford Chance LLP that statements implying the firm can now
practice litigation in the city should be stopped, Law Minister
K. Shanmugam said in parliament yesterday.  “Specific areas of domestic law work such as litigation,
criminal law, family law and conveyancing are ring-fenced and
can only be handled by Singapore law firms through lawyers
called to the Singapore bar,” Shanmugam said.  Singapore law practices and foreign law practices based in
 Singapore  may collaborate as two free-standing firms under a law
alliance. Such law alliances must exercise restraint in
publicity and avoid “clever wordplay,” according to Shanmugam.  Clifford Chance said in a December 2012 statement that it
received approval from Singapore regulators to become the city’s
first full-service law practice after forming an alliance with
Cavenagh Law LLP.  Clifford Chance said in an e-mailed statement that its
local litigation representation was happening through Singapore-based Cavenagh and that the alliance has at all times fully
complied with all applicable regulations.  Squire Sanders Forms Association With Ukraine Law Firm  Squire Sanders LLP and Ukrainian law firm Salkom LLC agreed
to a formal international association after collaborating for
more than 15 years.  The firms will share a joint platform called “Squire
Sanders-Salkom International Association.” Salkom is the first
Ukrainian law practice to establish such an association with an
international firm, according to Squire Sanders.  The new venture will draw from 30 qualified lawyers with
experience in all areas of Ukrainian law and cross-border
advice, including corporate, dispute resolution and regulatory,
the firm said.  “Law firms that wish to grow as global businesses can
never lose sight of the importance of local knowledge and local
reputation,” James J. Maiwurm, chairman and chief executive
officer of Squire Sanders, said in a statement. “In Ukraine, we
have a great team and now, with our new association there, have
what will prove to be a market-leading local resource with a
thoroughly international outlook.”  Squire Sanders has more than 1,300 lawyers in 39 offices in
19 countries.  Moves  Bingham Expands Antitrust & Competition Practice in London  Frances Murphy, Jones Day’s former  London  competition
practice head, joined Bingham McCutchen LLP’s antitrust,
competition and trade regulation practice group in London.  Murphy has represented clients in contentious and non-contentious EU and domestic competition matters. Her clients
include AstraZeneca Plc, London Metal Exchange, Ryder Systems
Inc., Sanofi-Aventis, SES and WL Ross. Her representations have
included cartels, dawn raids, dominance, pricing, discounts,
promotions, parallel trade and refusals to supply, the firm
said.  “Frances is a terrific addition to our strong team of
antitrust lawyers worldwide,” Richard Taffet, a senior
litigator, said in a statement. “Her arrival further enables us
to leverage our U.S. and Japanese antitrust and competition law
practice to quicken the pace of cross-border coordinated
antitrust representations for clients.”  Bingham has about 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Stoel Rives Hires Departing FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff  Jon Wellinghoff, the chairman of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, will join Stoel Rives LLP after
completing his service at FERC.  Wellinghoff was named to the post by President  Barack Obama 
in 2009 after joining the commission in 2006. He’s a former
consumer advocate for  Nevada  and helped write the state’s law
requiring that utilities get a portion of their electricity from
renewable sources.  Wellinghoff submitted his resignation from FERC, which
regulates wholesale power markets and rates for interstate oil
and natural-gas pipelines, to the president on May 28. No date
has been announced for his departure from the agency.  Stoel Rives has almost 400 lawyers at 11 offices in seven
states and a satellite office in  Washington .  Bracewell & Giuliani Adds IP Partner Mutterperl in New York  Trademark attorney Mark N. Mutterperl joined the New York
office of Bracewell & Giuliani LLP as a partner and will work
with the brand protection and the IP litigation practices.  Mutterperl, who was previously at Norton Rose Fulbright
LLP, focuses on brand protection and intellectual property. He
enforces trademark rights against infringement, dilution and
counterfeiting, and oversees counterfeiting and other
investigations, the firm said.  He also manages trademark portfolios, providing counsel on
trademark and domain name registration and enforcement, while
handling trademark selection, investigation and prosecution
before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board.  “The addition of Mark to the New York office brings our IP
team coast to coast and significantly enhances our trademark
practice,” Jeffrey S. Whittle, head of the firm’s technology
law practice, said in a statement.  Bracewell & Giuliani has 485 lawyers in  Texas , New York,
Washington,  Connecticut ,  Seattle , Dubai and London.  Ex-Credit Suisse Alternative Investment Director to Lowenstein  Lowenstein Sandler LLP said Edward S. Nadel is joining its
investment management group as senior counsel from Star Mountain
Capital LLC, where he was general counsel and chief compliance
officer.  Before that, the firm said, he was director of alternative
investments at Credit Suisse Group AG, responsible for the
structuring and development of private-equity funds, hedge
funds, mutual funds, joint ventures, funds of funds and employee
plans.  At Lowenstein Sandler, Nadel will counsel clients on fund
formation and structuring, fund transactions, and regulatory and
compliance matters.  “We are thrilled to have Ed join us, and he will be a
valuable asset to our firm, serving our most sophisticated
investment management clients,” Robert G. Minion, chairman of
Lowenstein Sandler’s investment management group, said in a
statement.  Lowenstein has lawyers at offices in New York, New Jersey
and Palo Alto,  California .  Litigation  Detroit Retiree Lawyer Says Pensions Live Even If City Dies  Detroit ’s retired municipal workers can never have their
pensions legally reduced, even if a disaster makes the city
“cease to exist,” a retirees’ lawyer told a judge.  Should the bankrupt city be left with only one citizen to
pay taxes, the city would still have an obligation to keep
paying monthly pensions, attorney Thomas R. Morris, who
represents an association of retirees, said yesterday in court.  “If the city of Detroit were to cease to exist,”
 Michigan ’s constitution would still require the pensions to be
paid, Morris told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes in the
next-to-last round of legal arguments about whether the city
should be thrown out of bankruptcy. In that situation, Michigan
would face a constitutional crisis, Morris said.  Employees and retirees are fighting to end the city’s $18
billion bankruptcy, saying the case illegally threatens
protected benefits. Detroit and its critics return to court Oct.
23 for a multiday trial in which city and state officials,
including Michigan Governor Rick Snyder, may testify about
whether the bankruptcy case should continue.  To remain in bankruptcy, the city must show that it either
tried to negotiate with creditors or talks were impractical,
that it intends to develop a plan to adjust its debt and that it
was authorized by the state to file the case.  As part of the trial, Rhodes asked lawyers on both sides to
present evidence about why state lawmakers added a spending
provision to the emergency manager law adopted last year.  Union and retiree lawyers claim that law, PA 436, is
invalid because the Michigan Legislature adopted it with minor
changes after voters rejected the measure in a statewide
referendum. Because the emergency manager who put Detroit under
court protection was appointed under that law, the bankruptcy
should be thrown out, critics argue.  Earlier this month, Snyder testified under oath about why
he authorized the state-appointed emergency manager, Kevyn Orr,
to file the bankruptcy. That testimony was videotaped. One of
the city’s unions has subpoenaed Snyder to testify in court.  Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy amid
negotiations between Orr, bondholders, public workers and
retirees. Orr said six decades of economic decline left Detroit
unable to fully pay creditors, including retired workers, and
still provide necessary services.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn . New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  