-- SAC Plans to Close London Office, Cuts Six U.S. Positions
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-22T19:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/sac-is-said-to-plan-closing-down-london-office-by-end-of-year.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP plans to
shut its London office as the $14 billion hedge-fund firm
founded by  Steven A. Cohen  scales back in the face of insider-trading allegations by U.S. prosecutors.  SAC, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , will close the U.K.
office by the end of the year, President Tom Conheeney wrote in
a memo sent to employees today. SAC employs more than 50 people
in London, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the firm is
private. SAC this week cut six investment jobs in the U.S.,
Conheeney wrote.  “It has become clear to us that the outcome the government
is demanding is likely to have a greater than first anticipated
impact on the firm,” Conheeney wrote. “We have concluded that
we must operate as a simpler firm and reduce our capital
allocations.”  Money managers have been leaving SAC’s U.K. office after a
U.S. grand jury indicted the firm in July on allegations that it
engaged in unprecedented illegal trading for more than a decade,
prompting clients to pull almost all their cash. Cohen, whose
21-year-old firm is negotiating a settlement with the
government, is likely to be barred from managing other peoples’
money and pay a fine of $1.8 billion, people with knowledge of
the talks said this month.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment on the closing of the  London  office and the U.S. job
cuts. At the time of the indictment, SAC said it never
encouraged, promoted or tolerated illegal trading.  Government Charges  SAC is accused of encouraging its traders to obtain
information from company insiders while ignoring indications it
was illegal. Six former SAC employees have pleaded guilty to
trading on inside information, and two more are scheduled to go
on trial. The alleged illicit trading, which involved more than
20 companies and went back as far as 1999, helped reap hundreds
of millions of dollars in illicit profits, the U.S. said.  SAC employees have been sending out resumes to hedge-fund
firms and recruiters since the indictment, hoping to land jobs
next year when they expect the firm will need far fewer
employees. As of Sept. 20, SAC employed 950 people globally,
according to a regulatory filing, about 50 fewer than it did in
April. About 400 of those employees were investment
professionals, about the same as in April, according to filings.  Conheeney, who visited the London office today with SAC
Chief Operating Officer Solomon Kumin, according to the memo,
said the firm doesn’t “anticipate any further material changes
in investment personnel headcount.”  London Partners  SAC had 18 partners in its London-based SAC Global
Investors LLP at the end of 2012, according to a U.K. filing.
The unit’s profit almost tripled last year to 31 million pounds
($50 million), which was intended to be distributed to its
partners, the filing shows.  Beginning in 2000, SAC managed money in  Europe  through a
company called Walter Capital Management LLP, founded by SAC
alumni Rich Walter. It bought a stake in the business in 2004
and in 2008 renamed the firm, U.K. regulatory filings show.  The office is now run by Michael Ferrucci, a former equity
sales person at Deutsche Bank AG, and employs money managers who
primarily trade stocks of companies based in Europe, Eastern
Europe and  Russia , according to a person with direct knowledge
of the situation. After SAC suffered losses during the 2008
financial crisis, it cut the number of traders based in London
to four from 14, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the firm is private.  Fenician, UBS  SAC rebuilt the London office when markets rebounded after
the crisis and it became profitable again, hiring money managers
including Lia Forcina and her analyst husband Giovanni Rubino
from hedge-fund firm Fenician Capital Management LLP, the person
said. Others who joined included Robert Harris from UBS O’Connor
and Muhammed Yesilhark from York Capital Management LP.  Forcina, 39, quit this month to join BlueCrest Capital
Management LLP, three people with knowledge of the matter said
last week. Other traders who’ve left SAC this year have also
joined BlueCrest and Millennium Management LLC.  SAC didn’t disclose the names of the U.S. money managers
who lost their jobs. The firm will start 2014 with about $9
billion in assets, almost all of it belonging to Cohen, 57,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  Cohen increased 2014 bonuses by 3.5 percentage points in an
effort to retain employees, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last month. SAC money managers are typically paid an
annual bonus of 15 percent to 25 percent of the profits they
generate from their investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  