-- San Francisco’s Quince Awarded Two Michelin Stars
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-10-22T22:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/san-francisco-s-quince-awarded-two-michelin-stars.html
Quince, a French- and Italian-inspired restaurant in San Francisco’s Jackson Square
neighborhood, received a second star from Michelin today, the
red guide’s second-highest ranking.  That award gives the Bay Area the country’s highest number
of two-Michelin-starred restaurants, beating out New York and
 Chicago . Other local members of the two-star category -- Atelier
Crenn, Baume, Benu, Coi, Manresa and Saison -- kept their
honors.  Like them, Quince is primarily a set-menu establishment,
with tastings running $118-$158 in the dining room, or $90 in
the salon.  State Bird Provisions was elevated to one-star status, the
only new entrant to that category. The Fillmore Street spot is
“arguably the hottest restaurant in San Francisco (if not the
country),”  Paolo Lucchesi , a prominent Bay Area culinary
journalist, wrote recently.  That venue, which puts out a series of eclectic plates (and
pancakes) by married chefs Stuart Brioza and Nicole Krasinski,
reopened on Friday following an expansion of the dining room.
Much of the restaurant is reserved for walk-ins.  Brioza and Krasinski “continue to hit the ball out of the
park,” said Michael Ellis, international director of the
guides. “We, like everyone else, had a hard time getting in
there, but we were able to visit several times.”  Honors Kept  There were no new entrants to the three-star category;
Thomas Keller’s The French Laundry and Christopher Kostow’s The
Restaurant at Meadowood both retained that prized status.  Ellis said he sees the potential for “one or more” new
three-star restaurants next year, with all of the current two
star selections as possible candidates for Michelin’s highest
ranking one day.  “The San Francisco Bay Area remains one of the most
dynamic and exciting culinary scenes, not only in the United
States but in the world,” he said.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie is Europe’s largest tiremaker. It produced
its first guide in August 1900, distributed free (until 1920)
and intended for chauffeurs.  The Michelin Guide San Francisco Bay Area & Wine Country
goes on sale on Wednesday for $18.99.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Daniel
Akst  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 