-- Saudis Said to Disregard U.S. on Aid to Syrian Islamists
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-10-23T12:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/saudi-arabia-said-to-disregard-u-s-on-aid-to-syria-islamists.html
Saudi Arabia’s support for rebels in
 Syria  won’t be constrained by U.S. efforts to keep the money
from Islamist groups, as the kingdom steps up efforts to battle
Iranian influence in the region, a Saudi official said.  Syrian opposition factions backed by the U.S. are
disorganized and largely ineffective, so directing assistance
only to them would be handicapping the fight against President
Bashar al-Assad, the official said, asking not to be identified
because of the issue’s sensitivity. He said differences between
the longtime allies over Syria and other Middle East issues
don’t amount to a breakdown in relations.  The U.S. about-face on Syria, dropping threats of military
action to back a Russian plan for Assad to surrender his
chemical weapons, was greeted with dismay by allies in the Gulf,
which are also concerned by the prospect of a thaw between the
U.S. and  Iran .  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter,
dropped its bid for a United Nations Security Council seat,
saying the UN body failed to end turmoil in Syria.  Gulf nations played a central role in efforts to organize
the Syrian rebel factions that have some U.S. backing into a
coherent political and military unit. Now, most Saudi and Qatari
aid is going to radical Islamist groups, according to a U.S.
official who also asked not to be identified because of the
contentious nature of the assistance.  Rebels Split  Last month, more than a dozen Syrian rebel factions, mostly
Islamists, broke away from the Syrian National Coalition, backed
by the West as the main umbrella for the anti-Assad forces. The
Coalition has accused groups with ties to al-Qaeda of fighting
against other rebels rather than Assad’s army. Assad has
highlighted the role of jihadists in describing the opposition
as terrorists.  Saudi Arabia’s Prince Saud al-Faisal was among foreign
ministers attending a meeting in  London  yesterday of countries
backing the Syrian rebels. Participants agreed to send military
aid exclusively through the National Coalition’s armed wing,
which is fighting “to curtail the influence of extremists,”
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said after the talks.  President  Barack Obama ’s pursuit of a breakthrough in ties
with Iran, Saudi Arabia’s regional adversary, is also worrying
Saudi leaders, the Saudi official said.  Obama spoke to his newly elected Iranian counterpart,
Hassan Rouhani, last month in the first such contact for
decades, and expressed optimism that a deal on the Islamic
republic’s nuclear program can be reached.  Oil prices  have dropped as tensions over Syria and Iran
eased, pushing West Texas Intermediate crude to the lowest in
almost four months.  ‘More Killing’  Saudi Arabia is the Gulf’s chief Sunni Muslim power, while
Shiite-ruled Iran is Assad’s most important ally in the region.
The proxy war between them is one element of the conflict in
Syria, which has left more than 100,000 dead and displaced 2
million Syrians, according to United Nations estimates.  Saudi  King Abdullah  has urged the U.S. to attack Iran,
“cut off the head of the snake” and halt its nuclear program,
U.S. diplomats reported in cables released by WikiLeaks in 2010.
After last month’s accord on chemical weapons, Prince Saud said
Assad’s government would probably use the deal as an opportunity
“to impose more killing and to torture its people.”  “We don’t know what the Americans are trying to do with
Syria,” said Khalid al-Dakhil, a political science professor at
King Saud University in Riyadh. “They seem to be using Syria as
a bargaining chip with Iran. They handed  Iraq  to the Iranians,
and the Saudis won’t let them do the same thing to Syria.”  ‘Obviously Disappointed’  Kerry, who met Prince Saud in Paris on Oct. 21, said
yesterday that the U.S. and Saudi Arabia are working closely on
regional issues including Syria. He said the Saudis were
“obviously disappointed” that U.S. strikes against Assad
didn’t take place, “and have questions about some of the other
things that may be happening in the region.”  The Saudi-American alliance stretches back to World War II,
when King Abdul-Aziz Al Saud and U.S. President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  met aboard the USS Quincy.  “It isn’t clear if the strategic relationship between the
two countries is damaged but certainly the political side of the
relationship is in trouble,”  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis in Dubai. “There is a certain amount of animosity
coming from the Saudis over Syria. The issue is how the two
countries are going to recover from this.”  Common Interests  Saudi Arabia is the U.S.’s eighth-biggest trade partner,
ahead of Brazil and  France . It’s among the main overseas
customers for defense companies such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
and  Boeing Co. (BA)  The U.S. Defense Department last week announced
plans to sell $10.8 billion of advanced weaponry to Saudi Arabia
and its smaller Gulf ally, the  United Arab Emirates .  The Saudi official said that reports of a major split are
overblown. He cited enduring common interests including oil-price stability and counter-terrorism in countries including
Somalia and Yemen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  