-- Scene Last Night: Blankfein, Robertson, Wurth, Dan Loeb
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-22T14:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/scene-last-night-blankfein-robertson-wurth-doug-loeb.html
Lloyd Blankfein  of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. had bok choy and purple cauliflower with his wild
striped bass last night, and blueberries on toothpicks for
dessert.  At Lincoln Center’s Fall Gala, a healthful menu seemed
designed to ensure long-lived donors.  Julian Robertson ’s search for wine proved challenging, as
greetings kept him from the one area where waiters were serving
drinks. He finally got a glass of Santa Rita Sauvignon Blanc
with his first course, a wedge of iceberg lettuce.  Dr. Mehmet Oz opined on food logistics: “Don’t have food
in one hand and a glass in the other,” he said, standing near
Hearst executive Ellen Levine, who oversees his new magazine.
“Make sure one of your hands is free so you can shake hands and
make conversation.”  Barbara Walters , looking younger than 84, pointed to her
abandoned dinner roll and said she skips the bread.  The real secret to surviving galas is “eating every other
course,” said Doug Wurth, chief executive officer of
international private banking at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Thomas H. Lee, chairman and CEO of Lee Equity Partners LLC,
had pizza on the brain, the take-home kind made at Papa
Murphy’s, which his firm owns. “We have 1,400 units, we could
have 5,000,” Lee said.  Following the skewered blueberries, guests heard the London
Symphony Orchestra, part of the Lincoln Center Great Performers
series sponsored by BNY Mellon.  Kovner Backstage  After Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 27,  Bruce Kovner  used the
intermission to get some exercise going backstage to see his
friend Manny, featured soloist Emanuel Ax.  Before returning to the theater for Shostakovich, architect
Liz Diller said she’d be having a “a pint of Haagen Dazs” once
she got home.  Among the 600 guests who helped raise $3.2 million for the
performing-arts complex were Allen & Co.’s Nancy Peretsman, who
said she likes eating at Rosa Mexicano before shows at Lincoln
Center; Third Point LLC’s Dan Loeb; Jamie Dinan of York Capital
Management LP; Avenue Capital Group LLC’s  Marc Lasry ; and Blair Effron of Centerview Partners LLC.  The event honored Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg , the majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  At the Americans for the Arts Awards, honorees including
Dakota Fanning and B.B. King received a zero-calorie  Jeff Koons 
sculpture.  “I love that bunny,” said philanthropist John Pappajohn
accepting the award with his wife, Mary. “We’re happy to add it
to our collection.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Susan Antilla  on  books , Philip
Boroff on  Broadway .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  