-- Scottish Refinery Deadlock Gets Political as Workers Await Fate
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2013-10-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/scottish-refinery-deadlock-gets-political-as-workers-await-fate.html
As the owners of  Scotland ’s only oil
refinery weigh its future, politicians in Edinburgh are
hurriedly trying to save the plant with less than a year to go
before a referendum on independence.  The Scottish government said yesterday it was seeking
overseas buyers for the Grangemouth facility after talks reached
a stalemate between labor union Unite and Switzerland-based
owner Ineos Group Holdings SA. First Minister  Alex Salmond  left
his  Scottish National Party ’s annual conference in Perth at the
weekend in an attempt to broker a deal. Ineos said last week it
was shutting down output at the site.  “The loss of the refinery would raise questions about the
security of supply,” Alex Kemp, an economics professor at
Aberdeen University and author of a history of North Sea oil,
said in an interview yesterday. “You can’t just rely on
plentiful imports because exports from the U.S. are not going to
be widely available over the longer term.”  Grangemouth is to manufacturing in Scotland what  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is to the country’s finance industry: too
big to fail, economists said. Panicked motorists and truckers
flooded fuel stations across Scotland in April 2008 when members
of the now 1,350-strong workforce at the refinery and adjacent
petrochemicals plant went on strike.  Seeking Options  “In view of the clear danger of a stalemate developing
between the owners and the union, the Scottish government has
indeed been actively pursuing alternative options,” Finance
Secretary John Swinney said yesterday. “The priority today is
to urge that the Grangemouth refinery starts working again.”  Ineos, which jointly owns the refinery with  PetroChina Co. (857) ,
met shareholders yesterday to decide the future of the plant. It
will inform employees of the outcome of those discussions today,
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Unite said 665 workers, or about 65 percent of its members
at Grangemouth, rejected a “survival plan” from Ineos that
includes a proposal to replace a final salary pension, change
working terms and shut inefficient units. The company said 250
employees supported the plan as of Oct. 19.  The oil and gas industry, along with finance, is a key
plank of the SNP’s case for Scotland’s independence.  A referendum on breaking away from the U.K. will be held on
Sept. 18, 2014. Support for independence is about 20 percentage
points behind remaining part of the union, according to TNS BMRB
and YouGov Plc polls over the past month.  Must Act  “It is so important to the Scottish economy that we want a
resolution, we are not going to sit by and not do anything,” a
Scottish government spokeswoman, who asked not to be named
citing internal policy, said yesterday.  The refinery, located about 25 miles west of Edinburgh
along the Firth of Forth, has a capacity of 210,000 barrels a
day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It provides fuel
to areas of northern  England  as well as Scotland.  The Grangemouth site also supplies power and steam to  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s neighboring Kinneil processing plant. Kinneil handles
crude from the Forties Pipeline System, gathered from more than
80 offshore fields. The network pumps about 45 percent of the
U.K.’s oil output while the refinery supplies about 80 percent
of Scotland’s fuel needs.  Edinburgh Airport, which normally gets all its fuel from
Grangemouth, said it will keep contingency measures in place
until the dispute is resolved.  “Grangemouth is very important,” said David Bell, a
professor of economics at  Stirling University . “It’s about 8
percent of Scotland’s manufacturing sector. In terms of the
making of things, it’s one of the most, if not the most
important single plant in Scotland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  