-- Shell Libra Share to Support Output From 2020s, Analyst Says
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-10-22T15:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/shell-s-libra-share-to-support-output-from-2020s-bernstein-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will be able
to support oil output from the 2020s after winning an auction
with its partners for the Libra field, Brazil’s biggest crude
discovery, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Libra, holding as much as 12 billion barrels of recoverable
crude resources, will be able to pump 1.4 million barrels of oil
a day, according to regulator ANP. A Petroleo Brasileiro SA-led
group including Shell,  Total SA (FP) ,  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and China National
Petroleum Corp. pledged the minimum 41.65 percent of profit oil,
or barrels left after all costs are covered, to the government.  “The stake in the field supports longer-term production
for Total and Shell, with volume expected to ramp up in the
middle of the next decade,”  Oswald Clint , a London-based
analyst at Bernstein, wrote today in an e-mailed report.  Both companies would have a share of about 165,000 barrels
a day after production sharing, equivalent to 5 percent of
Shell’s and 7.5 percent of Total’s output last year, he said.  The group was the only bidder in the action and agreed to
pay a total $6.9 billion signing bonus to win the 35-year
project in deep waters of the Atlantic Ocean, said  Peter Hutton ,
an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets . Libra is the first auction
of subsea prospects known as pre-salt using a production-sharing
model that makes Petrobras the operator of all new projects and
requires it to own at least 30 percent.  “We expect attention to focus on capital expenditure
commitment,” Hutton wrote in an e-mailed report. “The
commitment to 2017 is likely to be in the millions rather than
billions,” or less than $300 million net each to Shell and
Total over a four-year period, he estimated.  The production sharing contract is expected to be signed in
November, according to Shell. It will pay its 20 percent share,
or $1.4 billion, of the total signing bonus and fulfill the
minimum work program no later than the end of 2017. Petrobras
took 40 percent of the field, Total 20 percent while the rest is
equally split between the Chinese companies.  The investors need to pay a 15 percent royalty on top of
the profit-oil deduction, Deutsche Bank AG said today in a note.
The field development will create about $1.8 billion of value
for both Shell and Total, or 20 cents and 55 euro cents a share
respectively, said Marcus Sequeira, an analyst at the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  