-- Shoppers to Boost Holiday Spending 9.1%, Deloitte Says
-- B y   M i n s i   C h u n g
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/shoppers-to-boost-holiday-spending-9-1-deloitte-says.html
U.S. shoppers expect to spend 9.1
percent more on holiday gifts this year, with more consumers
planning to buy gifts online than at  discount stores  for the
first time ever, according to a survey from Deloitte LLP.  Shoppers foresee spending $421 on gifts this holiday
season, New York-based Deloitte said, citing a survey of 5,018
consumers conducted Sept. 13 to Sept. 23, before the U.S.
government shutdown. About 47 percent of consumers expect to
make purchases online, while 44 percent plan to buy presents at
discount stores.  Online shopping overtook traditional retailing for the
first time in the survey’s 15 years as consumers seek lower
prices available over the Internet and the convenience of
shopping anytime, anywhere. About 76 percent of respondents
cited convenience as a reason for shopping online, and 63
percent cited price.  “Shoppers put a premium on both their time and shopping
experience,” Alison Paul, who leads Deloitte’s retail group in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. She said the increased
use of smartphones led to a jump in online shopping this year.  Consumers who shop using the Internet, mobile devices and
in stores are likely to spend 76 percent more than those who
only visit retail locations, according to the survey. Almost 8
in 10 shoppers say they will go elsewhere if a product isn’t
available on a store’s website.  People plan to hit the stores early this year, too. About
30 percent say they’ll complete the majority of their holiday
shopping by early November, an increase of five percentage
points from last year. One-quarter of consumers plan to shop on
Black Friday, the day after the Thanksgiving holiday.  Early Shoppers  Those shoppers are being drawn by retailers that are
starting sales earlier than ever, with some chains rolling out
promotions as early as Nov. 1 to take advantage of the shorter
 holiday shopping season , according to Chicago-based researcher
ShopperTrak.  Promotional offers will affect the shopping decisions of 73
percent of customers, about the same as last year, Paul said.  Deloitte’s survey, conducted before the U.S. government’s
16-day shutdown, showed 54 percent of consumers say the economy
is rebounding, an increase of 22 percentage points in the past
two years. While the shutdown may have affected sentiment,
Deloitte economists project it wasn’t enough to derail the
economy during the holiday season, Paul said.  The monthly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index expectations
gauge released on Oct. 17 fell to minus 31, the lowest since
November 2011. The gauge showed 47 percent of respondents said
the economy was going to get worse.  The shutdown affected consumers’ spending and holiday
shopping plans, according to surveys released by the  National
Retail Federation  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week. The
NRF survey showed 29 percent of consumers said the situation
would affect their holiday spending plans, while the survey
commissioned by Goldman found two out of five Americans cut
spending during the standoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Minsi Chung in  New York  at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  