-- Shrinking Lenders in Mortgage Hub Cut Into Recovery: Real Estate
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-10-22T15:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/shrinking-lenders-in-mortgage-hub-cut-into-recovery-real-estate.html
CashCall Inc. , a lender run by
racehorse aficionado Paul Reddam, is one of the mortgage
industry’s biggest office tenants in Orange County, California.
It’s about to get smaller.  The company has almost doubled its office presence in the
past three years to more than 400,000 square feet (37,000 square
meters). Now it is seeking to sublet about 40 percent of its
space as rising interest rates start to hurt lenders, said  Jay
Carnahan , founder of  Orion Property Partners Inc. , the  Irvine ,
California-based brokerage representing CashCall.  Orange County was once a hub for the subprime-mortgage
industry, which helped drag the U.S. into a recession in late
2007 after borrowers with the worst credit histories began
defaulting in record numbers. A resurgence that began in 2010 is
slowing as rising borrowing costs discourage home refinancing
and make purchases more expensive, threatening to slow an
office-market rebound that pushed vacancies to a five-year low.  Lenders “have the mindset to be able to downsize
quickly,” said  Jeffrey Ingham , an Irvine-based senior managing
director at brokerage Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. “If you churn out
a thousand refis a month and suddenly you go to a hundred, you
have the ability to scale down. Some lenders in 2006 and 2007
had the mindset that the good times would never end. Not so
today.”  Subprime Ripple  Orange County, the region southeast of Los Angeles with 3
million residents, is home to amusement parks Disneyland and
Knott’s Berry Farm as well as companies including chipmaker
 Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and surfwear retailer  Quicksilver Inc. (ZQK)  Before the
U.S. housing market’s slump, the area’s office market was
dominated by such subprime companies as New  Century Financial
Corp. (CYFL)  and Ameriquest Mortgage Co. Vacancies more than doubled
with their collapse in 2007.  Companies including New Century originated subprime loans,
then sent them to Wall Street banks, which packaged the
mortgages into securities and sold them to commercial banks,
 hedge funds  and pensions. When borrowers defaulted, the ripples
went up the chain, causing the collapse of firms such as Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the resulting U.S. economic slump.  The lenders that replaced Ameriquest and New Century as
U.S. housing market recovered, many started by veterans of
Orange County’s subprime industry, now have more awareness of
the mortgage business’s ups and downs, said Anthony Hsieh, chief
executive officer of  Foothill Ranch , California-based mortgage
and consumer-finance company  LoanDepot.com LLC .  ‘Cyclical Business’  “Mortgage lending has always been a cyclical business, but
more so since the crisis,” Hsieh, 48, said in a telephone
interview. With new lending regulations and lack of certainty
about how fast  interest rates  will rise, “mortgage lenders are
trying to stay as agile as they possibly can. That means they
are looking for flexibility with fixed costs, such as rents.”  Such flexibility will help as rising interest rates lower
demand for loans. Across the U.S., banks and other financial
firms are firing workers.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the country’s
biggest mortgage lender, has eliminated more than 5,700 jobs in
its home-loan unit since midyear, and JPMorgan Chase & Co. plans
to reduce its mortgage-banking employees by 11,000 this year.
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. cut at least 7 percent of its
residential-mortgage workers this month.  In anticipation of a possible lending decline, some Orange
County mortgage companies negotiated office leases that allowed
them to vacate their space with just 90 days’ notice, Ingham
said. Rental agreements today also tend to be shorter, many
lasting two to three years rather than the leases of five years
or longer that were common during the subprime heyday, he said.  Employment Decline  Ingham said he’s been receiving calls from several of his
mortgage-lending customers about the possibility of giving up
some of their  office space . He wouldn’t identify the tenants.  “We’ve talked to many of our clients, and there is this
sense that if interest rates are going up, there’ll be a lot of
shedding of employees,” Ingham said.  Lender-related employment may drop by at least half within
the next year locally because of a decline in refinancing, he
said. Since 2009, jobs in the mortgage industry have climbed 23
percent to about 38,000 in Orange County, according to Jones
Lang LaSalle. Mortgage-related businesses employed about 2.9
percent of office workers as of the third quarter, down from 5.5
percent at the peak in 2005.  After Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated in
May that the Fed may slow its buying of government and mortgage
bonds, the average rate on 30-year home loans jumped to a two-year high of 4.58 percent from a near-record low of 3.35
percent, according to Freddie Mac data. Bernanke said last month
that more signs of lasting improvement in the economy are needed
before the central bank reduces its $85 billion in monthly
purchases.  Applications Decline  Loan applications for U.S. home purchases declined 4.8
percent in the week ended Oct. 11 to the lowest level this year,
the  Mortgage Bankers Association  reported last week. Mortgage
originations probably will drop to $1.1 trillion next year, down
31 percent from the forecasted 2013 total, with refinancings
likely to  plunge 61 percent  to $388 billion, the Washington-based trade group said last month.  Purchases of existing U.S. homes fell 1.9 percent last
month from August, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday.  While rising interest rates are likely to cut into the
lending business short term, the mortgage industry’s
fragmentation probably will lead to consolidation in coming
years, said Hsieh, who wouldn’t comment on his own company’s
office leases.  ‘Massive Consolidation’  “There will be a massive consolidation in the non-bank
lending world because of the lack of business and regulatory
pressures,” he said. “Smaller lenders will most likely
consider a roll-up strategy.”  The mortgage industry’s comeback amid record-low interest
rates and rising home sales helped reduce Orange County office
vacancies to 14.4 percent in the third quarter, the lowest since
early 2008, according to Jones Lang LaSalle. That’s 2 percentage
points lower than the statewide rate, the brokerage said. Orange
County vacancies had risen to a post-crash high of almost 22
percent in 2010 from a low of 8.6 percent in 2006.  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO)  and Dune Real Estate
Partners LP, both based in  New York , and  Ocean West Capital
Partners , a Los Angeles-based investor, are among local
landlords. Office owners with mortgage lenders as tenants
include closely held Irvine Co., which rents space to Greenlight
Financial Services, and  Beverly Hills , California-based  Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. (KW) , CashCall’s landlord.  Christina Cha, a Kennedy-Wilson spokeswoman, declined to
comment on CashCall’s office-space plans, citing lease
confidentiality agreements.  Kentucky Derby  Anaheim-based CashCall, which offers mortgages and short-term loans, was founded in 2008 by Reddam, the owner of last
year’s winner of the  Kentucky Derby , I’ll Have Another. Reddam,
a former philosophy professor, made his fortune with subprime
lender DiTech Funding Corp., which he founded in 1995 and sold
to a unit of  General Motors Co. (GM)  in 1999 for more than $240
million.  Reddam didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment on
CashCall’s plans.  Orange County’s mortgage industry is populated with
“serial entrepreneur” types such as Reddam and Hsieh, Ingham
said. LoanDepot.com, which Hsieh started in early 2010, is his
third mortgage-related business. In 2002 he founded Home Loan
Center Inc., which was later sold to LendingTree LLC, and in
1994 started LoansDirect.com, which was bought by  E*Trade
Financial Corp. (ETFC)  in 2001.  Less Pain  Even with some mortgage companies starting to pull back in
Orange County, the impact on the local office market probably
will be far less painful than it was following the housing
crash, said Greg May, a Newport Beach-based executive vice
president and managing director at brokerage Newmark Grubb
Knight Frank.  “The possible effects from a downsizing in the mortgage
industry here are certainly a concern,” May said in a telephone
interview. “It’s going to impact us, but it’s not going to be
anything close to what we endured in the last cycle. Some of
these larger firms have been much more disciplined and are
healthier than in the subprime days.”  Rising demand in the area from a “growing pool of
diversified international and national companies” also will
help counter cutbacks by lenders, said Carnahan of Orion
Property Partners.  Automaker  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  added 26,000 square feet and
insurance brokerage Hub International Ltd. leased 20,000 square
feet in Orange County, according to a third-quarter report by
Jones Lang LaSalle.  Space Demand  Orion is in negotiations with a “finance-insurance”
company for about 80 percent of the space CashCall wants to
sublet, Carnahan said. That speaks to demand for Orange County
office space, he said. And despite the expected pullback in
mortgage lending, the industry will make it through the
slowdown, Carnahan said.  “The predicted death of the mortgage industry in the O.C.
was proved wrong,” he said. “There is a significant amount of
serial entrepreneurs in this region that have re-emerged, even
if not in the same size. The truth of the matter is that the
O.C. is still one of the regions of the country with the best
talent pool in the mortgage industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  