-- Siemens Eyes $7.5 Bln Mexico Deals to Boost Cities Unit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-10-22T15:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/siemens-eyes-7-5-billion-mexico-rail-deals-to-boost-cities-unit.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  plans to bid for all 97
billion pesos ($7.47 billion) in upcoming rail-engineering
contracts in  Mexico  to reduce its dependence on its home
European market.  The company will compete for signaling, rail car and
electrification contracts on passenger routes connecting Mexico
City with Toluca and Queretaro as well as a tourist train on the
Yucatan peninsula and a metro system in Guadalajara, said Louise Goeser, Siemens’ head of Mexico and Central American operations.  “We’d love to participate in all of them,” Goeser said in
an interview in Guadalajara. Whether the bids include rail cars
“becomes more dependent on what cars they’re looking for.”  A large rail order could help allay concerns surrounding
the Infrastructure and Cities sector, which is Siemens’s least
profitable. Chief Executive Officer Joe Kaeser is considering
disbanding the division, set up by predecessor  Peter Loescher  in
2011, as soon as next year, Manager Magazin reported last week.  Siemens rose 2.1 percent to 92.40 euros in Frankfurt
trading today, valuing the company at 81 billion euros.  The Mexico City to Toluca project will likely cost about 35
billion pesos and the government will probably spend about 42
billion pesos on the 175-kilometer (108-mile) stretch to
Queretaro, a government official told Bloomberg in June. Tenders
for the projects, which should be completed by the end of 2018,
will be evaluated in the first quarter of next year, he added.
Siemens has around 6,090 employees in Mexico, according to its
website.  Delays  Siemens makes locomotives in  Sacramento ,  California , and
delivered the first of 70 trains ordered by  Amtrak , the U.S.
long-distance passenger railroad, in May. It also has
manufacturing sites for its rail systems unit in Krefeld,
 Germany  and Vienna.  Charges for delayed train deliveries in Germany have
weighed upon Siemens’s earnings in recent years, contributing to
the five missed profit targets in six years under Loescher, who
was replaced by Kaeser in August. Goeser doesn’t expect any
contracts won in Mexico to be blighted by similar problems.  “The delays haven’t been anything to do with production,
it’s more to do with getting the license,” she said. “The
production has been just fine.”  Kaeser has identified the Munich-based company’s core
business as “electrification” as he seeks to close the
profitability gap on  General Electric Co. (GE)  after the share price
tumbled 22 percent under his predecessor. Siemens, whose energy
sector’s 28 billion euros in revenue made it the biggest sales
contributor, could benefit from a proposal from Mexican
President Enrique Pena Nieto to allow more private-sector
investment in energy, according to Goeser.  Investor Criticism  Siemens has faced investor criticism for its failure to
expand its global sales footprint as successfully as
competitors. Sales to Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa
represented 51 percent of the 78 billion-euro total in the last
fiscal year. Switzerland’s  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  meanwhile had 45 percent of
its sales in the region.  Siemens’s healthcare unit, its most profitable sector, is
also eyeing public-private partnership arrangements which would
allow it to become a service provider for the proposed 40 new
hospitals in Mexico, Goeser said. The division manufactures
imaging and diagnostics equipment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  