-- Singapore Inks Direct Currency Trade, RQFII Quota With China
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-10-22T10:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/singapore-announces-direct-currency-trading-plan-with-china.html
Singapore  and  China  will introduce
direct trading between their currencies, helping the city-state
compete with Hong Kong and  London  as an offshore  yuan  hub.  The two nations also agreed on a 50 billion yuan ($8.2
billion) quota for financial institutions in Singapore to invest
in China’s domestic securities under the  Renminbi  Qualified
Foreign Institutional Investor, the Monetary Authority of
Singapore said in a  statement  today. The Southeast Asian nation
will be given consideration as one of the investment
destinations where Chinese institutional investors will be able
to use yuan to buy securities, under the new Renminbi Qualified
Domestic Institutional Investor program, according to the
statement.  “The ongoing internationalization of the renminbi
continues to accelerate,” said Loh Boon Chye, Singapore-based
deputy president for Asia Pacific at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. “Today’s announcement is the next stage in Singapore’s
efforts to play a prominent role in the long-term development of
this market.” Loh is also the chairman of the capital markets,
fx & derivatives working group assisting the monetary authority.  The announcement comes a week after China approved direct
trading between the yuan and the British pound, helping
establish London as the European hub for its currency. Asia’s
largest economy is seeking a greater role for the yuan in global
trade and investment, and has allowed the currency to trade
offshore in  Hong Kong  since 2010. The city holds the world’s
largest offshore  yuan savings  pool and handles more than 80
percent of Chinese trade that’s denominated in yuan.  ’Chinese Wealth’  China started the RQFII program in 2011 in Hong Kong,
allowing investors holdings the currency offshore to buy
domestic bonds, stocks and money-market instruments. Regulators
said in July they would expand it beyond Hong Kong and Taiwan to
the U.K. and Singapore. London won an 80 billion yuan RQFII
quota last week, while the pound will join the greenback,
Japanese yen and Australia’s dollar as a major currency that can
be exchanged directly for yuan.  The People’s Bank of China said in January that it has
started preparations for the so-called QDII2, which will enable
individuals to invest in overseas  capital markets . The QDII
program, which began in 2006, only lets investors buy securities
outside of the country through asset managers and funds, and is
denominated in foreign currency.  “The high profile announcement of the RQDII scheme
distinguishes Singapore from other recent deals,”  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  economists led by Liu Li-Gang
wrote in a note today. “It will allow Singapore to capture the
outbound flow of Chinese wealth.”  Reform Agenda  Singapore doubled a  currency swap  with China to 300 billion
yuan in March, and started yuan clearing services in May. HSBC
Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc sold the city-state’s
first Dim Sum bonds in the same month. Yuan deposits in
Singapore totaled more than 140 billion yuan at the end of July,
China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported Sept. 20, citing
Leong Sing Chiong, assistant managing director of the MAS.  Further details on direct  currency trading  will be
announced separately, while new measures are being studied to
allow cross-border flows of yuan between Singapore and China’s
Suzhou Industrial Park as well as Tianjin Eco-City, the MAS said
in today’s statement.  The announcements suggest that “under the new government
led by Xi Jinping and  Li Keqiang , the pace of China’s financial
sector reforms, including RMB internationalization, is
continuing unabated,” Suan Teck Kin, an economist at United
Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore, wrote in a research note today.  Yuan Steady  The yuan was little changed today at 6.0923 versus the
greenback as of 4:15 p.m. in Shanghai, after falling as much as
0.05 percent earlier. The Chinese currency  traded  at 4.912 per
 Singapore dollar , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In recent months, despite the volatility in markets at
times, the authorities have committed to rolling out renminbi
reform agenda,”  Paul Mackel , Hong Kong-based head of Asian
currency research at HSBC said in an e-mail interview today.
“The longer-term implications from such measures will expand
yuan usage to more of an investment-oriented currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  