-- Slim Seen Hunting in Europe to Brazil After KPN: Real M&A
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a ,   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-22T20:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/slim-seen-hunting-in-europe-to-brazil-after-kpn-real-m-a.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  could funnel
one of Latin America’s steadiest streams of cash into  Telekom
Austria  AG or  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s  Brazil  unit after his botched
bid for Royal KPN NV.  Slim’s mobile-phone carrier  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  generated
more cash than 99 percent of Latin American companies in each of
the four quarters through June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cash flow  amounted to at least $2.83 billion in each
of the past eight quarters, meaning even a transaction the size
of Slim’s withdrawn $9.9 billion offer for Dutch phone carrier
KPN could be funded from operations in as little as a year.  After the failed attempt to acquire KPN, the continuous
flow of phone-bill payments into Slim’s coffers gives him
flexibility to pursue alternative telecommunications assets as
they become available. Telekom Austria and  Telefonica (TEF)  SA’s Czech
unit may give Mexico City-based  America Movil  more ways to
expand in  Europe , while Telecom Italia’s struggles to pay down
debt may put its controlling stake in Brazilian mobile carrier
 Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  up for grabs, according to Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities Inc.  “The whole idea for AMX here appears to be to diversify
away from the Americas and to take advantage of arguably low
telecom valuations in Europe,” said Rick Mattila, Mitsubishi’s
London-based head of strategy, referring to America Movil by its
ticker symbol. “AMX could also opt to simply keep its powder
dry for a while, pending any decisions with respect to Telecom
Italia’s intentions on its Tim Brazil asset.”  Valuation Gap  A representative for America Movil declined to comment on
the company’s acquisition plans.  Europe has gotten Slim’s attention because economic strife,
intensifying competition and tight regulation have battered
phone company stocks there.  KPN shares  have dropped 70 percent
in the past four years through yesterday, while  Telekom Austria (TKA) 
has fallen 48 percent.  European phone companies are valued at a median of 14 times
their estimated earnings this year, 24 percent less than their
 U.S. peers , based on the  Standard & Poor’s 500  and Stoxx Europe
600 telecommunications indexes. That gap has been narrowing in
recent months, helped by deal flow and interest from
international investors.  Slim, the world’s second-richest man, is betting that the
industry will get a boost if regulators drop their resistance to
letting carriers combine across borders, said Andres Bolumburu,
a Madrid-based analyst at Banco de Sabadell SA.  European Opportunity  “Europe still represents an opportunity,” he said in a
phone interview. “It is more expensive now than it was three
months ago, but it’s still cheaper that telcos in the  United
States . If the European regulator sets a more favorable
regulatory framework for the incumbents and favors
consolidation, it will be much more attractive.”  The tough part for Slim has been to gain a foothold. KPN
executives rejected America Movil’s tender offer of 2.40 euros
($3.28) a share as too low, and Slim’s negotiators were unable
to win the support of an independent foundation set up to
protect stakeholders.  Slim’s company retains a financial stake of about 30
percent in The Hague-based KPN, which has  declined  8.1 percent
to 2.23 euros since the offer was withdrawn. Under Dutch law, he
won’t be able to make another takeover attempt for six months.  KPN Negotiations  Ward Snijders, a spokesman for KPN, declined to comment and
referred to Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok’s comments on a
call with reporters Oct. 17. On that call, Blok wouldn’t give a
specific acquisition price that would have been acceptable for
KPN.  “There is of course a possibility that we’ll get back at
the table again” in negotiations with America Movil, Blok said
at the time. “It’s difficult to assess at the moment how that
relationship will develop. To be clear: the company hasn’t been
put up for sale. We will continue on the path we’ve taken.”  Today, KPN rose 0.7 percent to 2.25 euros. The company
predicted its shrinking Dutch business will stabilize next year
after reporting a third-quarter net loss. Telekom Austria
slumped 5.7 percent in Vienna after the carrier paid 1 billion
euros in an airwave auction that fetched more than analysts
estimated.  Shares of America Movil fell 0.5 percent to 13.87 pesos.  Government Stake  While Slim contemplates whether to make a new offer for KPN
or sell off his shares, he could turn his attention to his 26
percent  stake  in Telekom Austria, even though it’s been a money-loser so far, said Mattila of Mitsubishi. Vienna-based Telekom
Austria has a market value of 2.6 billion euros.  Expanding the stake may be challenging, since the Austrian
government is the company’s biggest shareholder, Mattila said.
Peter Schiefer, a spokesman for Telekom Austria, declined to
comment.  Slim may be better off turning his attention to an asset
that is openly for sale in the region, such as Telefonica’s
Czech Republic operations, he said. The unit of Madrid-based
Telefonica has thus far only attracted one bidder, billionaire
 Petr Kellner ’s PPF Group NV. Telefonica Czech Republic AS had a
market value yesterday of about $5.2 billion.  A spokesman for Telefonica declined to comment.  It’s difficult to imagine Telefonica doing such a deal with
America Movil, its biggest rival in Latin America, said Borja Mijangos, an analyst at Interdin Bolsa in  Madrid .  Brazil Alternative  America Movil may instead collaborate with Telefonica on an
acquisition of Rio de Janeiro-based Tim, Mijangos said. Since
Slim and Telefonica are already two of Brazil’s largest mobile-phone carriers, the government wouldn’t let either of them buy
Tim outright, he said. Instead, regulators may allow them to
split Tim up with Brazilian competitor  Oi SA (OIBR4) , he said.  Slim would be better off increasing America Movil’s
presence in the growing Brazilian market rather than pursuing
deals in Europe, according to Kevin Smithen, a New York-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  “What he’s saving money for is Tim Brazil,” Smithen said
in a phone interview. “It wasn’t obvious to us or the market
six months ago that there was anything else in  Latin America 
that America Movil could purchase. There now appears to be a
target coming on the market with a motivated seller, and the
strategic logic of that transaction makes a lot more sense than
expansion into Europe.”  Tim Valuation  Tim is controlled by Telecom Italia, which has said it
hasn’t begun any process to sell the Brazilian company. The
Milan-based carrier, which is trying to strengthen its  balance
sheet  after being stripped of its investment-grade credit
 rating , is seeking at least $12 billion for its 67 percent stake
in Tim, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said this
month.  A spokesman for Telecom Italia declined to comment.  America Movil reported a minimum of $2.83 billion of  cash
from operations  in each of the last four quarters, topping
almost every non-financial company in Latin America, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Only oil producer Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and mining company Vale SA typically generate more
 cash flow  than America Movil, the data show.  Even with America Movil’s steady cash flow, Slim’s company
has also drawn scrutiny from  credit-rating  companies for its
forays into Europe. Moody’s Investors Service said last week it
continues to review whether to downgrade America Movil because
potential acquisitions may increase its debt leverage. The
company is  rated  A2, five levels above junk.  Net Debt  While America Movil’s  net debt  has risen to about $33
billion, it’s still less than half its market value of $77
billion. Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno has said
the company’s priority is to maintain its rating.  While Europe shows no sign of being a source of profit or
sales growth anytime soon, Slim is a long-term investor, said
Emeka Obiodu, a London-based analyst at research firm Ovum.  “The good thing for them is that they’re cash rich,”
Obiodu said in a phone interview. “They’re going to absorb
those losses now in the hope that in the next five to 10 years
things will turn around.”  Slim may want to strike as soon as possible to take
advantage before the market values of European carriers
increase, said Richard Dineen, a New York-based analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc.  “There is a window of opportunity, and I would be looking
to strike or invest sooner rather than later,” he said. “You
can just see the momentum building and the interest in the
sector. It’s a good time to do something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  