-- Starbucks Links Coffee Makers to Web Fueling $27B Market
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/starbucks-links-coffee-makers-to-web-fueling-27b-market.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , famous for giving
away Wi-Fi that links customers to the Internet, now wants to
apply Web technology to its own operations by networking coffee
makers, refrigerators and other appliances.  Over the next year, Starbucks said it plans to double the
number of its Clover coffee-brewing machines, which connect to
the cloud and track customer preferences, allow recipes to be
digitally updated and help staffers remotely monitor a coffee
maker’s performance. Also in the works: connected fridges that
indicate when a carton of milk has spoiled.  “We are investing in different technologies to make it
easier for our baristas,” Marianne Marck, a senior vice
president for the Seattle-based company, said in an interview.  Coffee shops, fast food joints and retailers are linking
more of their operations to the Internet, aggregating
information to help them better serve customers while also
controlling everything from a store’s temperature to the locks
on its doors. The market for Web-connected devices, other than
smartphones and computers, will triple to $27 billion by 2016,
according to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , which is heavily investing in
the so-called Internet of Things.  Consumers have been onto this trend for years, snapping up
Web-connected picture frames, thermostats and security systems
in addition to televisions and stereos. Technology companies
including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Intel Corp. and International
Business Machines Corp. have been promoting the vision of the
connected home since the late 1990s.  Early Users  Among the few industries to make the leap to date have been
utilities, manufacturing companies and security providers, which
have built entire operations around increased automation. In
addition to the costs associated with installing and testing all
new systems, the use of Web-connected machines requires job
training and forces employees to change their working habits.  The rollout of smart meters used by utilities has faced
some consumer complaints about compromised privacy and risks
associated with electro-magnetic fields emitted by the wireless
technology.  Starbucks is among those leading the charge for mass
adoption, and the plunge in costs to run servers in the cloud is
opening up the opportunity for businesses of all sizes.
Additionally, the price of chips for connected devices has
dropped by more than 80 percent in the past five years to 50
cents, according to Susan Eustis, president of WinterGreen
Research Inc., which tracks connected devices.  Cisco, the world’s largest maker of switches and routers,
is preparing for the boom. Four months ago, the San Jose,
California-based company formed a new Internet of Things Group,
comprised of 450 engineers, said Guido Jouret, a vice president.  Technology Spreading  The group’s projects include the development of software
for wristwatch computers that soldiers can use to communicate,
exchange video and track each other’s location on a battlefield.
Cisco is also working on a number of connected cities, including
Lake Nona,  Florida , to centrally link medical facilities, the
education system and retailers.  “We realized this is much bigger than just utilities and
manufacturing,” Jouret said in an interview. “This is a broad
revolution.”  Intel, the biggest maker of semiconductors, is supplying
chips for coffee-vending machines in Europe in areas where
there’s not enough space for full shops. The machines, used by
Costa Coffee, have touch screens, offer cashless payment and
collect data on customers.  Wiring Restaurants  The  Red Fish Grill  in New Orleans, a restaurant featuring
menu items like alligator sausage and seafood gumbo, is using an
oil-management system for its deep fryers. Since installing the
technology earlier this year, the restaurant has cut its cooking
oil consumption by 50 percent, for a savings of $15,000 a year,
said Haley Bitterman, the corporate executive chef.  The system, which alerts Bitterman if too much oil is being
used or it’s not filtering correctly, is provided by Restaurant
Technologies Inc. and costs $35 a month.  The Ralph Brennan
Restaurant Group Inc. , owner of the Red Fish Grill, is using the
technology in another restaurant and working to install it in
two more, Bitterman said.  “Your margin in a restaurant is slim,” Bitterman said.
“The price of food never goes down and the price of labor never
goes down. Everybody’s trying to figure out how to help save
some money.”  The new technology is still in the early days of
implementation, because even with the drop in costs,
installation expenses can be prohibitive for low-margin
businesses.  Restaurants are just starting to connect new gadgets to the
Web and will increasingly see connectivity as a competitive
advantage, said Hudson Riehle, senior vice president of research
at the National Restaurant Association.  $11,000 Machines  “Technology is one more tool they can use to increase
customer satisfaction and quality of service,” Riehle said.  Jason Cocco, a vice president at Restaurant Technologies,
said his company has more than 900 clients, including Burger
King Worldwide Inc.  At Starbucks, the cloud technology called CloverNet can
reduce maintenance costs and support sales of specialty roasts
brewed on the Clover machines.  Since 2008, Starbucks has installed about 500 of the
$11,000 Web-based brewers and plans to double that number in the
next year, said Randy Hulett, director of the Starbucks Hardware
Design Studio. Hulett’s 10-person team also has plans to start
linking other in-store equipment to CloverNet.  Remote Control  Networked equipment is gaining popularity at big-box stores
and small businesses. In November,  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  will start
selling a system from  Zonoff Inc . that lets business owners turn
off lights and lock doors via a mobile application. Apigy Inc.
sells the Lockitron to property owners renting out their homes
and buildings, allowing doors to be locked and unlocked with a
smartphone.  Intel introduced new chips and software earlier this month
for Daikin Industries Ltd., which will use the technology to
enable remote monitoring of heating and ventilation systems.  The connected-devices market is expanding every day, said
Peter Gerstberger, senior merchant for new business development
at Framingham, Massachusetts-based Staples.  “Our goal is to move this product from early adopters to
the mainstream,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  