-- Star Trek Telemedicine Tablet Not Real McCoy, U.S. Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-22T22:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/star-trek-telemedicine-tablet-not-real-mccoy-u-s-says.html
An  Illinois  man who persuaded a
company to provide almost $1 million in financing for a
telemedicine computer tablet named after the physician on the
“ Star Trek ” TV show was arrested for fraud, according to
federal prosecutors.  Howard Leventhal also allegedly presented an undercover
U.S. agent posing as an investor with a fake contract to supply
the Canadian government with a make-believe device.  “Leventhal claimed to have lucrative connections within
the Canadian government and cutting edge technology that could
help save lives,” U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch in  Brooklyn ,
New York, said in a statement today announcing Leventhal’s
arrest on a wire fraud charge. “In reality, his scheme was pure
science fiction, complete with phony documents and a fictional
medical device.”  Leventhal, 56, last year told executives at Fort
Lauderdale, Florida-based Paragon Financial Group. Inc. that
 Health Canada  owed him as much as $4 million and that the agency
had agreed to purchase the “McCoy Home Health Tablet” from his
company, Neovision USA, according to the complaint.  After that meeting, Leventhal sent Paragon officials what
he said was a contract between Neovision and the Canadian
government, with a forged signature by Deputy Health Minister
Glenda Yeates, for $8.4 million CAD ($8.2 million USD),
according to the complaint. The purported contract included a
document describing the device.  Leonard McCoy  “Heltheo’s McCoy Home Health Tablet, named after the
fictional Dr. Leonard McCoy of TV’s Star Trek series, is
designed as a platform to maximize the patient benefits through
broadband-augmented in-home telemedicine,” according to the
document.  Paragon was duped into giving Leventhal $800,000, according
to prosecutors. Leventhal later gave the forged Canadian
government paperwork and phony bank statements to the undercover
agent in a bid to secure $2.5 million more in financing,
according to the complaint.  Leventhal, of Long Grove, Illinois, appeared today in
federal court in  Chicago . He was released on a $100,000 bond and
ordered to attend an Oct. 30 hearing in Brooklyn, said his
court-appointed attorney, Gary Adair.  Adair said Leventhal intends to contest the charge against
him.  Now a franchise of  Viacom Inc (VIAB) ,’s Paramount Pictures, “Star
Trek” began as a three-year NBC television series about the
crew of the interstellar spaceship USS Enterprise in the 23rd
century. It has since spun off four more television series and a
dozen feature films.  The case is U.S. v. Leventhal, 13-mj-00902, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  