-- Starbucks Is Expensive in China. Who Cares?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-22T23:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/starbucks-is-expensive-in-china-who-cares-.html
What did Starbucks Corp. ever do to
the Chinese Communist Party?  That’s the question  China ’s latte-sipping set is asking in
the wake of a now-notorious  investigation , first aired on
national television Sunday, that revealed -- among other
examples of allegedly shameless profiteering -- that a tall
latte costs  about 45 cents  more at a Starbucks in Beijing than
it does at one in London, and that Starbucks’s profit margins in
the Asia-Pacific region exceed those of any other in which the
company operates.  The story has  dominated China , with major international
news media  outlets  subsequently picking  up on it . The global
interest is understandable: Starbucks  claims  to have more than
1,000 stores in China, and the company’s chief executive officer
 expects  China to one day be Starbucks’s second-largest market.  To some, the attack is nothing short of absurd. “Is
Starbucks coffee expensive?” a Shenzhen-based wine merchant
asked Monday on Sina Weibo, China’s most popular microblogging
service. “Everyone has his own opinion. However, when does a TV
station have the right to interfere in a company’s pricing
policies?”  The investigation, conducted and broadcast by the Communist
Party-owned and -operated China Central Television network, was
never really about prices. (After all, it’s not unusual to find
Chinese-owned cafes charging as much as $10 for a small cup of
coffee in the country’s airports, a point that has been noted by
 Chinese  and  Western  microbloggers.) Rather, it was an inquiry
into foreign corporations, meant to project the appearance -- if
not the reality -- that the Chinese state has its eye on them.
The programming was steeped in the Communist Party’s historic
self-perception as a liberator against meddling foreign powers.  This kind of rhetoric may resonate with older Chinese, as
well as some Communist Party cadres, but young, wired Chinese
aren’t buying it. The segment has generated  near universal
derision   on Chinese microblogs . “It’s just a cup of coffee,” a
young Beijing economist  tweeted  Monday. “Don’t buy it if it’s
expensive.”  CCTV’s targeting of Starbucks is hardly a one-off effort to
establish the network’s credentials as a critic of foreign
companies (nor is the criticism of CCTV generated by the program
anything new). For decades, the network has held an annual
 Consumer Rights Gala , a much-anticipated (and loathed) program
in which CCTV journalists expose companies that don’t treat
Chinese consumers right. Inadequate customer-service policies,
unhealthy sanitary conditions and poor-quality products are
typical targets. Though the gala examines both Chinese and
foreign companies, most of the pre-broadcast anticipation (and
post-broadcast coverage, at least in recent years) is focused on
which foreign company will take the biggest beating.  In 2012, it was  McDonald’s Corp.  This year, Apple Inc. came
out on the receiving end of a brutal, arguably justified,  expose 
of its warranty practices in China (which were less favorable
than those in the U.S., for example). An official  apology  from
Apple ensued, as did a revised set of return and warranty
policies. Still, despite widespread belief that Apple was partly
in the wrong, in China there remained  loud, notable voices 
calling into question CCTV’s motives, methods and ill-intentioned populism.  The well-known writer Li Chengpeng, responding to CCTV’s
Apple investigation, cited  low-quality Chinese knockoffs  --
which CCTV did not investigate -- in his widely circulated
defense of Apple posted  on his blog  in March (as  translated  by
the China Media Project): “Of course you can criticise Apple,
but you cannot let all of these domestically manufactured
fraudulent goods off the hook when you could so easily
investigate them, then turn a harsh and uncompromising eye on a
mobile brand that leads the world in overall quality -- even
making it out to be something of great concern to the people, a
form of national discrimination.”  Li isn’t a figure who enjoys much support from China’s
state-owned press. He’s too closely associated with political
reform and a highly networked Web intelligentsia that’s very
much out of favor with the Communist Party. Nonetheless, his
objection to CCTV’s investigation has echoed loudly in the
criticism of the less substantial Starbucks expose -- which
includes a couple of  surprising instances  in local, but still
state-owned, media that didn’t (yet) feel pressure to follow the
lead of national media.  On Monday, the state-owned Qianjiang Evening News in
Hangzhou published  a commentary  from Liu Xuesong that also
invoked misguided populism as a means of criticizing the CCTV
broadcast. “The state media compares the price of coffee in
 London ,  Chicago , Bombay and Beijing, trying to trigger
indignation at being discriminated against, all the while
exposing irrational consumer behavior,” he wrote. “However, this
emotional approach has damaged the credibility of the press.”  This may be overstating matters a bit. The state-owned
press suffers from a credibility gap that predates
investigations into Starbucks and Apple, and even the widespread
criticism it’s received since the advent of Chinese microblogs.
Undoubtedly, there are those in China who like CCTV’s
broadcasts, though they don’t appear to spend much time online
commenting about them. That’s particularly ironic given that
some of the country’s most popular microbloggers probably enjoy
larger audiences than many of its state-owned outlets do.  Whoever and wherever CCTV’s staunch fans are, they probably
care -- a lot -- about the alleged 30 percent premium that
Chinese must pay for a Starbucks stainless steel mug compared
with what those in the U.S. pay. And so China is left with a
divide between the state-owned media that reflexively invokes
age-old propaganda devices in the name of entertainment and a
young, digital and irritated audience that has no interest in
watching it anymore. This gap -- between Communist Party
institutions inextricably linked to China’s past and a new,
market-oriented generation -- has become one of the country’s
most critical social dynamics, and one that will have a profound
effect on its future.  “In the era of the Internet, the public is too smart to be
fooled,”  tweeted  a characteristically fed-up microblogger in
Nanjing on Monday. “Targeting a coffee company that has nothing
to do with the national interest or the people’s livelihood only
demonstrates the shamelessness, ignorance and stupidity of
CCTV.”  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is the author of “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry that will be published in November.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 