-- Starboard Urges Wausau to Increase Dividend to $1
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-10-22T15:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/starboard-urges-wausau-to-increase-dividend-to-1.html
Starboard Value LP, the activist
investor that’s the biggest shareholder of  Wausau Paper Corp. (WPP) ,
called on the paper-products company to return more cash to
investors.  “Wausau needs to commit to returning a large portion of
 cash flow  before growth capex, ensuring that a meaningful amount
of cash is actually returned,” Starboard Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Smith  wrote today in a letter to Wausau CEO
Henry Newell that was filed with regulators.  Starboard, which  owns  15.2 percent of Wausau, sent two
private letters this year asking Wausau to reduce costs and
return capital to investors, according to the letter. Wausau’s
commitment to returning 50 percent of free cash flow after
capital expenditure didn’t satisfy Starboard, because it could
mean “little-to-no” money would be left after investments to
give back to shareholders, Smith wrote in the letter.  Wausau has  gained  50 percent in the last year. The Mosinee,
Wisconsin-based company sold its specialty paper business to a
new company sponsored by private equity firm KPS Capital
Partners LP earlier this year for $105 million.  Wausau declared a quarterly dividend of 3 cents a share on
Oct. 17. Starboard wants the company to buy back $100 million in
stock and increase the annual dividend to $1 per share and then
to $1.50 “or more over time.”  Perry Grueber, a spokesman for Wausau, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mail and telephone requests seeking comment.  “Given our disappointment with the company’s actions thus
far, and the compelling value creation opportunities available,
we feel it is important to now share our views publicly,” Smith
wrote in the letter.  Wausau rose 1.6 percent to $12.95 as of 10:59 a.m. in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  