-- State Street Falls After Missing Revenue Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-22T16:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/state-street-profit-rises-14-as-global-stock-gains-boost-assets.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, fell the most in more than a year after
low interest rates reduced earnings on the company’s
investments.  Operating revenue rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier to
$2.47 billion, the Boston-based company said today in a
statement, missing the $2.54 billion average estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The shares fell as much as 4.3
percent, the most since July 2012. They traded 3.6 percent lower
at $67.47 at 12:21 p.m. in New York.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph Hooley cut costs and
returned capital to shareholders more aggressively than his
rivals over the past three years as custody banks struggled to
increase profits amid rates that have hovered near zero since
the end of 2008. Low rates in the third quarter offset the
impact of higher assets, cost savings from earlier job cuts and
investments in technology.  While State Street demonstrated “decent expense
containment,” the outlook for the revenue the company earns
investing and lending deposits “will likely concern some
investors,” Luke Montgomery, an analyst in New York with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a research note published
today.  Net-interest revenue fell 9.5 percent from a year earlier
to $553 million. Fees for custody and investing assets each
jumped by 10 percent as the MSCI ACWI Index of global stocks
rose 7.4 percent in the three months and 15 percent in the nine
months ended Sept. 30.  Treasury Yields  State Street doesn’t expect the recent increase in 10-year
 treasury yields  to have a noticeable impact on its net-interest
revenue, Michael W. Bell, chief financial officer, said in a
conference call with analysts. Bell said higher short-term rates
would be necessary to benefit the firm’s investment portfolio.  Assets under custody rose 1.7 percent in the quarter and 11
percent from a year earlier to $19.2 trillion. The amount of
money State Street invests for clients rose 4.4 percent in the
quarter and 8.5 percent from a year earlier to $2.24 trillion  Operating expenses  rose at a slower pace than operating
revenue, increasing 1.4 percent to $1.69 billion. The largest
expense component, compensation and benefits, declined 1.4
percent to $903 million.  Net income on an operating basis increased 14 percent to
$537 million, or $1.19 a share, from $473 million, or 99 cents,
a year earlier. Excluding certain items, 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg  expected  earnings of $1.18 a share on average.  Discount Accretion  State Street’s operating profit excludes money earned from
the sale or maturing of bonds whose value was written down in
May 2009, which the company records as “discount accretion”
within net interest income. Discount accretion added $28 million
to net income in the third quarter  Using generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP,
State Street’s net income fell 19 percent to $531 million, or
$1.17 a share, from $654 million, or $1.36, a year earlier.  GAAP earnings in the third quarter of 2012 included a net,
after-tax benefit of 35 cents a share, most of which relates to
claims associated with the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  State Street won new business in the quarter, adding $200
billion to custody assets. It lost $15 billion in investment
withdrawals in the quarter.  Debt Ceiling Scare  State Street spent the first half of October preparing for
a possible crisis as the U.S. government approached its
borrowing limit and a debt default, according to Hooley.  “We were hoping that nobody panicked and started shorting
short-term Treasuries,” Hooley said in a telephone interview.
“The market could have cascaded into something pretty harmful,
and it could have happened before we hit the debt ceiling.”  Republican Party leaders in Congress agreed Oct. 16 not to
block a measure to end a government shutdown and lift the
borrowing limit that Treasury officials said they would reach
the next day. The accord with President  Barack Obama  sets a Dec.
13 date for completing talks that opened yesterday on a broader
budget deal. It funds government operations through Jan. 15 and
suspends the debt limit through Feb. 7.  Hooley said a wider budget compromise by lawmakers in
 Washington  would avoid not only another scare over the debt
ceiling but could also help the economy grow.  “I think the U.S. economy is in recovery, but we need to
unleash the business-level confidence to achieve that next
level,” he said.  Share Buyback  State Street said it repurchased about $560 million of
common stock in the quarter at an average price of $68.57 a
share.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custody
bank, said Oct. 16 its third-quarter profit rose 34 percent to
$967 million, helped by stock market gains and a tax court
ruling.  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , on the same day, said third-quarter
profit rose 15 percent as cost cuts combined with rising stocks
pushed revenue higher.  State Street’s shares had advanced 49 percent this year
through yesterday, the best among the three biggest U.S. custody
banks. BNY Mellon had risen 23 percent this year and Chicago-based Northern Trust had increased 12 percent.  Low interest rates hurt custody banks by reducing the
returns they make on lending and on their own investments. The
U.S. Federal Reserve has held its benchmark  interest rate  at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 in an attempt to
stimulate borrowing and economic growth.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  