-- STMicro Posts Loss as Profit Margin Target Delayed
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-23T16:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/stmicroelectronics-posts-loss-as-profitability-delayed-to-2015.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s
biggest semiconductor maker, reported a $142 million loss and
delayed a profit-margin target after closing down its wireless
venture with Ericsson AB. The stock fell to a six-month low.  The third-quarter net loss, equivalent to 16 cents a share,
was weighed down by $120 million in impairment costs and
compared with a $478 million loss, or 54 cents, a year earlier,
the Geneva-based company said yesterday. Net revenue declined
7.1 percent to $2.01 billion, falling short of the $2.05 billion
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  STMicroelectronics, which cited weaker-than-expected demand
for smartphones in Asia during the quarter, now forecasts it
will reach its target for 10 percent operating margin in
mid-2015, about six months later than planned. Chief Executive
Officer  Carlo Bozotti  called the slowing demand for its
semiconductors, which are used in everything from game consoles
to refrigerators,  a “short-term correction.”  “It’s not just us, you’ll see it also from our
competitors,” Bozotti said during a conference call. “Volumes
are there, but they’re more focused on lower-end phones than
higher-end phones.”  STMicroelectronics and Ericsson dissolved their
partnership, which designed chips used in handsets, as customers
such as  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  grappled with shrinking sales as they lost
market share to Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. Bozotti
has yet to prove that STMicroelectronics can reinvent itself by
focusing on industries such as automotive, game consoles and
high-end smartphone chipsets.  Revenue Forecast  The company projected revenue for the current quarter to be
little changed from the previous period, plus or minus 3.5
percentage points. That would mean a range of $1.94 billion to
$2.08 billion, also trailing analysts’  estimates .  The shares dropped as much as 9.6 percent and closed 8.9
percent lower at 5.81 euros in Paris, paring their gains this
year to 8.2 percent. The Franco-Italian chipmaker has a market
value of 5.3 billion euros.  “Demand is especially softening in Asia, specifically
impacting the mass market with the exception of automobile,”
the CEO said on the call.  Since the split was completed in August, 1,800 employees
have joined Stockholm-based Ericsson, which took on the modem
business. STMicroelectronics absorbed about 1,000 workers and
the venture’s other parts, except for the Global Navigation
Satellite System group, which was sold off.  About 10 percent of the sales come from Nokia, BlackBerry
Ltd. and  HTC Corp. (2498) , which “continue to underperform their
market,” according to estimates in a note yesterday by  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. Bozotti said today
the company’s exposure to BlackBerry is “very limited.”  The third-quarter gross margin was 32.4 percent, compared
with the 33.75 percent average estimate compiled by Bloomberg
from 10 analysts. The chipmaker said its operating margin was
2.7 percent for the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  