-- Syria Aid Cost Jumps as UN Food Agency Seeks More Donors
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-22T20:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/syria-aid-cost-jumps-as-un-food-agency-seeks-more-donors.html
The United Nations agency feeding
millions of Syrians affected by that country’s civil war said
the cost of funding one of the world’s biggest humanitarian
efforts is surging faster than the number of donors.  The World Food Programme needs $462 million for the first
three months of next year, as the number of Syrians it targets
rises to almost 6 million people in the country and its
neighbors, Executive Director Ertharin Cousin said. The Rome-based agency has spent about $890 million this year on the
crisis and has funds that will only cover most of its needs
until December, she said in an interview in Dubai on Oct. 21.  “We have nothing come January,” Cousin said. “We are
going into the winter months and it becomes ever more important
that we keep the pipeline filled with the commodities necessary
to support people, because in  Syria  the winter is very brutal.”  The conflict pitting President Bashar al-Assad’s army
against hundreds of rebel groups has killed more than 100,000
people, according to UN estimates, and rendered parts of the
country inaccessible to aid workers. Attacks on WFP convoys have
prevented the organization from reaching the town of Muadhamiya
near Damascus for almost a year, Cousin said.  The town is one of the areas visited by chemical-weapons
inspectors after an Aug. 21 attack that the U.S. and opposition
groups say killed more than 1,400 people. An agreement between
the U.S. and  Russia  to dismantle Syria’s arsenal averted an
American military strike against the forces of Assad, who denies
responsibility for the attack.  ‘Safe Passage’  “The government tells us, ‘We are with you, you should
have access into those areas but we don’t want your people to
get injured,’” Cousin said. “We want the government to have
conversations with their representatives at the different check-points to provide safe passage to the besieged areas.” Access
to some opposition-controlled areas is also restricted.  About 2 million Syrians have registered as refugees or are
pending registration, with an average of almost 5,000 people
fleeing into neighboring countries each day, the UN High
Commission on Refugees said in September.  The number of displaced people the WFP is targeting inside
Syria has risen to about 4 million from 250,000 since Cousin
took charge of the agency in April 2012, as violence combined
with higher  inflation  left more people without access to food.  ‘Every Dollar’  “We spend every dollar that comes in,” said Cousin, who
headed the U.S. mission to the Rome-based UN agencies before
joining the WFP. “We have not reduced rations. We have not cut
the number of people that we’re serving through the vouchers.”  The organization’s pool of donors isn’t expanding enough
beyond regular contributors such as the U.S., the U.K.,  Japan 
and  Kuwait , she said. Saudi Arabia and Qatar, among the biggest
backers of rebels fighting Assad, mostly focus on direct and
bilateral support.  The WFP has only received a shipment of dates from Saudi
Arabia along with the funds needed for their distribution among
Syrians, and is in talks with Qatar, Cousin said.  “This is an expanding crisis in the Arab world and we are
not seeing the generosity that we know is so much a part of the
culture of the Arab people,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  