-- U.K. Budget Deficit Narrows as Property Boosts Taxes
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-10-22T08:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/u-k-budget-deficit-narrows-as-property-recovery-boosts-taxes.html
Britain’s  budget deficit  narrowed
more than economists forecast in September as the housing-market
recovery boosted stamp duty and rising spending lifted value-added tax.  Net borrowing excluding temporary support for banks was
11.1 billion pounds ($18 billion) compared with 12.1 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in  London . The shortfall was less than the 11.3 billion-pound
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists. Tax
receipts rose 7 percent, the most since June, and spending
climbed 2.5 percent.  Britain’s  economic recovery  has brought a resurgence in the
housing market, putting Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  on course to undershoot his borrowing targets this year.
The improvement may mean the government can sell fewer gilts
this year than it projected in April.  “The economic recovery is starting to make its presence
felt,” said Martin Beck, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in London. “The improvement in the housing market should play
quite an important role in public finances now that house price
are picking up as well as transactions. There will almost
certainly be an undershoot now. This is good news for the
government.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
data and was trading at $1.6122 as of 9:40 a.m. in London, down
0.2 percent on the day. The 10-year gilt yield was little
changed at 2.73 percent.  Undershoot Seen  In the six months through September, net borrowing narrowed
by 9.4 percent to 56.7 billion pounds from 62.6 billion a year
earlier, raising the prospect that Osborne will undershoot the
120 billion pounds projected in March. The  Office for Budget
Responsibility  is due to announce new forecasts Dec. 4.  If the momentum is kept up, net borrowing could fall to
about 105 billion pounds this year instead of the 120 billion
pounds forecast in March.  The figures exclude coupon payments from the Bank of
England’s Asset Purchase Facility and the 28 billion-pound
transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets in April 2012.  The increase in tax income last month was the most for a
September since 2010. It was driven by stamp duty on  property
purchases , which grew 254 million pounds compared with a year
earlier, and VAT, which rose by 386 million pounds, the ONS
said. The statistics office cautioned against reading too much
into a 12 percent increase in income tax, saying the data is
being distorted by timing effects. Income tax fell in August.  Budget Cuts  Osborne has reduced the deficit from a postwar high of 11
percent of GDP when he took office in 2010 to 7.4 percent last
fiscal year. The chancellor has pledged to run a  budget surplus 
by 2020, implying that austerity will continue beyond the
current 2018 forecasting horizon.  In September, the Treasury received 4 billion pounds from
the Bank of England’s gilt holdings and 3.2 billion pounds from
the sale of a 6 percent stake in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  The
proceeds boosted cash measures of the public finances but not
net borrowing.  Only 568 million pounds of the Lloyds sale counts against
net debt excluding state-controlled banks, representing the
difference between the total proceeds and the 2.6 billion pounds
deemed as assets held by the government, the ONS said. Net debt
climbed to 1.21 trillion pounds, or 75.9 percent of gross
domestic product.  Gilt Sales  Central government, which excludes state-owned banks,
posted a cash requirement of 13.2 billion pounds last month,
taking the total this fiscal year to 39.7 billion pounds.
Planned debt sales are based on this measure and also take
account of the cost of redeeming maturing gilts during the year.  With the economy accelerating, the Debt Management Office
will probably sell 153 billion pounds of gilts in the year
through March 2014, instead of the 155.7 billion pounds it
forecast in April, and issue a similar amount the following
year,  George Buckley , chief U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank in
London, said this month.  Proceeds from the initial sale of shares in Royal Mail
Group this month will be recorded when the statistics office has
decided how the treat the income in the government accounts.
Issues include the treatment of employee shares, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  