-- U.K Plans Motorway Fuel Comparison Signs to Drive Down Prices
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/u-k-plans-motorway-fuel-comparison-signs-to-drive-down-prices.html
The U.K. will try out the use of
signs along motorways to tell drivers how much fuel costs at
different gas stations in a bid to drive down prices as part of
measures to cut motoring costs.  Justice Secretary Chris Grayling will also announce plans
today to target so-called whiplash cheats, whose bogus
compensation claims have helped to force up motor-insurance
premiums. They will face new independent medical panels that
will ensure only evidence from accredited professionals can be
considered in settling claims.  “We are turning the tide on the compensation culture and
helping hardworking people by tackling high insurance premiums
and other motoring costs,” Grayling said in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s not right that people who cheat the insurance
system get away with it while forcing up the price for everyone
else -- so we are now going after whiplash fraudsters and will
keep on driving premiums down.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led coalition
is seeking to help voters stung by rising inflation and slowing
pay growth as his Labour opponent,  Ed Miliband , focuses his
campaigning in the runup to the 2015 general election on what he
calls “a cost-of-living crisis.”  Office for National Statistics figures released Oct. 16
showed that pay growth slowed to 0.7 percent in the three months
through August, highlighting the pressure on  living standards  as
inflation runs at 2.7 percent.  MOT Freeze  Other measures to be announced today include freezing the
maximum price of the annual test of a car’s roadworthiness,
known as an  MOT , at 54.85 pounds ($89) until 2015. That could
save 35 million drivers as much as 50 million pounds every year,
according to Ministry of Justice figures. The government will
also review charges for driving tests with a view to bringing
them down.  The clampdown on fraudulent whiplash claims comes after
statistics released by the Department for Work and Pensions
showed that of the 824,489 motoring injuries in 2011-12, 542,922
were recorded as whiplash. The  Association of British Insurers 
says 45,000 dishonest motor-insurance claims were detected in
2011.  According to the justice ministry, insurers say these
claims cost them more than 2 billion pounds a year in payouts
and lead to an average premium increase of 90 pounds for
drivers. Each whiplash compensation payout costs an average of
2,400 pounds, with an additional 2,000 pounds in legal costs,
insurers say.  Meanwhile, the House of Commons Transport Committee called on
the government today to freeze the maximum penalty charge for 
parking offenses. ``There is a deep-rooted public perception that 
parking enforcement is used as a cash cow,'' the panel said in a 
report.    To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  