-- U.K., Sweden Seek EU Budget Safeguards in Bank Resolution Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-22T15:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/u-k-sweden-seek-eu-budget-safeguards-in-bank-resolution-plan.html
The U.K. and Sweden are seeking
guarantees that a planned euro-area system for handling failing
banks won’t be able to tap the European Union budget to cover
legal costs.  The two countries are opposed to the EU budget being used
to pay damages if the European Commission, the bloc’s executive
arm, loses court challenges against decisions it has taken to
shutter banks, according to a document obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  The draft law to set up the resolution mechanism should
make it clear that “costs in connection with judicial
proceedings concerning acts or omissions of the commission in
the performance of its tasks” as the ultimate decision-maker in
the resolution system “shall not engage the budgetary liability
of the member states or the union,” according to the joint
British-Swedish paper that was discussed last week by national
officials in Brussels.  The Single Resolution Mechanism proposal is part of a euro-area effort to break the financial links between sovereigns and
banks by centralizing oversight and crisis management of failing
lenders. The blueprint, presented by EU financial-services chief
 Michel Barnier  in July, has met with a barrage of complaints
from governments, though nations have said that they will target
a deal on the plans by year-end.  The plan involves the creation of a central board that
would make day-to-day decisions, backed by the European
Commission, which would determine whether crisis measures are
needed at a stricken  bank .  Bank Levy  Membership of the system would be compulsory for euro-area
nations, with other EU countries free to opt in if they also
accept European Central Bank oversight of their lenders.  While the draft law foresees that the resolution system’s
running costs would be met by levies imposed on the banking
industry, the text doesn’t make it sufficiently clear that this
would also apply for legal penalties imposed on the commission,
according to the paper.  “In the absence of express provision, the default position
is that the costs and liabilities of the commission would need
to be met from the union budget and so from taxpayer
contributions,” according to the document. “This position
seems anomalous and inconsistent” with the thrust of the plans,
which seek to protect public funds.  The U.K. and Swedish government offices in Brussels didn’t
have immediate comment on the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  