-- U.S. Military Expects Approval of Afghan Security Pact
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-10-22T17:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/u-s-military-expects-approval-of-afghan-security-pact.html
The U.S. is confident that
 Afghanistan ’s government will approve a security agreement that
would let some American troops remain in the country after most
forces pull out in 2014, an American military official said.  Most Afghans recognize the need for a continuing presence
by international forces to ensure stability, said the official,
who briefed reporters at NATO headquarters in Brussels today on
condition of not being identified.  Security talks have been stalled for weeks over whether
Afghanistan would allow the U.S. to have sole legal jurisdiction
over any of its forces accused of committing crimes in the
country. That legal dispute hasn’t been resolved.  In a measure of the sensitivity of negotiations, the
official declined to discuss elements of the proposed agreement
that both sides have said they endorse. He said only that the
U.S. would need to conduct counterterrorism operations after
2014, while declining to elaborate.  “I think we’re making and have made good progress” on the
agreement, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said yesterday, while
traveling to a North Atlantic Treaty Organization conference of
defense ministers.  Hagel met privately today with Afghanistan’s defense
minister, Bismullah Khan Mohammadi, who also expressed
confidence that the security agreement would be approved,
according to a second U.S. official who also asked not to be
named discussing the negotiations. Hagel told Mohammadi that the
U.S. would insist on holding trials for any of its own troops
accused of breaking the law, the official said.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and Secretary of State  John Kerry  said Oct. 12 that they were close to agreeing on terms of
a security accord.  Tribal Elders  Karzai has said the agreement must go to an advisory vote
of a consultative national assembly of tribal elders before
approval by Afghanistan’s parliament. The first U.S. official
expressed confidence that both bodies would support the accord,
even if many Afghans are hesitant to cede sovereignty over
trials of any potential crimes committed by foreign forces.  The official also said he expects the Taliban to step up
attacks next spring in an effort to disrupt Afghanistan’s
elections in April, including an increase in attempts to kill
elected officials.  To counter that effort, there are now 425,000 Afghan and
coalition troops to help secure the elections, compared with
250,000 troops that were available in the 2009 election, the
official said.  NATO also still must decide on how many troops it would
leave in Afghanistan after 2014. Hagel said yesterday the
alliance is still considering a range of 8,000 to 12,000
coalition forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  