-- U.S. Payrolls Rise Less Than Forecast Ahead of Shutdown
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-10-22T20:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/u-s-payrolls-rise-less-than-forecast-ahead-of-shutdown.html
Employers in the U.S. added fewer
workers to payrolls than projected in September, indicating the
world’s largest economy had little momentum heading into the 16-day federal government shutdown.  The 148,000 increase followed a revised 193,000 gain in
August that was larger than initially estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 7.2 percent, the lowest level since November 2008.  Stocks and Treasuries climbed as the report supported
expectations that the  Federal Reserve  won’t hurry to reduce
monthly bond purchases aimed at spurring growth and employment.
Progress in the labor market depends on how quickly the economy
can bounce back from the loss of business and confidence caused
by the budget battles in Washington.  “It’s not like we’re falling off a cliff, but there’s a
failure to get any spark in employment,” said  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, who
correctly predicted the drop in the jobless rate. “Had this
report come in strong, there was some possibility of the Fed
tapering in December, but that possibility seems to be very
small now,” and a move is more likely next year, he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,754.67 at the close in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 2.51 percent from 2.60 percent late
yesterday.  The median forecast of 93 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 180,000 advance in payrolls. The unemployment rate,
derived from a separate Labor Department survey of households
rather than employers, was forecast to hold at 7.3 percent,
according to the survey median.  Retailers, Wholesalers  Employment climbed at temporary-help agencies, wholesalers,
transportation and warehousing businesses and retailers. State
and local government hiring also picked up. Federal  government 
employment declined by 6,000 to 2.72 million, the lowest since
1966.  Josh Lefebvre, 21, started as a legal assistant in
Alexandria,  Virginia , on Oct. 7, having graduated from
Binghamton University in  New York  in May. He had applied for
“maybe 10 or 15” jobs and used a staffing agency before
finding his new position.  “I consider myself luckier than other people who are my
age, in that I found a job fairly quickly,” he said. “It’s
been tough on a lot of people who didn’t take on internships
beforehand, because it’s very competitive.”  Others aren’t as fortunate. Jacob Parker of Norfolk,
Virginia, said he lost his job supervising subcontractors for a
homebuilding company about a month ago because his boss decided
to “restructure and hire cheaper guys.”  Energy Boom  Now, the 21-year-old father said he’s thinking of moving to
 North Dakota , where the energy boom has helped push the
unemployment rate down to  3 percent  as of August, the lowest in
the nation.  “I don’t really have a trade, and I was making a decent
amount of money,” he said. “I’ve been looking at everything to
change gears and provide a secure future for my son.”  The September payrolls figure reflects the pay period that
includes the 12th of the month, two weeks prior to the partial
federal shutdown.  “There probably was some slowdown in hiring in
anticipation of the shutdown,” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief
economist for IHS Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts , who forecast
a 155,000 gain in payrolls. “It is going to affect the October
numbers too, which will be quite weak. The problem is, we don’t
know what the underlying strength of the labor market is, and we
won’t know for some time.”  Temporary Help  Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
rose 126,000 after a revised gain of 161,000. Company payrolls
were projected to rise by 180,000, the Bloomberg survey showed.  The  participation rate , which measures the share of the
working-age population in the  labor force , stayed at 63.2
percent, matching the lowest since August 1978.  Employment at  factories  increased by 2,000 following a
13,000 gain in the previous month. Construction companies added
20,000 workers, the most since February, and retailers took on
almost 21,000 employees.  A separate report from the Commerce Department today showed
construction spending rose in August for a fifth consecutive
month, propelled by the strongest outlays on homebuilding in
five years.  Expenditures were up 0.6 percent to a $915.1 billion annual
rate following a revised 1.4 percent increase in July that was
larger than previously estimated.  Consumer Spending  Faster hiring that leads to bigger gains in wages would
help to accelerate  consumer spending , which accounts for about
70 percent of the economy. Even as the debate on fiscal policy
heated up last month, retailers began announcing plans to add
workers for the  holiday shopping season .  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, is
hiring 55,000 seasonal employees, a 10 percent rise from last
year.  Target Corp. (TGT)  said it plans to take on about 70,000
workers.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  will add about 53,000 workers for the
holiday season, about the same as last year.  Through September, the U.S. had recovered 7 million of the
8.7 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  President  Barack Obama  last week signed legislation that
funds the government through mid-January and suspends the
nation’s $16.7 trillion debt limit, for now ending the threat of
default, which economists had warned could tip the U.S. back
into a recession.  Hourly Earnings  Average hourly earnings climbed by 0.1 percent to $24.09 in
September from the prior month, and increased 2.1 percent over
the past 12 months. The average work week for all workers held
at 34.5 hours in September.  Today’s report, delayed by the government shutdown that
ended Oct. 17, was originally slated for Oct. 4. The report
didn’t include any late responses from employers, indicating the
figures will be subject to revision as is typical each month.  Employment figures for October will be pushed back to Nov.
8 from the originally scheduled Nov. 1, according to the Labor
Department.  Fed policy makers, scheduled to gather Oct. 29-30, are
trying to gauge the strength of the U.S. expansion without
federal economic data that was suspended after the government
closing.  The central bankers will pare the monthly pace of asset
buying to $70 billion from $85 billion at their March 18-19
meeting, according to the median of 40 responses in a Bloomberg
survey last week.  Bernanke’s View  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said at a news conference following the Fed’s September meeting.  While the labor market has shown improvement, the political
debate over the shutdown and the debt limit may have been a
source of concern for employers.  San Francisco  based  URS Corp. (URS) , a provider of engineering
and construction services, furloughed about 3,000 employees,
saying the total includes employees idled by the closing of a
government facility where they work as well as those directed by
U.S. officials to halt operations or cut staffing.  Among other companies paring their workforce, San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. mortgage
lender, last week said it eliminated an additional 925 jobs in
its home-loan unit and has cut more than 5,700 since midyear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  