-- Mubadala Appoints Verno Capital to Advise on Russia
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-10-22T16:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/mubadala-awards-russia-s-verno-900-million-for-private-equity.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph to show Mubadala
appointed Verno to advise on Russian investments.)  Mubadala Development Co. hired Verno
Capital to advise on its co-investment with the Russian Direct
Investment Fund, said Dimitri Kryukov, the fund’s founder.  The advisory mandate is related to a  $2 billion investment
fund , which Mubadala, based in Abu Dhabi, set up earlier this
year with the RDIF, Kryukov said in an interview in Moscow
yesterday. The Russian government established the RDIF in 2011
to lure foreign investment and wean the world’s largest energy
supplier of its dependency on commodity exports.  “The RDIF provides government protection to foreign
investors and we will be working with them on behalf of Mubadala
to provide input and opinion on deals,” said Kryukov, 41. “We
are seeing a pickup in interest in Russia from investors across
the Gulf eager to diversify their investments.”  Mubadala invested $100 million in 2010 with Verno, the
first injection of a sovereign wealth fund from the Middle East
in a Russian-focused equity fund. VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest lender, said this year that investors including
sovereign wealth funds such as in Qatar agreed to buy all $3.3
billion of new shares in a capital increase.  A Mubadala spokesman in Abu Dhabi, who asked not to be
named citing company policy, declined to comment.  Verno, which has focused on hedge funds, is hiring a
private equity team to oversee Mubadala’s investment with the
RDIF. Roman Kudryashov has joined from OAO Sberbank, Russia’s
largest bank, to head the unit, according to Kryukov.  The firm plans to set up a debt fund by the end of the
year, with clients signaling backing for as much as $50 million,
according to Kryukov. Elena Kolchina, former debt portfolio
manager at  Renaissance Asset Managers (RAMEAFC) , will manage the fund.  Verno was set up by Kryukov in late 2009 after his
departure from investment firm Kazimir Partners Inc. It has
about $230 million under management, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  