-- Lufthansa Targets Profit of as Much as 700 Million Euros
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-22T08:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/lufthansa-targets-profit-of-as-much-as-700-million-euros.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  predicted
operating profit for 2013 that fell short of analysts’ estimates
as restructuring costs mount and the strong euro depresses 
revenue, causing the stock to drop the most in seven weeks.  Operating profit this year will be 600 million euros ($820
million) to 700 million euros, Lufthansa said today in a
statement, a week before the airline is scheduled to announce
earnings.  Analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg predicted earnings of
about 918 million euros. After three quarters, operating profit
reached 660 million euros, Lufthansa said.  “It is a mix of higher restructuring costs, weaker pricing
in our cargo operations and currency headwinds,” Chief
Financial Officer Simone Menne said on a call with analysts.  Lufthansa dropped as much as 5.7 percent in  Frankfurt 
trading, as Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz struggles in
his final months on the job to keep turnaround costs in check.
Franz, who is leaving for Swiss drugmaker  Roche Holding AG  next
year, said this month that he may need to revisit his overhaul
efforts, which are denting full-year profit by 300 million euros
in  costs, according to the airline.  The euro is the best performer among a basket of 10
developed-market currencies this year while the Japanese Yen is
the worst, meaning Lufthansa’s revenues generated in  Japan  and
other countries are lower when translated into euros.  ‘Weak Numbers’  “The market had expected weak numbers already, but todays
announcement is still somewhat weaker than those expectations,”
said Frank Skodzik, an analyst at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.
“Consensus estimates will have to come down further.” He
recommends clients “buy” the shares and sees them rising to
18.20 euros within a year.  The German airline is scheduled to release full earnings
for the first three quarters of the year on Oct. 31, and today’s
outlook is a “more precise update” from a target to boost
operating profit this year. Revenue will be unchanged from 2012,
and operating profit in the first three quarters saw a drop of
250 million euros, Lufthansa said. That figure includes
restructuring costs of about 200 million euros.  Franz has suspended dividend payments while boosting
spending to modernize the fleet. He is halfway through a
restructuring program that includes the elimination of thousands
of jobs and a reorganization of large parts of the domestic
network around the low-cost Germanwings subsidiary.  Prices at the company’s cargo business did not develop as
expected, Menne said on the call, while negative currency
effects were affecting Lufthansa in all regions. Lufthansa said
it expects the total costs for jet fuel to be about 7.1 billion
euros this year, about 300 million euros less than the record
7.39 billion euros it spent last year.  Lufthansa  declined  as much as 85 cents to 14.01 euros in
Frankfurt, the most since Sept. 4, and traded at 14.25 euros as
of 9:25 a.m. The stock has been little changed so far this year,
while the Bloomberg World Airlines Index has gained 19 percent
in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  