-- Uralkali Investor Kerimov Said to Get New Approach for Stake
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I r i n a   R e z n i k
-- 2013-10-23T11:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/uralkali-shareholder-kerimov-said-to-get-new-approach-for-stake.html
Billionaire Suleiman Kerimov
received a new approach for his stake in potash producer OAO
Uralkali from Russian property investor Alexey Khotin, according
to four people with knowledge of the matter.  Khotin contacted Kerimov about the 33 percent stake he
shares with two partners, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private.  The lack of an agreement to buy Kerimov’s stake is delaying
a revival of a potash marketing partnership with Belarus,
destroyed by Uralkali’s withdrawal in July. Belarusian President
Aleksandr Lukashenko has said a reconciliation of the venture
that accounted for 40 percent of global exports can only be
considered if Uralkali’s ownership changes.  “As Lukashenko has made clear, he won’t work with Kerimov
so the longer the deal is not happening the more difficult it
will be to restore the partnership between Belarus and Uralkali
in the event of ownership changes in Uralkali,” Elena Sakhnova,
a VTB Capital analyst in Moscow, said by phone. “Belarus has
started to boost its own sales and it will soon get the
marketing expertise it lacks now.”  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim, which Bloomberg
News reported last month is weighing a bid for the stake, has
since proposed exchanging assets, including shares in  United Co.
Rusal (486) , and cash for the Uralkali holding, said two of the people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  Evtushenkov Interest  Vladimir Evtushenkov, the billionaire chairman of the AFK
Sistema investment company, said yesterday he’s interested in
acquiring Uralkali at the market price rather than at a premium,
Interfax reported from Naryan Mar in northern Russia. He’s the
first to publicly confirm he’s considering bidding for the
world’s largest potash producer.  Uralkali roiled the $20 billion potash market at the end of
July after withdrawing from the trading venture with its
Belarusian partner, accusing it of selling cargoes outside their
marketing agreement. The Russian company said it would increase
output of the soil nutrient, sending shares of fertilizer
producers plunging.  Andrey Belyak, a spokesman for Onexim, declined to comment,
as did Anton Averin from Kerimov’s investment holding company
Nafta Moskva. Khotin wasn’t available when contacted at his
office in Moscow and didn’t return a call or fax message seeking
comment.  Khotin’s Holdings  Vedomosti newspaper reported earlier this year that Khotin
holds assets through a number of companies with his father and
never gives interviews. Forbes magazine’s Russian edition
estimates the Khotins’ annual income from their real-estate
business at $400 million. The family this year purchased
Dulisma, an oil producer.  Khotin’s family moved to  Russia  about a decade ago from
Belarus, according to Vedomosti and Forbes. That may make him
more acceptable to Lukashenko, Luis Saenz, head of equity sales
and trading at BCS Financial Group in  London , said in an e-mailed note.  The cash component of Prokhorov’s proposal may be enough to
cover the debt Kerimov incurred when he bought his Uralkali
stake, the people said. Kerimov hasn’t agreed to the offer, they
said. Prokhorov controls 17 percent of Rusal, the world’s
biggest aluminum producer, valued at about $800 million at
current share prices.  CEO Arrest  Uralkali rose 0.2 percent to 175.22 rubles per share at
2:44 p.m. in Moscow today, after falling as much as 0.5 percent
at the open, while Rusal advanced 1.6 percent.  Kerimov and his partners began receiving offers for the 33
percent stake in Uralkali after Belarus arrested Chief Executive
Officer Vladislav Baumgertner on Aug. 26, a month after he
withdrew his company from Belarusian Potash Co.  Along with Onexim and Khotin, Vladimir Kogan, a longtime
ally of President Vladimir Putin, and billionaires  Mikhail Gutseriev  and Evtushenkov are weighing bids for the stake,
according to people with knowledge of the plans.  Evtushenkov also said yesterday that he has considered
bidding together with Gutseriev or Sberbank, Interfax reported.  Lukashenko has supported a bid by Gutseriev, who had ties
to the country through his former position as head of OAO
Slavneft when the oil venture was owned by the Russian and
Belarusian governments. Gutseriev fled Russia through Minsk in
2007 while being investigated for tax evasion. The charges were
dropped and the businessman has since returned to Russia.  Kerimov, whose stake will rise to 38 percent once Uralkali
cancels treasury stock next year, is seeking a price for his
holding based on a market value for Uralkali exceeding $20
billion, people familiar with the matter said in September. That
would be a premium of more than 20 percent to the current share
price.  Putin may discuss Uralkali issues with Lukashenko this
week, Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Reznik in Moscow at 
 ireznik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  