-- Vallejo Water-Bond Deal to Be City’s First Since 2008 Bankruptcy
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-22T17:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/vallejo-water-bond-deal-to-be-city-s-first-since-2008-bankruptcy.html
Vallejo, the Northern California
city that sought Chapter 9  bankruptcy protection  in 2008, is set
to sell about $19 million in water-revenue bonds next week in
its first municipal-debt sale since the filing.  Proceeds from the deal, scheduled for Oct. 30, will
refinance outstanding debt, offering documents show. The water
fund from which debt-service payments are made wasn’t impaired
in the bankruptcy proceedings, according to the documents.
 Standard & Poor’s  rates the bonds A+, fifth-highest. They will
mature from 2027 to 2031,  The offering from Vallejo, a city of about 120,000 in the
 Bay Area , may serve as an example of how much localities will
have to pay for post-bankruptcy access to the $3.7 trillion
municipal market. The city officially exited bankruptcy on Nov.
1, 2011.  When Vallejo sought court protection, it was the biggest
California city to file Chapter 9. Last year, Stockton, which is
more populous, sought court protection. In July,  Detroit  filed a
record U.S. municipal bankruptcy, listing about $18 billion of
long-term liabilities. The Motor City suffered from decades of
population decline, leaving it too poor to provide services such
as public safety and even street lights.  Vallejo’s insolvency stemmed from the housing-market
collapse.  The city “continues to have problems with mortgage
defaults, foreclosures and underwater mortgages, which will
continue to destabilize the local housing market into the
foreseeable future,” offering documents said. Such declines
“have put a strain on nearly all of the city’s revenue
sources,” according to Vallejo’s 2012 financial report.  The last Vallejo issuer to sell debt publicly was the
unified school district in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  