-- Venture Capitalist Confidence Up Ahead of Twitter’s IPO
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-10-22T17:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/venture-capitalist-confidence-up-ahead-of-twitter-s-ipo.html
Confidence among Silicon Valley’s
venture capitalists rose to a six-year high in the third
quarter, with more opportunities, “innovative and determined
entrepreneurs” and a better environment for public offerings.  The  index  reached 3.92 on a 5 point scale, the highest
since the third quarter of 2007, according to a September survey
of 36 venture capitalists in the San Francisco Bay Area
conducted by  Mark Cannice , a professor at the University of San
Francisco School of Management.  Twitter Inc. (TWTR) , in the most-anticipated U.S. technology
initial public offering since  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s market debut last
year, is seeking to raise more than $1 billion in a share sale
by the end of the year, people with knowledge of the matter have
said. That, along with the IPOs of software companies such as
 Workday Inc. (WDAY)  and  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW)  last year, is helping to lift
confidence, according to Deven Parekh, managing director at
venture-capital firm Insight Venture Partners.  “Venture capitalists’ confidence is certainly helped by a
very strong tech IPO market,” Parekh said in a phone interview.  Investors are shaking off the uncertainty of the 2008-2009
global recession, finding more opportunities in innovative
technologies and are able to exit their investments in a more
favorable IPO environment, Cannice said.  “Momentum in innovation in growing market opportunities
coupled with a better exit environment is supporting the venture
business model and bolstering sentiment,” Cannice wrote in the
report.  “The IPO market is a primary driver of confidence as well
as venture capitalists’ investment trends which have gone up
sequentially year over year, however, what is holding confidence
from where it could be is fundraising ability compared to a few
years ago,” Cannice said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  