-- Wall Street Profit May Drop 37% Bitten by Laws, Congress
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-10-22T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/wall-street-profit-may-drop-37-bitten-by-laws-congress.html
Wall Street ’s profit may fall 37
percent this year, hurt during the second half by rising
 interest rates , legal costs and budget turmoil in  Washington ,
New York State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said.  DiNapoli forecast securities industry earnings at $15
billion in 2013 compared with $23.9 billion the year before,
while employment has fallen near a post-recession low, in a
report released today. A drop in profit may crimp bonuses, which
reached an estimated $20 billion for 2012, he said.  “The political gridlock in Washington may take a bite out
of the securities industry’s profits for the fourth quarter,”
DiNapoli, 59, said in a statement. “Washington’s inability to
resolve budget and fiscal issues is bad for business.”  An impasse over spending and raising the nation’s borrowing
limit led to a partial shutdown of U.S. government operations
this month, as Republicans in Congress fought with Democrats
over paring back Obamacare. The resulting turmoil rocked
equities and pushed prices higher in the $4.1 trillion market
for federal debt. That may lower earnings in the securities
industry, which helps drive the city’s economy, DiNapoli said.  “Failure to resolve the  federal budget  and debt ceiling
impasse could disrupt the economy and hurt New York City and New
York state,” said DiNapoli, a Democrat. Congress put off both
issues with short-term fixes setting new deadlines next year.  Economic Tax  “The impasse in Washington over the last several weeks was
an unfortunate tax on the economy,” Ruth Porat, chief financial
officer at New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said on an Oct. 18
conference call with securities analysts. She said the end of
the logjam, reached late Oct. 16, would restore growth and
“broader market activity” to the pace both had reached before
the shutdown that began Oct. 1.  Whether Congress would raise the U.S. debt ceiling or let
the nation default “has become a concern for our clients,”
Harvey Schwartz, New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s CFO,
said Oct. 17 on a conference call. He said the resulting
uncertain outlook “has weighed heavily on  market sentiment ”  Also an issue this year are legal expenses such as a
proposed $13 billion settlement from New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  to end federal probes of its mortgage-bond sales. On
Oct. 11, the biggest U.S. bank reported a loss, its first under
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , after a $7.2 billion charge
to cover rising costs tied to litigation and regulatory probes.  Trading Slump  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank and also based
in New York, reported third-quarter profit that missed analysts’
estimates as bond trading slumped and U.S. mortgage revenue fell
as interest rates rose during the three months ending Sept. 30.  The industry’s earnings in 2012 were the third-highest
since 1995, and higher than any year before the economic crisis,
DiNapoli said. The profits helped push bonuses up by 8 percent,
he estimated in a February report.  Employment has tumbled on Wall Street. The number of jobs,
at 163,400, remained more than 13 percent lower than before the
financial crisis, DiNapoli said today. Growth that followed the
end of the recession in 2009 halted in the second half of 2011,
according to his report.  The average salary for workers in the securities industry
reached about $361,000 last year, compared with about $69,000
for the city’s 3.4 million nongovernment jobs, the report shows.
Total wages paid by securities firms fell 2.4 percent to $59.3
billion in 2012, yet still accounted for almost 22 percent of
all pay received by nongovernment employees in the city.  Tax Revenue  Taxes on the securities industry and its workers delivered
$10.3 billion to state coffers, or almost 16 percent of all
 state revenue , the report showed. That was up slightly from
fiscal 2012.  New York City  collected about $3.8 billion from
levies on the businesses and their employees, up almost 27
percent from 2012 and amounting to 8.5 percent of all receipts.  DiNapoli said he expects state collections from the
industry to be much higher in fiscal 2014, because taxpayers
shifted their earnings to 2012 to avoid federal tax increases
that took effect this year.  If earnings reach DiNapoli’s projection for this year, that
will top the $13.4 billion forecast in the city’s four-year
financial plan, even while falling from 2012, according to the
report. DiNapoli said he expects the industry will continue to
streamline as it adapts to changes in regulation and markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 