-- Weight-Loss Surgery Beats Obesity Better Than Diet, Exercise
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-10-23T07:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/weight-loss-surgery-fights-obesity-better-than-diet-or-exercise.html
Weight-loss  surgery is more
effective than diet and exercise as a treatment for obesity,
according to a review of health studies involving almost
800 people.  Surgery such as gastric banding, gastric bypass or
sleeve gastrectomy led to on average 26 kilograms (57 pounds)
more weight loss after two years than non-surgical treatment,
which included diet, exercise, behavioral therapy and medicines,
according to an analysis of 11 studies of 796 obese people. The
research was published today in the British Medical Journal.  While the results are limited to two years’ follow-up after
surgery, the analysis provides further evidence supporting
medical procedures to address the obesity epidemic. At least  2.8
million people die  each year from being overweight or obese,
which raises risks of diabetes, heart attacks and strokes.  “This meta-analysis provides comprehensive evidence that,
compared with non-surgical treatment of obesity, bariatric
surgery leads to greater body weight loss,” according to the
authors, led by Viktoria Gloy at the University Hospital Basel
in  Switzerland . “The evidence beyond two years of follow-up, in
particular on adverse events, cardiovascular diseases and
mortality remains unclear.”  Surgery also led to higher remission rates of type 2
diabetes, according to the review. The most common  side effects 
were iron deficiency anemia and the need to re-operate. Another
complication may be frequent diarrhea.  Regained Weight  While diet and exercise are more cost-effective options,
studies show that for most people they are not sustainable for
weight-loss. As many as two-thirds of those on diets  regain more
weight  than they lost within four or five years, according to an
analysis of 31 long-term studies on dieting by researchers at
the  University of California  at  Los Angeles .  Obesity is “one of the greatest public health problems in
industrialized countries,” according to the authors of the
study published today. In the U.S., 67 percent of the population
is overweight or obese, while the figure is 40 percent to 50
percent in most European countries, they said.  According to current guidelines, bariatric surgery can be
considered for people with a body mass index of at least 40 or a
BMI of 35 for those with an obesity-related disease.  Body mass index is a measure of body fat calculated using a
person’s height and weight. People with a reading of 30 or more
are considered obese, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  