-- White Urges CEOs and Boards to Bolster SEC’s Compliance Efforts
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-10-22T15:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/white-urges-ceos-and-boards-to-bolster-sec-s-compliance-efforts.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is calling on corporate executives and boards to
strengthen internal compliance programs as funding constraints
limit the agency’s reach, SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said.  “We rely on you because as much as we strive to be
everywhere we can be, our resources are limited and always
stretched,” White said today in a speech at a National Society
of Compliance Professionals conference in Washington.  SEC officials are meeting with chief executive officers,
senior business managers, heads of compliance, and chairmen of
audit and risk committees to assess whether the “tone at the
top” of companies discourages wrongdoing, she said in prepared
remarks. Agency officials evaluate whether compliance personnel
have the standing, authority and resources to do their jobs.  White’s remarks come about a month after the SEC leveled a
$200 million penalty against  JPMorgan & Chase Co. (JPM)  to resolve
claims the New York-based bank had inadequate internal controls
related to the London Whale trading that led to $6.2 billion in
losses last year. The penalty was the biggest the agency has
imposed related to internal controls.  The SEC issued guidance to compliance officials last month
to allay concerns that they could be subject to enforcement
action for giving legal advice on how to deal with misconduct
internally at their companies.  “We do not want you to be concerned that by engaging, you
will somehow be arbitrarily construed to be a supervisor, and
expose yourselves to potential supervisory liability,” she
said.  Inspectors who conduct routine examinations of investment
advisers are working more closely with the SEC enforcement unit,
White said. Together, they are bringing cases against firms that
fail to implement guidelines to ensure employees comply with the
rules, she said. White noted a recent case against a portfolio
manager who allegedly obstructed a compliance officer’s work.  “We want your firms to know, at every level, how important
your work is to investors and to us,” White said. “And we will
be looking for more cases to bring to drive that message home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  