-- Wildfire Threat to Australian Towns Recedes as Weather Cools
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S i n
-- 2013-10-23T11:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/wildfires-threaten-australian-townships-as-people-urged-to-flee.html
Emergency workers battling wildfires
west of Sydney said residents will be able to return to their
mountain townships later today after the threat to life and
homes receded.  “It would be safe to head back home tonight because the
risk has been averted,”  Rural Fire Service  Commissioner Shane
Fitzsimmons said at a televised news conference, while warning
the danger from the fires burning in the Blue Mountains region
and other parts of the state wasn’t over.  Authorities had urged residents to flee the Blue Mountains,
an area popular with tourists and walkers about 80 kilometers
(50 miles) west of Sydney, as strong winds and rising
temperatures fanned the wildfires. Conditions are set to
moderate overnight, with a cooler change from the south, the
fire service said.  More than 200 homes have been destroyed in bushfires in
Australia’s most-populous state since last week, with about
120,000 hectares (300,000 acres) of forests scorched, according
to the Rural Fire Service. Bushfire property loss is expected to
be more than A$128 million ($123 million) with 987 claims
received, the Insurance Council of  Australia  said today in a
posting on Twitter.  The fire service said about 70 blazes are burning across
the state, with 29 uncontained. An extreme fire danger is
forecast for the greater Sydney and Hunter Valley regions, the
Bureau of Meteorology said on its website.  Defense Firing  Australia’s defense department said in a statement that it
was aware of fire service findings that a blaze in the Lithgow
area was started by a live ordnance exercise. Defense forces
were training in the area on the day the fire started, it said,
adding the department had begun an inquiry.  The nation’s bushfire season has started early after the
warmest September on record.  “The average temperature in Australia has increased by 0.9
degrees over the past 100 years,” Geoff Cary, associate
professor in bushfire science at  Australian National University 
in Canberra, told Bloomberg Television. “The fire weather has
become significantly worse over the last 35 years.”  Wildfires are a regular feature of Australia’s warmer
months. In February 2009, bushfires across Victoria state killed
173 people and destroyed 150 homes in the worst blazes in
Australian history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Sin in Sydney at 
 msin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  