-- Twitter Secures $1 Billion Credit Line Ahead of IPO
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/twitter-secures-1-billion-credit-line-ahead-of-ipo.html
Twitter Inc. said it obtained a $1
billion credit facility this month, following the lead of other
social media companies in accessing the  debt market  tied to an
initial public offering.  In a regulatory filing yesterday, Twitter also said MoPub
Inc., an advertising startup that it’s acquiring, recorded sales
of $6.52 million in the first half of 2013, compared with $2.69
million for all of last year. The acquisition is scheduled to
close in November, Twitter said in an updated prospectus with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Twitter is mimicking  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , which
both obtained credit facilities in connection with their IPOs.
Facebook received an $8 billion financing package before its
2012 offering, and Zynga secured a $1 billion line of credit
from underwriters the previous year. Twitter could use the
funding to help with acquisitions, said Michael Pachter, an
analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc.  “It sounds like much, much more than they need to fund
their operations.” Pachter said. Twitter is planning to raise
more than $1 billion in the IPO, according to people with
knowledge of the process.  Twitter’s Chief Financial Officer Mike Gupta previously
helped take Zynga public.  The banks providing the  credit line  are also managing the
IPO. They include lead underwriter  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
which is providing $150 million, along with Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which are each contributing $250 million.  Other lenders include Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche
Bank AG. The credit facility, which matures in 2018, had not
been tapped as of yesterday.  Mobile Push  Twitter agreed last month to pay more than $300 million in
stock for MoPub, the company’s largest acquisition. The deal
pushes Twitter deeper into mobile advertising, which accounts
for 76 percent of monthly users and 70 percent of ad revenue.
Using MoPub, Twitter will be able to extend its advertising
across other mobile applications and add real-time bidding to
its platform, so advertisers can automate purchases based on
events, the company said in its prospectus.  Twitter’s revenue more than doubled in the third quarter to
$168.6 million from $82.3 million a year earlier, while its net
loss expanded to $64.6 million from $21.6 million, according to
an earlier filing. Twitter’s average revenue per user in the
latest quarter was 73 cents, based on its 231.7 million monthly
active users, less than half of Facebook’s $1.60 average monthly
revenue per user.  MoPub, also based in  San Francisco , has almost 100
employees worldwide, according to a blog post at the time of the
transaction. The startup had a net loss of $2.83 million in the
first six months of 2013 after losing $8.14 million for all of
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  