-- Won Climbs Toward Nine-Month High as Foreigners Buy Korea Stocks
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-22T07:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/won-trades-near-9-month-high-before-u-s-jobs-data-bonds-drop.html
South Korea’s won rose to within 0.1
percent of a nine-month high after global funds extended a
buying spree of local shares.  Government bonds  were unchanged.  The currency recovered earlier losses as foreigners bought
more South Korean stocks than they sold for a record 38th day,
exchange data show. The won traded in a narrow range before U.S.
jobs data that may offer clues about the timing of a reduction
in stimulus that has fueled emerging-market inflows. The world’s
largest economy added 180,000 jobs last month after boosting
positions by 169,000 in August, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Today’s report, delayed by
a 16-day government shutdown, was originally slated for Oct. 4.  “Foreign investors are buying shares non-stop,” said Jude Noh, the chief currency trader at Suhyup Bank in  Seoul . “The
U.S. jobs report is likely to meet the expectations, although
the market impact may be limited since the figures won’t reflect
the shutdown.”  The won climbed 0.1 percent to close at 1,060.95 per dollar
in Seoul, after sliding as much as 0.2 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,059.75 yesterday, the
strongest level since Jan. 21. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, dropped 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to
5.95 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in June the
central bank may start reducing $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases if the  U.S. economy  grows as projected.  Currency Intervention  Intervention in the  currency market  by the  Bank of Korea  is
expected to continue and the won trading below 11 per Japanese
yen is a “major worry,” Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.
strategists including New York-based  Marc Chandler  wrote in a
research note yesterday. South Korea is monitoring fund inflows
and currency moves to identify speculative activities and will
prevent “herd behavior,” Finance Ministry Director Kim Seong
Wook said Oct. 18.  The won traded at 10.79 per yen and has advanced 28 percent
in the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
stronger currency makes it harder for South Korean exporters
such as Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. to compete
against Japanese rivals overseas.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 was unchanged at 2.84 percent, according to Korea
Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  