-- WTI Crude’s Slide Below $100 to Extend by Year’s End
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-22T19:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/wti-crude-s-slide-below-100-to-extend-by-year-s-end.html
West Texas Intermediate crude is
poised to extend its slide below $100 a barrel through the end
of the year as U.S. supplies surge, tensions with Iran ease and
political wrangling in  Washington  goes on.  The U.S. benchmark grade will decline $2 more by Dec. 31,
according to the mean of 16 analysts and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg. Prices fell to a three-month low yesterday in New
York after a government report showed a U.S. stockpile gain,
while renewed talks on Iran’s nuclear program allay the risk of
a wider Middle East conflict and American political deadlock
endangers economic growth.  “Fundamentally, the world in general and the U.S. in
particular is very well supplied,” said Tom Finlon, director of
Energy Analytics Group LLC based in Jupiter,  Florida , who is
looking for WTI to fall to $92 at the end of 2013.  Futures in New York have declined 12 percent since Sept. 6
as  Iran  signaled that it’s prepared to make concessions on its
nuclear research, damping the risk that friction with the OPEC
member may halt exports from the region. The U.S. grade is
lagging behind its rival global oil benchmark, North Sea Brent,
as soaring American output helps the country achieve its highest
level of energy independence in decades.  WTI for November delivery fell $1.42, or 1.4 percent, to
$97.80 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since June 28. The December contract dropped $1.38,
or 1.4 percent, to $98.30. Brent for December climbed 33 cents,
or 0.3 percent, to end the session at $109.97 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Price Range  The WTI price projections ranged from $85 to $106 in the
survey conducted yesterday. The forecast decline to about $97
would still leave the contract at the second-highest year-end
level on record, surpassed by $98.83 on Dec. 30, 2011.  U.S. crude  supplies  rose 5.3 percent to 374.5 million
barrels in the four weeks ended Oct. 11, the Energy Information
Administration said yesterday. U.S.  production  reached 7.83
million barrels a day in the week ended Sept. 13, the most since
May 1989, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  U.S. crude production has surged as the combination of
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has
unlocked supplies trapped in shale formations in the central
part of the nation. Canadian oil sands output will rise at an
annual rate of about 250,000 barrels a day through the end of
the decade from about 1.8 million barrels now, Altaf Nanji, an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto, wrote on Oct. 11.  Gasoline Prices  Additional crude supplies have helped push the average
price for regular gasoline at U.S. pumps to its lowest level in
almost nine months, data from Lundberg Survey Inc. show. Regular
grade slid 2.01 cents in the past two weeks to $3.3628 a gallon,
the least since Jan. 25, the Camarillo, California-based company
said Oct. 20.  Crude stockpiles  at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for WTI, rose by 366,000 barrels to 33 million last week. It was
the first increase since June. Supplies at the hub have
decreased as improved pipeline networks and shipments by rail
eased a North American supply glut created by the rising output.  “We should also be moving lower because of the rise in
supplies in Cushing, even with the opening of pipeline and rail
routes,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York, who projects WTI will
drop to $92.50 by year-end. “This shows what an avalanche of
oil is coming from the oil sands in Alberta and the shale fields
in the U.S.”  Iran Talks  Iran and world powers last week held two days of talks on
the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program, negotiations
described by diplomats present as the most-detailed ever. Talks
are set to resume on Nov. 7 in Geneva. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and U.S. President  Barack Obama  spoke by phone last
month, the highest level contact between leaders of the two
countries since the 1979 Islamic Revolution.  Sanctions imposed over the nuclear program have hindered
Iran’s ability to export oil. Iran, the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-biggest producer in June
2012, was in sixth place last month, according to a Bloomberg
survey of companies, producers and analysts.  U.S. Shutdown  A 16-day partial shutdown of the U.S. government
“inflicted completely unnecessary damage” to the nation’s
economy, Obama said Oct. 17 after signing a bill to reopen the
government through Jan. 15 and extend borrowing authority to
Feb. 7.  The government closing shaved at least 0.6 percent from
U.S. fourth-quarter gross-domestic-product growth, Standard &
Poor’s said in a report Oct. 16. Americans in October were the
most pessimistic about the nation’s economic prospects in almost
two years, as concern mounted that the political gridlock in
Washington would hurt the expansion, according to the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index of expectations.  Total products supplied, a  measure  of U.S. fuel demand,
fell 2.7 percent from a year earlier to 19 million barrels a day
in the week ended Oct. 11, the EIA reported.  “I expect prices to reach $90 by year’s end, as the
current period of demand weakness will undermine the bulls, and
absent any negative geopolitical news, market fundamentals will
put pressure on the price,” said Michael Lynch, president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts .  Supply disruptions across the Middle East and Africa
outweigh the rise in North American production and the reduced
geopolitical premium, said Seth Kleinman, head of energy
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London .  Libyan Output  Libyan output  tumbled 275,000 barrels to 300,000 barrels a
day in September, the Bloomberg survey showed. It was the sixth
straight decline and sent production to the lowest level since
September 2011. The African country is pumping more than 600,000
barrels a day, Mohamed El Harari, a spokesman for Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp., said yesterday in an interview in Tunis.  Nigeria’s Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta
said yesterday that it plans to escalate a violent campaign of
disruption to oil output in  Africa ’s leading producer. Attacks
including kidnappings and bombing of oil installations by groups
including MEND cut more than 28 percent of Nigeria’s  oil output 
from 2006 to 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t disagree with the bearish arguments, I just think
the geopolitics are probably being underestimated,” Kleinman
said. “We don’t expect a significant jump in Iran exports any
time soon, and Libya’s bouncing around. Nigeria seems to be
getting worse rather than better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  