-- Yahoo Ordered to Offer Bing Search in Taiwan by Oct. 28
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-10-22T04:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/yahoo-ordered-to-offer-bing-search-in-taiwan-by-oct-28.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  must switch to  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing search service in Taiwan by Oct. 28, a federal
judge said in upholding an arbitration decision blocking Yahoo
from postponing the transition until next year.  U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in Manhattan said
Yahoo must abide by the terms of a 2009 agreement it forged with
Microsoft to merge their search capabilities internationally to
better compete with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest search
engine company.  Yahoo told Microsoft last month that it was delaying the
transition from its Panama search service to Bing in Taiwan and
 Hong Kong  because of concerns about Microsoft’s commitment to
Bing after Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  announced he
would be stepping down.  Microsoft initiated emergency arbitration and obtained an
order for Yahoo to complete the transition to Bing in Taiwan  by
Oct. 28 and in Hong Kong by Nov. 11.  Patterson, ruling in Yahoo’s Oct. 15 petition to toss the
arbitration order, said the arbitrator didn’t exceed his
authority or disregard the law.  “We had a narrow disagreement regarding the Search
Alliance rollout in Hong Kong and Taiwan,” David Cuddy, a
spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, said
yesterday in an e-mail. “We have unwavering plans to continue
investing with Yahoo in the Search Alliance, now operating in
more than 20 countries, and the Bing platform, which is central
to our latest products.”  Anne Espiritu, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, didn’t immediately respond after regular business
hours yesterday to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 13-cv-07237,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  