-- Yum to Invest $10 Billion With Partners in Emerging Markets Push
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-10-22T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-22/yum-sees-india-sales-reaching-1-billion-by-2015-on-new-stores.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , the owner of the
KFC and Taco Bell fast-food chains, and its partners will spend
$10 billion over the next seven years adding restaurants in
 emerging markets  to tap increasing demand for eating out.  The investments will help Yum increase its outlets in these
countries to more than 20,000, Chief Executive Officer David Novak said in an interview yesterday. The Louisville, Kentucky-based company, which opened its 40,000th store in Goa, India,
said sales from its own and franchise outlets in the South Asian
nation will reach $1 billion by 2015.  Yum has said that faster economic expansion in emerging
markets will help accelerate growth of its business. Novak is
counting on the Western appeal of his restaurants combined with
some local cuisine to woo increasing numbers of people who are
dining out as incomes increase in these countries.  “We’re on the ground floor of global growth in a lot of
countries, particularly the emerging markets,” Novak said,
speaking in Goa. “In the United States, for instance, we have
58 restaurants for every million people. In emerging markets, it
is two.”  The restaurant chain operator sees opportunities in  India ,
China,  Africa ,  Russia ,  Indonesia ,  Vietnam  and  Brazil , Novak
said. About 25 percent of the investment in emerging-markets
expansion will be made by Yum, while the rest will come from its
local franchise partners, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Grismer said yesterday.  ‘Bounce Back’  Novak said the company will “bounce back” in China, after
same-store  sales  in the third quarter dropped there. Yum plans
to open at least 700 restaurants next year in the Asian nation,
its biggest market, he said.  A large proportion of those new outlets will be in small
cities and towns, where the economics are “more favorable,”
Grismer said.  Yum, which has more than 6,000 local KFC, Pizza Hut and
other stores and gets about half its revenue from  China , on Oct.
9 cut its forecast for 2013 earnings, citing “lower-than-expected China sales and a higher-than-expected full-year tax
rate.”  Full-year earnings  excluding certain items will decline at
a “high-single to low-double-digit” percentage rate from the
prior year, the company said. Yum also cut its forecast for
China saying it’s “unlikely” fourth-quarter same-store sales
there will be positive.  Avian Flu  The restaurant operator is facing a backlash from consumers
in China after an outbreak of avian flu scared diners away from
poultry and a former chicken supplier was investigated for
selling food with too much antibiotics. Sales at Chinese stores
open at least 12 months fell 11 percent last quarter at Yum
eateries.  The company in November will introduce a new KFC
advertising campaign in China about quality assurance, Novak
said on Oct. 9. The ads will feature store employees and
suppliers such as poultry farmers, he said.  “We view what’s going on in China as a short-term issue,”
Novak said. The company plans to introduce new products next
year that are “a combination of KFC-type foods and local
Chinese options,” he said.  Yum will have more than 1,000 KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
outlets in more than 100 cities by 2015 in India, up from about
613 now, it said in a statement yesterday. The company, which
gets more than three quarters of its sales outside the U.S.,
plans to open 1,450 new restaurants in emerging markets this
year.  The fast-food company gets less than 1 percent of its
 revenue  from India, where CLSA said the market for restaurant
chains will grow to $6.5 billion by 2018.  Yum is developing menus in India to cater to local tastes,
said Novak. It sells rice balls with curry flavor and chicken
that’s spicy, he said.  International chains from  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  to Yum and
McDonald’s Corp. have been adding new restaurants for the last
decade as Indians have gotten wealthier and developed a taste
for western style fast food. Among emerging markets, India has
the third-largest number of U.S. fast-food establishments,
according to Bloomberg Rankings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  