-- Abbas Asks Palestinians to Avoid Escalation Amid Protests
-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-02-25T17:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/abbas-says-palestinians-to-avoid-escalation-as-protests-spread.html
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas
said he won’t allow protests across the West Bank to escalate
into more violent conflict with  Israel  while other leaders
hailed the beginning of a new Palestinian uprising.  Abbas spoke today as Israel bolstered its security forces
across the territory and thousands attended a funeral for a
Palestinian who died in an Israeli prison, prompting accusations
he was tortured. Israel said there was no evidence of torture
and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu held consultations with
security advisers on addressing the unrest.  “The Israeli side wants to create chaos,” Abbas said at
his headquarters in Ramallah. “We will not let the Israelis
drag us into” a wider conflict.  The death in Israel’s Megiddo prison of Arafat Jaradat, a
30-year-old Palestinian from a village near Hebron, has added to
tensions caused by a hunger strike to protest conditions for
thousands of Palestinian inmates. The demonstrations have
galvanized calls for a tougher Palestinian response to Israel’s
46-year occupation of the West Bank.  “This is the new intifada,” Mustafa Barghouti, a rival to
Abbas in the 2005 presidential election, said in a telephone
interview, using the Arabic word associated with two previous
uprisings. “A popular resistance has started.”  Security Consultations  Netanyahu issued a statement saying that he was consulting
with Israeli security officials to prevent further violence.  Defense Minister Ehud Barak said the talks included
Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz, the military chief of staff, as
well as top police and prison authority officials, “with the
goal being to restore calm while maintaining security,”
according to a statement from Barak’s office.  The top United Nations official managing Middle East peace
efforts, Robert Serry,  warned in a statement that “mounting
tensions present a real risk of destabilization” between
Israelis and Palestinians. He called for an “independent and
transparent investigation” of Jaradat’s death.  “I don’t think we are seeing a third intifada, but there
could be a deterioration that no one expected,” Internal
Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch told Army Radio. “This
needs to be dealt with through readiness on the part of
intelligence units and preparedness of the forces on the ground,
so that they act with great restraint.”  The U.S. Consulate General in  Jerusalem  cited
demonstrations across the territory when it issued a  travel
warning  today, limiting official trips by its personnel in the
West Bank and barring personal trips to Bethlehem.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fadwa Hodali in  Ramallah  at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  