-- Absa Investors Back $2.1 Billion Barclays Africa Buy
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-02-25T15:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/absa-s-barclays-africa-assets-purchase-approved-by-shareholders.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  investors voted to
approve the South African bank’s $2.1 billion all-share offer
for most of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s African assets.  Absa offered on Dec. 6 to issue 129.5 million shares to
parent company Barclays as part of an agreement to integrate the
U.K. lender’s African operations. Almost 97 percent of
shareholders, excluding Barclays, voted in favor of the deal at
the general meeting in Johannesburg today, exceeding the 50
percent plus one vote required.  The approval marks “the birth of a pan-African banking
giant,” Absa Chairman Garth Griffin told shareholders today.  Absa will be renamed Barclays  Africa  Group Ltd. and
Barclays’s stake in the Johannesburg-based bank will rise to
62.3 percent from 55.5 percent. Absa and Barclays are seeking to
boost profit by combining products and customer bases across a
continent with faster growth rates than developed nations.  “The deal is transformational, the purchase price appears
fair and capital leakage is minimal,” Greg Saffy, a
Johannesburg-based analyst for RMB Morgan Stanley, said in an e-
mailed response to questions on Feb. 22.  Absa closed at 164.50 rand, up 1.5 percent, in
Johannesburg. The shares have gained 6.4 percent over the past
year.  The transaction still needs approval from regulators,
including South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan .  Some Absa investors, including Africa’s largest pension
fund, had questioned the all-share offer, saying the lender
should use its cash surplus to help finance the deal. Using cash
would have increased the cost, Maria Ramos, chief executive
officer of Absa, said in an interview on Feb. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  