-- Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank Said to Plan Dollar Bonds This Week
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-02-25T13:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/abu-dhabi-commercial-bank-said-to-plan-dollar-bonds-this-week.html
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  may
sell five and 10-year bonds this week, according to three
bankers familiar with the plan, as the third-biggest United Arab
Emirates lender seeks to benefit from near record-low yields.  The state-controlled lender may price benchmark-sized,
senior five-year notes at about 180 basis points, or 1.8
percentage points, over the benchmark midswap rate, said the
bankers, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. The 10-year subordinate bonds may price in the high
200 basis-point range over the midswap rate, the bankers said. A
benchmark-sized issue raises at least $500 million.  Abu Dhabi Commercial’s bond plan follows  Abu Dhabi National
Energy Co. (TAQA) , a state-controlled power and oil company, which
raised $2 billion from the sale of dollar-denominated debt in
December.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the U.A.E.’s second-
biggest lender by assets, plans to seek shareholder approval
next month for the sale of $500 million of convertible bonds.  U.A.E. issuers are tapping the market to benefit from a
drop in borrowing costs. Dubai’s government last month sold
$1.25 billion of bonds, with the yield on 10-year securities
dropping 40 percent from its last issue. The average yield on
bonds sold by banks in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council
bonds fell 80 basis points in the past year to 2.56 percent on
Feb. 22, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai GCC Conventional
Senior Financial Services U.S. Dollar Bond Index.  Abu Dhabi Commercial’s $500 million of 4.071 percent notes
due November 2016 traded at 148 basis points over the midswap
rate on Feb. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
bank is rated A, the sixth-highest investment grade at  Standard
& Poor’s . The yield on those notes dropped to a record 1.96
percent on Jan. 22 and was 2.26 percent at 4:45 p.m. in Dubai.  Issuers from the GCC sold a record $43 billion of bonds
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bond sales
from the region have raised $4 billion so far this year.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,  JPMorgan Securities , National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
ADCB are managing the sale, the bankers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  