-- Macy’s CEO Says He Expected Martha Stewart Exclusivity
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/macy-s-ceo-says-he-expected-martha-stewart-exclusivity.html
Terry Lundgren, chief executive
officer of  Macy’s Inc. (M) , said he was so upset when Martha Stewart
called to tell him about her company’s deal to sell products at
J.C. Penney Co. stores that he hung up on her and hasn’t spoken
with her since.  Lundgren, 60, testified he was “completely shocked and
blown away” when Stewart called in December 2011 to tell him
about the pact, which was announced the next day. When Stewart
said the agreement would be “good for Macy’s,” Lundgren said
he replied “this conversation is over” and ended the talk.  “I was literally sick to my stomach about this,” Lundgren
said yesterday during a trial in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  over Macy’s lawsuit seeking to block J.C. Penney from
selling some Martha Stewart-branded goods. “It was something I
couldn’t imagine.”  The second-biggest U.S. department store chain, which has
sold Martha Stewart-branded home goods since 2007, sued her
namesake company in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan in
January 2012, saying it had the exclusive right to sell goods in
certain categories including bedding and cookware. Macy’s sued
Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney about three months later.  Stewart Postponed  Justice Jeffrey K. Oing is conducting a combined non-jury
trial of the suits brought by Cincinnati-based Macy’s. Stewart’s
testimony, scheduled for today, was postponed until later in the
trial because of a scheduling conflict, Oing said. Stewart is
the nonexecutive chairman and chief creative officer of her
namesake media and housewares company, which is based in New
York. J.C. Penney CEO Ron Johnson is slated to take the stand
March 1.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the U.S. department-
store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-stores dedicated
to Martha Stewart and other brands.  Martha Stewart Living in July said J.C. Penney agreed to
pay at least $282.9 million in sales commission over a 10-year
period under an amended agreement, a $110.5 million increase
from the terms disclosed in December. The amended deal also adds
new products.  Lawyers for Macy’s have argued that J.C. Penney is trying
to “reap the rewards” of its work with the Martha Stewart
brand, which the chain says it rebuilt after Stewart’s release
from prison in 2005, when her products were being sold at Kmart.  Renewal Option  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a way
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year renewal option
because of the breach.  Martha Stewart Living has argued that its original 2006
contract with Macy’s allows Martha Stewart Living to design and
sell products within the exclusive categories as long as they
are sold through the Internet, television or at any retail store
branded with the Martha Stewart name that’s operated by the
company or its affiliates or “prominently” features the brand,
according to court filings in the case.  “This is a contractual dispute,” Katherine Nash, a
spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Living, said in a statement.
“However, rather than focus on the specific terms in the
contract that are in dispute, Macy’s continues to distract with
emotional stories that are not relevant. The contract is written
to allow MSLO to sell a broad range of branded and non-branded
products in JCP, including any MSLO-branded products within MSLO
stores in JCP. We look forward to presenting our case.”  Oing in July granted Macy’s a preliminary injunction
blocking Martha Stewart Living from moving ahead with its
agreement with J.C. Penney in regards to products in the
exclusive categories. The judge denied a Macy’s motion for a
preliminary injunction against J.C. Penney, saying it hadn’t
proved that J.C. Penney had improperly interfered with its 2006
contract.  Haiti Trip  Lundgren testified that he spoke with Stewart every few
months before the J.C. Penney agreement was announced and
considered her a friend, mentioning that she often asked about
his wife in e-mails.  Yet Stewart never mentioned the pact with J.C. Penney until
her call the night before the announcement -- even when the two
flew to  Haiti  together in July 2011 and during a $10,000-a-plate
fundraiser in October, Lundgren said.  Stewart was “always positive” about her relationship with
Macy’s, and Lundgren “never heard any word of concern or
disappointment” from his contacts at her company about their
agreement, he said.  Lundgren said that while he no longer has a personal
relationship with Stewart, Macy’s is “totally committed” to
its business with her company.  “This is an extremely important brand and we are going to
continue highlighting the brand,” Lundgren said.  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  