-- AEP to Shutter Three Coal Units in Legal Settlement With EPA
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-02-25T20:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/aep-to-shutter-three-coal-units-in-legal-settlement-with-epa.html
American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  said it
will stop using coal to generate power at three plants, as part
of a settlement with government regulators and environmental
groups, a sign of continuing pressure on coal-heavy utilities.  As part of the agreement, AEP, the largest U.S. coal user,
said it will also further reduce sulfur-dioxide pollution from
its other, existing coal plants nationwide, conforming this
modified legal settlement to the requirements of pending
regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency.  While the Columbus, Ohio-based company had previously
announced aspects of the deal, the full scope of the control
measures and closings is a sign of the pressure on power
producers to cut or clean up coal use for electricity
generation, environmental advocates said.  “Across the country, the coal industry faces unprecedented
setbacks as its share of electricity generation plummets, and
the cost of coal continues to skyrocket,” Jodi Perras,  Indiana 
representative for the  Sierra Club ’s Beyond Coal Campaign, said
in a statement. “This agreement is only the latest sign of
progress.”  AEP said earlier this month that it expects to spend $4
billion to $5 billion on pollution controls at its coal-fueled
plants through 2020, less than the $6 billion to $8 billion it
had estimated in 2011. It also said its coal plants should
generate about half of its power by decade’s end, down from 65
percent.  1999 Lawsuit  The company initially set the agreement with eight states,
EPA and environmental groups in 2007 on a lawsuit filed in 1999.
As part of a modification of the deal today, AEP is switching
the control-technology at its Rockport plant in southern Indiana
to the cheaper, less effective dry-sorbent injection from flue-
gas desulfurization.  In return for that change, AEP will develop more wind and
solar power in Indiana and  Michigan . And it will close or shift
to natural-gas three units at existing coal plants: Tanners
Creek Generating Station unit four in Indiana, the Muskingum
River Power Plant unit five in  Ohio  and the Big Sandy Power
Plant unit two in  Kentucky .  The company had previously planned to retrofit the Tanners
Creek plant and continue burning coal there,  Melissa McHenry , a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. It had already announced
that it planned to shutter or remodel into natural-gas units the
other two, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  