-- Alberta Cancels Funds for Swan Hills Carbon-Capture Project
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-02-25T19:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/alberta-cancels-financing-for-swan-hills-carbon-storage-project.html
Alberta  and Swan Hills Synfuels LP
canceled plans to develop a carbon-capture and storage project,
the second CCS initiative to be scuttled in the Canadian
province in less than a year.  The provincial government won’t provide the C$285 million
($278 million) in financing it had previously committed to
closely-held Swan Hills Synfuels, they said in a joint statement
today.  The project was meant to convert coal underground into
synthetic gas while capturing the carbon dioxide produced in the
process. Falling prices for natural gas made Swan Hills’s syn-
gas uncompetitive, the company said. The lack of demand for CO2
is making CCS systems economically unviable around the world,
said P.J. Partington, a policy analyst at the Pembina Institute
in Toronto.  “The main thing is getting the price on carbon,”
Partington said in an interview. “We have to start the
transformation and need that signal.”  CCS systems siphon off polluting emissions from power
stations and factories. The gas may be permanently buried
underground or sold to  oil companies  for use in enhanced
recovery projects. Prices for the greenhouse gas are
insufficient to stimulate development and need to reach about
$100 per ton by 2020 to make CCS a viable industry, he said.  Swan Hills in central Alberta was one of four CCS projects
the provincial government had agreed to provide with a total of
C$2 billion in financing to offset emissions from its fossil
fuel industry, including coal, gas and oil sands. Alberta
imposes a levy of C$15 per metric ton of CO2 on large emitters
that exceed individual targets and the money helps fund a
research and innovation fund.  Canceled Projects  TransAlta Corp. (TA)  canceled plans in April to build a CCS coal
plant in Alberta because the expected revenue didn’t justify the
cost, the Calgary-based company’s Chief Executive Officer Dawn Farrell said at the time.  CCS projects have faced escalating costs and financing
setbacks in other regions. Two U.K. projects missed out in
November on the first phase of a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion)
European Commission program after failing to secure funding
guarantees from the government.  Vattenfall AB scrapped a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion)
system in  Germany  in 2011. American Electric Power Co. also
shelved plans in 2011 for the first U.S. commercial-scale
carbon-capture initiative.  The  International Energy Agency  estimates that 3,400 CCS
plants are needed by 2050 to meet a global goal of cutting
 carbon emissions  in half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  