-- Alcatel Bets on AT&T, Verizon to Keep U.S. Market Growth
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-02-26T17:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/alcatel-lucent-bets-on-at-t-loan-deal-to-hold-onto-u-s-gains.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) ’s decade-old ties
with carriers such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
should help the unprofitable French network-equipment vendor
fend off European rivals’ attacks looking to steal U.S. market
share, according to its global sales chief.  Relationships with U.S. clients, which have held on despite
six years of failed restructuring efforts at the Paris-based
vendor, were bolstered by a multi-billion euro loan deal
Alcatel-Lucent signed in December, said Robert Vrij, global head
of sales and marketing.  “There is a high mutual dependency and these actors view
us as extremely important to them,” Vrij said in an interview
yesterday at the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona. “They
weren’t sitting on pins and needles, but they cheered pretty
loud when we got an injection of capital. It gives them comfort,
and it gave us a boost.”  As carriers in  Europe  hold back spending amid grim economic
forecasts and heavy competition, equipment vendors have looked
outside Europe for growth. In the U.S. -- which  accounted  for
about 40 percent of Alcatel-Lucent’s sales last year while it
earned 26 percent of its revenue in Europe -- demand for
wireless gear is boosted by the race to upgrade to speedier
networks, making long-standing relationships vital.  ‘Lock Step’  Alcatel-Lucent “aren’t just suppliers, they’re really
partners,” said Nicola Palmer, vice president in charge of the
network for  Verizon Wireless , yesterday at the convention. “In
order to have the success that we’ve had with LTE you really
have to work in lock step with your suppliers. We’ve had great
success and we’ll continue to work very closely with them.”  Alcatel has supplied Verizon through its second-, third-and
fourth-generation technology rollouts, as well as the
development of long-term evolution, or LTE, networks that allow
faster data speeds, she said.  U.S. consumers continue to hunger for new products and want
to view content on their mobile devices amid an economic
environment that remains positive, Vrij said. That is boosting
demand for wireless gear as carriers race to upgrade to speedier
networks.  Alcatel-Lucent has said it expects the U.S. market to
remain strong. Sales there increased 14 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year, to 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion).  Ericsson, NSN  Ericsson reported last month sales in  North America  that
jumped to 17 billion kronor ($2.6 billion) last quarter. The
Stockholm-based company benefited from spending by carriers
there to upgrade their networks and as Chinese rivals face
political hurdles. The U.S. House Intelligence Committee in
October recommended local companies avoid equipment made by
Huawei Technologies Co., whose founder served in the Chinese
military.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the telecommunications equipment
venture between  Finland ’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Siemens AG of  Germany ,
is also putting a push into the U.S. at the top of the list of
priorities, Chief Rajeev Suri said on the eve of the Barcelona
conference.  “Everyone wants a piece of that market,” Alcatel’s Vrij
said. “We’ve built these networks for our U.S. customers for
decades. We’ve accumulated knowledge of their networks, of their
culture. We know these customers inside and out and that’s not
something you can learn overnight.”  Bell Labs  Alcatel-Lucent fell 4.3 percent to close at 1.06 euros in
Paris, paring the stock’s gains this year to 5.4 percent. The
shares lost 17 percent in 2012.  Alcatel-Lucent, whose U.S. ties date to Lucent Technologies
Inc.’s 2006 merger with Alcatel SA, is also betting on the
reputation of its Nobel-prize winning Bell Labs research
facilities to win and retain clients. The company pledged as
collateral its 39,000-strong patents portfolio -- largely
inherited from  Murray Hill , New Jersey-based Bell Labs -- to get
financing from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group
AG for the loan last year.  Opening up its labs to consumers and working on so-called
co-creation has also helped Alcatel-Lucent in  Asia . The French
company yesterday unveiled a new miniature mobile antenna that
it said was designed jointly with  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ,  China ’s
biggest mobile-phone company.  Alcatel is in a trial run with China Mobile in three
cities, and bets it can succeed there on expected expansion into
more cities starting in the third quarter, Rajeev Singh-Molares,
who heads Alcatel’s Asian business, said in an interview.  “They’re calling it a trial network but it’s already
200,000 base stations,” Singh-Molares said. “It’s an iconic
project. It will be the biggest 4G network on the planet.”  Revamped Strategy  In Europe, where Alcatel-Lucent expects sales of  network
equipment  will be stable this year, the company is revamping its
strategy and looking at replicating its Latin American approach
to win wireless contracts, Vrij said. Both markets are
fragmented, with more than three carriers competing in each
country, and there is aggressive competition from Asian vendors
like Huawei in both regions, he said.  “We’ve been looking at how we can take what we’ve learned
in Latin America and apply it to Europe,” Vrij said. “The
recipe in Latin America has been building our relevancy starting
with services capabilities to understand the networks, the back-
office of our customers, so when we put our equipment offers
forth, we have the right approach for them.”  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB a year ago said it selected Alcatel to
deploy 4G infrastructure in  Latin America .  Brazil ’s Oi also said
last year it will buy equipment from Alcatel-Lucent, among other
vendors, to deploy 4G.  “Two years ago, Alcatel-Lucent wasn’t a wireless player
there. Since, we’ve signed contracts with the largest operators.
That shows we can go into a market without being one of the
wireless incumbents,” Vrij said. “We’ve very optimistic we can
do the same in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  