-- Alcatel-Lucent, Google, Lions Gate: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-25T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/alcatel-lucent-google-lions-gate-intellectual-property.html
The French government is weighing
options including an investment in  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  as it looks
to protect the unprofitable  network equipment  maker’s patents,
people with knowledge of the deliberations said.  Taking a minority stake in Alcatel-Lucent, potentially
through the Fonds Strategique d’Investissement state vehicle, is
among alternatives being considered by the French
administration, said a government official, who asked not to be
identified as he wasn’t authorized to be cited by the media.
Such a move would give France more influence at the company
after a 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion) financing deal criticized
by officials, other people familiar with the matter said.  The French government has been considering options for
Alcatel-Lucent since the December announcement of the loan,
underwritten by  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , that’s secured in part by the manufacturer’s intellectual
property portfolio, the people said.  Other plans that have been considered by officials include
encouraging a merger between Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent and
rival Nokia Siemens Networks, or an investment in Alcatel-
Lucent’s undersea cable business, said the people.  The state may ultimately decide not to take a stake in the
company or intervene, the people said. Alcatel-Lucent announced
Feb. 22 that  Michel Combes , a former Vodafone Group Plc
executive, will replace Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen,
who stepped down this month after a three-year turnaround plan
failed to return the company to profit. The selection of a new
Alcatel CEO may help speed a government decision, people
familiar with the situation have said.  A  government investment  in Alcatel-Lucent would be a new
chapter in the history of a onetime French industrial giant,
with former operations ranging from spaceflight to cutting-edge
theoretical physics, that’s been weakened by Asian competition
and slower spending on network equipment by mobile carriers.  The FSI, which acquires minority stakes in companies it
deems crucial to France’s competitiveness, has invested in
businesses such as smartcard manufacturer  Gemalto NV (GTO)  and  Nexans
SA (NEX) , a supplier of power and fiber-optic cables.  A spokesman for the French  finance ministry  declined to
comment. Representatives of Alcatel-Lucent, Credit Suisse and
Goldman Sachs declined to comment. A representative of the FSI
couldn’t immediately comment.  Apple Seeks Patent for ‘Slap Bracelet’ Wearable Video Device  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPhone and iPad, has applied for a
patent on a video-display device that is part of a so-called
slap bracelet.  According to application  20130044215 , published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Feb. 21, the
device would have a flexible display coupled to a bi-stable
spring.  The Cupertino, California-based company explained in the
application that this spring, commonly called a “slap
bracelet” is typically nine inches long and about one inch
wide. It is normally flat, but when slapped across a wrist, it
will curl around the wrist and stay relatively stable.  Most conventional accessories for electronic devices “are
not easily wearable,” Apple said. They typically involve clips
“or may even rest precariously on an ear” or “have to sit in
a pant or coat pocket.”  The device covered by the application would “capitalize on
the easily wearable nature of a bi-stable spring,” Apple said.  Apple filed the application for the patent in August 2011.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google May Clinch EU Settlement After ‘Summer,’ Almunia Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may reach a settlement of a European Union
probe into its search business in the second half of the year,
the bloc’s antitrust chief said Feb. 22.  Joaquin Almunia said he may be able to start checking
Google’s January settlement offer with rivals and customers “in
the coming months” after officials finish analyzing what Google
has put forward. If that process ends without a hitch, the EU
could make Google’s offer legally binding and drop possible
fines for the operator of the world’s largest search engine.  “We could have an accord after the summer vacations, if
this all works,” he said. “That would be my favorite solution,
but it doesn’t depend on me.”  Google submitted a settlement proposal to EU regulators
after it was asked to address allegations that the company
promotes its own specialist search-services, copies rivals’
travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements with websites
and software developers that stifle competition in the
advertising industry.  Almunia said Feb. 22 that he has received further
complaints against the company and that he hasn’t yet decided
whether to formally investigate them. Android, Google’s
operating system for mobile phones and tablets, is among other
things that regulators are examining, he said.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company continued to work cooperatively with the commission.  Almunia, the EU’s top antitrust official, declined to say
whether a separate investigation of the use of patent
injunctions by Google’s Motorola Mobility unit may also be
settled.  He previously said the situation in Europe “is not the
same” as in the U.S., where  Mountain View , California-based
Google agreed to lift court injunctions to settle allegations
that it violated agreements to license key technology to rivals.  An EU settlement avoids any decision on whether a company
broke antitrust rules. Companies can be fined as much as 10
percent of their yearly revenue if they break the terms of a
legally binding settlement. Almunia first told Google in May
that he wanted to settle the case.  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business last month, saying there was no evidence that the
company’s actions harmed consumers.  In 2010, the EU began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads. While
Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a quarter of the
U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95 percent of the
traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post in 2011, citing
data from regulators.  Lions Gate  ‘50/50’ Infringement Ruling Upheld by Appeals Court  Lions Gate Entertainment Inc. (LGF) , a film producer based in
Santa Monica, California, persuaded a federal appeals court to
uphold a lower court’s dismissal of a trademark-infringement
suit.  Eastland Music Group LLC sued Lions Gate in federal court
in Chicago in November 2011, claiming the trademark “ Phifty-
50 ” used by its rap duo of the same name was infringed by Lions
Gate’s 2011 “ 50/50 ” film about a young man with a rare form of
cancer.  The case was dismissed in July, after which Eastland filed
an appeal.  In its Feb. 21 ruling, the appeals court said that the case
had been properly dismissed. The court said that the music
company had failed to demonstrate that any potential customer
was confused by the alleged similarity between the names. The
court also said that “Phifty-50” could be registered as a U.S.
trademark only because it was a made-up name sounding like a
familiar phrase -- 50/50 -- which “in ordinary usage is
suggestive or descriptive.”  The phrase “50/50” has been in use in  intellectual
property  for a long time, the court said, noting that at least
eight films and at least three pop songs have been produced with
that title.  “Phifty-50 entered a crowded field and its rights are
correspondingly weak and narrow,” the court said.  The lower court case is Eastland Music Group LLC v.
Lionsgate Entertainment Inc., 1:11-cv-08224, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The appeal is
Eastland Music Group LLC v. Lionsgate Entertainment Inc., 12-
2928,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  South Africa Agencies Seek Block to ‘Rooibos’ Trademark in EU  South Africa’s  Department of Trade and Industry , together
with several other government agencies, is objecting to a French
company’s attempt to register “South Africa Rooibos” and
Roobibos” as trademarks, South Africa’s Mail & Guardian
 reported.   Rooibos , a tea made from leaves of an indigenous South
African shrub, is consumed for its supposed health benefits,
including the prevention of cancer and heart disease, according
to the newspaper.  The government agencies have complained to the European
Union delegation in Praetoria and the French Embassy in South
Africa, saying local rooibos producers’ marketing efforts
overseas would be harmed if the French company had exclusive
rights to the mark, the Mail & Guardian reported.  “Rooibos” already enjoys protected trademark status in
South Africa, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Fox’s ‘Touch’ TV Program Didn’t Infringe Novel, Court Rules  News Corp (NWSA) ’s Fox Entertainment Group didn’t infringe the
copyright to a novel about an autistic child, a federal judge
has ruled.  Everette Hallford sued Fox in federal court in Manhattan in
March, claiming the television producer’s “Touch” program
starring  Kiefer Sutherland  infringed his screenplay “Prodigy.”  He said there were too many similarities between the two
works, both of which were about a child with singular abilities
that accompanied their disabilities, and that his novel was
“willfully and intentionally” copied.  He asked for an order barring further infringement,
including the production and broadcast of “Touch,” together
with awards of money damages, profits Fox realized from the
alleged infringement, attorney fees and litigation costs.  U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley III found no
infringement, and said that many of the claimed similarities
between the two works wouldn’t be recognized by “the average
lay observer -- no matter how discerning.”  In dismissing the infringement complaint, the court said
the plot and sequence of the two works are substantially
different, as well as the characters, setting and pace, and
total concept and feel.  The case is Everette Hallford V. Fox Entertainment Group
Inc., 1:12-cv-01806-WHP, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ocean Tomo Adds Trade-Secret Management, Monetization Practice  Ocean Tomo LLC, the Chicago-based financial services
company known for its intellectual property auctions, has
expanded its practice to cover trade-secret management and
monetization.  The company said its specialty service aimed at non-patent
intellectual property was developed in response to an increase
in trade secret-related litigation in courts and before the U.S.
International Trade Commission, together with President  Barack
Obama ’s Jan. 14 signing of the  Foreign and Economic Espionage
Penalty Enhancement Act of 2012 .  The Ocean Tomo trade-secrets practice will cover litigation
damages, strategic planning, investment due diligence, risk
management, valuation and transactions.  The practice is headed by  Dean A. Pelletier , who joins from
Chicago’s McAndrews Held & Malloy Ltd. There his practice
focused on trade-secret litigation and client counseling.  Ocean Tomo said in a  statement  that in 2012, its clients
earned payments or were awarded damages for trade-secret
misappropriation as high as $75 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 