-- Alitalia CEO Departs on Widening Loss at Italian Flag Carrier
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/alitalia-ceo-departs-on-widening-loss-at-italian-flag-carrier.html
  Alitalia  SpA said Chief Executive
Officer  Andrea Ragnetti  has resigned one year into his post, as
the Italian flag carrier reported its loss quadrupled last year.  Alitalia widened its loss in 2012 to 280 million euros
($366 million) from 69 million euros the year earlier, the Rome-
based carrier said in a statement late yesterday. Chairman
Roberto Colaninno will act as interim CEO until a permanent
replacement is found, it said.  Ragnetti was named to run Alitalia a year ago to continue a
turnaround effort. Colaninno’s investor group CAI, which
includes  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, and
 Atlantia SpA (ATL) , its No. 1 toll-road company, bought the carrier’s
main assets in 2008 and combined them with smaller competitor
Air One SpA.  Air France-KLM (AF) ,  Europe ’s biggest airline, owns 25
percent, with the rest in Italian shareholders’ hands.  Alitalia said sales last year rose 3.3 percent to 3.59
billion euros. The airline reached break even in the fourth
quarter, it said.  Shareholders on Feb. 22 approved a board proposal to raise
150 million euros in debt set to expire in 2015. Shareholders
can subscribe to the bond which can be converted into shares
next year, the carrier said. The majority of shareholders
endorsed the move, it said.  Ragnetti said this month that he expected Air France-KLM to
participate in the fundraising move, although he did not tie
Alitalia’s long-term future to the Franco-Dutch airline group.
Consolidation in the future could also involve  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  British Airways (IAG)  parent International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  