-- Altera Agrees to Use Intel to Manufacture Programmable Chips
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-02-26T21:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/altera-to-use-intel-as-manufacturer-for-programmable-processors.html
Altera Corp. (ALTR) , a designer of
processors used in phone-network equipment, plans to use  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  as a manufacturer for future versions of its chips, in a
challenge to  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)   Intel will build so-called field programmable gate arrays,
or FPGAs, for San Jose, California-based Altera when the two
chipmakers move to 14-nanometer production technology, the
companies said yesterday in a statement.  Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker, is slowly
opening up its factory network to other companies, seeking to
gain ground in the $30.7 billion made-to-order chip business by
expanding in a market dominated by TSMC. Using Intel for
production will help Altera sell the most advanced chips in its
markets, Altera Chief Executive Officer John Daane said.  “We continually survey the industry for technology that
may give us an advantage, and we identified that Intel was more
than a generation ahead in process technology,” Daane said in
an interview. “We’re adding a new foundry to gain access to
technology which is not generally available to the industry.”  Under the terms of the agreement, Altera will be Intel’s
only major FPGA customer on 14-nanometer manufacturing. Altera
will use Intel exclusively for chips made on that process and
will keep using TSMC for less-advanced production, Daane said.  TSMC Slips  Shares of TSMC, the world’s largest chip foundry, dropped
1.4 percent in Taipei. Taiwan’s benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  fell 0.8
percent.  Altera and TSMC “reaffirmed their commitment” to a long-
term partnership, with the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company
remaining “Altera’s primary foundry, supplying a wide array of
processes,” TSMC said in a  statement  to the  Taiwan Stock
Exchange  today.  “TSMC remains an important part of our future product
development,” Daane said in the statement. “We look forward to
continuing our close partnership to jointly develop technologies
for next-generation products.”  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  has also signed up as a customer for
Intel, two people with knowledge of the matter said last month.
Under that arrangement, Intel will manufacture processors
designed by Cisco, the biggest maker of routers and switches.  Santa Clara, California-based Intel dominates the
semiconductor industry, with a market share of more than 80
percent in personal-computer processors. It sells those chips to
computer makers such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Altera’s chips are
used in telecommunications equipment, military hardware and
 computer networks . San Jose-based  Xilinx Inc. (XLNX)  is Altera’s
largest rival in programmable chips.  PC Slump  Becoming a contract manufacturer is one way Intel might
seek to counter a slump in its main PC-chip business, as
consumer demand shifts to smartphones and tablets. The PC market
is estimated to be on course for a second straight annual
decline in shipments.  Other companies that have announced plans to hire Intel to
make products they have designed include Tabula Inc.,  Achronix 
Semiconductor Corp. and Netronome Systems Inc., three small
designers of programmable logic and networking chips.  Intel shares rose 1.7 percent to $20.58 at the close in New
York, and Altera gained 2.9 percent to $36.04.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  