-- Man. City Beats Chelsea to Trail United by 12 Points in League
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-25T00:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/man-city-beats-chelsea-to-trail-united-by-12-points-in-league.html
Defending champion Manchester City
beat Chelsea 2-0 to get its first Premier League soccer win in a
month and stay within 12 points of leader Manchester United.
Newcastle defeated Southampton 4-2.  Yaya Toure and  Carlos Tevez  got second-half goals for City
at Etihad Stadium yesterday after  Frank Lampard , seeking his
200th goal for Chelsea, had his penalty kick saved by  Joe Hart .
United won 2-0 at last-place Queens Park Rangers two days ago to
move to 68 points atop the standings with 11 games left.  “For us now it is not important to look at the table,”
City manager  Roberto Mancini  told reporters. “Only to continue
to work like today, to play well, to improve and to look at the
table in one month, 40 days. In football, it is finished when it
is finished, the last minute of the last game.”  City beat United to the championship on the last day of the
2011-12 season with two stoppage-time goals against QPR.  Yesterday, City had Chelsea under pressure in the first
half and  Petr Cech  had to save from Matija Nastasic.  Jack Rodwell  was also prominent for the home team.  Chelsea had a chance to take the lead from the penalty spot
in the 51st minute after Hart brought down Demba Ba, although he
wasn’t shown a card by referee Andre Marriner. Hart dived low to
his right to save Lampard’s spot kick.  Sergio Aguero  then dinked the ball over Cech only for his
effort go just over the crossbar. Toure got the breakthrough in
the 63rd minute, taking the ball into the penalty area before
placing it right-footed past Cech and inside the far post.  Substitute Tevez sealed City’s first league victory since
Jan. 19 in the 85th minute, slamming the ball past Cech from
outside the area.  ‘Crucial Moment’  Chelsea interim manager  Rafael Benitez , who started with
 John Terry  and  Fernando Torres  on the bench, said the penalty
was the turning point and that Hart should have been shown at
least a yellow card.  “It was a crucial moment,” said Benitez, whose team has a
one-point lead over fourth-place Tottenham. “I haven’t seen the
replay, but at least yellow card. You can argue he is going in
this direction but it is still a clear chance.”  Chelsea, which has 49 points in third place, could drop
down one spot if fourth-place Tottenham beats West Ham today.  Newcastle climbed up to 14th after beating Southampton at
St James’ Park. First-half goals by Moussa Sissoko and Papiss
Cisse, a Yohan Cabaye penalty and an own goal by Jos Hooiveld
secured the Magpies’ victory. Morgan Schneiderlin and Rickie
Lambert got Southampton’s goals.  At the bottom of the standings, QPR has 17 points, with
Reading on 23 and Aston Villa 24 in the other two relegation
places. Wigan also has 24 points and Southampton 27.  Two days ago, Arsenal beat Villa 2-1 and Norwich defeated
Everton by the same score. Fulham had a 1-0 win against Stoke,
Wigan won 3-0 at Reading and Sunderland lost 2-1 at West Brom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 