-- Argentina Bets on Skeptical U.S. Judges to Avoid Crisis
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-02-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/argentina-bets-on-skeptical-u-s-judges-to-avoid-crisis.html
Argentina ’s 12-year fight to shake
off its 2001 financial crisis is in the hands of U.S. judges who
assailed its “continual disregard” for creditor rights and
refused to overturn lower court orders the nation repay billions 
of dollars in debt it defaulted on when its  economy  buckled.  Argentina contends that enforcing those orders may expose
it to more than $43 billion in claims it can’t pay, possibly 
triggering another meltdown. Investors in the defaulted debt 
countered that if the country wants to pay holders of bonds 
restructured after its 2001 collapse, so-called exchange bonds, 
it has to pay them too. Until now, the U.S. courts have agreed.  On Wednesday, a three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  New York  will hear arguments from both sides,
addressing some issues in a prelude to a decision that could be
the final word, as a hearing before the U.S.  Supreme Court  may
be unlikely, legal experts said. Simultaneously, Argentina is
seeking a rare rehearing of earlier rulings by the same 
appellate court that held it must treat holders of defaulted 
debt the same as those who took the exchange deal.  Argentina may face an uphill fight. U.S. District Judge
Thomas Griesa in New York has presided over the litigation for 
a decade. While he has often ruled in Argentina’s favor, last 
year he cited the country’s “intention to defy any money 
judgment issued by this court.” The appeals court, in challenges 
to Griesa’s decisions, criticized Argentina for ignoring the 
rights of its creditors and the authority of the U.S. courts.  Hedge Funds  In the Feb. 27 hearing, a group of investors in the
defaulted debt, led by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital
Ltd., run by billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer , and
Aurelius Capital Management, will seek to uphold rulings that
may force Argentina to pay them $1.3 billion in principal and
interest. Argentina claims a ruling in the bondholders’ favor
would violate its rights as a sovereign nation.  The country’s 2001 default on a record $95 billion in debt
came amid a widening budget deficit and three straight years of
economic contraction. The crisis fueled unrest in the country
that left more than two dozen people dead.  The bonds at issue in the appeal were sold beginning in
1994. Some individual plaintiffs, including hundreds of Italian
pensioners, have held the bonds since before the default. Some 
of the  hedge funds  bought the bonds as distressed debt as 
recently as 2010.  In 2005 and 2010, Argentina offered a deal to holders of
the defaulted bonds, letting investors trade for new so-called
exchange bonds at a discount of as much as 75 percent. Holders
of more than 91 percent of the defaulted debt participated.  ‘Vultures’  Argentina has made all required payments on the exchange
bonds. The government has vowed not to pay holders of the
defaulted debt, whom officials have characterized as
“vultures,” and the legislature in 2005 passed a law barring
payment of the defaulted bonds. The country has spent the past
decade opposing claims brought in U.S. courts by holders of the
defaulted bonds.  The bond contracts specify that disputes be resolved under
New York state law before courts located within the state, which
in this case is a federal court.  For more than a decade, lawyers for Argentina have squared
off against the hedge funds before, Griesa, now 82 years old.
Appointed to the federal bench in 1972 by President  Richard Nixon , the judge has required Argentina pay holders of the
defaulted bonds when it makes payments to holders of
restructured debt, and forbade third parties from aiding the
country in making any payments in violation of the order.  ’Bludgeoning’ Everyone  “This injunction operates by causing headaches to third
parties in the hopes that then reverberates against Argentina,”
said Anna Gelpern, a law professor at American University who
specializes in government debt. “You’re kind of bludgeoning
everyone around Argentina.”  In November, Griesa quizzed a lawyer for Argentina about
press statements by President Cristina Fernandez De Kirchner and
Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino that the republic wouldn’t pay
the “vulture funds” trying to collect on the defaulted bonds.  “I don’t know literally what the intentions of the
republic are,” Griesa said in the Nov. 9 hearing. “But I have
had some modest amount of experience, and that is that the
republic will not comply with the judgments which have been
entered against it.”  James Glassman , a former U.S. State Department official who
is a member of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
Investor Advisory Board, called Argentina a “rogue nation” at
a panel last month on the country’s debt.  Decade-Long  Over the past decade, many holders of the defaulted
Argentina bonds have won U.S. court rulings requiring the
country to pay them. Despite the favorable rulings, courts have
generally prevented the defaulted debt-holders from moving to
seize the country’s assets, citing the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act, which limits the ability of plaintiffs to sue
foreign countries in U.S. courts.  The three judges on the appeals panel hearing arguments
this week are Rosemary Pooler, appointed by  Bill Clinton ; and
Barrington Parker and Reena Raggi, both named to the court by
 George W. Bush .  Last year, the court upheld a ruling by Griesa that would
allow Singer’s NML and other bondholders to collect, albeit
indirectly, by blocking the nation from paying its restructured
debt without also paying the defaulted bonds, something
Argentina said it can’t afford to do.  Pari Passu  On Oct. 26, the appeals court affirmed Griesa’s ruling that
such an equal treatment, or pari passu, clause in the original
bond agreements prevents Argentina from treating defaulted bond-
holders less favorably than exchange bondholders. The appellate
court upheld an injunction issued by Griesa that barred
Argentina from paying the exchange bondholders without also
paying holders of defaulted debt.  In addition to blocking the payments to exchange
bondholders by Argentina, which has ignored other court orders
to pay the holders of defaulted bonds, Griesa prohibited “all
parties involved, directly or indirectly, in advising upon,
preparing, processing, or facilitating any payment on the
exchange bonds.”  The ruling by the appeals court affirming Griesa’s
decisions gave bondholders including NML a means to enforce
their court-determined right to collect. Argentina could pay
them, which it vowed never to do, or defy the court and
potentially be forced into default on the restructured debt,
triggering a new flood of litigation.  Escrow Account  Griesa attempted to give his rulings teeth by requiring
Argentina pay $1.3 billion into an escrow account if it went
ahead with about $3 billion in planned December 2012 payments to
restructured bondholders. The decision, put on hold pending this
week’s appeal, sparked a rout in Argentine bonds and prompted
Fitch to cut ratings on the country’s debt to CC, eight levels
below investment grade.  In its October ruling upholding Griesa’s “pari passu”
decision, the appeals court asked the judge to explain how his
order affected third parties, including banks and payment
intermediaries.  The judge said the order barring third parties from helping
Argentina avoid payment covers  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ,
the indenture trustee for the restructured bonds, as well as
registered owners and depository nominees, clearing systems and
“attorneys and other agents” of Argentina or institutions
including third-party banks.  The court also asked him to supply the formula by which
Argentina must pay the holders of the defaulted bonds.  In response, Griesa made things even worse for the South
American nation. He ruled that whenever Argentina makes a
full scheduled payment to holders of exchange bonds, even if 
it’s a small percentage of what is owed, the country must pay 
the holders of the defaulted bonds in full.  Payment Formula  These two rulings by Griesa -- on the payment formula and
on applying the order to third parties -- are to be considered
by the appeals court Wednesday. Robert Cohen , a lawyer for NML 
Capital, and Jonathan Blackman, who represents Argentina, didn't 
immediately return e-mails seeking comment on the case.  Argentina is supported in the appeal by Fintech Advisory 
Inc., which holds exchange bonds. Bank of New York Mellon, 
Clearing House Association LLC, Euroclear Bank SA and the 
 American Bankers Association  also support the country’s case.  Bank of New York Mellon may be the key institution in the
appeal. As indenture trustee on the restructured bonds, it’s
pivotal to receiving payments from Argentina for distribution to
the bondholders.  The bank said Griesa unconstitutionally hampered its role
without giving it, a nonparty to the litigation, a forum to
complain. It claimed in court papers that his order threatens to
interfere with relations between debtors and creditors.  If the appeals court agrees with the bank, the holders of
defaulted bonds will continue to be frustrated in their efforts
to collect, said American University’s Gelpern.  “The remedy goes away in a puff of smoke,” she said.  En Banc Rehearing  This week’s hearing isn’t the only business Argentina has
before the U.S. Court of Appeals. The appellate court’s rulings
affirming Griesa’s decisions on investor contract rights, and on
the pari passu clause in particular, are the subject of a
separate petition by Argentina, which seeks a rare appearance
before a larger group of appellate judges, a so-called en banc
rehearing.  The rarity of such proceedings, and the nature of the laws
at issue, however, makes it unlikely the rulings against
Argentina will be reversed.  Such rehearings were granted by the New York-based appeals
court in only about 0.03 percent of cases from 2000 to 2010,
according to a 2011 study by the Federal Bar Council. That’s the
lowest rate of any of the 12 regional U.S. appeals courts,
according to the study.  Supreme Court  The nation can also seek to appeal to the U.S. Supreme
Court. But because contract issues in the case were based on New
York state law, it’s unlikely they would be reviewed by the U.S.
Supreme Court, said Henry Weisburg, an international litigator
at New York-based Shearman & Sterling LLP.  Argentina has said it plans to reopen the bond exchange on
terms similar to the earlier swaps, offering holders of the
defaulted debt another chance to cash out, though at a discount.
While the country has mentioned the proposed exchange in its
court papers, it isn’t among the issues to be considered in the
appeal.  The holdout bondholders, now closer to collecting their
returns at 100 cents on the dollar than they’ve ever been, may
not accept a heavy discount now, said Weisburg.  ‘Crystal Clear’  “It’s crystal clear the plaintiffs can keep the contracts
they have and the court won’t force them to take a different
contract,” Weisburg said.  Weisburg also said Argentina probably won’t get far with a
defense based on the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, which it
has raised in its appeal.  “I expect the FSIA will come up, but it won’t be
important,” he said. Argentina may be raising that argument
with an eye toward a possible petition to the Supreme Court, he
said, a move Weisburg said is also unlikely to succeed.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in the U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit in New York 
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  