-- Arsenal, Manchester Utd. Compete to Sign Cabaye: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-25T06:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/arsenal-manchester-utd-compete-to-sign-cabaye-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Competing for Cabaye  Arsenal will vie with Manchester United to sign Newcastle
United midfielder Yohan Cabaye, the  Daily Express reported .  Gunners manager Arsene Wenger has been promised a 70
million-pound ($106 million) transfer fund and wants to use 15
million pounds on France international Cabaye, the Express said.
United manager Alex Ferguson has ordered reports on Cabaye from
his scouting network and is said to be impressed with the
player’s passing and physical presence, the paper added.  Laudrup Laurels  Swansea wants manager Michael Laudrup to sign a new
contract after guiding the Welsh club to its first major trophy
by winning the League Cup yesterday, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Swans want to improve Laudrup’s salary of 500,000
pounds a year and will ask the Dane to commit to a release
clause of 5 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Ben Arfa Approach  Newcastle wants Hatem  Ben Arfa  to sign a new contract after
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers inquired about the French
midfielder’s availability, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Ben Arfa, 25, is due to negotiate new contract terms that
will increase his salary and tie him to the Magpies for his peak
years, the newspaper said.  De Vrij Watch  Rodgers stepped up his search to find a replacement for the
retiring Jamie Carragher by conducting a personal check on
Netherlands defender Stefan de Vrij, the  Daily Mail reported .  Liverpool’s manager watched de Vrij, 21, captain Feyenoord
to a 2-1 victory against Dutch Eredivisie leader PSV Eindhoven
yesterday, the Mail said. Scouts from Newcastle were also
present to observe de Vrij, who has 18 months left on his
contract, the newspaper added.  Van Persie Boost  Manchester United striker Robin van Persie will be fit to
face Real Madrid in their return Champions League game next week
after injuring his hip in the win at Queens Park Rangers two
days ago, the  Mail reported .  Van Persie’s injury, sustained when the Dutch striker fell
into a television camera pit, is limited to bruising and is
expected to keep him out of training for two to three days, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  