-- Asian Ship Loans Seen Prolonging Worst Industry Slump in Decades
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-02-25T11:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/asian-ship-loans-seen-prolonging-worst-industry-slump-in-decades.html
Asian banks are prolonging the
shipping industry’s worst slump in decades by lending more money
to fund building of vessels ordered from local yards, according
to HSH Nordbank AG, the world’s biggest marine lender.  Record deliveries of new ships built in the past four years
are curbing earnings and vessel owners’ cash flows, Christian Nieswandt, Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank’s global head of shipping
for  Germany , said in interviews in the city and London on Feb.
21-22. “Significant” numbers can’t repay loans, he said.  The Baltic Dry Index of rates to ship minerals and grains
by sea fell in four of the last five years as the fleet’s growth
outpaced demand for commodities. A delayed recovery will hurt
European banks estimated by Petrofin Research to hold about 75
percent of $500 billion in global shipping loans. Banks are
deferring repayments and restructuring terms to avoid
foreclosures and writing off defaulting loans as vessel prices
plunge to levels below outstanding debt.  “Asian banks are in a difficult situation,” Nieswandt
said. “They want to support their domestic shipyard business,
and you see this tremendous amount of money they have committed
to new projects in 2012. This will again lift the more promising
equation between supply and demand farther out into the future,
and therefore we tend to become more skeptical about the
recovery in 2014.”  Worst Since 1980s  Shipping is in the middle of the worst downturn since the
1980s, said Martin Stopford, president of the research division
of Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Ten German banks have 98 billion euros ($129 billion) in
shipping loans between them, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. German banks’ exposure to  Greece , Ireland,  Italy ,
 Portugal  and  Spain  totals about $360 billion, including bonds
and lending to governments, banks and the private sector,
figures compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  HSH Nordbank has outstanding loans of 29 billion euros on
about 2,800 vessels, said Nieswandt. The closely held company
said on a December conference call shipping accounted for “the
lion’s share” of 458 million euros in net loan-loss provisions,
or money set aside for nonperforming loans, in the third
quarter.  Most new orders for vessels are financed by  export credit
agencies  to support shipbuilding in  Japan ,  South Korea  and
 China , filling a gap as European banks curb lending to the
industry, according to Nieswandt.  Shipbuilder Support  Chinese government policy since 2009 has been to encourage
banks to fund orders by foreign owners in the Asian country’s
yards to support shipbuilding, Zefeng Gao, the Beijing-based
deputy director shipping at Export-Import Bank of China, the
nation’s biggest lender to the industry, said at a conference in
London last month.  Chinese banks have been providing funding since last March
to owners ordering “high-end, high-tech” vessels, in line with
a government policy encouraging shipbuilders to diversify from
basic designs to more sophisticated models including gas
carriers, Gao said.  Commerzbank AG, the third-biggest marine lender, has said
26 percent of its shipping loans spanning 2,000 vessels were
higher-risk, with loan-loss provisions for the industry
accounting for 299 million euros of the fourth quarter’s  614 
million-euro total. The Frankfurt-based company closed its ship-
finance unit and stopped maritime lending last year.  Vale, Maersk  New orders at Chinese shipyards fell 44 percent in 2012 and
only 69 of the country’s 1,500 builders secured contracts,
according to an Export-Import Bank of China presentation in
January. The agency loaned $7.5 billion since 2009 to 80 owners
building new ships in China including  Vale SA (VALE3) , the largest iron-
ore producer, and A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, operator of the
biggest container line, the presentation showed.  Banks lent $34.3 billion to shipping in 2012’s first nine
months, totaling 45 percent of capital, compared with $129.2
billion and 75 percent in 2007, Marine Money International
figures showed. More money was raised through bond sales than
bank loans last year as financing shrank from $74.5 billion for
2011, according to the  Stamford , Connecticut-based publisher.  Freight rates plunged after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in September 2008, causing used ships to tumble as
much as 66 percent in  value  and prices of new vessels to slide
55 percent, according to figures from London-based shipbroker
Simpson Spence & Young Ltd.  HSH Nordbank has $42 billion in shipping loans, followed by
$33 billion for DNB ASA, the biggest Norwegian lender, and
Commerzbank’s $28 billion, according to a November 2011
presentation by Petrofin. The Athens-based maritime consultant
estimated European exposure at 75 percent of the $500 billion in
outstanding loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  