-- AT&T Sees ‘New Era’ as Cloud Services Combine With Faster 4G
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-25T10:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/at-t-sees-new-era-as-cloud-services-combine-with-faster-4g.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest U.S. phone
company, says a combination of faster fourth-generation networks
and cloud services that give users access to content anywhere
will drive a “new era” in the mobile industry.  “We’re at the beginning of a new era, and it’s an era that
is being defined by LTE and the cloud,” Chief Executive Officer
 Randall Stephenson  said at the  Mobile World Congress  in
Barcelona today. “The potential for this thing is off the
charts.”  Expanding the services will enable users to stream stored
data and content from cloud services at faster rates and with
lower delays, Stephenson said. This will drive increased data
usage and require more investment in spectrum and networks, he
said. Dallas-based AT&T experienced a 30,000 percent increase in
data traffic in the past six years as more customers use mobile
phones to check e-mails and watch video.  Regulators should use a “light touch” and keep taxes
“very, very low” to encourage new investment and allow more
data traffic, Stephenson said. His sentiments were echoed today
by the CEO’s of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  who called
for a change in the regulatory environment to allow more
consolidation among European carriers.  By the end of 2017, there will be 9.7 billion wireless
connections worldwide as the industry brings mobile
communications into cars and other consumer electronics,
according to the GSMA industry association.  “There’s no industry on earth that has greater potential
than this one,” Stephenson said. “The challenge for regulators
and the carrier community is to get the critical components
right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  