-- Atmospheric Waves Trapped by Emissions Caused Extreme U.S. Heat
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-02-25T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/atmospheric-waves-trapped-by-emissions-caused-extreme-u-s-heat.html
Man-made greenhouse gas emissions
trapped giant air waves in the atmosphere, causing extreme
weather events such as a heat wave in the U.S. in 2011 and
floods in  Pakistan  in 2010, researchers in Germany said.  The waves usually ship warm and cold air from the Tropics
and Arctic to places such as  Europe ,  Russia  or the U.S,
according to an  article  to be published this week in Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences. Man-made climate change
repeatedly disturbs the waves’ patterns and can trap them, the
scientists at the  Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research 
found.  “During several recent extreme weather events these
planetary waves almost freeze in their tracks for weeks,”
Vladimir Petoukhov, the study’s lead author, said in an e-mailed
statement. “So instead of bringing in cool air after having
brought warm air in before, the heat just stays.”  Climate change has moved up the U.S. political agenda in
the wake of  Hurricane Sandy . President  Barack Obama  presented
climate change as a priority for his second term during his Feb.
12  State of the Union  address, saying that heat waves, droughts,
wildfires and floods “are now more frequent and intense.”  Scientists at the Potsdam Institute found that the waves
get trapped because global warming disrupts the temperature
differences, a driver of air flow, between locations such as the
Arctic, which warms more, and Europe, which warms less.  “Our dynamical analysis helps to explain the increasing
number of novel weather extremes,” said Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, a co-author of the study. “It complements
previous research that already linked such phenomena to climate
change, but did not yet identify a mechanism behind it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  