-- Aussie Dollar Declines After China PMI Falls Short of Forecast
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-02-25T06:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/australian-dollar-touches-4-1-2-year-high-versus-yen-on-boj-bets.html
Australia ’s dollar declined against
most of its major peers after a preliminary survey showed
China’s manufacturing is expanding at a slower pace, dimming the
outlook for South Pacific nation’s exports.  Local bonds and the so-called Aussie fell versus the U.S.
currency as Italy’s general election result estimates due today
curbed demand for riskier assets. Australia’s dollar reached a 4
1/2-year high against the yen on speculation Japan’s government
will nominate as central-bank head  Haruhiko Kuroda , who has said
expanding monetary stimulus can be justified.  “It’s a surprisingly softer number, suggesting that the
Chinese economy is pulling back a little,” said Greg Gibbs, a
Singapore-based senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “It has contributed to some softness in the
Australian dollar. The Aussie is in a gradual downtrend.”  The Australian dollar declined 0.4 percent to $1.0278 at
4:59 p.m. in Sydney from the end of last week. It touched 97.73
yen, the highest since August 2008, before trading at 96.81, 0.4
percent above the close on Feb. 22. New Zealand’s dollar slid
0.1 percent to 83.71 U.S. cents. The kiwi climbed 0.7 percent to
78.85 yen, adding to a 0.8 percent gain on Feb. 22.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year bonds fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.51 percent.  The preliminary reading of a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
fell to 50.4 in February from 52.3 in January, according to a
statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today.
That compared with the 52.2 reading expected by economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . China is Australia’s biggest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  RBA Cut  In Australia, three of the four largest lenders expect the
 Reserve Bank  to cut borrowing costs to an all-time low this
year. Australia & New Zealand Banking Group and National
Australia Bank see the overnight cash rate target dropping from
3 percent to 2.5 percent and 2.25 percent, respectively, by
year-end.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  predicts it will be 2.75 percent
by Dec. 31.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the biggest of the
four so-called pillar banks, says Governor  Glenn Stevens  will
keep rates unchanged this year.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 28 percent chance the RBA will lower the rate to 2.75
percent on March 5.  There may be about “25 basis points worth of further cuts
over the next nine months by the RBA,” said  Thomas Averill ,
managing director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency and
interest-rate risk management company. “A lot will depend on
China and its demand for Australian exports.”  Italian Vote  In Italy, initial election estimates will be released by
pollsters shortly after voting stations close at 3 p.m. in Rome.
The  Interior Ministry  will start its count with the Senate today
and then move on to the Chamber of Deputies.  “A coalition government will probably need to be formed,
which could take a week or more,” Sharon Zollner, senior
economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, wrote in a
report today. “The resultant uncertainty would weigh on
sentiment.”  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is very likely to
nominate Asian Development Bank President Kuroda as  Bank of
Japan (8301)  governor, according to a government official with
knowledge of the discussions. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and
two deputies will resign on March 19.  The central bank has “really substantial room” for
further loosening and additional measures could be justified
this year, Kuroda said in a Feb. 11 interview.  “If Kuroda gets confirmed later this week, then you might
even see Aussie-yen break 100,” Rochford’s Averill said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  