-- Bale’s Late Strike Lifts Tottenham Up to Third in Premier League
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-26T00:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/bale-scores-twice-as-spurs-beat-west-ham-3-2-in-premier-league.html
Gareth Bale’s last-minute goal
lifted Tottenham Hotspur to a 3-2 win at West Ham and up to
third place in English soccer’s Premier League.  The Welsh winger opened the scoring last night at Upton
Park in east  London  and smacked a 30-yard (27-meter) shot into
the top corner with his left foot in the 90th minute. A first-
half penalty kick from Andy Carroll and 58th-minute goal from
 Joe Cole  had put West Ham 2-1 up before Gylfi Sigurdsson tied it
with 14 minutes remaining.  Bale’s winning strike -- his 15th Premier League goal of
the season -- flew past West Ham goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen,
who’d kept Spurs at bay with 11 saves, the most in an English
top-flight game this campaign, according to Opta Sports.  “Gareth Bale is unbelievable,” Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas said in a televised interview. “You have seen him
this season go to another level and make a difference every game.
Players like this assume responsibility at key moments.”  Tottenham’s eighth league win on the road this season
lifted it to 51 points through 27 of 38 games, two points above
Chelsea, which lost at second-place  Manchester City  two days ago.
Spurs host north London rival Arsenal, which has 47 points in
fifth place, in five days.  Moore Tribute  A minute’s applause before kick off last night marked the
20th anniversary of the death of former England and West Ham
captain Bobby Moore.  In the 13th minute, Bale put Spurs ahead with a left-foot
strike from the edge of the penalty area, becoming the first
player since Frederic Kanoute in 2003-04 to score five straight
league goals for Tottenham, according to Opta.  Carroll’s 25th-minute spot kick tied it after  Scott Parker 
had fouled the England striker in the area.  Jaaskelainen made a double save in the 57th minute, pushing
Sigurdsson’s shot on to a post before saving Emmanuel Adebayor’s
header on the rebound from point-blank range. A minute later,
Cole beat the offside trap before turning and shooting past
Spurs goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris .  Sigurdsson made it 2-2 in the 76th minute when he forced
the ball over the line at the far post following a goalmouth
scramble from a free kick.  With the game about to enter stoppage time, Bale got the
ball in a central area and worked it onto his favored left foot
before arrowing a drive past Jaaskelainen’s outstretched right
hand and into the top corner. It was his eighth goal in six
games for his club.  “We played fantastic but we’ve really been beaten by
Bale,” said West Ham manager  Sam Allardyce , whose team is six
points above the relegation zone in 14th place. “As soon as he
hit it I went ‘Oh no.’ I knew it was going in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  