-- Barclays Said to Seek Shareholder Approval on Contingent Capital
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-02-25T12:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/barclays-said-to-seek-shareholder-approval-on-contingent-capital.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets, will seek shareholder approval in April
to sell contingent convertible notes to bolster its balance
sheet, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Barclays will put the plan to issue the bonds, which become
shares if its core Tier 1 equity ratio drops below a set level,
to shareholders at its April 25 annual meeting, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the plan is private. The
bank may ask to sell as much as 7 billion pounds ($10.6 billion)
of the securities, according to the Sunday Telegraph, which
reported the plans earlier. A Barclays spokesman in  London 
declined to comment.  The lender, which on Feb. 12 announced cost cuts of 1.7
billion pounds after posting its first annual loss in two
decades, in November issued $3 billion of contingent capital
notes, securities designed to avert future tax-funded bailouts.
Those 7.625 percent subordinated 10-year notes will be written
down to zero if the lender’s core Tier 1 equity ratio, a measure
of financial strength, drops to 7 percent or lower.  The bonds traded at 100.7 cents on the dollar on Feb. 22,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s a premium of 560
basis points to the benchmark 1.625 percent Treasury due 2022,
compared with a premium at issue of 604 basis points.  Bonds designed to absorb losses were designed after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 sparked a
global financial crisis that forced governments to prop up
lenders to prevent contagion to the wider economy.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King has signaled that
lenders may need to make bigger provisions for future loan
losses, the cost of regulatory fines and customer redress. He
asked regulators to report back next month on how banks should
comply.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  