-- Barenboim Builds Israeli-Arab Orchestra, Gehry Music Hall
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/barenboim-builds-israeli-arab-orchestra-gehry-music-hall.html
In 1999, conductor and pianist
 Daniel Barenboim  founded the East-Western Divan Orchestra with
the late Palestinian-American scholar Edward Said, as “a project
against ignorance.”  Composed largely of young Arab and Israeli musicians, it is
attacked and praised from all sides: “So there must be something
we are doing right,” said Barenboim with a smile.  He is also music director of the  Staatsoper  and the
Staatskapelle Berlin. We spoke while he was on tour with Divan.  Lundborg: For you, what would constitute justice in the
Middle East?  Barenboim: It would be first to understand that we don’t
have a national, political or military conflict. We have a human
conflict between two peoples who are deeply convinced they have
the right to live on the same little piece of land. So far, so
good.  Lundborg: A conundrum.  Barenboim: The problem is they both think they have the
right to live there exclusively. It’s very complex, but this, in
a nutshell, is the problem.  The only thing we can do is realize that we are blessed, or
cursed, to be living either together, or side by side, but not
back to back.  Arab Musicians  Lundborg: When you started the Divan project, you got 200
applications from Arab musicians. I was amazed there were so
many in the  Middle East  studying the works of Mozart and
Beethoven.  Barenboim: Even Edward Said, who knew practically
everything there was to know about the Arab world, did not
really know the quality nor the quantity of the western music
talent in the Middle East.  Lundborg: Divan has been up and running for 14 years, so
where do you derive your greatest pleasure from it now?  Barenboim: It’s become one of the major orchestras. It
plays Schoenberg Variations, Beethoven symphonies, pieces by
Boulez around the world. Musically, it’s wonderful.  It’s sad to see that we’re swimming against the current. In
the Middle East no one wants to have anything to do with it. The
orchestra cannot play in any of the countries that are
represented in it. This is a very big minus.  Lundborg: Do you think that will change in your lifetime?  Saving Grace  Barenboim: You never know. Maybe. The Middle East has one
saving grace -- when things happen, they happen unexpectedly and
very fast.  Lundborg: Is it a problem for musicians to be in your
orchestra? What happens when they return home?  Barenboim: Many of them are criticized very thoroughly. The
whole idea of the project is both admired and criticized on an
even level, both in  Israel  and in the Arab world.  Lundborg: You are threatening their mutual demonization?  Barenboim: Precisely.  Lundborg: Tell me about the new academy you are building in
Berlin.  Barenboim: It’s a center for musicians who will also get
tuition in areas not directly connected to music. Both Edward
Said and I shared a horror of music being put in an ivory tower.  When an orchestra plays wonderfully together, people think
they have a homogeneous sound. Nonsense! They have arrived at a
point where they can think alike and this is why they sound
homogeneous.  Larger Reality  Lundborg: So, you’re teaching musicians philosophy?  Barenboim: Yes. Music is not only about aesthetics, about
being beautiful. As Freud said, culture is a larger reality, not
an escape from reality.  Lundborg: What kind of design did  Frank Gehry  create for
you?  Barenboim: It’s a unique concert hall: it’s like the most
imaginative, contemporary living room, with a beautiful oval
shape. It’s small -- only about 700 seats.  Lundborg: You’ve taken a lot of heat for playing Wagner in
Israel -- is that changing?  Barenboim: You should ask the Israelis! I’m sick and tired
of it! The Israelis are hypocritical -- they invited me. I am
not a Wagner Messiah.  The Israel Festival invited me to conduct a Wagner concert
in  Jerusalem  in 2001 in July. In April, they said the Ministry
of Education threatened to cut their subsidies if they allowed
me to play.  Divided Opinion  Lundborg: So opinion is divided?  Barenboim: There are some decisions that are absolutely
correct at the given moment but are not meant to stay forever.  When the musicians of the then Philharmonic Orchestra in
 Tel Aviv  decided not to play Wagner, it was on the ninth of
November, 1938, when the Nazis burned Jewish books and
synagogues.  Then, it was a perfectly courageous, correct decision. In
2013, it’s absolute nonsense.  Lundborg: Perhaps the fear is that people will forget?  Barenboim: If you want people not to forget, don’t build
monuments. Help the Jewish people in the problems of today.
People will look at monuments and pass by -- it’s better to do
something constructive.  It is in this spirit that the German government has given
us money to build the academy.  For more information:  http://www.west-eastern-divan.org  and
 http://www.danielbarenboim.com .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and  Craig
Seligman  on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 