-- Barnes & Noble Gains on Founder’s Retail Buyout Plan
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-02-25T22:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/barnes-noble-s-riggio-plans-offer-for-retail-assets.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  gained after
Chairman Leonard Riggio said he will offer to buy the stores and
website of the chain he founded more than 40 years ago as it
struggles to navigate the rising popularity of digital books.  Barnes & Noble  jumped  11 percent to $15.06 at the close in
New York for the biggest one-day gain since Oct. 31. The shares
had increased 9.1 percent in the 12 months through Feb. 22,
compared with a 12 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The price would be negotiated with the board, and the
buyout would be funded primarily with cash, Riggio said today in
a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
proposal would exclude Barnes & Noble’s Nook and college
businesses, he said. Riggio, the company’s  largest holder  with
about 30 percent of the stock, declined to comment beyond the
filing, according to a company spokeswoman.  If successful, Riggio would leave a public company composed
of a college unit that runs bookstores for universities and a
digital division that sells tablets and digital content. In
October, the company placed the units in a subsidiary called
Nook Media. Even with the college division’s profit, that
combination had an  operating loss  of about $138 million in the
three quarters through Oct. 27 because of the high costs of
building Nook devices.  Lowered Nook Forecast  The company also lowered expectations for its new
subsidiary earlier this month when it said operating losses will
be wider for Nook Media in the fiscal year ending in April and
sales wouldn’t reach a previous forecast of $3 billion. Barnes &
Noble is scheduled to report third-quarter results on Feb. 28.  Meanwhile, Barnes & Noble has been fighting to reverse two
years of net losses as readers spend less at stores and
transition to digital books. The company has been sacrificing
profits to invest in building e-readers and tablets to gain a
foothold in the e-book market.  While it has made headway on the digital front, revenue
from the Nook division, which includes devices, accessories and
content, fell 13 percent to $311 million during the holiday
shopping season amid increased competition from devices from
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Sales slid at its stores during
that period too.  Barnes & Noble confirmed it had received notice of Riggio’s
intentions and said in a statement today that a committee of
independent directors David G. Golden, David A. Wilson and
Patricia L. Higgins will oversee the evaluation of the proposal
and the negotiation of any transaction.  Peter J. Solomon  Riggio, 71, told the board of his interest without starting
a formal process, a person familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg yesterday. Riggio is working with boutique investment
bank Peter J. Solomon Co., said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter was private.  “He knows the book business like the back of his hand,”
David Strasser, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
New York, said in an e-mail today. Barnes & Noble “could be a
private company with cash flows. Turns out lots of people like
books still. Nook is tougher and needs funding. E-readers have
also hit a kind of wall at current penetration.”  Strasser recommends buying the shares.  The move comes after the company said in January 2012 that
it would explore ways to unlock the value of the Nook. In March,
the company hired Michael Huseby, who had experience spinning
off companies at  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , as chief financial
officer.  Microsoft Investment  In April,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  announced a $300 million
investment in a new subsidiary, later dubbed Nook Media, that
combined the tablet and digital content unit with a chain of
college bookstores.  Microsoft’s 18 percent stake valued Nook Media at $1.7
billion. Publisher  Pearson Plc (PSON)  then announced an investment of
$89.5 million on Dec. 28 in the unit, which gave Nook Media a
valuation of $1.79 billion.  Barnes & Noble’s 689 consumer bookstores generated $996
million in sales during the quarter ended in Oct. 27. The
collegiate unit had $773 million in sales during the quarter,
while the Nook-making technology unit posted $160 million in
revenue.  The bookstore business may be valued at about $484.5
million, David Schick, an analyst with Stifel Financial Corp. in
Baltimore, estimated in a note to clients today. The entire
company may be worth roughly $2.3 billion, he said.  Barnes & Noble is scheduled to report fiscal third-quarter
results on Feb. 28.  Riggio opened the Student Book Exchange in  Manhattan ’s
Greenwich Village in 1965 and acquired Barnes & Noble’s name and
flagship bookstore in the 1970s, according to the company’s
website.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  is serving as the board committee’s
financial adviser, and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison
LLP is providing legal advice, Barnes & Noble said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  