-- Barnes & Noble’s Riggio Said to Offer to Buy Out Bookstore Unit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-02-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/barnes-noble-s-riggio-said-to-offer-to-buy-out-bookstore-unit.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s founder and
chairman,  Leonard Riggio , told the bookstore chain he is
interested in buying its consumer business and spinning out the
unit that makes the Nook tablet, a person familiar with the
matter said.  Riggio, who still  owns  about 30 percent of the company’s
stock, has told the board of his interest without starting a
formal process yet, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. Riggio has made a
preliminary proposal and may make it more official this week,
the person said.  Barnes & Noble posted a decline in holiday-season retail
sales as the largest U.S. bookstore chain’s effort to take on
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad with tablet-style Nooks fell short with
shoppers. Riggio’s plan would keep the 689 consumer bookstores,
which generated $996 million in  sales  during the quarter ended
in October, the person said. A collegiate unit, which had $773
million in sales during the quarter, and the Nook-making
technology unit with $160 million in sales would be separated.  Mary Ellen Keating , a Barnes & Noble spokeswoman, declined
to comment in an interview. Riggio’s plan was reported earlier
by the Wall Street Journal.  The New York-based bookseller’s  board  has formed a special
committee to study a proposal if it is made, the person said,
adding that  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  is advising the panel on the
matter. Riggio, 71, is working with boutique investment bank
Peter J. Solomon Co., the person said.  Diane Coffey, a spokeswoman for Peter J. Solomon, declined
to comment. A spokesman for Evercore also declined to comment.  Barnes & Noble is scheduled to report fiscal third-quarter
 earnings  on Feb. 28. The company’s  shares  have lost more than
half their value in five years, closing at $13.51 on Feb. 22.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock index gained 12 percent in the
same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  