-- David Beckham Helps PSG Beat Marseille 2-0 in Debut
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-25T10:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/beckham-helps-psg-beat-marseille-in-debut-milan-derby-ends-1-1.html
David Beckham  came off the bench for
his Paris Saint-Germain debut in a 2-0 win against Marseille
that kept his new team three points clear atop French soccer’s
Ligue 1. Inter and AC Milan drew 1-1 in Italy.  Former England captain Beckham, who joined PSG on a five-
month contract at the end of January, helped set up Zlatan Ibrahimovic for PSG’s second goal after coming on as a 76th-
minute substitute in Paris last night. Nicolas N’Koulou’s own
goal had put the home team ahead in the 11th minute.  The 37-year-old Beckham, who played his last official match
Dec. 1 when his former team  Los Angeles Galaxy  won the MLS Cup,
exchanged passes with Jeremy Menez, who then crossed the ball
for Swedish striker Ibrahimovic to score his league-leading 22nd
goal of the season in stoppage time.  “I’m very happy tonight, especially with the win,”
Beckham said in comments on  PSG’s website . “The welcome from
the supporters was incredible. It was a perfect day.”  The win lifted PSG, seeking its first league championship
since 1994, to 54 points atop the standings. Lyon is three
points back following yesterday’s 3-1 home win against Lorient.  In Italy, AC Milan striker  Mario Balotelli  missed several
chances against former team Inter in his first all-Milan matchup
for more than three years.  Stephan El Shaarawy put the Rossoneri ahead in the 21st
minute and Inter midfielder Ezequiel Schelotto tied the game
with 19 minutes remaining. The result left AC Milan in third
place, 13 points behind leader Juventus, which beat Siena 3-0 to
extend its lead over second-place Napoli to seven points.  Whistles  “We have a good balance in the team at the moment and we
have to keep on pushing forward,” El Shaarawy said. “It was a
really special game for Balotelli as the whistles from the fans
were loud but he’s a real champion and he’ll be back.”  Napoli, which has 51 points, visits Udinese today, while
fourth-place Lazio meets Pescara.  Ten-man  Atletico Madrid  beat Espanyol 1-0 on Radamel Falcao’s first-half penalty kick yesterday to remain 12 points
behind Spanish league leader Barcelona. Gabi was red-carded at
the end of the first half after getting his second yellow card.  Barca came from behind to beat Sevilla 2-1 two days ago as
 Lionel Messi  scored in his record-extending 15th straight game
in La Liga. Real Madrid won 2-1 at Deportivo La Coruna.  Barcelona has 68 points, Atletico 56 and Real Madrid 52.
Fourth-place Malaga lost ground on the top three following its
3-0 defeat at Real Betis last night.  In Germany, defending champion  Borussia Dortmund  drew 1-1
at Borussia Moenchengladbach to drop to 17 points behind leader
 Bayern Munich , which routed Werder Bremen 6-1 two days ago.  In the Netherlands, Eredivisie leader  PSV Eindhoven  lost
2-1 at Feyenoord yesterday, while Ajax drew 1-1 with  Den Haag .  PSV has 50 points, Ajax 48 and Feyenoord 47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 