-- Belka Says Polish Rebound ‘Probably’ Underway; Sales Up
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-02-25T14:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/belka-says-polish-rebound-probably-underway-sales-up.html
Poland ’s rebound has “probably
already” begun, central bank Governor Marek Belka said today as
retail sales grew at the fastest pace in four months.  “Probably already now we are in a phase of a gradual, I
stress gradual, rebound,” Belka said in an interview today
while attending a seminar in New Delhi,  India . “I think the
worst is over.”  Retail sales rose 3.1 percent in January from a year
earlier, led by spending on cars, pharmaceuticals and at
supermarkets, according to the statistics office. The increase
beat the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 26
economists and follows the steepest drop in sales since 2005 in
December.  Poland’s central bank has lowered its  benchmark rate  by 1
percentage point since November with the economic expansion
slowing to its weakest pace in three years as recession in the
euro area and rising unemployment sapped demand. Investors are
wagering on one more 25 basis-point cut in borrowing costs in
the next three months, according to forward-rate agreements
compiled by Bloomberg.  Following the retail report, the zloty gained 0.3 percent
to 4.1476 per euro at 2:24 p.m. in Warsaw, the steepest rise
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The yield on 10-year notes rose 4 basis points to
4.05 percent.  Improved Signals  Signs the slowdown is approaching its trough are mounting.
Belka said this month that the monetary-easing cycle in nearing
a pause.  Industrial production  unexpectedly rose 0.3 percent in
January after decreasing 10.6 percent in December, the lowest
since 2007, amid improving  business confidence  in  Germany ,
Poland’s biggest export market.  Belka said his “personal projection” for growth this year
“is about 2 percent, but I might be pleasantly surprised.”
This contrasts with the European Commission’s Feb. 22 forecast
that gross domestic product will expand by 1.2 percent to match
the weakest pace since 2001.  “We can already expect a first quarter that’s better than
the fourth quarter,” Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at
Societe Generale SA in Warsaw, said by phone today. “Data show
the economy is rebounding, but it’s too early to change our
full-year estimates.”  The statistics office will say that  fourth-quarter  economic
output grew 1 percent from a year earlier, the weakest since
2009, when it reports the data on March 1, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg poll of 26 economists.  ‘Low Growth’  While recent surveys point to a “certain improvement in
consumer and business sentiment,” the European Union’s largest
eastern economy won’t get out of the slowdown “immediately,”
Halina Dmochowska, deputy head of the statistics office, said at
a news conference in Warsaw today.  “We’ll have to deal with relatively low growth dynamics
for some time,” she said.  Separately today, the statistics office said the jobless
rate jumped to 14.2 percent in January from 13.4 percent in
December as companies from  Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , Poland’s
biggest phone company, to PZU SA, the largest insurer, announced
layoffs in recent months. The  unemployment rate  is the highest
since March 2007.  Belka, who declined to comment on whether there will be
more interest-rate cuts, said Poland’s inflation rate should
average “something like 1.5 percent” this year. “We are not
concerned about inflation at all,” he said, adding that “our
concern is obviously slow growth.”  The nation’s debt-rating outlook was raised to positive
from stable last week by  Fitch Ratings , which cited a narrowing
budget deficit and stabilizing public debt. Belka said he hoped
other rating companies would follow Fitch in improving Poland’s
credit assessment. Fitch rates Poland at A-, the fourth-lowest
investment level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  