-- Bezeq Drops as S&P Cites Dividends in Rating Cut: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-02-25T14:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/bezeq-drops-as-s-p-cites-dividends-in-rating-cut-tel-aviv-mover.html
Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication
Corp. (BEZQ)  fell to the lowest level in two weeks on bets a ratings
cut by Standard & Poor’s Maalot may prompt the country’s largest
fixed-line provider to curb dividend payments.  Shares of the company, which also offers mobile phone
services, dropped 1.1 percent to 4.609 shekels, the lowest close
since Feb. 12 in Tel Aviv. The stock was the second-worst
performer on the  TA-25 index  in 2012 after  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) ,
dropping 39 percent as competition in the telecommunications
industry intensified.  S&P Maalot lowered debt of Bezeq and its Pelephone
Communications Ltd. cellular unit by one level to ilAA, the
third-highest grade, partly because an “aggressive dividend
policy” constrained the company’s financial flexibility,
according to a Feb. 21 statement released after markets closed.
Bezeq’s 12-month dividend yield is  25 percent , compared with an
average of 2.9 percent for stocks on the TA-25 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market is seeing this as a signal from S&P that it
has to reduce its aggressive dividend payments,” Ilanit Sherf,
a Tel Aviv-based analyst at Psagot Investment House Ltd., said
today by phone. “We have often said that in light of the rise
in competition and its leverage, dividends at Bezeq will have to
be cut.”  Greater Competition  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. and Golan Telecom entered
the wireless market last May, leading to greater price
competition for incumbents Bezeq, Cellcom and Partner
Communications Co. Bezeq is also set to face fixed-line
competition when Israel Electric Corp. sets up a network and as
the government introduces a wholesale fixed-line market.  “Because of exposure to competition and higher regulation,
the business profile of the company has weakened,” S&P Maalot
wrote in the note. “We estimate that a weakness in the
company’s operating performance will have to lead to a drop in
dividend payments.” Bezeq has 1.1 billion shekels of debt
payments due this year, S&P said.  Shares of Cellcom dropped 1.6 percent today and and Partner
fell 1 percent.  B Communications Ltd. (BCOM) , which holds a 31 percent
stake in Bezeq according to data compiled by Bloomberg, lost 2.8
percent.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , B Communications’
parent company, retreated 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  