-- Biggest Wisconsin Sale Funds Madison Hospital Growth: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-02-25T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/biggest-wisconsin-sale-funds-madison-hospital-growth-muni-deals.html
University of Wisconsin Hospitals
and Clinics Authority , the school’s main medical teaching
facility, is selling $262.7 million in revenue bonds, the
biggest deal from an issuer in the state this year.  This week’s sale comes after Moody’s Investors Service on
Feb. 15 raised the authority’s rating one step to Aa3, fourth-
highest, citing its “renowned clinical reputation and unique
role as  Wisconsin ’s only academic medical center.”  Standard &
Poor’s  ranks the debt A+, fifth-highest.  The authority runs the  University of Wisconsin  Hospital and
Clinics in Madison, the primary teaching hospital for the
university’s School of Medicine and  Public Health . It also
serves parts of Illinois, Iowa and Minnesota. In-patient
admissions grew 2 percent in fiscal 2012 while operating cash
flow almost doubled to $150.7 million from $86.2 million in
2009, according to Moody’s.  Most of the proceeds from this week’s offering -- $225
million -- will go toward projects such as an acute-care
facility and an addition to a children’s hospital, bond
documents say. Some of the funds will be used to retire debt and
pay a $2.6 million fee to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to terminate
an interest-rate swap.  Moody’s increase in the authority’s credit score follows a
record-setting year for downgrades in the U.S. nonprofit
healthcare sector, the company said in a Feb. 12 report. In
2012, Moody’s lowered ratings on $20 billion in such debt, the
most for one year since it began tracking ranking changes for
individual market sectors in 1995.  Hospital bonds have returned about 7.4 percent over the
past year, including price appreciation and interest payments,
compared with 4.9 percent for the $3.7 trillion municipal-
 securities market , according to Barclays Capital index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  