-- Billionaire Son Taps Stashed Trillions for Sprint: Japan
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-02-25T02:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/billionaire-son-taps-stashed-trillions-for-sprint-japan-credit.html
Billionaire Masayoshi Son is
targeting Japanese households with bonds offering 50 times the
yield on deposit accounts to help fund  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s $20
billion takeover of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Japan’s third-largest carrier, the first to offer the
iPhone in the nation, set a 1.47 percent yield on 300 billion
yen ($3.2 billion) of four-year notes going on sale to
individual investors today, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a
statement on Feb. 22. The three biggest banks offer 0.03 percent
for a four-year time deposit, according to the lenders’
websites. Japanese corporate bonds pay an average of 0.58
percent while company notes worldwide offer 2.66 percent, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Softbank, which is at risk of being cut to junk grade by
Moody’s Investors Service, relied on individual investors for 67
percent of 980 billion yen raised in bond sales in the past four
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Tokyo-based company
is counting on the popularity of its brand and that of Apple
Inc.’s devices to tap 840 trillion yen of cash and bank deposits
owned by the nation’s households to help pay for the Sprint
Nextel deal that will create the world’s third-biggest carrier.  “What helped support this company through the years isn’t
the equity markets, financial establishments or institutional
investors, but rather individual investors,” said Hiroaki Hayashi, who manages 1.5 trillion yen of fixed-income
investments at Fukokushinrai Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo. “They
are turning to their source of strength again” to fund the
Sprint Nextel deal.  Downgrade Risk  Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s have put Softbank’s  credit
ratings  under review for possible downgrade on concern the
acquisition may undermine its financial strength. A downgrade of
one step would bring the rating to a speculative, or junk,
ranking at Moody’s.  The carrier’s bonds fell on the takeover news. The spread
on 100 billion yen of 0.74 percent five-year notes targeting
individuals it sold in September more than doubled to 141 basis
points on Oct. 12 after reports of the acquisition, and traded
at 155 on Feb. 22, JS Price data show.  The company also sold last week 70 billion yen of 1.467
percent four-year notes to institutions, priced to yield 137
basis points more than government debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The extra yield to own the debt of Japanese
companies instead of sovereign bonds was at 42 basis points,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Savings Pile  Japanese households owned  1,510 trillion yen  of financial
assets as of the end of September, according to the Bank of
Japan. Cash and bank deposits accounted for more than half of
the amount at 840 trillion yen, compared with 33 trillion yen of
debt securities and 87 trillion yen in equities and investments,
the data show.  Softbank has 186.6 billion yen of  bonds  maturing this year,
including a 130 billion-yen retail note due Sept. 17, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Sprint acquisition requires a considerable amount of
funding and we felt that retail bonds are the appropriate method
of financing,”  Takeaki Nukii , a Tokyo-based spokesman at
Softbank, said by telephone on Feb. 22. “We also knew that
there is demand from institutional investors, so we included
them in the offering.”  Softbank’s founder Son, 55, is Japan’s second-richest man
with a net worth of $8.9 billion as of today, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Almost 95 percent of his fortune
is from his 20 percent stake in shares of Softbank. Son’s
company owns a  professional baseball team .  Utility Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Kyushu Electric Power
Co. sold 60 billion yen of 0.65 percent three-year notes paying
60 basis points more than similar-maturity government debt,
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. said in a statement on Feb. 22. The
utility last offered bonds in October when it raised 30 billion
yen of 0.526 percent three-year securities offering a 42 basis-
point spread, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Japan ’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.23
percent return this month, compared with a 0.29 percent gain for
the nation’s sovereign notes in the period, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Company debt worldwide
returned 0.49 percent.  BOJ Governor  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will nominate Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda as governor of the
Bank of Japan, Japanese media reported. Abe is likely to present
Kuroda to the Japanese Diet in the middle of this week, Kyodo
News said, citing unidentified government sources. The Nikkei,
Sankei and Asahi newspapers also reported that Abe is planning
to nominate Kuroda.  The yen slid to as low as 94.77 per dollar today, a level
unseen since May 2010, as investors speculate that Kuroda, 68,
may help Abe to follow through on his pledges to counter more
than a decade of deflation and spur a Japanese revival. The
currency traded at 94.14 as of 11:43 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell 1
1/2 basis points to 0.705 percent in Tokyo today, touching the
lowest since Dec. 12. The Japanese securities  yielded  124 basis
points less than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared with
103 a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Default Risk  Five-year credit-default swaps that insure Japan’s
sovereign bonds traded at 71 basis points on Feb. 22, compared
with 123 a year earlier, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. A drop in the
contracts signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  The Sprint announcement came two weeks after Softbank
agreed to acquire a stake in competing Japanese wireless
provider  eAccess Ltd.  to help meet bandwidth demand from iPhone
users. Sales of Apple phones and tablets have helped Softbank
boost earnings.  The acquisition of Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint’s
56.4 million subscribers would increase Softbank’s customer base
to 96 million in the U.S. and Japan, the Japanese company said
in October. The carrier’s biggest domestic competitor, NTT
DoCoMo Inc., has about 60.8 million subscriptions.  Softbank reported on Jan. 31 that net income doubled to
65.9 billion yen in the  three months  ended Dec. 31. Operating
income jumped 24 percent to 197.4 billion yen as sales gained
7.1 percent to 923.7 billion yen, it said.  “Retail investors are easily put off by corporate bonds
they are not familiar with,” Hiroshi Nakamura, a Tokyo-based
independent financial planner for individual investors, said in
a telephone interview on Feb. 22. “Softbank’s name is well
known for its TV commercials and it gives people confidence the
company won’t go under easily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  