-- Bipartisan Panel Calls for Limited U.S. Role in Housing Finance
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-02-25T17:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/bipartisan-panel-calls-for-limited-u-s-role-in-housing-finance.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  should be
replaced with a government corporation that would assume losses
in catastrophic circumstances, a bipartisan panel of retired
U.S. lawmakers and former officials said in a report today.  The new entity proposed by the Washington-based Bipartisan
Policy Center would guarantee principal and interest payments on
mortgage-backed securities issued by private lenders, taking a
fourth loss position behind borrowers, banks and insurers.  “The problems in housing remain both severe and urgent,”
 George Mitchell , the former U.S. senator and co-chairman of the
panel, said today at a presentation on the report. “More than
four years after  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  were placed into
conservatorship, the nation lacks a clear vision for the future
of housing finance.”  The blueprint is similar to those put forward by the
National Association of Realtors, the Mortgage Bankers
Association and other groups in that it envisions a continued
government role as a backstop for the mortgage market.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had no explicit government
backing before they were seized in 2008 after investments in
risky loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency. The two
companies have since drawn about $190 billion in taxpayer aid
and paid Treasury $50 billion in dividends.  Housing-finance reform has failed to gain traction in
Washington, in part because Democrats and Republicans are
divided over alternatives. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have
returned to profitability, further sapping momentum for change.  At the same time, taxpayers bear the risk on about 90
percent of new home loans through the two government-sponsored
enterprises and agencies including Federal Housing
Administration and the Department of  Veterans Affairs .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  