-- BlackBerry Starts Z10 Phone Sales in India Today Before U.S.
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-02-26T01:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/blackberry-starts-z10-phone-sales-in-india-tomorrow-before-u-s-.html
BlackBerry (BBRY)  begins selling the Z10
handset in India today, before the phone’s introduction in the
U.S.  The device will cost 43,490 rupees ($800), according to a
press release handed to reporters in Mumbai yesterday. Apple Inc.
charges at least 45,000 rupees for an iPhone 5, while a Samsung
Electronics Co. Galaxy Note II costs 35,600, according to the
 distributor  and the  company ’s websites respectively.  The Z10 is central to Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry’s
bid to revive sales after it posted three  losses  in four
quarters amid global competition from Apple and Samsung. The
flagship Z10 model isn’t due in the U.S., BlackBerry’s biggest
source of revenue, until March.  In India, BlackBerry has maintained higher market share
than in other countries helped by the popularity of its
messenger service and lower prices than Apple and Samsung,
according to Kiranjeet Kaur, a Singapore-based analyst at IDC.
The nation accounts for about 20 percent of BlackBerry’s Asia-
Pacific sales, according to the research company.  The phonemaker’s most popular handsets in  India , the Curve
series, costs from as little as 9,990 rupees, according to
advertisements in the Times of India newspaper.  Nationwide smartphone sales could increase almost 50
percent this year to $4 billion and could cross $7 billion by
2016, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. The
rising sales, caused by economic growth and improving wireless
networks, have also prompted Samsung and Apple to boost their
presence in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net 
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  