-- BlackRock Lured to IndusInd Turnaround Soaring 600%
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-02-26T10:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/blackrock-lured-to-indusind-turnaround-soaring-600-.html
On a visit to an  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB) 
branch in  India ’s Himalayan foothills, Romesh Sobti, who was
considering taking the top job at the lender, recalls noticing
“a little bit of sloth.” The sign at the entrance had burned-
out  light bulbs .  Amid the bad loans and low margins that Sobti discovered
when he quit  ABN Amro  Bank NV’s local unit to become chief
executive officer of the Indian lender in February 2008, spent
light bulbs indicated that things needed to be put right, he
said. Among his first tasks was an e-mail to get them fixed.  “You can’t have big ideas without seeing how they’re
executed on the ground,” Sobti, 62, said in an interview at his
Mumbai headquarters.  It was the beginning of a turnaround that has led to an
almost 600 percent increase in the stock price, making it the
best performer among the 14 companies on the  BSE India Bankex
Index (BANKEX) , which climbed 110 percent in the same period. That’s made
it a darling of Wall Street investors including New York-based
BlackRock Inc., Templeton Asset Management Ltd. and private-
equity firm General Atlantic LLC.  “If I look at what Sobti is doing, it’s a story of very
solid and sustainable growth,” said Mumbai-based General
Atlantic Managing Director Ranjit Pandit, who called IndusInd
one of the “best-managed banks in the country” along with HDFC
Bank Ltd.  Notable Performance  Since Sobti took the helm, return on equity improved to
17.4 percent as of the end of December from 6.8 percent in March
2008, company filings show. The nonperforming-loan ratio has
shrunk to 0.3 percent from 2.3 percent. He’s more than doubled
the net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability, to
3.46 percent from 1.53 percent, according to the bank’s website.  More than 460 branches, up from 180 when Sobti came in, are
drawing 55,000 new customers a month, compared with an average
25,000 monthly in 2011, he said.  That’s partly a result of bringing most of his team from
Amsterdam-based ABN Amro in what may be the largest defection
from a foreign bank in India, Sobti said. Nine of 13 members of
his core  management  team left ABN Amro, where he had led Indian
operations, to join him. In the level below, about 20 out of 45
came in, all bringing what Pandit calls “multinational banking
DNA” with them.  “What we found was the bank was in need of restructuring,
recapitalization, re-infrastructuring and re-talenting,” said
Sobti, a 5-foot-10-inch golfer with a 12 handicap.  Plotting Strategy  The newly assembled  team  gathered over morning newspapers
in the conference room -- a daily practice that endures today --
and lunches in Sobti’s office, also still held daily, according
to Sobti and confirmed by members of his staff.  On the table was a strategy to lower costs, raise capital
and recover bad loans, including one for 1.5 billion rupees ($28
million) which Sobti will only say was to “a large player in
the energy sector owned by billionaires.” Other lenders owed
more than 100 billion rupees were seeking to partially recover
their loans through a  corporate debt-restructuring  process
involving a writedown. Sobti opted out.  “We wrote to all the lenders and asked them, ‘Why are you
restructuring? Look at the Forbes list: They are
billionaires,’” Sobti said. “We were a little tiny player, but
it was a big amount for us. It was a killer.”  IndusInd negotiated directly and recovered its loan in
full, Sobti said. The bank’s restructured debt -- which can
involve a payment moratorium, longer maturity, lower principal
or reduced  interest rates  -- fell to 0.26 percent of total loans
as of Dec. 31, compared with 1.45 percent at  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ,
the country’s largest private lender by assets.  ‘Aggressive Intervention’  “There was aggressive intervention to resolve old bad
loans,” said Sobti.  In the first month, Sobti and his lieutenants traveled to
all 180 bank branches within 15 days, giving local managers a
docket with the  bank’s  strategic plan and an outline of his or
her new role with responsibility for sales, operations, service,
compliance, targets for the next 12 months and an outline of
weekly and monthly reports due at headquarters.  “They were shocked,” Sobti recalled. “Of those 180
managers, less than 30 are with us now.”  A sense of taking “ownership and responsibility” was
required, Sobti said, and not every manager felt up to the task.
To compensate those who did, the bank started giving  stock
options  all the way down to customer-service executives for the
first time in its history. Currently about 600 of the more than
12,000 staff receive  stock options .  ‘Like-Mindedness’  Sobti attributes early achievements to “like-mindedness”
among his team in setting out to achieve common goals for the
bank, founded in 1994 by billionaire Srichand P. Hinduja, 77,
the eldest of four Hinduja brothers who hold a less than 10
percent stake in the bank.  “Like-mindedness doesn’t mean they are ‘yes men,’” Sobti
said. “They would have five different opinions.”  Suhail Chander, who heads corporate and commercial banking
and came in with the ABN Amro group, recalls times when he and
Sobti raised their voices over how to achieve an objective.  “By and large, we move in tandem,” Chander said. “On the
major issues we don’t disagree usually. It’s the nitty-gritty on
which we fight and shout at each other. But it doesn’t create
ill will as our relationships are very long.”  Investor Skepticism  Sobti said he faced skepticism from analysts and  investors 
in the first 18 months over the quality of various loan
categories, prompting him to start disclosing details of bad
loans in each product  segment .  “Given that the delivery was consistent and in line with
what he was saying, which was the most important thing, that is
ultimately what convinced us to invest,” said Pandit, who
tracked the bank’s turnaround for almost a year before investing
for Greenwich, Connecticut-based General Atlantic, which has a
4.42 percent stake.  Now, 45 analysts have a buy rating on the stock, and eight
recommend holding it. The only three calls to sell the shares
come from  Brics Securities Ltd. , Eva Dimensions LLC and Bank of
America Corp.  One of the key risks is the possibility of an exit by top
managers who joined from ABN Amro with Sobti, according to
Barclays Plc’s analyst Anish Tawakley.  More than 90 percent of stock options held by the top five
managers have already vested, and out of 13.4 million options
given to the team in the last three years, only 170,000 options
per person worth 17.2 million rupees remain to be vested in
January 2014, he wrote in a note in April. Any change in the
team could jeopardize the bank’s  growth  strategy, as their
“expertise and experience have been integral to the bank’s
success,” Tawakley wrote.  Foreign Stakes  Foreign institutional investors’ stake in the lender has
doubled to 45 percent as of Dec. 31, from 22 percent at the end
of 2007, before Sobti came in, exchange filings show.  BlackRock (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, owns at least
 2 percent  of IndusInd through its DSP BlackRock India Investment
funds as well as direct stakes, according to exchange filings.
Templeton Asset Management, based in  Singapore , holds a 1.4
percent stake.  On Feb. 13, India’s  CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY) , which tracks the 50
largest companies on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.,
said it will add IndusInd Bank. Joining the index means
passively managed funds that buy and sell stocks to mirror the
gauge are more likely to invest.  Arun Rajendran, a spokesman for DSP BlackRock, and
Padmanaban Nair, a spokesman for Templeton, declined to comment
on the stakes.  Drawing Praise  IndusInd Bank’s stock closed at 61.15 rupees on June 25,
2008, the day after Sobti’s first full quarter of earnings after
coming in February of that year. The shares ended at 422.25
rupees on Feb. 26.  Sobti draws praise from competitors. Aditya Puri, CEO at
Mumbai-based  HDFC Bank (HDFCB) , which as India’s largest bank by market
valuation is almost seven times larger than IndusInd, calls
Sobti “an old friend” who is “meticulous and honest,” though
“not adventurous.”  IndusInd Bank trades at 20.3 times its estimated earnings
on a standalone basis for the current financial year, making it
the third-most-expensive lender after  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) 
and HDFC Bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 40 listed lenders in India, 32 have more branches
than IndusInd, which is dwarfed by the almost 14,570 outlets of
 State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest. IndusInd is looking
to  open branches  while it increases profit, Sobti said, with
more than 230 outlets planned in addition to the current 461
over the next 18 months.  Challenge Ahead  The challenge will be avoiding an erosion of profitability
as it grows, according to Nilanjan Karfa, banking analyst at
Mumbai-based Brics Securities. IndusInd’s new branches currently
break even in less than a year, compared with 2.5 years on
average for other banks. That could change if the bank grows too
fast, he said.  “We fear there are natural limits to such efficiency, and
the bank may face a scalability problem, with profitability
peaking out over time,” said Karfa, who recommends investors
sell the stock.  The bank’s dependence on commercial-vehicle financing is an
area for concern when it comes to meeting growth targets,
according to Vishal Narnolia, Mumbai-based banking analyst at
SMC  Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS)   New Competitors  “One-fourth of IndusInd’s loans are to finance commercial
vehicle purchases,” he said in an interview. “With economic
growth slowing and courts imposing mining bans in different
parts of the country, commercial vehicle sales are slowing down,
posing a downside risk to a 25 percent to 30 percent loan-growth
target set by the lender.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India on Feb. 23 sought applications
for new banking permits. Indian billionaires including Kumar Mangalam Birla and  Anil Ambani  have expressed interest in
setting-up new banks. New entrants into the banking space will
increase competition among lenders for market share in loans and
deposits, Narnolia said.  The bank has yet to meet all the goals set out in the early
days, Sobti said. Cost-to-income ratio, a measure of
profitability, fell to 49 percent in December from 67 percent in
March 2008. It’s still higher than Sobti would like.  “The cost-to-income ratios for the best banks are 45
percent,” he said.  The Hinduja family, which has a board seat occupied by
Ajay, the son of 67-year-old Prakash Hinduja -- a Geneva-based
brother -- isn’t concerned. Other family members control various
companies of the  Hinduja Group , including energy,
transportation, finance, media, real estate and technology.
IndusInd Bank isn’t considered part of the group.  Profit Consistency  “The bank has shown a degree of consistency in its profit
 growth , and that is probably why the market is responding to
this,” Srichand Hinduja, who also serves as chairman of
IndusInd International Holdings Ltd., the bank’s Mauritius-based
holding company, said in an e-mail from his base in  London . “As
shareholders, we look for consistency more than rapid rise.”  The family chose Sobti because of his “experience and a
track record that instilled confidence,” Hinduja said, adding
that the family is “more than happy” with his results. “What
we like most is that this management has focused on short- and
medium-term delivery while investing for the future.”  The bank plans to add solar-panel-powered ATMs in rural
areas and use the credit-card services networks, which IndusInd
acquired from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2011, to expand loan offerings
and products including insurance, according to Sobti. And bank
branches no longer have burned-out light bulbs.  “People sometimes call it micromanagement,” said Sobti,
“but senior managers should be able to switch from macro to
micro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  