-- Bovespa Futures Rise as Commodities’ Gain Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-25T12:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/bovespa-futures-rise-as-commodities-gain-boosts-export-outlook.html
Bovespa-index  futures  advanced, a
sign  Brazil ’s equity index may gain for a second session, as
rising commodities prices boosted the outlook for the nation’s
raw material exporters.  Card-payment processor Cielo SA may be active after it was
raised to the equivalent of buy at Credit Suisse Group AG.
Duratex SA, a Brazilian maker of wood panels and bathroom
fixtures, may move after posting adjusted profit of 131.3
million reais ($66.6 million) in the fourth quarter, beating
analysts’  estimates , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bovespa-index futures added 0.4 percent to 57,190 at 9:06
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The gauge posted its fifth straight weekly
drop last week amid rekindled concern a slowing global economy
will pare demand for Brazilian exports and on bets the nation’s
policy makers will lift borrowing costs to curb inflation, which
could drive investors away from riskier assets such as equities.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24  raw materials  jumped
1.1 percent, poised for its biggest one-day gain in two months,
and the MSCI All-Country World Index added 0.6 percent on
speculation  Japan  may appoint a central bank governor who favors
stimulus and as investors awaited the result of Italy’s
parliamentary elections.  Consumer prices in Sao Paulo as measured by the IPC-Fipe
index increased 0.52 percent in the four weeks ending Feb. 21, a
report today from the Foundation Economics Research Institute
showed. That compares with the median estimate of 0.63 percent
from 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has dropped 10 percent from this year’s high on
Jan. 3, while the  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil, Russia,
 India  and China has slid 3.5 percent over the same period.
Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared with
10.5 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing
nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 8.94 billion
reais on Feb. 22, which compares with a daily average of 7.47
billion reais this year through Feb. 21, according to data
compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  