-- BP Gulf of Mexico Spill, From Disaster to Trial: Timeline
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-02-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/bp-gulf-of-mexico-spill-from-disaster-to-trial-timeline.html
The trial that will determine the
extent of any liability London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners
must face for the April 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill is set to
begin today in federal court in  New Orleans .  The following is a timeline of the events leading up to the
destruction of the Deepwater Horizon offshore drilling rig,
which killed 11, the subsequent spill of millions of barrels of
oil and resulting litigation. All dates and events are from
court, agency and  securities filings , or company and government
statements.  Jan. 30, 2010: The Deepwater Horizon moves onsite about 45
miles south of the Louisiana coastline to resume drilling the
Macondo well after another rig withdrew due to storm damage.  April 1: ModuSpec USA Inc. begins a two-week condition
assessment of the rig at the request of Vernier, Switzerland-
based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which operates the Deepwater Horizon.  April 15: One of two BP well-site leaders assigned to the
rig leaves to attend a conference on well-control techniques.
His replacement lacks any experience as a well-site leader on
the Deepwater Horizon, according to a U.S. Coast Guard
investigation.  An employee of Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , designer of a
cement job meant to seal the well against leaks, advises his
contact at BP by e-mail that 21 centralizers are needed to
center the drill pipe in the well, according to court filings.
The Halliburton engineer warns the well has a “severe risk” of
natural gas leaks with only six of the devices, which could lead
to an explosive blowout, the court filings state. A BP well
engineer orders 15 additional centralizers flown out to the rig,
which has only six on hand.  April 16: A BP manager overrules the well engineer’s
decision and orders the job to proceed with six centralizers,
according to court papers. BP operations engineer Brett Cocales
sends an e-mail to the Macondo drilling engineer, Brian Morel,
saying six centralizers should be adequate to obtain a proper
cement seal in the well.  “Who cares, it’s done, end of story, will probably be fine
and we’ll get a good cement job,” he wrote, according to a copy
of the e-mail cited in court papers.  April 18: Halliburton tests an innovative cement formula
for the well and doesn’t provide all of the results to BP.
Halliburton engineer Jesse Gagliano again advises BP the well is
at risk for leaks if fewer than 21 centralizers are used,
according to court filings.  April 19: Drilling is completed to target depths. Casing is
installed and cement pumped.  April 20: Drilling and completion operations are finished.
The well subsequently fails, resulting in blowout and explosion.  At 7:30 a.m. BP decides not to run a “cement bond log,” a
test that determines whether the cement has properly sealed the
sides of the well against leaks. In the afternoon, crews
continue well-completion tasks in preparation to move the rig to
another location. About 5:30 p.m., engineers debate the results
of a critical pressure test conducted to ensure the well isn’t
leaking. The test is ultimately declared successful.  In the evening, visiting company officials and rig
supervisors hold a “leadership meeting” which culminates with
some guests on the bridge of the rig, taking turns practicing
controlling the Deepwater Horizon’s positioning system in a
training simulator.  At 9:41 p.m. drilling mud shoots out of the pipe connecting
the rig to the well on the seafloor. The first of two explosions
comes about nine minutes later, and the rig is quickly engulfed
in flames. Workers, unable to contain the blowout or fight the
fire, abandon the Deepwater Horizon. Eleven die.  April 22: BP and Transocean are sued by the family of Shane
Roshto, one of the 11 workers killed.  April 29: A Louisiana fishing charter boat operator sues on
behalf of the state’s $2.6 billion industry, one of the first of
thousands of litigants against companies involved in the rig
project, including states and the federal government.  May 6: The U.S.  Justice Department  asks the companies to
preserve evidence, a signal that the government had begun an
investigation into possible criminal acts.  May 10: A BP investor sues the company’s directors claiming
its alleged pursuit of profit at the expense of safety led to
the explosion and resulting spill, the first of many such suits.  May 13: Transocean asks a court to cap its liability at
$26.7 million under an 1851 law designed to protect the shipping
industry from catastrophic legal awards.  June 1: U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder formally opens a
criminal and civil investigation into the spill.  June 16: BP agrees to put about $20 billion into a fund to
pay damages resulting from the Gulf spill, with claims
administered by  Kenneth Feinberg , the lawyer who oversaw
executive compensation for the U.S. government’s financial
bailout. Less than two months after the spill began, more than
225 lawsuits in 11 states had been filed by businesses,
individuals and investors over the disaster.  July 15: BP and the Coast Guard successfully cap the blown-
out well, stopping a geyser of oil that gushed more than
4 million barrels of crude into the Gulf of Mexico over 85
days. Lawsuits tied to the disaster exceed 300.  Aug. 3:  Bloomberg News  reports the U.S. is examining
whether BP made misleading statements after the spill, and
whether company executives traded stock based on inside
information about the accident. It’s revealed that the Justice
Department is investigating possible criminal wrongdoing and the
Securities and Exchange Commission is probing potential civil
violations, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Aug. 10: A panel of judges orders that all claims tied to
the disaster be consolidated before one judge, U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans.  Sept. 19: The Macondo well is permanently sealed with
cement pumped in through an emergency relief well drilled nearby.  Oct. 20: Environmental groups sue BP, saying it should pay
damages and create a fund to restore wildlife and habitats
harmed by the spill. At least 27 federally protected species
inhabiting the Gulf region were harmed by the spill, the groups
said.  Oct. 27: Halliburton is ordered by the judge overseeing the
spill suits to turn over cement used on the Deepwater Horizon
project to investigators from the Coast Guard and the Department
of the Interior in connection with a probe of the spill.  Oct. 28: The National Oil Commission reports that
Halliburton cement used on the BP well in April was unstable.  Dec. 15: The Obama administration sues BP and four other
companies for violating environmental laws, seeking damages
under the Clean Water Act. The suit seeks a declaration that
four of the defendants are liable under the Oil Pollution Act
for all removal costs and damages caused by the oil spill,
including damages to the environment. In addition to London-
based BP, the owner of the well, defendants include units of
Transocean, which owned the rig, as well as  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, part owners of the well.  BP  shares  fall the most in almost four months.  Jan. 13, 2011: The family of Karl Kleppinger Jr. becomes
the first to settle a lawsuit against rig owner Transocean over
the deaths of the 11 crew members of the Deepwater Horizon.  March 3: Louisiana sues BP and its partners in the well,
seeking $1 million a day for damages caused by the spill.  April 15:  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  said in a court
filing that it isn’t to blame for the rig explosion because oil
and gas were surging toward it when workers tried to activate
blowout-prevention equipment. Plaintiffs suing the companies
claim Houston-based Cameron’s blowout preventer wasn’t designed
to handle the extreme environment and thicker drill pipes found
in ultra-deep wells such as the Macondo.  April 19:  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, a 10
percent partner with BP in the blown-out well, sues BP for
economic losses as a result of the project’s failure and the
spill that followed. Moex, claiming BP broke its partnership
agreement, asked the judge in the case to declare it isn’t
responsible for damages and cleanup costs.  April 20: BP sues Transocean, blaming the owner and
operator of the Deepwater Horizon for the accident and seeking
to recover costs for billions of dollars in damages. BP said
that without Transocean’s “misconduct” there wouldn’t have
been any explosion, fire, deaths or oil spill. BP also sued
Halliburton, contending the contractor provided defective
cementing services and concealed problems with the cement before
and after the explosion.  Aug. 23: The Gulf Coast Claims Facility, which draws on the
$20 billion set aside by BP after the spill, has received more
than 947,000 claims from 50 states and 36 nations, according to
a summary by claims administrator Feinberg. BP has paid more
than $5 billion to 204,434 claimants in the past year from the
fund, created to compensate victims of the spill. In total,
about $6.7 billion has been drawn from the fund, which also pays
for clean-up costs and restoration projects through payments
provided to local governments.  Aug. 26: Businesses and individuals suing BP and other
companies involved in the spill win the judge’s approval to seek
punitive damages in pursuing claims of economic and
environmental losses. BP and the other companies claimed the U.S.
Oil Pollution Act prevented plaintiffs from collecting punitive
damages. Barbier rules the statute is “silent as to the
availability of punitive damages” and plaintiffs can pursue
such claims under maritime law. Barbier dismisses economic loss
claims by individuals and businesses filed under state law.  Sept. 15: BP won’t have to face some lawsuits filed by
institutional investors on behalf of the company, a federal
judge in Houston rules. U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison
agrees with BP’s argument that the claims should be filed in U.K.
courts because the company is based there.  Sept. 30: Barbier rules Anadarko won’t have to face
personal injury claims arising from exposure to oil and other
chemicals in the cleanup of the spill. Anadarko and Moex can’t
be held responsible for these claims under maritime law, he said.  Nov. 1: A Transocean unit asks the judge to order BP to
honor a blanket indemnity against oil spill damages that the rig
owner claims was part of its drilling contract.  Nov. 14: The judge rules BP must face claims over the spill
by Louisiana and Alabama. The states can sue for negligence and
product liability under general maritime law and are eligible
for punitive damages, Barbier said. He dismisses claims brought
under state environmental laws, including demands for civil
penalties, finding they were pre-empted by federal law governing
the Outer Continental Shelf. The states and parishes are
appealing Barbier’s dismissal of the state-law environmental
claims.  Dec. 9: Mexican states and Alabama cities that are deemed
too far removed from the spill to have been physically harmed by
it are barred by the court from bringing some claims against BP.
Barbier throws out state law claims by six Louisiana parishes
seeking penalties over wildlife killed or injured by the spill.
He said the parishes, as counties in the state are called, can
still sue BP and other spill companies under U.S. law to recover
wildlife losses, spill damages and removal costs.  Jan. 2, 2012: BP seeks to have Halliburton pay all of the
 oil company ’s related costs and damages tied to the spill. BP
has paid more than $21 billion in cleanup costs and economic
damages to individuals, businesses and governments harmed by the
spill as of Dec. 1, the company said. BP reserved more than
$40 billion to cover costs related to the sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon.  Jan. 26: BP can’t collect from Transocean part of the
$40 billion in cleanup costs and economic losses caused by the
2010 oil well blowout and spill, Barbier ruled. He also holds
that BP must indemnify Transocean for pollution-related economic
damage claims under its drilling contract. Any awards for
punitive damages against Transocean or civil penalties under the
U.S. Clean Water Act won’t have to be covered by BP, the judge
wrote.  Jan. 31: BP is ordered to cover some of any direct damage
claims awarded against Halliburton for the $40 billion in
cleanup costs and economic losses caused by the spill. BP must
indemnify Halliburton for compensatory damage claims under its
drilling contract, Barbier ruled. BP had sued Halliburton to
recover a share of any damages and costs from the spill. Any
punitive damages awarded against Halliburton don’t have to be
paid by BP, the judge said.  Feb. 9: Bloomberg News reveals BP is negotiating with U.S.
officials to settle the pollution claims tied to the oil spill.
The U.S. seeks fines of as much as $4,300 for each of the
more than 4 million barrels spilled after the rig explosion.  BP wins a ruling barring the introduction of evidence at
trial of previous accidents involving the oil company. Barbier
grants a BP motion blocking the introduction of exhibits
pertaining to prior industrial accidents, including the 2005
explosion at its Texas City, Texas, refinery and a 2006 oil
spill at its Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska.  Feb. 13: BP is told it must face fraud claims by investors
who said the company lied before and after the 2010 spill about
its accident response capability. Judge Ellison in Houston
allows holders of BP American depositary receipts to pursue
claims alleging violations of U.S. securities law. He dismisses
claims by investors who bought ordinary shares of London-based
BP, saying his court has no jurisdiction over them.  Feb. 17: MOEX agrees to pay $90 million to the U.S. and
five states to settle pollution violations related to the spill
while BP and its drilling fluid provider for the Macondo well
agree to dismiss claims against each other. The U.S. files a
consent order outlining the MOEX settlement of Clean Water Act
violations. The agreement requires MOEX to pay $45 million in
civil penalties to the U.S. and about $25 million total to
Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. MOEX will
also pay $20 million for land acquisition projects.  Feb. 24: Transocean claims BP officials overseeing the
Macondo well ignored questions about whether safety tests done
hours before a fatal blast on the drilling rig were flawed.
 Donald Vidrine , the senior BP manager on the Deepwater Horizon
on April 20, 2010, talked with an engineer about unsatisfactory
well tests less than an hour before the explosion aboard the rig,
Transocean’s attorneys say in a filing. While Mark Hafle, a
Houston-based BP drilling engineer, warned Vidrine in a phone
call that stability tests on the well might be flawed, “neither
man stopped work” at the facility, Transocean said.  Feb. 26: The scheduled Feb. 27 trial is delayed by Barbier
until March 5 to allow settlement negotiations to continue.  March 2: BP and a steering committee of lawyers
representing spill victims reach an estimated $7.8 billion
settlement to resolve most private claims for property damage,
economic loss and medical injuries, postponing the March 5 start
of the trial to apportion liability for oil-spill damages. The
settlement doesn’t resolve BP’s risk of pollution fines under
the U.S. Clean Water Act, natural resources damages assessments,
claims by state and local governments, casinos, financial
institutions, individuals or by companies located in Florida and
Texas. BP also still faces claims by those harmed by the deep-
water drilling moratorium imposed by the U.S. after the spill.
BP said the settlement is uncapped, except for the portion
designed to cover losses by the Gulf seafood-processing and
fishing industries, which are collectively limited to
$2.3 billion.  March 30: BP employees can’t sue managers of the company’s
retirement savings plan over multimillion-dollar losses the
plans suffered when BP shares plunged after the spill, Ellison
rules. The workers alleged that BP retirement-plan managers
should have known the company’s stock was an “imprudent
investment” given BP’s safety and compliance record before the
Macondo spill. The cases were brought under the federal Employee
Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA.  April 11: The U.S. agrees to give BP about 100 government
documents detailing Macondo’s flow rate after the company
complained in court that the papers were being improperly
withheld. The government claims more than 4.9 million barrels of
oil flowed into the Gulf, while BP posited a lesser number.  April 18: BP and the plaintiff lawyers’ committee submit
their proposed settlement agreement to Barbier, who sets a
Nov. 8 fairness hearing on the accord. Under terms of the deal,
lawyers will be paid $600 million for their work on the
settlement, all of which will be paid by BP instead of spill
victims.  April 25: Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood asks
Barbier to throw out settlements by victims who accepted early,
cheap offers from BP so they can participate in the settlement
accord. Hood claims these victims signed away their rights to
sue BP under “economic duress” caused by intentional claim-
payment delays by the BP-sponsored Gulf Coast Claims Facility.
Individuals who took early deals received $5,000, while
businesses that agreed to release their claims to avoid
protracted litigation received $25,000 each.  Kurt Mix, a former BP engineer who worked on the Macondo
well control team, is arrested and charged with obstruction of
justice for allegedly deleting  text messages  from his mobile
phone in violation of an evidence-preservation order from U.S.
prosecutors investigating BP’s spill response.  His is the first criminal case resulting from the spill.  May 3: BP wins preliminary approval of its $7.8 billion
economic and medical settlement from Barbier, who sets a January
2013 date to restart the postponed trial over liability for
remaining spill-damage claims.  Ex-BP engineer Mix pleads not guilty to obstruction of
justice at an arraignment in New Orleans federal court, as U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder said additional charges may result
from the Justice Department’s continuing spill investigation.  Sept. 5: The U.S. reiterates in court papers its intention
to seek a gross-negligence finding against BP, which could
quadruple pollution fines the company might have to pay under
the Clean Water Act. The $1,100 per-barrel fine BP faces could
jump to $4,300 per barrel if Barbier determines BP acted with
reckless indifference in causing the spill. If BP is determined
to have been grossly negligent, the maximum pollution fine could
exceed $21 billion, depending on the quantity of oil spilled.  Sept. 11: Spill victims ask Barbier to reject BP’s
settlement accord as premature after Hurricane Isaac strikes the
Gulf Coast near New Orleans and reveals continuing oil
contamination in coastal waters. BP had urged Barbier to approve
the accord on claims that significant future contamination from
the spill was unlikely.  Sept. 19: The U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service said
Gulf of Mexico fisheries are rebounding from the spill, with
fishermen landing larger catches during the 2012 fishing season
than they did in 2009, the year before the spill. The report
claimed some species are recovering better than others in the
Gulf, which provides about a fifth of the seafood caught in U.S.
waters. The fishing industry disputes the report, saying large
areas of the Gulf remain affected by the spill, which is causing
fishing boats to travel further at greater cost for the same
catch.  Oct. 1: BP won’t have to face millions of dollars in spill-
damage claims by recreational users, company-branded gasoline
stations and businesses alleging loss of reputation, Barbier
rules. He determined these claims for “emotional, non-pecuniary
damages” weren’t covered by applicable law.  Oct. 17: Halliburton urges Barbier to reject BP’s proposed
economic and medical settlement because it alleges the deal
creates an unfair “collusive alliance” between the oil company
and plaintiffs’ lawyers against Halliburton.  Oct. 26: Barbier delays the start of the liability trial
until Feb. 25 so that lawyers won’t lose their hotel
accommodations to  Super Bowl  and Mardi Gras crowds.  Nov. 1: Lawyers for as many as 10,000 potential spill
claimants report their clients will opt out or reject the
company’s $7.8 billion proposed settlement. Victims choosing not
to participate in the deal must pursue their claims individually.  Nov. 8: BP’s exploration unit is ordered to pay Alaska $255
million in damages for a 2006 oil pipeline spill at its Prudhoe
Bay field, according to the state attorney general’s office. The
state won an arbitration award against BP for damages for oil
production shortfalls caused by leaks and pipeline replacements.  Nov. 15: BP agrees to pay $4 billion to settle all criminal
charges stemming from the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion and
oil spill, including the largest criminal penalty in U.S.
history. BP agreed to plead guilty to 11 felony counts of
seaman’s manslaughter for the rig workers who died, two counts
of violating environmental-protection laws, and one count of
obstructing justice by lying to Congress about the size of the
spill. The settlement includes designated sums for wildlife and
drilling-safety initiatives. BP agrees to pay an additional $525
million to resolve civil securities violations with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The accord doesn’t address
potential fines BP faces under the Clean Water Act or natural
resources damages claims. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency temporarily suspends BP from future fuel-supply and oil
lease contracts with the U.S. government until independent
safety and ethics monitors agree the company has sufficiently
improved its safety performance.  Separately, three present or former BP managers are
criminally charged on counts tied to the rig explosion and
resulting spill. BP well-site leaders for the Deepwater Horizon,
Robert Kaluza and Donald Vidrine, are charged with manslaughter
and environmental violations on allegations they recklessly
disregarded multiple signs that a Macondo well blowout was
imminent.  David Rainey , BP’s former vice president of
exploration for the Gulf, is charged with obstructing Congress
and lying about the size of the spill.  Nov. 28: BP’s two well-site leaders from the Deepwater
Horizon, Kaluza and Vidrine, and former deputy Gulf operations
chief Rainey enter pleas of not guilty to criminal charges
stemming from the fatal rig explosion and resulting spill.  Separately, Barbier dismisses claims against Ecolab Inc.’s
Nalco unit by individuals claiming medical effects from exposure
to oil spill dispersants manufactured by the firm.  Dec. 21: Barbier gives final approval to the economic
portion of BP’s $7.8 billion settlement with the plaintiffs’
steering committee, resolving most business and individual-loss
claims from the spill.  Jan. 3, 2013: Transocean agrees to pay more than $1.4
billion, including a $400 million criminal fine, to settle all
Justice Department criminal and civil allegations from the rig
explosion and oil spill. Under terms of the deal, the drilling
contractor will pay $1 billion in civil penalties and plead
guilty to one misdemeanor count of violating the Clean Water Act.  Jan. 11: Barbier gives final approval to the medical
portion of BP’s estimated $7.8 billion settlement with
plaintiffs lawyers, resolving most of the medical injury claims
stemming from the spill.  BP asks Barbier to officially recognize that the company
recovered and pumped to the surface more than 810,000 barrels of
the oil that spewed from Macondo’s damaged wellhead, effectively
preventing that oil from escaping into the Gulf. The company
asks to subtract those barrels from the Justice Department’s 4.9
million barrel spill calculation. The difference could shave as
much as $3.4 billion off BP’s potential maximum fine, as the
company’s fine under the Clean Water Act will be determined by
the number of barrels spilled.  Jan. 18: Lawyers representing more than 10,000 spill
claimants appeal Barbier’s approval of BP’s $7.8 billion
settlement accord. They claim the deal is unfair and has too
many technical problems to effectively resolve most economic and
medical-injury claims from the spill.  Jan. 29: BP wins final approval of its guilty plea to
resolve 14 criminal charges tied to the Deepwater Horizon
explosion. The company agrees to pay $4.5 billion in penalties
and fines, including $525 million to the SEC for securities
violations, and submit to intensive oversight of its drilling
and safety practices for five years. The company’s plea deal
doesn’t affect separate criminal cases against four former
company managers accused of either negligently causing the
accident or misleading Congress and investigators about the rate
of oil gushing from the blown-out well.  Feb. 5: BP increases the estimated cost of its economic and
medical settlement by $680 million to $8.5 billion, based on
increased costs for administering the settlement and on the
claims administrator’s interpretation of some terms that were
“contrary to some of BP’s previous assumptions,” according to
BP’s fourth-quarter earnings report. The company says in the
same  SEC filing  that it had received more than $34 billion in
spill-related damage claims from state and local governments,
which the company believes  “substantially overstate” BP’s
exposure to this type of claim. BP says it has spent about $23
billion so far on the aftermath of the spill, including cleanup
and payment of claims.  Feb. 6: BP investors led by the state pension funds of New
York and Ohio can add statements to their multimillion-dollar
securities-fraud claims against the company and two top officers,
Ellison rules. The investors say BP lied about its commitment to
and implementation of drilling safety and spill-response
capabilities before and after the spill. BP American Depository
Receipts plunged after the spill, wiping out billions in
 shareholder value . Former BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  and former Chief Operating Officer  Doug Suttles  remain
in the lawsuit while other officers and directors are dismissed.
The litigation is limited to investors who bought shares on the
U.S. stock exchange.  Bloomberg News learns that BP’s Pentagon contracts have
more than doubled since the Gulf spill, surging to $2.51 billion
in the year ended Sept. 30, up from $1.04 billion in fiscal 2010.
BP’s share of the military petroleum market jumped to 12 percent
from 8.5 percent during the period, according to Bloomberg data.
The company was temporarily suspended from winning new
government work after it agreed in November to plead guilty to
criminal charges.  Feb. 14: U.S. District Judge Jane Triche Milazzo accepts
Transocean’s guilty plea to a misdemeanor count of violating the
U.S. Clean Water Act.  Feb. 19: BP wins approval of an agreement for the U.S.
government to not count 810,000 barrels of oil captured before
they became part of the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  spill, reducing the
potential maximum fine under the Clean Water Act by $3.4 billion.  Transocean wins court approval of its $1 billion settlement
of the lawsuit brought by the U.S. on pollution claims.  Feb. 21: Barbier rules lawsuit plaintiffs can’t use as
evidence in the civil trial certain documents related to the
criminal case, including the so-called criminal information,
which spells out federal prosecutors’ allegations against the
company, as well as the indictments of three BP employees.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  