-- BP, Transocean Accused of ‘Reckless’ Actions in Spill
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-02-26T09:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/bp-oil-spill-errors-trial-begins-in-new-orleans-court.html
The mishandling of an oil-rig safety
test by  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  officials was a major cause
of an explosion that led to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill ,
lawyers for the U.S. and spill victims said at a trial.  BP and Transocean supervisors’ failure to properly
interpret results of a pressure test on the Macondo well off the
coast of  Louisiana  cost 11 rig workers their lives and sent
millions of gallons of oil spewing into the Gulf, Michael
Underhill, a U.S. Justice Department lawyer, and Jim Roy, an
attorney for plaintiffs suing the companies, told a judge
yesterday.  “BP put profits before people, profits before safety and
profits before the environment,” Underhill said in opening
statements that began this morning in  New Orleans  in a trial
before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing
litigation over the spill.  Barbier will decide who is liable for damages tied to the
largest offshore spill in U.S. history and whether BP,
Transocean or other companies that worked on the project were
grossly negligent in their handling of the rig and well. His
ruling on that issue will affect how much each company may have
to pay.  BP executives’ “missteps and reckless decisions” about
the safety test were prompted by pressure to generate billions
in profits regardless of the costs, Underhill said in his
statement.  BP shares fell 1.5 percent to 444.40 pence at 8:57 a.m. in
London trading.  Possible Damages  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil into the
Gulf. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against London-
based BP, Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean, owner of the
rig, and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which handled cement
work on the well.  For BP, the well’s owner, a finding of gross negligence
would mean the  company  is liable to the U.S. for as much as
$17.6 billion in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified
punitive damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5
billion settlement the company reached last year. For Transocean
and Halliburton, a gross negligence finding would mean they
could be held liable for punitive damages.  One of the disaster’s root causes was the “willful failure
of Transocean to give its Deepwater Horizon crew adequate
training” on interpreting safety tests, Roy said in his opening
statement. “This gross and extreme departure from good oil-
field practice rests with the management of Transocean,” Roy
said.  Unsafe Pressure  BP, over-budget and behind schedule for the Macondo well,
cut corners and ignored tests showing unsafe pressure levels as
it tried to complete the project, Roy said yesterday. Spill
victims also contend that Halliburton’s cement job was defective
and that Transocean disabled safety systems and failed to
maintain the rig and adequately train its crew.  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean failed to
maintain the drilling rig and Halliburton provided defective
cementing services and concealed flaws with the cement before
and after the explosion. Transocean and Halliburton pointed
fingers back at BP.  Barbier will apply maritime law, which governs this phase
of the litigation. A trial on efforts to contain the spill is
set for September. One or more trials on damages will follow,
barring any out-of-court settlements.  Punitive Damages  The judge will apportion fault for the explosion and spill
among BP and its subcontractors. Halliburton and Transocean are
only responsible for punitive damages, based on Barbier’s ruling
last year that the project contract required BP to indemnify
them for compensatory damages.  BP must pay any compensatory damages awarded to plaintiffs
who haven’t previously settled their claims. Those plaintiffs,
including businesses such as banks and casinos and those harmed
by the deep-water drilling moratorium imposed by the U.S. after
the spill, are also seeking punitive damages. BP has said it
will fight these claims.  Safety tests showing the Macondo well was unstable were
misinterpreted by BP officials, who should have immediately
ceased to drill, Underhill said.  BP executives could have avoided the explosion if an on-
site supervisor walked over to the drilling area and closed
operations after questions were raised about the so-called
negative-pressure test, the government lawyer added.  Cementing Substandard  Months before the explosion, BP officials were aware of
problems on the Deepwater Horizon rig, Underhill said. For
example,  oil company  executives knew Halliburton’s cement job on
the well was substandard, he said.  BP officials didn’t want to delay drilling operations to
fix the cement problems, Underhill said. “Who cares, it’s done,
end of story,” Brett Cocales, a BP engineer responded in an e-
mail to concerns about the cement, according to Underhill.  Luther Strange,  Alabama ’s attorney general, told the judge
yesterday that BP put profit ahead of safety and that led to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster.  “BP was blinded by their bottom line,” Strange said.
“Money mattered more than the environment, it mattered more
than the jobs destroyed and the lives of workers on the rig.
Greed devastated the Gulf.”  Pointing Fingers  Michael Brock, one of BP’s lawyers, countered in his
opening statement that the oil company wasn’t defending itself
by pointing fingers at the Macondo well’s contractors. The
company’s presentation is based on “pointing out facts” about
what led to the explosion and spill, he said.  One reason the rig blew was the failure of the vessel’s
400-ton blowout preventer to properly serve as the last line of
defense against an explosion, Brock added.  Maintenance issues played a role in the system’s failure,
he said. Investigators found the blowout preventer had dead
batteries in one of its sections and faulty wiring in another.
“It was Transocean’s responsibility to maintain” the rig’s
safety equipment, Brock said.  BP wasn’t the only company involved in the rig that put
profit ahead of all other consideration, Roy said. Transocean
officials’ push to maximize revenue generated by the Deepwater
Horizon rig meant the company had never called the vessel back
to port for maintenance in its nine-year career, Roy said.  BP officials had found more than 390 maintenance problems
with the rig that would have required more than 3,000 hours to
correct, the lawyer for spill victims said.  Transocean adopted a “run it ‘til it breaks philosophy’’
and that led to repeated equipment failures on the rig that were
left unaddressed, Roy added.  Those failures included the so-called blowout preventer.
Transocean officials knew they were required to maintain the
device and failed to do so, Roy said.  ‘Saving Money’  A Transocean official acknowledged in a 2009 document the
driller often focused so much on ‘‘ saving money  in the short
term’’ that it affected maintenance and safety issues, Roy said.  Brad Brian, one of Transocean’s lawyers, countered in his
opening statement that the drilling firm properly trained the
Deepwater Horizon crew in safety procedures and the rig wasn’t
neglected by the company.  Transocean’s training program met the standards set by the
oil industry, Brian said. Every company ‘‘can do better” on
training, but Transocean didn’t ignore the need to have drilling
crews exposed to rig-safety instruction, he added.  ‘Best Rigs’  The Deepwater Horizon was “one of the best rigs in the
world,” Brian said. It was inspected hundreds of times by
government officials and found to be in proper operating
condition. For example, the U.S. Coast Guard certified the rig
as being in “excellent condition” in 2009, he said.  While both BP and Transocean officials wound up
misinterpreting the well-pressure test, BP executives had the
final say on such safety tests, Brian noted. “The problem here
wasn’t with the rig or the crew,” he said. “The problem was
the well and how BP managed it.”  Donald Godwin, a lawyer for Halliburton, said it was BP’s
and Transocean’s mishandling of the safety tests that caused the
disaster and not his client’s cement.  BP is “seeking to pass
the buck on their wrongdoing” to Halliburton, Godwin said.  Had the pressure test on the well been properly
interpreted, “there would have been no blowout,” Godwin said.
The oil company also “saved time and money” by not doing
proper testing on the well cement, he said. Had those standard
tests been done, Halliburton could have moved to fix any
problems and the well’s failure could have been avoided, Godwin
added.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans federal court at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans federal court  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  