-- BP Seeks to Prove Gulf Spill Errors Weren’t Negligence
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-02-25T18:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/bp-seeks-to-prove-gulf-spill-errors-weren-t-grossly-negligent.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  must convince a federal judge that mistakes that
led to the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill  don’t amount to gross
negligence if they are to avoid billions of dollars in damages
for the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  The trial, which began today, is one in which the judge and
not a jury will weigh the evidence. It focuses on fault and
whether one or more of the companies acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  For BP, owner of the Macondo well that blew up in the Gulf,
a finding of gross negligence would mean the  company  is liable
to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion in  Clean Water Act 
fines, as well as unspecified punitive damages to claimants who
weren’t part of the $8.5 billion settlement the company reached
last year. For Transocean and Halliburton, findings of gross
negligence would mean the companies can be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs.  Going to trial “is a big gamble,” said John Levy, a
lawyer specializing in complex litigation, including maritime
and environmental law. “If you go to trial with this much money
at stake, someone isn’t evaluating it correctly.”  Unsafe Pressure  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million
barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The accident sparked
hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP, Vernier,
Switzerland-based Transocean, owner of the Deepwater Horizon,
and Houston-based Halliburton, which provided cement for the
well.  BP, over-budget and behind schedule for the Macondo well,
cut corners and ignored tests showing unsafe pressure levels as
it tried to complete the project, according to the plaintiffs.
They also claim that Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
that Transocean disabled safety systems and failed to maintain
the rig and adequately train its crew.  BP lodged complaints against its contractors, with its own
claims that Transocean failed to maintain the drilling rig and
Halliburton provided defective cementing services and concealed
problems with the cement before and after the explosion.  Transocean and Halliburton pointed fingers back at BP. BP
rose 1.6 percent to 451.15 pence in London.  U.S., States  The U.S. and Gulf states are considering a $16 billion
accord with BP over pollution fines and natural-resource damages
claims, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP,
declined to comment, as did Joy Patterson, a spokeswoman for
Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange, and Amanda Larkins,
spokeswoman for Louisiana Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell . Wyn
Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, also declined to
comment on any settlement proposal.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  will apply maritime law,
which governs this phase of the litigation. A trial on efforts
to contain the spill is set for September. One or more trials on
damages will follow, barring any out-of-court settlements.  “We believe that there is overwhelming evidence that BP,
Transocean and Halliburton were all grossly negligent, and we
look forward to introducing that evidence at trial,” said  Steve
Herman , a lead attorney for the plaintiffs.  Barbier will apportion fault for the explosion and spill
among BP and its subcontractors. Halliburton and Transocean
would only be responsible for punitive damages, based on
Barbier’s ruling last year that the project contract required BP
to indemnify them for compensatory damages.  Banks, Casinos  BP is responsible for any compensatory damages awarded to
plaintiffs who haven’t previously settled. These plaintiffs,
including businesses such as banks and casinos and those harmed
by the deep-water drilling moratorium imposed by the U.S. after
the spill, are also seeking punitive damages. BP has said it
will fight these claims.  The companies’ chances of defeating allegations of gross
negligence are improved by the trial being before a judge and
not a jury, said Levy, who represents companies in insurance,
product liability and environmental disputes and isn’t involved
in this case.  “Judges rarely award punitive damages,” he said in a
phone interview. “Judges see mistakes, even horrible errors in
judgment, as being resolved by fair compensatory damages.”  Shares for all three companies  plummeted  after the disaster
before rebounding.  BP Risk  Any movement in the shares directly because of the trial
will mainly relate to the market’s perception of the total
amount owed by each of the three companies, Brian Youngberg, an
analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , said in a phone interview.  BP shares are seen as having the greatest risk during the
trial, he said. Even so, investor concern has subsided.  “During the trial period investors will be looking at more
of the underlying operations of these companies,” Youngberg
said.  Investors are resigned to the companies going to trial,
Youngberg said.  “There had been a bit of optimism built in prior to this
past week that there would be a settlement,” he said. “That
optimism has definitely waned.” Youngberg has hold ratings on
all three companies.  “There’s some numbness that’s there,” Phil Weiss, an
analyst at Argus Research in New York, said in a phone
interview. “The amount of overhang on these stocks now from
Macondo is probably less than it was.” Weiss rates Transocean
and Halliburton shares as buys and BP as hold.  Partial Settlement  The trial, initially set to begin last March, was
rescheduled after BP reached a settlement with most individual
and other so-called private-party plaintiffs.  The settlement, which isn’t capped, is estimated at $8.5
billion by BP and excludes claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and Texas, and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the deep-water
drilling moratorium.  It also didn’t cover federal government claims and those of
Gulf Coast states Louisiana and Alabama, or lawsuits against co-
defendants. Lawyers for the U.S. and the two states will be
presenting evidence at the trial, along with attorneys for the
private parties. BP has said the states are claiming at least
$34 billion in damages.  The U.S. government sued BP and Transocean in 2010 for
violations of the Clean Water Act and the Oil Pollution Act,
seeking fines, cleanup costs and natural-resources damages.  Transocean Guilty  Last month, Transocean pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor
Clean Water Act violation and agreed to pay $1.4 billion,
including $400 million in criminal penalties. The company said
then it hadn’t settled natural-resource damages claims.  BP pleaded guilty to 14 federal charges, including 12
felonies, and admitted it misinterpreted a critical pressure
test just before the explosion. It agreed to pay $4 billion in
fines and penalties, plus $525 million to settle a Securities
and Exchange Commission claim that the company underestimated
the size of the spill.  Barbier hasn’t determined how the plea can be used in the
trial. Barbier ruled Feb. 21 that the plaintiffs couldn’t use as
evidence in the civil trial certain documents related to the
criminal case, including the so-called criminal information,
which spelled out federal prosecutors’ allegations against the
company, as well as the indictments of three BP employees.  Pollution Fines  The plea didn’t cover the U.S. lawsuit against BP and the
company remains at risk for as much as $17.6 billion in fines.
The Clean Water Act provides for penalties of as much as $1,100
for each barrel spilled for simple negligence, or $4,300 a
barrel if gross negligence is found.  The U.S. estimated that 4.9 million barrels gushed from the
doomed Macondo well. BP and the government agreed last week that
810,000 barrels of oil that the company captured before they
entered Gulf waters wouldn’t be included in Clean Water Act fine
calculations. The agreement cut BP’s highest potential
government fine by $3.4 billion.  The U.S. will pursue a finding of gross negligence,
Hornbuckle, the Justice Department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We intend to prove that BP was grossly negligent and that
the company engaged in willful misconduct in causing this
disastrous oil spill,” he said.  “We are seeking civil penalties and a judgment that BP and
others are liable without limitation for removal costs and
natural resource damages -- exposure that could amount to
billions of dollars,” Hornbuckle said.  ‘Very High Bar’  “Gross negligence is a very high bar that BP believes
cannot be met in this case,” Rupert Bondy, group general
counsel of BP, said in a Feb. 19 statement. “This was a tragic
accident, resulting from multiple causes and involving multiple
parties.”  Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for Halliburton, declined
to comment on the trial.  “We continue to believe that we have substantial legal
arguments and defenses against any liability and that BP’s
indemnity protects us,” Halliburton said this month in an  SEC
filing .  “The facts of the case are on Transocean’s side,” Lou Colasuonno, a spokesman for the company, said in a phone
interview.  The spill victims also sued two other contractors,  Cameron
International Corp. (CAM) , maker of the blowout preventer on the
project, and M-I Swaco, a unit of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , that
provided drilling fluid.  Cameron’s Deal  Houston-based Cameron agreed to pay BP $250 million in
December 2011 in exchange for the oil company’s indemnifying it
from damage claims. The settlement didn’t cover fines or
penalties or punitive damages. The  Schlumberger unit  settled
with BP last year without disclosing the terms.  Both will be at the trial as the judge weighs comparative
fault for the disaster. Neither has much risk of being forced to
pay more money because “they had little or no ability to make
determinations or change outcomes,” said  Anthony Sabino , a law
professor at St. John’s University in New York who specializes
in complex litigation.  “As such, they are at a remove from the main parties --and
that’s good news for them,” he said. “By being outliers to the
critical events here, it’s tough to say they were negligent, and
nearly impossible to meet the high legal standard that they were
so reckless as to constitute gross negligence and thus be liable
for punitive damages.”  Joao Felix, a spokesman for Schlumberger, and Jeff Altamari, spokesman for Cameron, declined to comment on the
trial.  Well Partners  BP’s partners in the well,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and
 Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007, won’t be part of this trial.
Anadarko, which had a 25 percent share in the Macondo well,
agreed to pay BP $4 billion to settle its share of oil spill
claims. MOEX, which had a 10 percent share, settled for $1.07
billion. Barbier has ruled that MOEX and Anadarko can’t be sued
under maritime law because they didn’t have control of the
operation.  The U.S. also sued the partner firms under pollution laws.
MOEX settled government claims for $90 million last year, while
Anadarko still has U.S. claims pending against it.  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, contended that any
potential damages would have “no significant impact” on the
company. “We had no culpability,” he said.  Settlement Talks  The trial is expected to last three months. Barbier hasn’t
indicated if he will make a decision on the level of negligence
after this phase, or wait until after the next segment, which
will address the size of the spill and the efforts to contain
it.  Settlement negotiations will probably continue through the
trial, said St. John’s Sabino.  “I still expect a settlement before judgment,” he said.
“Not because they want to, but because they have to.”  “Anything is possible if you leave it in the hands of the
judge,” Sabino said. “Why risk having Judge Barbier rule
against you to any degree when you can lock in a settlement?”  A settlement would eliminate risk and replace it with
certainty, he said.  “A settlement is something you can live with,” he said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in New Orleans federal court
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  