-- Brazil Analysts Cut 2013 Inflation Forecast for Second Week
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-02-25T12:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/brazil-analysts-cut-2013-inflation-forecast-for-second-week-1-.html
Analysts covering Brazil’s economy
lowered their forecasts for inflation this year for the second
week, as a strengthening real may hold down import prices.  Brazil’s consumer prices will rise 5.69 percent in 2013,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey of
about 100 analysts published today. Economists had forecast a
5.70 percent increase the previous week.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is struggling to
slow inflation levels approaching the upper limit of the central
bank’s target while spurring growth in the world’s second-
largest emerging market. The government has cut taxes on
payrolls,  consumer goods  and electricity, allowed the real to
strengthen by 4 percent, the most among major currencies this
year, and lowered the benchmark  interest rate  to a record 7.25
percent.  “There is some stability” in inflation expectations,
Enestor Dos Santos, senior economist for Brazil at  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said in a telephone interview from
Madrid. “A harsher government stance against inflation and
appreciation in the currency are most likely behind the drop in
expectations.”  Monetary Policy  The government’s measures have failed so far to slow
inflation. Price increases in  mid-February  exceeded economists’
forecasts for the eighth consecutive month, while annual
inflation rose to 6.18 percent. Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said on Feb. 19 that  monetary policy  in the world’s
sixth-largest economy can shift if the inflation outlook
requires. The bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  Analysts in the survey raised their forecast for economic
growth this year to 3.10 percent from 3.08 percent the previous
week, the first increase since last May. They lowered their
prediction for growth next year to 3.60 percent from 3.65
percent.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 1 percent last
year, the central bank estimated in December, after growing 2.7
percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010. Growth will reach 3
percent to 4 percent this year, according to Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  