-- Britain’s Top Catholic Resigns Before Conclave Vote on Pope
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-02-25T12:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/britain-s-top-catholic-resigns-ahead-of-conclave-vote-on-pope.html
Cardinal Keith O’Brien, Britain’s
most senior Catholic cleric, stepped down amid allegations he
behaved inappropriately toward priests in the 1980s.  O’Brien, 74, has denied any wrongdoing. The archbishop of
 St. Andrews  and Edinburgh had handed in his resignation to  Pope
Benedict XVI  on Nov. 13 and said in a  statement  the pontiff had
decided to accept it with effect today.  “Approaching the age of 75 and at times in indifferent
health, I tendered my resignation some months ago,” O’Brien
said in the statement on the Scottish Catholic media office’s
website. “The Holy Father has now decided that my resignation
will take effect today and that he will appoint an apostolic
administrator to govern the archdiocese in my place.”  The cardinal won’t take part in the conclave that votes on
the next pope following Benedict’s decision to step down at the
end of this month, the office said.  The  Observer newspaper  said that three priests and one
former priest reported O’Brien to the Vatican earlier this month
for inappropriate behavior dating back 30 years. O’Brien was
seeking legal advice, the  BBC  reported, without saying where it
got the information.  Peter Kearney, director of the Catholic Media Office in
Glasgow, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment by
Bloomberg on his mobile phone or office line. His voicemail
directed callers to the Scottish Catholic website.  “It would be a great pity if a lifetime of positive work
was lost from comment in the circumstances of his resignation,”
Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  said in a statement today.
“None of us know the outcome of the investigation into the
claims made against him but I have found him to be a good man
for his church and country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Farrand at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net  