-- C. Everett Koop, Surgeon General Who Took on Tobacco, Dies at 96
-- B y   M a r k   S c h o i f e t
-- 2013-02-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/c-everett-koop-surgeon-general-who-took-on-tobacco-dies-at-96.html
C. Everett Koop, the U.S. surgeon
general who set aside his religious beliefs to promote childhood
sex education for AIDS prevention and issued the first
government warning about second-hand tobacco smoke, has died. He
was 96.  He died yesterday at his home in Hanover, New Hampshire,
according to the  website  of Dartmouth College, where he was
founder of the C. Everett Koop Institute at Dartmouth’s Geisel
School of Medicine. No cause of death was given.  With his Lincoln-style beard, military uniform and frequent
television appearances, Koop raised the profile of the
previously obscure position of  surgeon general  to celebrity
status. He used his role as chief U.S. health educator to
campaign for the rights of infants with birth defects to receive
medical treatment and for disabled people to have access to
public facilities.  An evangelical Christian who served under President Ronald
Reagan, Koop angered conservatives by promoting condom use. He
insisted that to stop AIDS he had to dispense health advice to
all Americans, even if they engaged in practices, such as gay
sex or drug use, that conflicted with his own moral views. He
urged sex education “at the lowest grade possible” and mailed
an eight-page AIDS brochure to 107 million households in 1988.  “I am the surgeon general of the heterosexuals and the
homosexuals, of the young and the old, of the moral or the
immoral, the married and the unmarried,” Koop told the
Washington Post. “I don’t have the luxury of deciding which
side I want to be on. So I can tell you how to keep yourself
alive no matter what you are. That’s my job.”  Targeting Tobacco  Koop used his post as a bully pulpit to pummel the tobacco
industry, which he accused of deceptive advertising. He devoted
more time to the issue than any other in his eight years in
office, according to the  National Library of Medicine .  His landmark surgeon general’s report in 1986 contained the
first official government warning on the link between second-
hand smoke and lung cancer. He called for a smoke-free society
by 2000 and new measures to restrict smoking in the workplace
and public settings. Two decades later, many such laws would be
in place throughout the U.S.  An opponent of abortion, Koop enraged fellow members of the
right-to-life movement by insisting that the issue was a moral
one, not a public-health matter. He resisted pressure from
Reagan to issue a report stating that abortion was
psychologically harmful to women. The scientific studies on the
subject were inconclusive, Koop wrote in January 1989.  Opposed Nominee  Twenty-one years later, Koop joined abortion opponents in
opposing President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of Elena Kagan to
the U.S. Supreme Court. He urged the Senate to reject Kagan for
her work, under President Bill Clinton, against Republican
legislation to outlaw the late-term procedure that critics call
partial-birth abortion. Kagan was confirmed to the court.  Before taking the post in 1982, Koop helped establish the
field of pediatric surgery. He spent 35 years as the chief
surgeon at the  Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia , where he
founded the nation’s first neonatal intensive-care unit. He
developed a technique to correct esophageal atresia, a
congenital birth defect in which the esophagus doesn’t connect
normally with the stomach, saving almost 500 children with the
operation.  Koop stayed on as surgeon general for eight months under
President George H.W. Bush, resigning in October 1989, a month
before the end of his second term. In 1995, President Clinton
awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest
civilian honor.  DrKoop.com Venture  Some of Koop’s private-sector ventures after leaving office
were tarnished by accusations of conflict of interest.  In 1997, he and other investors founded  DrKoop.com , one of
the first health-information sites on the Internet. By 1999, at
the height of the tech-stock boom, the Austin, Texas-based
company’s market capitalization had soared to $1.3 billion, and
Koop’s stake was valued at $56 million.  Some environmental and health activists said the website
unethically blurred the lines between news and advertising. They
also said Koop acted as a front for chemical and pharmaceutical
companies.  DrKoop.com filed for bankruptcy protection in 2001 and was
sold for $186,000 a year later to a firm that kept the domain
name. By then, Koop had ended his affiliation.  In 1999 testimony before Congress, Koop played down health-
group concerns about allergies to latex surgical gloves. He
failed to disclose that he had once received $650,000 in
consulting fees from a company that manufactured such gloves.  Dartmouth Return  “So blatant a conflict of interest involving one of the
country’s most respected physicians is shocking,” the Chicago
Tribune wrote in an editorial. “More shocking still is his
apparent inability to understand what the problem is.”  In his later years, Koop taught at Dartmouth’s medical
school in Hanover and served as a senior scholar at its  C.
Everett Koop Institute . He also endorsed Life Alert emergency-
response devices for the elderly in television commercials.  Charles Everett Koop was born in  Brooklyn , New York, on
Oct. 14, 1916, the only child of a banker and a business
manager. As early as age 6, he expressed a desire to become a
surgeon. His mother administered anesthesia during in-home
operations in the neighborhood, a practice sometimes performed
by laymen.  “During my childhood, physicians were held in awe,” Koop
told People magazine in 1999. “They were gods among men to me.
When the family doctor drove up to your house for a house call,
you knew the healing had begun.”  Rats, Cats  He attended the Flatbush School, a private high school, and
pursued his interest in medicine after class. He would sneak
into the viewing gallery of the Columbia University College of
Physicians and Surgeons in  Manhattan . At home, with his mother
administering anesthesia, Koop performed operations on rabbits,
rats and stray cats, according to his National Library of
Medicine biography. At 16, he volunteered for summer jobs at
hospitals.  Koop entered Dartmouth College on a football scholarship in
1933, majoring in zoology. By then known by his nickname, Chick
(as in chicken coop), he gave up football after injuring his eye
and getting a warning from an ophthalmologist that the sport
might endanger his medical career.  At Dartmouth, he met his future wife, Betty Flanagan. They
were married in 1938 and had four children.  Pediatric Surgery  Koop returned to New York in 1937 to attend Cornell
University Medical College, receiving his degree four years
later. He did his internship and residency at the Pennsylvania
Hospital in Philadelphia and was asked to join Children’s
Hospital as its first surgeon-in-chief.  Pediatric surgery was new at the time, and most medical
schools offered little training in the field. Koop prepared for
his new post by doing a one-year internship with two of the
founders of pediatric surgery in the U.S., William E. Ladd and
Robert E. Gross, at  Boston Children’s Hospital . He also earned a
doctor of science degree from the University of Pennsylvania in
1947.  Koop helped establish the field of pediatric surgery on the
principle that children’s bodies are anatomically and
physiologically different from adults, requiring special
surgical procedures. He made the common hernia operation less
painful and disfiguring by using a shorter incision and changing
the stitching. In 1977, he became the first surgeon to separate
Siamese twins joined at the heart, saving the life of one.  ‘Higher Truth’  Though he was raised by a church-going family, Koop wasn’t
especially devout until he joined the Tenth Presbyterian Church
of Philadelphia in 1948. He had a spiritual awakening.  “As a person whose training and experience put full faith
in science, I came to see an even higher truth,” Koop wrote in
his 1991 autobiography. “From then on, I saw a coexistence
between science and God.”  Koop began speaking out publicly against abortion after the
Supreme Court’s landmark Roe v. Wade decision in 1973. He argued
that legalized abortion devalued human life and would loosen
moral strictures against euthanasia and infanticide. He wrote a
book and produced multimedia projects on the subject.  It was Koop’s prominence in the anti-abortion movement that
drew the notice of President Reagan, who appointed him deputy
assistant secretary for health in February 1981, with the
understanding that he would be nominated for surgeon general.  He was confirmed by the Senate in November 1981 after a
protracted battle over his views on abortion, and took office in
January 1982 as the nation’s 13th surgeon general.  Baby Doe  In his first year on the job, Koop became embroiled in a
highly publicized medical-ethics battle known as the Baby Doe
case. The parents of an Indiana girl born with Down’s syndrome
and esophageal atresia elected not to have surgery performed to
open the esophagus, which would have saved the baby’s life.
(Baby Doe died before the case was resolved.)  Koop spoke out against the parents’ decision and helped
craft a 1984 federal law that extended the definition of child
abuse to the denial of doctor-recommended treatment for infants
with birth defects.  “I don’t think parents should have the discretion to kill
their children,” Koop told the New York Times years later.
“I’m a great believer in the slippery slope. You get into the
terrible quagmire of having only perfect children, and nobody
can guarantee that.”  Koop’s decision to wear a uniform revived a tradition that
had been dormant for years. The surgeon general oversees the
6,000-member Commissioned Corps of the U.S. Public Health
Service, which began as the Marine Hospital Service in 1870. The
corps is organized as a non-armed, uniformed military service,
with the surgeon general holding the rank of vice admiral.  Koop ordered corps members to wear their uniforms once a
week as a symbol of the original mission. His own gold-braided
outfit added gravity to his pronouncements and helped him on his
way to becoming America’s most famous surgeon general.  Koop and his wife had three sons -- Allen, Norman, David --
and a daughter, Betsy. David died in a climbing accident in
1968.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Schoifet in New York at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  