-- Caesars Falls as Loss Doubles on Jersey Writedown, Sandy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-26T14:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/caesars-loss-doubles-on-atlantic-city-write-off-hurricane-sandy.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
largest owner of U.S. casinos, fell after the company said its
fourth-quarter loss more than doubled because of costs related
to  Hurricane Sandy  and a write-off at one  New Jersey  property.  The shares declined 7.5 percent to $10.83 at 9:31 a.m.
today in  New York , after the company said yesterday it lost
$469.7 million, or $3.75 a share, in the period. Caesars had
risen 69 percent this year through Feb. 25 on prospects for
online gambling in the U.S., while the Russell 2000 Index
advanced 5.5 percent.  Hurricane Sandy cost Caesars $45 million in lost revenue
from the closing of its four Atlantic City resorts for five days
and its Philadelphia casino for two, the  Las Vegas-based
company said in a statement. Companywide, visits by loyalty-club
members declined 11 percent in the period, mostly due to
 Atlantic City .  “The region’s economy has been slow to recover due to the
devastation caused by the hurricane,” the company said in the
statement.  Fourth-quarter sales declined 4.3 percent to $2.02 billion,
missing estimates of $2.11 billion. Analysts had predicted a
loss of $1.73 a share, the average of six  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Spending per visitor rose 6.2 percent, thanks largely
to international travel to Las Vegas.  Caesars, constrained by more than $20 billion in debt, lost
$220.6 million, or $1.76 a share, in the year-earlier period.  Online Prospects  Caesars shares had risen more than 40 percent this month on
the pending introduction of online gambling in  Nevada  and New
Jersey, signs of a pickup at  Las Vegas  casinos and the company’s
plans to sell a stake in its online operation, along with two
properties. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman
said on a conference call no final decision has been made about
the new business unit.  “You can imagine a new entity that is unencumbered with
respect to debt finance that would be able to support the
activities for the company’s growth,” Loveman said. “It could
be a very attractive feature.”  Loveman said he expected to hear by May from the South
Korean government on a proposed casino there and that the
company could be offering gambling online in New Jersey in the
next 18 months. The company, controlled by TPG Capital LP and
Apollo Global Management Holdings LLC after their 2008 buyout,
is in discussions with several suitors regarding the sale of its
golf course in Macau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  