-- Canada Dollar Falls for Seventh Day as Risk Demand Wanes
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-02-25T22:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/canada-dollar-falls-for-seventh-day-as-risk-demand-wanes.html
The Canadian dollar fell against its
U.S. counterpart for a seventh day as investors’ risk appetite
declined and concern increased that the nation’s economic growth
is slowing more than forecast.  The dollar weakened against the majority of its most-traded
peers before a report March 1 forecast to show  Canada ’s economy
contracted 0.2 percent in December versus 0.3 percent growth the
month before, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.
Global  risk aversion  increased as polls indicated Italy may be
left with a hung parliament, potentially jeopardizing austerity
measures put in place in the euro area’s third-largest economy,
driving investors to the U.S. dollar as a refuge.  “Tier-two currencies are being bounced about on the back
of what’s happening in  Europe ,”  Dean Popplewell , a currency
analyst at Oanda Corp., said by phone from Toronto. “Investors
are leaning toward more risk-off, until they get a clear idea of
what’s going on in Italy.”  The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.5 percent to C$1.0262
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after dropping to C$1.0278,
the lowest level since June 29. One Canadian dollar buys 97.45
U.S. cents.  Futures of crude oil, the country’s largest export, fell
1.1 percent to $92.11 per barrel, while the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials gained 0.1 percent.  Government Bonds  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks fell 1.8
percent. The 120-day correlation coefficient between the loonie
and the  S&P 500  reached 0.48, the lowest since Oct. 30, 2008. A
reading of one would indicate they’re moving in lockstep.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  rose, pushing
yields down eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
1.86 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022
rose 69 cents to C$107.52.  “Italy’s election not going the way the market had hoped
has investors worrying anew about Europe’s debt crisis,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions,
wrote in an e-mail. “Investors are ditching a broad class of
risky assets for safety in the U.S.”  Italian two-year yields reversed the biggest slide in six
weeks as partial results of the country’s election suggested
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  may have built a
blocking minority in the Senate to deny outright victory to Pier
Luigi Bersani. Stefano Fassina, an aide to Bersani, said the
nation may need a second election.  Retail sales in Canada slid 2.1 percent in December to
C$38.6 billion, the biggest decline since April 2010. Canada’s
consumer-price index rose 0.5 percent in January from a year
earlier, the lowest gain since October 2009, the statistics
agency reported last week. The gauge increased 0.8 percent in
December.  Relative Strength  “It is fairly rare to see so many days in a row of one
directional trend in anything really,” said Greg T. Moore,
currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , by phone from
Toronto. “Without any real catalyst it’s kind of hard to argue
for anything other than just going with the trend here.”  Policy makers have held the benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent since September 2010 to support the economy. Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in his January monetary policy
report a rate boost is less urgent now than previously
anticipated because the weaker-than-expected economy is keeping
inflation below the bank’s 2 percent target.  Carney reiterated that the need for stimulus withdrawal is
less imminent after a speech today in London, Ontario.  The loonie may be due to strengthen, a technical measure
indicated. Its 14-day relative-strength index against the U.S.
dollar fell to 21 yesterday, its fourth day below the 30 level
some traders see as a sign an asset has moved too much, too
fast, and may be about to reverse direction.  Canada’s economy will decline 0.2 percent in December and
grow at an annualized rate of 0.6 percent, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 29 economists.  Statistics Canada  will
release the data on March 1.  Canada’s dollar has fallen 1.3 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  has risen 2.4
percent, and the yen has tumbled 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  