-- Capping Top Earners’ 401(k) Benefit Seen as Cost Cutter
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-02-25T16:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/capping-top-earners-401-k-benefit-seen-as-cost-cutter.html
Pressure is growing to change
incentives for retirement savings as U.S. lawmakers look for
revenue, and top earners may pay the price.  The budget challenges confronting the federal government
are leading to scrutiny of tax-advantaged  savings accounts  such
as 401(k)s because they’re among the costliest tax breaks. A
Brookings Institution report scheduled for release tomorrow will
add to research that recommends curtailing the benefits for top
earners to boost U.S. coffers.  “We really need to think hard about whether the dollars we
are spending are effective at achieving the goals,” said Karen Dynan, co-director of the economic studies program at
Washington-based Brookings and author of the  report . “Our
existing programs are falling short.”  The shift from pension plans, which typically guarantee
income for life, to tax-deferred 401(k)s has put more
responsibility on savers to ensure they don’t run out of money
in retirement. As the accounts have grown -- Americans held $3.5
trillion in 401(k)s as of September -- they’ve become a target
in deficit-reduction talks because contributions usually are
invested and compound on a pretax basis.  The benefits reward higher earners who would save anyway
while not providing enough incentive for low and middle-income
earners, according to Dynan.  Capturing Revenue  Individual retirement accounts, which many workers roll
their 401(k) savings into when changing jobs or retiring, also
benefit from  tax  deferral. IRAs held $5.3 trillion in assets at
the end of the third quarter of 2012, according to the
 Investment Company Institute , the mutual fund industry trade
group.  Withdrawals from 401(k)s and IRAs eventually are taxed at
ordinary income tax rates of as much as 39.6 percent, compared
with top capital gains rates of 23.8 percent on investment
income.  The benefit for 401(k)-type plans is the U.S. government’s
 third-largest  tax expenditure, behind only the mortgage interest
deduction and exclusion of employer contributions for medical
insurance. It is estimated to cost about $429 billion in forgone
revenue from 2013 through 2017, according to the
administration’s latest budget proposal. IRAs will cost about
$100 billion over the five-year period.  The latest ranking is scheduled to be released as early as
next month and will reflect changes in tax law as of Jan. 1.  Fiscal Deadlines  Congress faces a series of fiscal deadlines this year, the
first on March 1 when automatic  federal budget  cuts are set to
begin. Democrats and President  Barack Obama  have said they want
to increase revenue by curtailing tax breaks. While Republicans
have said they won’t accept more tax increases, both political
parties have called for simplifying the deductions, credits and
benefits in the U.S.  tax code .  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee, has said the panel will advance a
rewrite of the tax code this year after scrutinizing all breaks.  Jack Lew, Obama’s nominee for  Treasury secretary , said
during a confirmation hearing Feb. 13 that improvements can be
made to 401(k) plans.  “They’ve worked better for people at the higher end of the
income scale than people in the low-to-middle end,” Lew said.
Once confirmed, Lew would be one of the administration’s top
negotiators with lawmakers as Congress considers a rewrite of
the tax code.  Capping Deductions  Obama proposed a 28 percent cap on the value of top
earners’ deductions such as retirement savings that wasn’t
adopted last year. Republicans control the House and can block
legislation from advancing in the Senate.  Top earners and their retirement savings were considered by
Democrats as recently as this month as they drafted a plan to
avert the automatic cuts. A  proposal  to limit taxpayers from
putting more money in accounts such as 401(k) plans once a
balance reached $2 million wasn’t included, a Democratic aide
who asked not to be identified said at the time.  The current incentives encourage wealthy households to
shift money into tax-deferred accounts rather than taxable ones,
generally without increasing their savings rate, Dynan said in
an interview. Low-income households most at risk of outliving
their savings don’t receive as much of a benefit because they’re
taxed at lower rates, she said.  Tax Breaks  To improve the system, the government should expand tax
breaks so more small businesses set up  retirement plans  for
their workers, revamp savings credits for low-income workers,
expand access by establishing an automatic IRA program and cap
the value of tax deferral in retirement accounts at the 28
percent bracket, Dynan said.  The limit on the tax benefit for high earners would reduce
the  budget deficit  by about $7.5 billion in the first year,
while all of the proposed changes would mean a net reduction of
about $4 billion, according to the study.  Dynan’s proposal is part of a budget report being released
by  the Hamilton Project  at Brookings tomorrow. The project’s
director is  Michael Greenstone , a professor of economics at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and Obama’s former chief
economist for the  Council of Economic Advisers .  Overcome Penalty  A 28 percent cap means those in the top bracket would pay
an 11.6 percent tax on their contributions up front and then
39.6 percent in income taxes when they take the money out, said
Peter Brady, senior economist at the Washington-based  ICI . Top
earners invested in a stock fund returning 6 percent a year
would have to hold the investment for 16 years to overcome the
penalty, according to Brady’s analysis.  “Some people in the top brackets will decide they are
better off taking the money and putting it in a taxable
account,” he said. That would result in fewer employers
offering 401(k) plans as they decide it is no longer cost-
effective, Brady said.  The deferral encourages people to save because they can get
a higher rate of return over time as the principal grows
untouched, he said.  National and  state  legislators have proposed changes to the
retirement-savings system beyond the tax breaks to increase
savings rates.  Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, plans to
introduce legislation this year to require businesses that don’t
offer a pension or 401(k) plan with a company match to
automatically enroll workers in a so-called USA Retirement Fund.  About 68 percent of workers had access to retirement
benefits as of March 2012, according to the  Bureau of Labor
Statistics .  ‘Getting Fainter’  “The dream of a secure retirement is getting fainter and
fainter,” Harkin said Feb. 12 in a speech at the Center for
American Progress in  Washington . “Savings rates are low and
there’s no simple way for people to convert their savings into a
stream of retirement income they can’t outlive.”  Tax incentives for retirement savings are vulnerable as
lawmakers look for revenue and consider whether the system
encourages those to save who most need to do so, said Derek
Dorn, a partner at Davis & Harman LLP in Washington whose firm
lobbies for clients including some mutual-fund companies.  “There’s a scramble for revenue going on,” he said.
“Questions are being asked that just a few years ago weren’t
being asked of the system. There is a potential that the
existing landscape could be altered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  