-- Cattle Climb as Second Storm May Disrupt Supplies; Hogs Drop
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-25T15:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/cattle-climb-as-second-storm-may-disrupt-supplies-hogs-drop.html
Cattle climbed on speculation that a
second snowstorm in the U.S. Great Plains will disrupt movement
of animals and beef supplies. Hogs dropped.  Blizzard warnings from eastern  New Mexico  through the Texas
Panhandle into Oklahoma and Kansas, according to the  National
Weather Service .  Winter-storm  warnings and advisories reach
across Missouri, Arkansas and Illinois into  Wisconsin , Michigan,
 Indiana  and Ohio. Parts of the Midwest received more than a foot
(30 centimeters) of snow last week.  “You had improving cash trade on Friday,”  Mark Schultz ,
the chief analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in
Minneapolis, said in a telephone interview. “Hopefully, that
spills into a little more because of the winter storm coming in.
You’ve got a lot of high winds and blizzard conditions” that
disrupts supplies and “backs them up a little bit,” he said.  Cattle futures for April delivery rose 0.3 percent to
$1.2865 a pound at 9:37 a.m. on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Prices were down 3.1 percent this year through Feb. 22.  Feeder-cattle futures for March settlement slid 0.3 percent
to $1.4085 a pound.  The cattle-on-feed report released by the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  after the close of regular trading on Feb. 22 was
“encouraging” for the market as feedlots sold 5.6 percent more
cattle to slaughterhouses in January than a year earlier,
Schultz said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 4.6
percent increase.  Pork inventories rose 3.4 percent at the end of January
from a year earlier, the USDA said in a separate report after
the close of regular trading on Feb. 22. The cold-storage report
was “a little negative,” Schultz said.  Hog futures for April settlement declined 0.6 percent to
81.125 cents a pound. A close at that price would mark the ninth
straight drop, the longest losing streak since Oct. 6, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  