-- Chery Hires Porsche Designer to Oversee Car Design From Shanghai
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-25T03:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/chery-hires-porsche-designer-to-oversee-car-design-from-shanghai.html
Chery Automobile Co., the state-
owned Chinese maker of the low-cost QQ mini car, hired Hakan
Saracoglu from Porsche AG to head its design center in  Shanghai 
in a bid to improve its styling.  Saracoglu, 47, joined Chery as design director in October,
according to the Wuhu, Anhui province-based automaker. The
Turkish-born German national worked for 15 years at Porsche,
where he helped design the exteriors for models including the
918 Spyder, Boxster and Cayman.  Chery is the latest among Chinese automakers hiring foreign
designers to help boost their brand image and reverse a loss in
market share to overseas automakers such as  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  The hirings are part of a broader hunt for
international talent, with salaries for foreign auto engineers
in China reaching three times that in the U.S. and Europe,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “Having somebody with a known profile gives you more
credibility,” said  Bill Russo , Beijing-based president of auto
consultancy Synergistics Ltd. “But it’s going to take a long
time to really embed those capabilities.”  Other Chinese companies have also looked abroad for help
with styling. Beijing Automotive Group Co., which traces its
roots to producing sidecar motorcycles for use in the Korean
War, hired Ferrari Daytona designer Leonardo Fioravanti as chief
design officer last year.  Foreign Designers  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) , China’s biggest maker of sport-
utility vehicles, appointed former Mercedes-Benz designer
Andreas Deufel as design director in 2011. Former Volvo Car
chief designer Peter Horbury joined Zhejiang  Geely Holding (175)  Group
Co. the same year as senior vice president in charge of design.  Saracoglu, who said he had never visited  China  before being
approached by Chery, started his career at  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
Cologne offices as part of the team on models such as the Focus
and Mondeo. He received a degree in transportation design from
the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California.  In Shanghai, Saracoglu will lead a team of 30 to come up
with new concepts for models from sedans to SUVs.  “Chery is not just QQ, we’re going to change that,” he
said in a phone interview on Feb. 22. “The company is
redefining itself. Chery’s standing for value, for design and
gaining customer confidence. That’s where we want to go.”  Chery has a 50-50 joint venture to produce  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover in China. It also co-owns startup
carmaker Qoros Auto Co. with Israel Corp.  Asked how much of a salary increase he was offered to leave
Porsche, Saracoglu said, “I cannot comment on that. Let’s say
I’m not unhappy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  