-- Chevron Enters Australian Shale Gas Industry With Beach Deal
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-25T06:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/chevron-enters-australian-shale-with-beach-energy-partnership.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, agreed to pay as much as $349 million to
join  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  in an Australian natural gas exploration
campaign in its first shale investment in the country.  Chevron will acquire as much as 60 percent of a permit in
South  Australia  and 36 percent of a block in Queensland,
Adelaide-based Beach said today in a statement. The blocks cover
about 810,000 acres in the Cooper Basin, the outback region that
straddles the border of the two states,  San Ramon , California-
based Chevron said in a separate statement.  The agreement follows shale investments by  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,
Statoil ASA, BG Group Plc and Hess Corp. in a nation estimated
by the U.S. Energy Information Administration to have the
world’s sixth-biggest potential reserves. Wilson HTM Investment
Group says the accord is the biggest shale gas deal in Australia,
which the government estimates may hold almost 400 trillion
cubic feet of resources.  “The fact you’ve got a knowledgeable party coming in says
they think there’s something there,” said  John Young , a
Melbourne-based analyst at Wilson HTM Investment Group. “The
resource in the Cooper is being progressively de-risked and
we’ll over time see a commercial development from this.”  Beach rose 5.8 percent to A$1.37 at the close in Sydney,
the most in more than five months. The company had the fifth-
biggest gain on Australia’s  key index , which climbed 0.8 percent.  Biggest Deal  BG, developing one of the three liquefied natural gas
ventures on the Queensland coast, reached an agreement with
Drillsearch Energy Ltd. in 2011 to fund a A$130 million ($134
million) campaign to explore for gas in the Cooper Basin.  Drillsearch advanced 4.2 percent to A$1.375, and  Senex
Energy Ltd. (SXY) , another shale explorer in the  Cooper Basin , gained
7.5 percent to 64.5 cents, the most in more than six months.  “For someone with the world to look at and opportunities
everywhere to recognize the potential of the Cooper is a huge
vote of confidence in the future of the basin,” Beach Managing
Director Reginald Nelson said today in a phone interview.
“Ultimately it will allow us to move more quickly to accelerate
appraisal and development” and will help the company get the
drilling services and equipment it needs, he said.  The U.S. company first approached Beach in early 2012,
according to Nelson.  Chevron Cash  Chevron will initially pay Beach $36 million in cash and
cover $95 million in costs for 30 percent of the  South Australia 
permit and $59 million in cash for 18 percent of the Queensland
acreage, according to the Beach statement. The Australian
company may receive as much as $349 million over two stages that
span several years, Beach said.  About 60 percent of Chevron’s total potential payments
would be in cash, a positive for Beach, according to Young, the
Wilson HTM analyst.  PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest oil and gas producer,
agreed to purchase a 29 percent stake in the Goldwyer shale
project in  Western Australia ’s Canning Basin from ConocoPhillips,
the Beijing-based company said Feb. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  