-- Chinese Vitamin C Makers Face Price-Fixing Trial in U.S.
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-26T00:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/chinese-vitamin-c-makers-on-trial-for-alleged-price-fixing.html
Chinese makers of  vitamin C  abused
their dominance of a $500 million market by limiting exports to
fix prices, a lawyer for U.S. buyers of the nutrient told jurors
at the start of a federal antitrust trial.  China Pharmaceutical Group Ltd. (1093) , based in  Hong Kong , its
Weisheng Pharmaceutical unit, North  China  Pharmaceutical Co.,
and its unit Hebei Welcome Pharmaceutical Co., based in Hebei,
China, were sued by food and beverage companies, vitamin
packagers and other direct buyers for allegedly conspiring to
artificially raise prices from December 2001 to June 2006.  “These companies met, agreed and conspired to increase
prices in the U.S., contrary to our free-enterprise system,”
William Isaacson, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in his
opening statement today in  Brooklyn , New York.  The defendants each “voluntarily agreed to control their
quantity and safeguard their prices,” Isaacson said.  The companies involved in the case supplied about
80 percent of the vitamin C in the U.S., Isaacson said. As a
result of the alleged conspiracy, prices rose to as much as
$15 a kilogram (2.2 pounds) in April 2003 from about $2.50 a
kilogram in December 2001, according to a memorandum filed by
the plaintiffs in September 2006.  U.S. businesses suffered $54.1 million in damages as a
result of the conspiracy, Isaacson said.  Government Orders  The makers of the vitamin, which is found in some fruits
and vegetables and can also be synthesized, said that the
Chinese government compelled them to agree on prices and product
quotas, according to court papers. They also contended that the
parent companies, China Pharmaceutical Group and  North China
Pharmaceutical Co. (600812) , didn’t manufacturer vitamins and shouldn’t
be in the suit.  “We are not here to defend the conduct of the Chinese
government,” said Daniel Mason, a lawyer for China
Pharmaceutical and Weisheng. “They have a much different system
than ours.”  Price spikes for vitamin C between 2001 and 2006 can be
explained by fears surrounding outbreaks of SARS and avian flu,
defense lawyers said.  “Ultimately, market forces were at work, independently
dictating the prices that were charged,” said Charles Critchlow, a lawyer for Hebei Welcome and North China
Pharmaceutical.  Early Complaints  Animal Science Products Inc., a livestock-supplement firm
based in Nacogdoches, Texas, and Ranis Co., a food company based
in Elizabeth,  New Jersey , filed complaints in 2005 accusing the
Chinese companies of conspiring to inflate prices for bulk
vitamin C.  U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan has ruled that the
plaintiffs can pursue damages on behalf of all direct buyers of
vitamin C that purchased the material for delivery in the U.S.
from certain defendants starting in December 2001.  Closely held Aland Jiangsu Nutraceutical Co., which had
also been a defendant in the case, settled with the plaintiffs
for $10.5 million, according to court filings.  The case is In re Vitamin C  Antitrust Litigation , 1:06-md-
01738, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  