-- China Prepares for Government Shuffle as Zhou Stays at PBOC
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-25T03:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/china-prepares-for-government-shuffle-as-zhou-stays-pboc-chief.html
China ’s ruling party is planning to
keep  Zhou Xiaochuan  as central bank governor as it prepares for
the broadest shuffle of government leadership in five years,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the discussions.  Zhou will remain head of the People’s Bank of China,
according to the person, who asked not to be named as the talks
are private. The move contrasts with forecasts after he was left
off the Communist Party’s revamped Central Committee member list
in November, and comes ahead of an annual meeting of the
nation’s legislature, when party boss Xi Jinping is projected to
become president, and Li Keqiang premier.  The party usually reassigns officials including cabinet
ministers and chiefs of state-owned companies every five years,
with next month’s meeting part of a broader once-a-decade
leadership transition to a new generation of party officials.
Retaining Zhou, 65, would provide stability at a time when the
PBOC is grappling with rising risks from shadow banking and
changing how it conducts monetary policy.  “They need Zhou’s experience in spearheading the next
structural reforms that the banking system needs,” said  Andy Mantel , founder and chief executive officer of Pacific Sun
Advisors, an asset manager in Hong Kong that invests in Chinese
stocks. “Banks at some point in the next few years will likely
be in a position to sell off bad loans, and Zhou will help
facilitate this process.”  Retirement Age  Zhou is likely to be named a vice chairman of the  Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference  so he can serve
beyond  retirement age  at the PBOC, the person said.  Reuters reported Feb. 20 that Zhou would stay on and
probably become a vice chairman of parliament’s top advisory
body, with Bank of China Ltd. Chairman Xiao Gang likely to be
named the PBOC’s Communist Party secretary, setting him up to
succeed Zhou eventually. Zhou now holds the secretary post.  An official with the PBOC’s news department, who asked not
to be identified because of the institution’s rules, said last
week that the central bank wouldn’t comment on the report.  The Communist Party’s omission of Zhou from its new 205-
member  Central Committee  in November and a Feb. 2 profile by the
official China Securities Journal that said he’d step down in
March had signaled the governor, who took office in 2002, would
leave as part of a once-a-decade leadership change.  Leaders’ Consensus  “It seems the central leadership couldn’t reach a
consensus on a new candidate, so as some kind of compromise they
are having him stay on,” said Bo Zhiyue, senior research fellow
at the  National University  of  Singapore ’s East Asia Institute
and author of several books on China’s elite politics.  Keeping Zhou as governor would make him a “lame duck” who
isn’t in a position to start new policies, Bo said. “That’s not
very good for China considering how it deals with this new
reality of global finance is really critical for China’s
future.” Should another official become the PBOC’s party
secretary, the person would outrank Zhou and leave him without
full power over the central bank, Bo said.  Chen Zhiwu, a finance professor at  Yale University  in  New
Haven ,  Connecticut , and former adviser to China’s State Council,
said splitting the party secretary and PBOC governor posts
“does complicate things more than before, but this is not
unusual for government agencies or organizations in China.”  “They will get along fine,” Chen said. Zhou is likely to
“continue his reform efforts to solidify his legacy,” he said
in an e-mail.  Yuan Gains  Zhou led the central bank during the global financial
crisis and oversaw exchange-rate reforms in July 2005 that paved
the way for the yuan to rise more than 30 percent against the
 U.S. dollar . He also expanded the  bond market , gave banks more
freedom to set  lending  and deposit rates and loosened controls
over the  yuan ’s use for international trade and investment
purposes.  The governor must confront an expansion in credit outside
the banking system that includes less-regulated products such as
trust loans. Aggregate financing, an  indicator  started by the
PBOC in 2011 to gauge funding in the economy, rose 160 percent
to a record 2.54 trillion yuan ($407 billion) in January from a
year earlier.  In its quarterly monetary policy report released Dec. 28,
the PBOC highlighted the need to control risks as an objective,
a possible sign of growing concern that a surge in non-bank
lending will lead to defaults.  A report today from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed China’s manufacturing may expand in February at the
slowest pace in four months, underscoring the headwinds faced by
policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Revamping Plans  China’s new leaders will also this week consider plans to
revamp the central government as part of efforts to streamline
bureaucracy and boost an economy that’s recovering from the
slowest growth in 13 years. The Communist Party’s 25-member
Politburo endorsed draft reforms that will be discussed by the
broader Central Committee on Feb. 26-28, the official  Xinhua
News Agency  reported on Feb. 23 without giving details.  --Scott Lanman, Steven Yang. With assistance from Kevin Hamlin
in Beijing and Fion Li in  Hong Kong . Editors: Scott Lanman,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  