-- China-Taiwan Ruling Party Leaders Pledge Adherence to One China
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-02-25T20:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/china-taiwan-ruling-party-leaders-pledge-adherence-to-one-china.html
China’s new Communist Party leaders
have a duty to seek peaceful reunification with Taiwan and
promote better ties, General Secretary Xi Jinping said in a
meeting with the honorary chairman of the island’s ruling party.  Xi’s comments to the Kuomintang’s Lien Chan came yesterday
during his first publicly announced meeting on cross-strait
issues since taking over the leadership of the China’s ruling
party. He pledged to “unswervingly” uphold the one-China
principle, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  “If the brothers are of the same mind, their sharpness can
cut through metal,” Xi said in Beijing, according to the Xinhua
report.  Lien’s trip, which President Ma Ying-jeou said was aimed at
boosting cross-strait communications, follows a visit last year
by Kuomintang honorary chairman Wu Poh-hsiung, who met with Jia
Qinglin, chairman of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference. Lien will meet China President Hu Jintao today,
according to Kuo Su-chun, a Kuomintang legislator.  Li Jia-fei, a presidential spokeswoman, said on Feb. 22
that closer communication with the mainland is a priority for
Ma’s administration. Ma, who is the also chairman of the
Kuomintang, didn’t give Lien a specific mission, Li said.  “It will be interesting to see what the next stage of
discussion will be as the governments seek to realize the
economic cooperation commitments they have made,” Nick Lai,
head of Taiwan equity research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
before yesterday’s meeting, referring to the Economic
Cooperation Framework Agreement signed in 2010.  Tariff Cuts  The agreement, signed by officials on both sides of the
strait, included tariff reductions on petrochemicals, auto
parts, and machinery, and boosts access to services including
banking and insurance. Taiwan’s domestic banking units this
month began taking deposits denominated in  yuan , and the first
Taiwan-listed debt security in the currency is slated to be
issued in March.  Taiwan and mainland China have been ruled separately since
1949, when the Kuomintang, or Nationalist Party, fled to the
island off the southeastern coast of China after battling
Communist forces. Lien’s visit to China will conclude tomorrow,
ETtoday reported.  In a statement following the meeting, Lien, Taiwan’s former
vice president and presidential candidate, said the two sides
should cast off the “memories of our history” and work toward
common interests of peace and prosperity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  