-- China Increases Gasoline, Diesel Pump Prices as Crude Costs Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-25T04:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/china-increases-gasoline-diesel-pump-prices-as-crude-costs-rise.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer, increased fuel prices for the first time since
September after the cost of imported crude rose.  The maximum that gasoline can be sold to motorists will
advance by 300  yuan  ($48) a metric ton and diesel by 290 yuan a
ton effective today, the National Development and Reform
Commission said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. The
pump price of 90-RON, China III gasoline in Beijing will rise
3.1 percent to 10,030 yuan a ton, or $4.60 a U.S. gallon, NDRC
data show. The China III specification is similar to the Euro
III fuel standard.  The price increase benefits  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028) , or  Sinopec (386) , the nation’s biggest oil refiner, according
to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Brent oil, the benchmark price for
more than half the world’s oil, has gained 4.6 percent to
$113.91 a barrel since China cut fuel prices on Nov. 16.  “The price increase is good news for Sinopec which has
been enjoying positive refining margins in recent months,”  Neil Beveridge , a senior research analyst at Bernstein in  Hong Kong ,
said in an e-mailed report today.  Gasoline and diesel prices are set by the NDRC under a
system that tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket of
crudes comprising Brent, Dubai and Indonesia’s Cinta. The
government may adjust fuel rates when the measure changes more
than 4 percent from the last modification. Crude gains have met
the threshold since the November cut, the NDRC said.  Sinopec Gain  Sinopec rose as much as 0.9 percent to HK$8.84 in Hong Kong
trading today and was at HK$8.78 at 11:47 a.m. local time.
PetroChina shares slid 0.4 percent to HK$10.66. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  gained 0.1 percent.  PetroChina (857) ’s refining operations lost 30 billion yuan in
the first nine months of 2012, the company said Oct. 30. Sinopec
didn’t give a figure for its crude-processing unit.  China may let  oil companies  set fuel prices according to
guideline rates posted by the government as part of planned
reforms, the official Xinhua news agency reported March 28,
citing Peng Sen, a former vice chairman at the NDRC. The new
system may also shorten the pricing cycle to 10 days from 22
days and replace Indonesia’s Cinta with New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate oil, China Petrochemical Corp., the parent
company of Sinopec, said in its online newsletter March 28.  “We expect the government to announce the oil product
pricing reforms post the National People’s Congress in March,”
Beveridge said in the report. “This should improve sentiment
towards refiners and reduce losses.”  Inflation Threat  The increase threatens to boost the  consumer price index ,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc. Inflation was 2.5 percent in
December from a year earlier, the most in seven months,
according to government data. China must be alert to imported
inflation and changes in price expectations, the People’s Bank
of China said Feb. 6.  “We estimate the weight of gasoline in the CPI basket to
be around 0.5 percent, so the direct impact of this hike on CPI
inflation will be limited,” Zhang Zhiwei, the chief China
economist at Nomura in Hong Kong, said in an e-mailed report
today. “But if further price hikes are in the pipeline, which
we believe to be the case, then the combined effect on CPI
inflation would be visible.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  