-- CIMB Quarterly Net Income Declines for First Time in Four Years
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-02-25T11:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/cimb-quarterly-net-income-declines-for-first-time-in-four-years.html
CIMB (CIMB)  Group Holdings Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
second-largest bank by assets, reported its first drop in
quarterly profit in four years in the absence of one-time gains.  Net income  declined 4.5 percent to 1.08 billion ringgit
($349 million), or 14.6 sen per share, in the three months ended
Dec. 31 from 1.13 billion ringgit, or 15.2 sen per share, a year
earlier, according to a stock exchange filing in  Kuala Lumpur 
today. The lender declared a higher dividend of 18.38 sen a
share compared with 10 sen a year ago.  While CIMB’s core banking operations continued to grow, the
lender booked an exceptional gain in 2011 on the revaluation of
its insurance joint venture with Aviva Plc. Growth in Malaysia’s
$288 billion  economy  has exceeded 5 percent for six straight
quarters through December on domestic demand and increased
investment, spurring credit demand.  “Asean economies remain robust although there are downside
risks from political events and inflationary pressures,” Chief
Executive Officer  Nazir Razak  told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
today, referring to the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations . “Although still quite fragile, the global operating
environment is showing signs of improvement which is key to
sustaining growth in  Asia .”  The last time CIMB’s quarterly profit declined from a year
earlier was in the three months ended December 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CIMB, which has interests throughout most of  Southeast Asia ,
has slumped 7.3 percent this year in Kuala Lumpur trading,
underperforming a 3.7 percent decline in the  benchmark  FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. Shares have retreated in the region’s
third-largest economy after hitting a record high on Jan. 7 on
concern that the governing National Front coalition may lose
seats in parliament in an impending general election.  Family Tie  Prime Minister Najib Razak is Nazir’s older brother. CIMB
rose 0.3 percent to close at 7.07 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur today
before the earnings announcement.  CIMB was the top arranger of Malaysia equity and rights
offerings for a fourth year in 2012, helping manage the
country’s three biggest initial public offerings including  Astro
Malaysia Holdings Bhd.’s (ASTRO)  $1.5 billion share sale in October.  Net non-interest income, including IPO fees, advanced 5.5
percent to 1.06 billion ringgit in the fourth quarter, CIMB said.
Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after deducting
interest paid to depositors, rose 8.4 percent to 1.91 billion
ringgit in the quarter.  Allowances for impairment losses on loans and financing
shrank 82 percent to 52.3 million ringgit, the company said.  Full-year profit rose 7.8 percent to a record 4.34 billion
ringgit, matching a  mean estimate  of 4.3 billion ringgit by 28
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  