-- Cineplex Draws Investors as Beer Draws Viewers
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-02-25T21:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/cineplex-draws-investors-as-beer-draws-viewers.html
Cineplex Inc. (CGX) , the operator of 70
percent of Canadian movie theaters, is forecast by analysts to
advance beyond a record as acquisitions and the addition of in-
seat liquor service increases revenue.  Cineplex  soared  96 percent since the end of 2007 to an all-
time high of C$33.84 on Feb. 7 and has outperformed the Standard
& Poor’s/TSX Composite index for six straight years. The
Toronto-based company has prospered as it consolidated its hold
over Canada’s moviegoers, most recently with its acquisition of
AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc.’s loss-making Canadian theaters.  “Investors are willing to pay a premium for Cineplex,
recognizing the lower competition in the Canadian market, the
track record of management, and a disciplined and successful
acquisition strategy,”said Robert Goff, an analyst at Byron
 Capital Markets. (QGCM)   The shares rose 1 percent to C$33.44 at the close today, a
night after Ben Affleck’s “Argo” won best picture at the 85th
Academy Awards in Hollywood.  In 2005, Cineplex acquired Famous Players from Sumner Redstone’s  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  for C$500 million ($487 million), which
was Canada’s top-grossing movie theater chain at the time with
81 locations and 787 screens.  Because it operates seven out of every 10 screens, leaving
it less room to expand in the country, Cineplex has been forced
to innovate, said Goff, who rates Cineplex a buy and has a price
target of C$35 on the stock.  “There isn’t the ability to buy a significant chain in
 Canada , so there’s a modest outlook for growth in that way,” he
said. “Instead, growth is about increasing premium revenue.”  VIP Service  Cineplex has rolled out its VIP Cinemas project in seven
locations across Canada, including Toronto, Edmonton and
Winnipeg, Manitoba. Customers pay extra for admission restricted
to adults, wider seats, flip-up tables, and a special food menu
that includes appetizers and entrees. A selection of alcoholic
beverages is also available both inside the auditorium and in a
private lounge.  Cineplex profit more than doubled last year to C$121
million. Net income of C$111.3 million is projected for 2013,
according to the average of three analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We like the stock, we’re buying it for our income-seeking
clients,” said Kash Pashootan, an Ottawa-based portfolio
manager with Raymond James Ltd. who manages C$125 million.
“Their cash flow puts them in position for a potential dividend
increase.”  Concession Sales  Cineplex last increased its monthly  dividend  in May, to
11.25 cents a share from 10.75 cents. The dividend yield in the
past 12 months has been 4 percent.  Cash flow from operations has risen 23 percent since 2010,
to C$179 million at the end of 2012 from C$146 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s cash flow
is about three times greater than its peers in the S&P/TSX
Consumer Discretionary index, Pashootan said.  Attendance jumped 7.8 percent to a high of 71.2 million
people in 2012, while concession sales climbed 13 percent to
C$329 million for total revenue of C$1.1 billion, the company
said in its fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 7.  Pashootan sees a further 15 percent gain for Cineplex
shares due to its success drawing patrons to its venues and
convincing them to spend more through its Scene card loyalty
program, upgraded digital screens and audio, and premium
services.  Sporting Events  Cineplex Chief Executive Officer Ellis Jacob said he
expects growth over the next five years to come primarily from
the company’s newer businesses including its online cloud sales
service, introduced late last year. He is also pushing its media
signage business, which accounted for C$85 million in sales in
2012, to become the market leader.  “A number of our businesses are in their infancy now and
will continue to build up,” Jacob said in a telephone interview
from his Toronto headquarters. “Loyalty, alternative
programming, sporting events, these are all value assets. None
of our large U.S. competitors own these assets anymore. They’re
in the movie and food business, that’s it.”  The company would consider acquisitions in English-speaking
countries, said Pat Marshall, a spokeswoman for Cineplex. In the
meantime, Cineplex is focused on expanding its existing
businesses in Canada.  ‘Expensive Stock’  Blockbusters have also played a role in Cineplex’s recent
success, with a resurgence in superhero films such as “The
Avengers” and “The Dark Knight Rises” leading box-office
grosses for the chain in 2012. “Skyfall,” the latest
installment in the James Bond franchise, accounted for 15
percent of Cineplex’s fourth-quarter box-office receipts. It won
Oscars for best song and sound editing last night.  Films scheduled at Cineplex’s cinemas include the sci-fi
film “Oblivion,” starring Tom Cruise, and the Steve Jobs
biopic “jOBS” starring Ashton Kutcher.  Some investors say they’re wary of Cineplex because of its
price.  “It’s an expensive stock,” said Bob Decker, who helps
manage C$6 billion from Toronto at Aurion Capital Management
Inc. “It’s an excellent story, just you’re paying up for it and
I don’t see the growth rate supporting the valuation that’s
accorded to the company. We’ve got such a scarcity of non-
resource growth stories that many of them get extremely
overvalued.”  Streaming Services  Cineplex has a share price-to-earnings ratio of 19.8,
higher than the 15.6 of  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , the largest
U.S. cinema chain,  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) ’s 15.7, and all but
three of the 18 companies in the  S&P/TSX index  of consumer
discretionary stocks, as of Feb. 22.  U.S. theater chains have run into difficulties because they
have had to rein in growth after overexpanding on cheap credit
five to 10 years ago, said Ben Mogil, an analyst with  Stifel
Nicolaus (SF)  in Toronto. He has a hold rating on the stock.  “The U.S. market simply got overbuilt, like everything
else in the U.S from 2003 to 2008, and we didn’t,” he said by
phone.  Cineplex’s revenue climbed 24 percent last quarter to C$299
million from a year earlier. Regal’s sales rose 18 percent to
$723 million and sales at Cinemark gained 14 percent to $611
million.  The introduction of online streaming services such as
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , which allows consumers to watch television shows
and movies at home, has also not held Cineplex back, Aurion
Capital’s Decker said.  Gerry Schwartz  “There are still people who want to go to the movies. They
just had to re-tool the product offering to attract the right
clientele,”  Decker said.  When  Onex Corp. (OCX)  sold its stake in Cineplex in 2009 for
C$184.6 million, investors questioned why they should buy into
the company, Jacob said. Once he explained his plan, they dumped
their holdings in U.S. chains and bought Cineplex.  “Four years ago when Onex exited, the stock was at C$14,”
Jacob said. “Now it’s C$33. I see Gerry Schwartz and every time
he says to me, ‘Thank goodness I kept my personal stake.’”  Schwartz, chairman and CEO of Toronto-based private equity
firm Onex, said, through an assistant, he “owns a very
substantial personal shareholding” in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  