-- Clegg Says Nothing to Hide Over Sex Harassment Allegations
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-02-25T09:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/clegg-says-nothing-to-hide-over-sex-harassment-allegations.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said he has “nothing to hide” amid suggestions his
Liberal Democrat party tried to cover up allegations of sexual
harassment against former Chairman Chris Rennard.  Channel 4 News last week broadcast allegations by four
women of sexual impropriety by Rennard in incidents spanning
several years, the first in 2003. Rennard, a lawmaker in the
House of Lords, Parliament’s upper, unelected chamber, oversaw
electoral strategy for the party. He denies any wrongdoing.  Clegg said today that he had acted on “general concerns”
expressed about Rennard’s conduct in 2008, though none of the
women concerned, including one who worked in the Liberal
Democrat leader’s office, had raised specific allegations with
him personally at the time.  “I have nothing to hide,” he told BBC Radio Solent. “The
party has nothing to hide. We have to listen to the women who
feel they were not listened to and to get to the truth.”  The allegations against Rennard are poor timing for Clegg,
who is battling his Conservative coalition partners to hold on
to the parliamentary district of Eastleigh in southern  England 
in a special election on Feb. 28. The seat became vacant when
former Liberal Democrat Cabinet minister  Chris Huhne  resigned as
a lawmaker after admitting to perverting the course of justice.  Clegg issued a statement last night saying he had heard of
“non-specific concerns” about Rennard’s conduct five years
ago. Because the complaints were made indirectly and
anonymously, he said, the party was limited in how far it could
proceed once Rennard had resigned in 2009, citing ill health.
There will now be an investigation into the allegations against
Rennard and another probe into whether the party followed the
correct procedures in dealing with the complaints.  `Likely Failures'  Liberal Democrat President Tim Farron told BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” program that the party had “screwed this up.”  While the party is “horrified” by the allegations, there
were “likely failures within the party to deal with this early
on,” he said. He said that he had heard rumors a year ago,
though he was not aware of specific details until last week.  Liberal Democrat deputy leader  Simon Hughes  who was the
party’s president between 2004 and 2008, told ITV’s “Daybreak”
program today that it “was not the case that the party at
senior level received specific allegations at that time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  