-- Clinton Backers Rejected by High Court on Campaign Charge
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-25T16:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/clinton-backers-rejected-by-high-court-on-campaign-charge.html
The U.S. Supreme Court turned away
an appeal by two men accused of illegally channeling more than
$150,000 in corporate money to Hillary Clinton’s 2008
presidential campaign.  William P. Danielczyk Jr. and Eugene R. Biagi argued
unsuccessfully that part of their indictment violated the
constitutional free-speech guarantee and a 2010 Supreme Court
decision that let corporations spend unlimited sums on
elections.  In rejecting the appeal today without comment, the high
court declined a chance to expand the 2010 ruling, Citizens
United v. Federal Election Commission, and allow direct
corporate contributions to political candidates.  The court said last week it will consider a different
campaign-finance issue during the nine-month term that starts in
October. In that case, Republicans are challenging federal
limits on the total amount of money individuals can give to
candidates, political parties and political committees every two
years.  Danielczyk and Biagi are accused of using funds from Galen
Capital Corp. to reimburse so-called straw donors who gave money
to Clinton’s campaign. Danielczyk was the chairman of Galen,
based in McLean, Virginia, and Biagi was its secretary.  A federal trial judge threw out one of the seven charges
against the two men, saying the Citizens United decision meant
that companies can make campaign donations directly to
candidates as long as they comply with general legal limits.  A federal appeals court in Richmond, Virginia, disagreed,
saying the majority in the Citizens United case explicitly
declined to allow corporate contributions.  The indictment, which covers Clinton’s 2008 presidential
bid and 2006 Senate run, also charges Danielczyk and Biagi with
conspiracy, obstruction of justice and causing false statements.  The case is Danielczyk v. United States, 12-579.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  