-- Yingli Slips as Curbs Report Hits SouFun: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-25T21:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/consumer-stocks-jump-on-xi-revamp-plans-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities dropped in New
York, led by  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  and  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , as the lack of a clear result in Italy’s election sapped
demand for emerging-market assets.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 1.4 percent to 92.86. Yingli,
the world’s biggest silicon-based solar panel maker by capacity,
sank to the lowest level this month, while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
retreated 4.3 percent. SouFun, a real estate website owner,
dropped after a report that the government will announce
property market curbs before a March meeting of new leaders. Web
retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  surged 17 percent.  The China-US gauge followed the Standard & Poor’s 500 in
erasing gains amid concern yesterday’s Italian election resulted
in a divided parliament, clouding the outlook for the debt-
saddled nation and the euro region. Europe is the biggest
trading partner of China, which is the world’s No. 1 exporter.
China’s new leaders, under Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping, will consider plans this week to revamp the government
and bolster the economy, Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 23.  “The risk-on sentiment reversed as we are seeing
uncertainties in the election situation in Italy,”  Lei Wang ,
who helps manage the $27 billion Thornburg International Value
Fund in  Santa Fe , New Mexico. said by phone. “In China,
investors are watching for new economic measures from the
government and awaited for the March meeting where they may be
announced.”  ETF Tumbles  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., sank 1.3 percent to $38.04 in
New York, after declining 4.4 percent last week. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  plunged 1.8 percent to 1,487.85.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 0.1 percent
to 11,333.98 yesterday after losing 4.5 percent last week, while
the Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares gained
0.5 percent to 2,325.82, following a 4.9 percent slump last
week.  Yingli, based in Baoding of China’s Hebei province, fell
6.6 percent to $2.85, the lowest close since Jan. 30. The
company is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results on March
4.  Trina Solar , based in Changzhou, China, slid to $4.47 after
sinking 8.3 percent last week.  SouFun, the largest real estate information website in
China, dropped 4.9 percent to $25.60 in New York, falling the
most in four days.  Some Chinese ministries and local governments may announce
detailed rules to control property market “soon,” likely
before the National People’s Congress in March, the official
China Securities Journal reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified person.  Vipshop Jumps  Hollysys (HOLI) , a Beijing-based automation system maker, lost 4.3
percent, the largest drop since November, to $12.38 on its third
day of declines.  Companies on the China-US gauge underperformed the Shanghai
stock benchmark yesterday in every sector except consumer
stocks, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  American depositary receipts of Vipshop, a Guangzhou-based
web fashion discounter, surged to $28.45, the highest close on
record.  Vipshop posted fourth-quarter net income of $6.3 million,
from a net loss of $63.5 million a year earlier, the Guangzhou-
based company said Feb. 21. The quarterly profit was the first
since the company business started in 2008, and compared with a
$750,000 mean estimate of two analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The company also sought to sell as much as $120 million of
shares, involving both new shares issuance and sales by existing
private investors, its Feb. 21 filing showed.  Some investors may buy Vipshop’s stock after the earnings
report as they may not get a chance to invest in the company
through its secondary offering announced, Jeff Papp, a senior
analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., said Feb. 22 by phone
from Lisle, Illinois. “The numbers were so good and the
offering is still a small scale.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  