-- Copper Stockpile Near 16-Month High on Storage Incentive, Supply
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-25T17:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/copper-stockpile-near-16-month-high-on-storage-incentive-supply.html
Copper stockpiles in warehouses
monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange climbed to the highest
level in almost 16 months on deliveries amid weak demand and
incentives storage companies offer to attract metal.  Inventories climbed for an eighth session, rising 1.5
percent to 430,725 metric tons, the highest level since Oct. 28,
2011. A total 4,450 tons of copper were delivered into the
Belgian city of Antwerp, where inventories more than doubled
this year to 101,125 tons. Stockpiles in Johor also more than
doubled to 56,600 tons, while New Orleans LME copper climbed 62
percent this year to 124,325 tons, the highest since January
2012.  The three locations are the biggest copper repositories in
their respective regions, accounting for 65 percent of LME
copper stockpiles. Inventories are rising because of a growing
surplus in the market and as warehouse companies offer
incentives to attract metal to their sheds, according to
Barclays Plc.  “You are looking at a market that’s beginning to move into
a period of surplus,” said Gayle Berry, an analyst at Barclays
in London. “Maybe in the past we wouldn’t have seen all of that
surplus come in to LME warehouses or be as visible as it is
right now. I suspect the reason why we’re seeing that is because
of some of the incentives that are being offered by warehouses
out there to get metal.”  Refined copper supply will grow by 4.6 percent to 21.3
million tons this year, exceeding demand by 176,000 tons, the
most since 2009, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. Access to
LME stockpiles may be limited as more than 60 percent of copper
inventories are stored in locations affected by long delivery
waits, according to the bank. At the current minimum delivery
rates set by the LME, withdrawing metal from New Orleans may
take as long as 33 weeks, while a wait in Antwerp is 27 weeks,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Warehouses  “Concentrating metal in few warehouses and causing queues
is always an issue for the physical market, in my view,” said
Michael Widmer, an analyst at Bank of America Corp. in London.
“What is happening right now, it’s not so much an issue at the
moment but it could become problematic when demand gets a little
bit stronger.”  Should demand for copper return, limited availability of
metal may lead to higher premiums that buyers pay for immediate-
delivery metal, according to Barclays. About 40 percent of metal
is used in construction, according to the Copper Development
Association.  “There is a potential” for rising premiums, Berry said.
“We’re not seeing it yet. The reason why aluminum premiums are
so high is not just because there is a lot of metal in
financing, but because there is also consumer demand for that
metal. So you’ve got two competing forces for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  