-- Core May Seek Regulators Help to Probe 62% Drop in Shares Today
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-02-25T14:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/core-may-seek-regulators-help-to-probe-62-drop-in-shares-today.html
Core Education & Technologies Ltd. (CETL) ,
an Indian education software services provider to universities
overseas, said it may ask regulators to investigate a selloff
that erased more than half the value of its shares.  Core sank a record 62 percent to 110.50 rupees at the close
in Mumbai today, leading a plunge in four other companies on the
 S&P BSE 500 index  amid speculation that shares pledged by the
company founders were being sold by brokers facing margin calls.  “We are having a call with the board to figure out if we
should officially write to the regulators to help us find out
why this happened,” Nikhil Morsawala, director finance at Core
Education, said by phone today. “None of the shares we had
pledged with institutions for borrowing have moved today. All
our loans are current and everything is intact.”  Core Education had raised 2.5 billion rupees ($46 million)
by pledging 47 percent of the owner’s stake to lenders, he said.
Founders who have pledged a large chunk of their shares risk
losing control of their companies should a drop in equity prices
erode the value of the collateral, according to  CNI Research
Ltd. (CNIR)  Borrowing costs in the $1.8 trillion economy are among the
highest in  Asia .  Cresta Fund Ltd. sold 1.38 million shares at 113.71 rupees
today, according to exchange filings. The fund  owns  3.5 percent
of Core Education, according to exchange data. About 28 million
shares were traded compared with a six-month daily average of
515,230.  ‘Positions Smashed’  “Broker positions in some scrips got smashed due to lack
of funding as they could not gather additional amount of
collateral in a falling market,” Deven Choksey, managing
director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai,
said by telephone. “Genuine investors are a victim of such
situations. Incidents like this will damage the confidence of
the investors.”  Core Education was the worst performer on the S&P BSE 500
index, which retreated 0.3 percent, compared with the 0.1
percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index.  Welspun
Corp. (WLCO)  fell 20 percent to 66.80 rupees, its lowest level since
December 2011.  “No sale of pledged shares were involved,” Akhil Jindal,
a spokesman at Welspun Group, said in a phone interview today.
“The share sale had nothing to do with any of our large
investors or the promoters.”  The fall today was probably triggered by margin calls in a
few mid-cap stocks and because the stock has been removed from
the futures and options segment, he said.  ABG Shipyard Ltd. (ABGS)  plunged 20 percent to 291.25 rupees.  Opto
Circuits India Ltd. (OPTC)  sank 10 percent to 53.40 rupees, the lowest
level since July 2006.  DB Realty Ltd. (DBRL)  dropped 10 percent to
76.20 rupees, the lowest since October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  