-- Cucinelli Upbeat on Outlook for Year After ‘Very Special’ 2012
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-02-25T12:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/cucinelli-upbeat-on-outlook-for-year-after-very-special-2012.html
Brunello Cucinelli, founder of the
namesake maker of $4,530 suede jackets, forecast “modest
double-digit” revenue growth in 2013 amid strong demand from
the wealthiest shoppers.  “I’m very confident” for this year, the executive said in
a Feb. 21 interview at the Solomeo, Italy-based company’s
showroom in Milan, describing 2012 results as “very special.”  Cucinelli last month reported a better-than-expected 15
percent rise in sales for last year, outpacing the industry.
It’s scheduled to report full results on March 12. The so-called
absolute luxury segment where the clothier competes is the
fastest-growing part of the market and will continue to
outperform the rest until at least 2014, Bain & Co. estimates.  For 2013, “we are very happy” with  consensus estimates  of
about 13 percent sales growth, Cucinelli said in the interview,
citing a positive reaction from department-store buyers to the
company’s fall-winter collection, which includes a wider array
of home wares such as cushions.  “I’m very happy because the collection has been judged
contemporary,” he said. The clothier gets 67 percent of  revenue 
from third-party distributors including franchisees, “which
makes it a bit easier to budget for the year.”  Cucinelli rose 0.1 percent to 15.48 euros at 12:42 p.m. in
Milan trading. The  stock  has almost doubled since being  offered 
to the public at 7.75 euros a share in April last year.  Expansion Plans  Cucinelli plans “healthy and robust” investment in the
next three years, opening a “very limited number of stores”
and doubling the size of the company’s headquarters while aiming
to stay debt-free, the chief executive officer said.  “I want to try to manage the exclusivity of the product,”
Cucinelli said of the company’s distribution strategy.  The CEO said he doesn’t expect currency swings to hurt
revenue growth this year. Cucinelli got 65 percent of 2012 sales
in euros and the remainder mainly in dollars. The main reason
for differing prices between regions is import duty, he said.  Profit “is the same around the world,” the CEO said.  Cucinelli is finalizing a joint venture in  India  with Ashok Wadhwa, CEO of financial-services provider Ambit Holdings Pvt.
Ltd., with a view to eventually opening as many as 15 stores in
the country in the next decade, he also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  