-- Currency Veteran Kuroda Offers BOJ Credibility on Reflation
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2013-02-26T03:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/currency-veteran-kuroda-offers-boj-deflation-fight-credibility.html
The Bank of Japan may pack a bigger
punch under Haruhiko Kuroda, an opponent of deflation who ran
the nation’s currency policy and then built an international
reputation leading the Asian Development Bank.  Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters yesterday
Kuroda, 68, would be a “correct” choice as next BOJ chief,
noting an international finance background. Two people familiar
with the discussions earlier said Kuroda is Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s pick for the post. Kuroda was in charge of foreign-
exchange issues at the Ministry of Finance from 1999 to 2003.  While outgoing Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  established a 76
trillion yen ($808 billion) asset-purchase fund and an unlimited
bank-loan financing program, he failed to encourage  inflation
expectations , instead warning repeatedly about the dangers of
excess stimulus. By contrast, Kuroda called for an inflation
target a decade before the bank adopted one in January, and for
years has spoken in favor of quantitative easing.  “He’s the right person to enhance the role of
communication strategy at the Bank of Japan,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo 
and a former head foreign-exchange dealer at the BOJ. “He has
already said in press interviews that the 2 percent inflation
target should be achieved in two years -- this is a very
important message to the market.”  Market Welcome  Investors welcomed the nomination reports, with the yen
yesterday reaching its lowest against the dollar since May 2010
on prospects for more stimulus. It later rallied amid haven
demand stemming from concern  Italy ’s election failed to produce
a majority winner. It was at 92.39 as of 12:08 p.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  closed at the
highest in almost 4 1/2 years yesterday, when five-year bond
yields fell to a record 0.12 percent, amid forecasts the BOJ
will start purchasing longer-dated securities. The Nikkei today
lost 1.4 percent at the midday break in Tokyo.  Heading the BOJ would cap a 45-year-career that includes a
secondment to Washington with the International Monetary Fund, a
stint as adviser to former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and
a master’s degree from Oxford University.  Born on the southern island of Kyushu in 1944, Kuroda
entered the Ministry of Finance in 1967 after graduating from
the University of Tokyo with a degree in law. As a young
bureaucrat, he was sent to Oxford, where he studied economics
under Nobel Prize winner John Hicks.  Oxford Lesson  Kuroda said in a 2006 interview with the IMF that at Oxford
he was taught “although economic theory may provide some
insight, some framework, good policies may require something
that goes beyond just economy theory or analysis -- some
practical judgment, some good sense.”  His dream was to be a teacher, according to the IMF
profile, an objective he fulfilled for a time as a professor at
Tokyo’s Hitotsubashi University after he left the Finance
Ministry in 2003. While at the ministry, he wrote a paper titled
“Socrates: The Dollar Dialogue,” in which the ancient Greek
philosopher muses on the efforts by international policy makers
to manage foreign exchange rates.  Kuroda rose to become vice finance minister for
international affairs, the senior official in charge of foreign-
exchange issues, from 1999 to 2003. He succeeded  Eisuke Sakakibara , who was known as “Mr. Yen” for his ability to
influence the currency markets with his comments.  BOJ Thinking  It was in the capacity as currency-policy chief that Kuroda
honed his sense that monetary policy ought to be deployed more
forcefully against what at the time were the first years of
Japan’s  deflation . Consumer-price declines set in in the late
1990s as banks constricted lending, seeking to fix balance
sheets mauled by the destruction of burst bubbles in the stock
and real-estate markets.  He wrote a 2002  opinion piece , along with colleague
Masahiro Kawai, urging the BOJ to adopt a 3 percent inflation
goal and to continually increase the monetary base through asset
purchases. Kuroda also oversaw bouts of foreign-exchange
intervention, selling yen as the currency appreciated.  “Kuroda has certainly been out there for a decade saying
more could be done by the  Bank of Japan (8301) , so he’s got
credibility,” said Richard Jerram, chief economist at Bank of
Singapore Ltd. “The requirements of what they need to do has
been made clear. The outcome is going to be large-scale
purchases of Japanese government bonds.”  Deflation Opponent  Kuroda explained in an interview this month that falling
prices exacerbate real debt burdens, and give the incentive to
companies and households to postpone spending. Consumer prices
excluding fresh food fell 0.2 percent in December. The price
gauge hasn’t advanced 2 percent for any year since 1997, when a
national sales tax was increased.  Leading the ADB since 2005, Kuroda has had a seat at
international economic gatherings and observed from abroad how
the BOJ for years resisted establishing an inflation target.
Shirakawa and his colleagues on the current board took the step
of setting a 2 percent goal last month, acting weeks after the
election of Abe on a platform of reflation.  Shirakawa, 63, sought to damp impulses to press the central
bank into extraordinary easing in the aftermath of the March 11,
2011 earthquake and tsunami, warning that any move to underwrite
government debt would lead to sharp inflation and damage to
people’s livelihoods.  Confirmation Process  Kuroda would need to be confirmed by both houses of
parliament should Abe nominate him. The Democratic Party of
 Japan , the largest party in the upper house -- where the ruling
Liberal Democratic Party lacks a majority -- is ready to approve
Abe’s selections, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  The government will present Abe’s nominees to executives of
the lower and upper house parliamentary affairs committee as
soon as Feb. 28., according to a ruling coalition official who
asked not be named as the discussions are private.  Abe is likely to tap Kikuo Iwata, an academic who has urged
a ramping up in Japan’s monetary base to end deflation, and
senior BOJ official Hiroshi Nakaso, as deputy governors,
according to one government official and a ruling coalition
executive, who asked not to be named as the talks are private.  The ADB chief, who enjoys swimming and reading detective
novels in his spare time, has overseen a tripling in the Manila-
based development lender’s capital base, to $165 billion, and
enlarged its lending window for the cheapest loans to members.  Should he win the BOJ post, he will be tasked with
implementing Abe’s vision for aggressive monetary easing and
communicating it to global leaders concerned about the impact on
a falling yen.  ‘Substantial’ Room  In a Feb. 11 interview, Kuroda advocated additional
stimulus this year, saying the central bank has “really
substantial room for monetary easing.” He also said that the
global standard for achieving inflation targets was a two-year
time horizon. When the BOJ set a 2 percent inflation target
without a deadline in January, it said it would start open-ended
asset purchases starting in 2014.  Japan’s government bond yield curve is pricing in Kuroda’s
success in adopting more aggressive easing while failing to
reach 2 percent inflation. The extra yield investors demand to
hold 30-year JGBs instead of 5-year notes slid to 1.78
percentage points from the seven-year high of 1.86 earlier this
month, reflecting speculation of increased BOJ debt purchases
and that the buying will do little to spur consumer prices.  The yen has weakened more than 11 percent since the LDP
regained power in December, vowing to push the BOJ to boost
stimulus. Group of 20 finance ministers this month signaled
support for Japan’s policies as long as Abe’s policy makers end
any public endorsement of a declining currency.  Abe’s Threat  Abe has retained the threat of changing the law governing
the BOJ should the central bank fail to meet inflation targets,
raising the risk of diminishing the institution’s independence.
Even so, by burnishing the bank’s reputation, that may be less
of a danger under Kuroda.  “The issue isn’t independence, the issue is
accountability,” said Robert Feldman, head of Japan economic
research at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. “Kuroda has to
go back to the international community to win back its trust,
and I think he will. I can’t think of a better candidate to head
the BOJ.”  Kuroda must now implement what he has advocated in bringing
Japan out of its deflationary spiral.  “He is an excellent choice,” said retired Yale University
professor Koichi Hamada, an adviser who breakfasted with Abe
last week at Blair House, across the street from the White House
in  Washington . “He understands Abenomics well,” Hamada told
reporters yesterday in Tokyo when asked about Kuroda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  