-- Daimler Cuts Executives’ Pay After Earnings Plan Scrapped
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-02-25T15:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/daimler-cuts-executives-pay-after-earnings-plan-scrapped.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  cut Chief Executive
Officer  Dieter Zetsche ’s pay 5.8 percent amid a reduction in
managers’ bonuses as the world’s third-biggest maker of luxury
cars fell behind competitors in sales and dropped profit goals.  Zetsche’s compensation for 2012 totaled 8.15 million euros
($10.9 million) compared with 8.65 million euros a year earlier,
the Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer of Mercedes-Benz cars
said today in its  annual report . Daimler also scaled back the
combined annual bonus for the management board by 28 percent.  Daimler, which scrapped an earnings target for 2013 in
October, prolonged Zetsche’s contract for three years on Feb.
21. The term is shorter than the five years won by other CEOs in
German industry, including Norbert Reithofer, head of  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)  Zetsche, 59, is under pressure to renew an
aging Mercedes model line, which lost ground in deliveries last
year to BMW and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi luxury brand.  “Over the next three years, Zetsche has to lead
improvements to regain the leading role” among luxury carmakers
that Mercedes lost to BMW in 2005,  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg-
based analyst with Warburg Research, said by phone.  Job Switch  Zetsche’s contract as Daimler’s group CEO and head of
Mercedes-Benz was extended to the end of 2016 on Feb. 21. That’s
the year that current terms end for BMW’s Reithofer and VW chief
Martin Winterkorn. Daimler also said that  Andreas Renschler , its
current head of the truckmaking unit, will swap responsibilities
with  Wolfgang Bernhard , who runs production and purchasing at
the Mercedes car division, as of April.  The carmaker abandoned plans to give Zetsche a five-year
term after investment funds voiced concerns over the length,
said a person familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified as the discussions weren’t public.  Daimler also had to win over labor leaders to get the
contract approved and works council board members pushed through
the job swap between Bernhard and Renschler as part of the deal
in order to work directly with Renschler on a reorganization
under way at the car unit, another person said.  There has been growing concern at the works council at a
lack of input from  labor  leaders on planned cost-cutting
measures at the car division, the person said. Solutions to
restructure the trucks unit under Renschler have always been
found through negotiations between the company and labor
representatives, that person said. Daimler and works council
officials declined to comment.  Savings Program  Daimler laid out plans in October to lower costs at its
passenger-car division by 2 billion euros by the end of 2014.
The trucking unit outlined a strategy in June to defend its
global leadership while increasing earnings by 1.6 billion
euros, also by the end of next year.  The supervisory board set Zetsche’s term to follow
corporate governance rules, which “imply” that executives who
are already 60 or would soon cross that age threshold get a
contract extension of three years instead of five, Joerg Howe, a
Daimler spokesman, said on Feb. 21.  Der Spiegel magazine reported on Daimler supervisory board
talks on Zetsche’s contract in its edition appearing today.  Daimler  rose  as much as 3.3 percent to 46.06 euros, the
highest intraday price since April 3, and was trading up 2.1
percent at 4:24 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has gained 10
percent this year, valuing the company at 48.6 billion euros.  2013 Forecast  The carmaker, hampered by a disjointed sales strategy in
 China  and costs for expanding its model lineup, reported a 2
percent  drop  in earnings before interest and taxes to 8.62
billion euros for 2012. The Mercedes car unit’s operating margin
narrowed to 7.1 percent of revenue from 9 percent a year
earlier. Excluding one-time gains or costs, Ebit in 2013 will
probably match the 8.1 billion euros posted last year, Daimler
said on Feb. 7.  The manufacturer is combining sales organizations in China
for locally produced and imported cars into one entity and it
added Hubertus Troska, a former truck-unit manager, to the
management board in December to look after Chinese operations.  “The changes that are being implemented in China now won’t
have a larger impact before sometime in 2015,” Warburg’s Tonn
said.  Zetsche’s pay cut is the second announced by a German auto
manufacturer for top management for 2012. VW,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, said on Feb. 22 that CEO  Martin Winterkorn  will
receive 17 percent less compensation.  VW’s Pay  VW forecast on Feb. 22 that Ebit this year will equal the
11.5 billion euros reported in 2012, the first time since 2009
that annual operating profit would fail to rise. The Wolfsburg-
based company revised compensation calculations for its
management board members, cutting their combined pay 20 percent
for 2012, by basing bonuses on a minimum operating profit of 5
billion euros and limiting long-term incentive payments to 50
percent of bonuses.  Zetsche’s total remuneration comprised a base salary of 2
million euros, unchanged from a year earlier, a short-term bonus
of 1.43 million euros, a medium-term bonus of the same amount,
which depends on the performance of Daimler shares and which
will be paid next year, and long-term variable compensation
which includes  stock options . The short-term bonus for the
entire eight-member board was cut to 4.65 million euros from
6.44 million euros a year earlier.  Renschler’s total compensation declined 3.2 percent to 3.29
million euros, and Bernhard’s was reduced 4.6 percent to 3.05
million euros. Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber’s
remuneration fell 3.8 percent to 3.54 million euros.  Christine Hohmann-Dennhardt, who is responsible for
compliance and legal affairs, earned more in 2012 than a year
earlier as she didn’t serve a full term in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  