-- Dallas Cowboy, Colt Aid Ex-Raven Green Drive: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-25T12:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/dallas-cowboy-colt-aid-ex-raven-green-drive-d-c-scene.html
Veterans of the battlefield,
football field and White House gathered for a fundraiser at  The
Park at Fourteenth .  The host was Ovie Mughelli, a former all-pro fullback for
the  Atlanta Falcons ,  St. Louis Rams  and  Baltimore Ravens , whose
foundation educates young people about clean energy and
environmental issues.  “It’s about time,” he said of the Super Bowl victory by
the Ravens.  That was one of the few mentions of football on Friday
night, when the  Ovie Mughelli Foundation ’s work on
sustainability was the main topic of conversation.  The  Dallas Cowboys ’ Eric Frampton and Winston Justice of
the  Indianapolis Colts  mingled with veterans from  Operation
Free , a network of military and national-security professionals
who recognize  climate change  as a threat. Operation Free is a
campaign of the  Truman National Security Project .  Michael Breen , Truman’s executive director who served with
the U.S. Army in Iraq and Afghanistan in the U.S. Army, said
that his fellow veterans learned firsthand about America’s
dependence on foreign oil while on duty. He said he was
delighted Mughelli is taking this cause to the streets.  “Why would a 6-foot-2-inch, 250-pound, good-looking
football player care about the environment?” Mughelli asked the
crowd, who chuckled in response.  Polar Bears  He explained that fatherhood -- he has two daughters -- has
helped him see the green movement’s extension beyond
“butterflies and polar bears.” He’s especially concerned about
air and water quality in underserved communities. The children
“affected most by the environment care about it the least.”  Mughelli has spoken at the White House three times on
sports and sustainability. He has also joined Earth Day events
on the National Mall. He said he’s looking forward to being back
for the annual Easter Egg Roll.  Last week the White House announced that this year’s event
will have a “Be Healthy, Be Active, Be You!” theme and will
feature sport courts and food stations.  Greg Nelson, the chief of staff at the National Economic
Council, Brad Jenkins, the associate director in the Office of
Public Engagement at the White House, and Jonathan Powers, the
administration’s federal environmental executive, turned out to
support Mughelli.  Other political types there included Tom Rossmeissl, a
senior associate for strategist Joe Trippi, and Rob McCulloch, a
senior policy and legislative advocate for the  BlueGreen
Alliance .  Chicken Nuggets  They snacked on crab cake sliders and chicken nuggets while
bottles of Budweiser were passed.  The evening was “the most all-American event in the
nation’s capital. We’re trending on Twitter in D.C. now,”
Mughelli boasted.  Emily Tisch Sussman, smiling broadly, wore a sparkly blue
 New York  Giants jersey. “It’s my grandmother’s,” she said.
Grandma is Joan Tisch, a co-owner of the Giants.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater,  Elin
McCoy  on wine,  Craig Seligman  on books and interviews by  Zinta
Lundborg  and  Farah Nayeri .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 