-- DoCoMo Set to Resume Phone Investing After Softbank Move
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-26T08:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/docomo-ready-to-resume-phone-m-as-after-softbank-move-ceo-says.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s largest
wireless carrier, is ready to return to investing in phone
companies outside Asia after rival  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s deal to
acquire a majority stake in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in the U.S., its
chief executive officer said.  “The acquisition plan of Sprint was quite astonishing for
us,” Kaoru Kato, 61, said in an interview at the  Mobile World
Congress  in Barcelona yesterday. “I hope this will lead to
success for the U.S. market and for Softbank as well, but the
hurdle will be very high.”  DoCoMo, based in  Tokyo , has scaled back bets on non-Asian
phone companies after earlier investments in  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  and
the company then known as  AT&T Wireless Services Inc. (T)  led to
writedowns a decade ago. Kato, who took over as CEO in June last
year, is now seeking additional income from health and retail
services as Japan’s shrinking population and market saturation
limits growth in its main wireless operations.  While DoCoMo has recently focused on acquiring content and
platform providers, making acquisitions in the mobile industry
may be worthwhile as the sector “is characterized by constant
growth,” Kato said. Last year, DoCoMo acquired Buongiorno SpA,
an Italian mobile-content provider, for about 260 million euros
($340 million).  “We will constantly monitor the trends, and if there is
anything good, we may make an investment,” Kato said.  Minority Stakes?  DoCoMo, controlled by  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432) ,
fell 0.7 percent to 142,700 yen in Tokyo. The stock has gained
15 percent this year, valuing the carrier at 6.23 trillion yen
($68 billion). Softbank has a market value of 4.06 trillion yen.  Kato said his company won’t necessarily stick to minority
investments as it has traditionally done. DoCoMo had 340 billion
yen in cash and cash equivalents as of Dec. 31, according to
company filings. The CEO wouldn’t specify the size of its budget
for potential acquisitions, nor would he discuss specific
regions DoCoMo is looking at.  The CEO also declined to say whether DoCoMo plans to use
put options to sell its 26 percent stake in Indian operator Tata
Teleservices Ltd.  Japanese telecommunications companies have announced
acquisitions totaling $47.4 billion over the past 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with $6.5
billion a year earlier. Softbank agreed in October to buy about
70 percent of Sprint, the third-largest U.S. mobile-service
provider, for $20.1 billion.  DoCoMo hasn’t yet decided whether to offer  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone, Kato said. The Cupertino, California-based company’s
closed ecosystem makes it harder to integrate into DoComMo’s
plan to link devices and services, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  