-- Does Argentine Malbec Deserve Its Own Glass?: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2013-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/does-argentine-malbec-deserve-its-own-glass-elin-mccoy.html
“Think of wine like music,” says
Georg Riedel, the head of the famous Austrian glass company that
bears his family’s name. “We’re toolmakers. We don’t write the
score; we’re the amplifiers.”  We were at the Argentine consulate in New York for a taste
workshop to see which shape of glass best “amplifies” the
violet scent, dark, rich, berry flavor and velvety tannins of
wildly popular malbec.  The first-ever glass to show off  Argentina ’s signature red
will debut on April 1, in time for Malbec World Day on April 17.  Does the world need it?  Argentine winery  Graffigna  thinks so. It commissioned
Riedel to come up with the design and has a one-year exclusive
to use and sell it.  Having a special glass designed by Riedel is getting to be
a beverage rite of passage, a way to announce that a wine style
or varietal has finally arrived. Canada’s  Inniskillin  winery,
for example, partnered on an ice wine glass back in 2000 to up
the category’s image.  As everyone knows, Argentinian malbec is a huge success
story. According to a report commissioned for Wines of
Argentina, annual growth in U.S. malbec sales was consistently
double digit from 2004 through 2011, and from 2007 through 2012,
the number of cases exported to the U.S. more than doubled.  Georg Riedel’s father initiated the craze for varietal
specific glasses back in 1958, when his Burgundy grand cru
design drew immediate acclaim. Forty-five years later, the
company’s portfolio includes 29 different shapes.  Desirable Grapes  The idea is to use the shape and size of the glass bowl to
highlight a grape’s most desirable characteristics.  “It’s all about engineering,” says the 64-year-old
Riedel, who’s wearing a six-button, double-breasted black jacket
and pinstriped shirt, both of which he designed himself. “It’s
primarily about the nose. What you smell is what you taste.”  As Riedel describes his theories about wine and glassware,
citing the importance of the thickness of a grape’s skin, I find
myself pretty skeptical.  Scientific experiments have shown that people think a wine
served in an elegant stemmed glass is superior to the same wine
served in a bistro tumbler.  A number of studies have debunked the idea that the shape
of the glass significantly enhances a wine’s flavors, and
suggest perceptions of differences are merely psychological,
based on expectation.  Taste Tests  Maximilian Riedel, Georg’s 35-year-old son, who will become
president of the company in July, sketches out the six-month
process to get to the final six glasses in our line-up: taste
tests at Riedel in Kufstein,  Austria , then multiple tastings in
Argentina with the Graffigna winemaking team.  Since malbec was once a main grape in Bordeaux, they tried
cabernet glasses -- and quickly eliminated all of them.  “Most Argentine restaurants serve malbec in a cabernet
glass,” says Federico Lleonart, the Graffigna global
ambassador. “We found that was the very worst choice.”  Georg Riedel shudders and adds, “Malbec tastes better in a
plastic beaker than in a cabernet glass.” I doubt that.  Will 10 wine critics agree with the final shape chosen as
the best by the Riedels and Graffigna’s winemaking team?  Before we sniff and sip,  Riedel  advises, “This is a very
emotional tasting, just your palate and the wine.”  Six Glasses  We warm up in round one with six glasses, each containing
the same 2012 Graffigna malbec barrel sample.  In round two, we have Graffigna’s 2010 Centenario Reserve
malbec ($12) in the same six glasses.  The majority of the tasters, including me, agree on which
three to eliminate: In No. 3, the tannin sticks out; in No. 5
the wine’s aroma seems musty, and the No. 6 glass emphasizes the
alcohol, as if the wine had been laced with a shot of vodka.  For round three, we sample the 2008 Graffigna Grand Reserve
($20) in the three remaining glasses. I dismiss No. 1 -- the
wine tastes too thick, tannic and chocolate-y.  But I’m torn between No. 2 and egg-shaped No. 4, which both
flatter the wine. The No. 4 emphasizes sweetness and fruit and
is the overall favorite. It turns out to be a hand-blown
prototype of the new malbec glass.  Even as I’m convinced the shape made a difference in this
very unscientific tasting, I wonder about the universality of
the glass for all of the country’s malbecs.  I find most of them vastly overrated, lacking complexity,
finesse and ageability. And many of the new, expensive “icon”
wines are heavily extracted and loaded with oak, which no glass
can change.  Climate Sensitive  The best producers, like Catena, have been discovering how
sensitive the grape is to different microclimates.  Though pleasant, fruity, and not over-oaked, the Graffigna
malbecs lack the depth and sophistication of the 2009 Catena
Alta ($40) or the stunning 2010 Achaval Ferrer Finca Mirador
($90.)  Nor am I sure the glass will be the best choice for
Argentina’s interesting malbec-based blends, like the popular
2009 Clos de los Siete ($20), a mix that also includes merlot,
cabernet, and syrah.  On  Malbec World Day , I’d better do another taste test.  The Argentine malbec glass will cost $11.  Information: www.graffignawines.com  ( Elin McCoy  writes about wine and spirits for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg’s  interview  with
Daniel Barenboim and Craig Seligman on  books .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 