-- Dutch Court Upholds SNS Bond Seizure, Allows Future Claims
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-02-25T17:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/dutch-court-upholds-sns-expropriation-excludes-future-claims.html
The Netherlands’ top administrative
court upheld the government’s seizure of  SNS Reaal NV (SR) ’s shares
and subordinated loans after real-estate losses brought the bank
to the brink of collapse.  Without Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem’s
intervention, SNS would probably have gone bankrupt, the Council
of State in The Hague said in a statement on its website today.
While the court didn’t return investors’ securities, it refused
to block their right to seek compensation for losses in the
future.  The minister was entitled to conclude that the stability of
the financial system faced a “serious and immediate threat,” a
condition for intervening under legislation adopted last year,
the Council of State said.  The nationalization included issued shares, subordinated
bonds and loans. About 700 parties, from countries ranging from
the Netherlands to  Indonesia , appealed the decision, according
to the Council of State.  Dijsselbloem on Feb. 1 also blocked future claims against
SNS Reaal, saying he considered it unacceptable for investors to
seek compensation for losses caused by wrongful conduct by SNS
Reaal or its managers. The Council of State wiped out this part
of his decree, possibly allowing the case to drag on for years
through various European courts.  Seek Damages  “We have our right back to seek damages from those
responsible, which is of immense importance,” said Jan Maarten
Slagter, chairman of Dutch investor group VEB. “This gave us
something to fight for again.”  The VEB represented about 6,000 SNS investors, he said. The
group will study whether there are grounds to fight the
expropriations at the  European Court  of  Human Rights .  Following today’s ruling, which makes the nationalization
irrevocable, Dijsselbloem will make an offer for compensation
within seven days. He has already said he sees that value at
zero. The Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal
will rule on whether his offer is adequate.  “I see absolutely no reason at this stage to assume that
the Enterprise Chamber will revise the compensation upwards,”
the finance minister said in a Feb. 1 letter to Parliament. “In
the event of a bankruptcy, the expropriated parties would also
have lost their investment.”  After the financial crisis led to the nationalization of
the Dutch parts of Fortis and ABN Amro Holding NV in 2008 and
the bankruptcy of DSB Bank NV, the Netherlands adopted
legislation allowing the state to take control of banks’ assets,
liabilities or stock. Dijsselbloem, sworn in on Nov. 5, became
the first to test the powers.  The government says the bailout of SNS Reaal will cost
taxpayers 3.7 billion euros ($4.9 billion) in write-offs and
capital injections, and the state is also providing another 6.1
billion euros in loans and guarantees. The expropriation of
subordinated creditors reduced the rescue costs for the state by
about 1 billion euros, Dijsselbloem has said.  The case is: Council of State, case no. 201301173/1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  