-- Earthlink’s Dayton Joins Artsy, Firm Raises $5 Million
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-02-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/earthlink-s-dayton-joins-artsy-firm-raises-5-million.html
The online art database  Artsy  said
it has raised $5.6 million in new investment and has added
Internet entrepreneur Sky Dayton to its board of directors.  Dayton, the chairman of  Boingo Wireless Inc. (WIFI) , joins Artsy
founder and chief executive officer Carter Cleveland and Wendi
Deng, co-CEO of film company Big Feet Productions and wife of
 Rupert Murdoch .  Dayton has founded and helped build technology companies
including  EarthLink Inc. (ELNK) , Boingo and Helio that have gone public
or been sold for almost $3 billion in aggregate market value,
according to his profile on the  Boingo website .  He’ll be involved in the strategy, fundraising and business
development of New York-based Artsy. The website allows visitors
to browse and comment on artworks and pursue sales through links
to galleries. Artsy gets a fee on sales it facilitates.  “He sees the same opportunity in the online art market as
he saw in the Internet almost 20 years ago,” said Cleveland,
26.  The art market’s growing online segment has attracted
heavyweights like Christie’s International as well as startups
such as Paddle8, VIP Art and Artspace. Last week, Artspace
announced that it had raised $8.5 million in new funding from
investors, including venture-capital firm  Canaan Partners .  Artsy has drawn prominent supporters including advisers
 Larry Gagosian  and  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  CEO  Joe Kennedy . Investors
include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and Dasha Zhukova, who
is billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s partner and an art collector.  October Debut  Founded by Cleveland in his Princeton dormitory room in
2008, Artsy started its website in October. It previously
reported raising $7.4 million, according to Sebastian Cwilich,
president and chief operating officer. The additional funds
bring the total investment to $12.97 million to date, he said.  The company offers aspects of social-media websites,
allowing its 125,000 registered subscribers to share comments on
art, while also presenting material that would serve a buyer or
collector, such as prices and provenance.  “The more you use Artsy the more we learn about what you
like,” Cleveland said. “Over time we can better suggest things
for sale that you might like. Even if there are no works by an
artist for sale today, we have captured your interest in the
artist. In the future, if the work becomes available, we’ll
notify you.”  ‘Biggest Idea’  “Artsy is building a platform for the future of the art
world,” Dayton said in a telephone interview. “They have the
biggest idea, the longest view and the best team.”  A son of a sculptor father and poet mother, Dayton grew up
around art. As a collector, who owns pieces by  Alexander Calder 
and Yoshitomo Nara, he frequently bought art online, he said.  “Art is one of the last areas to benefit from what the
Internet can bring,” he said. “It’s about opening up a whole
new market of collectors who previously were underserved by the
existing system. I think there’s going to be a major
transformation in the art market in the next 10 years. It’s
going to get a lot bigger.”  To build up its database, Artsy has formed links with more
than 400 galleries, 85 museums, foundations and artists’
estates. The company has legal rights to about 25,000 images of
artworks. Artsy maps out connections between artists and
artworks by using what it dubbed the Art  Genome Project , a
collaboration between art historians and computer scientists.  “Our focus has been to create a large database and now we
are more focused on the commercial aspect,” Cleveland said.
“To create a marketplace, you need to know where the art is and
what people like.”  Tomorrow, Artsy will offer collectors the first peek at
artworks that will be exhibited at the Armory Show -- a week
before the fair opens to the VIPs on March 6. About 85 percent
of the exhibitors have contributed images to Artsy’s Armory Show
platform.  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on  architecture  and
Catherine Hickley on  theater .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 