-- Lebanon’s Solidere to Spend as Much as $200 Million on Projects
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-02-25T13:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/lebanon-s-solidere-to-spend-as-much-as-200-million-on-projects.html
Solidere (SOLA) , Lebanon’s largest property
developer, expects to spend as much as $200 million on real
estate projects in the country this year even as civil war in
neighboring Syria threatens to slow building works.  “There is a high probability we might slow down projects
if things worsened politically,” said Mounir Douaidy, general
manager of Solidere SAL, the country’s biggest publicly traded
company. Spending this year will be at least $150 million, he
said.  Solidere, set up to rebuild parts of central Beirut
destroyed in the 15-year civil war that ended in 1990, will
complete a cinema and an entertainment complex in the capital
this year and may spend as much as $80 million building a retail
project as part of the Souks of Beirut, he said. The company
holds 39 percent of Solidere International, which plans to build
projects in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.  The conflict in  Syria  is hurting demand for properties in
Lebanon, prompting Solidere to postpone new projects including
an office block, Douaidy said. The developer plans to fund
ongoing work from its own revenue without raising money, he
said. The company has $730 million in cash and receivables and
annual recurring revenue of about $50 million, he added.  Two to three residential projects are planned next year on
plots sold by the company, Douaidy said.  Solidere International has revived a stalled development in
Ajman, one of the seven sheikhdoms making up the United Arab
Emirates, and is expanding into Saudi Arabia, Douaidy said.  The Al-Zorah project in Ajman has been reduced to about 40
percent of its original size and will be solely a resort instead
of the original plan to include homes and offices, he said. Al-
Zorah was planned on 12 square kilometers (4.63 square miles)
and was expected to cost $60 billion, Douaidy said.  The company started building a residential tower in Jeddah
and will develop a housing compound in Saudi Arabia.  “Saudi Arabia is a very good market and there is demand,”
Douaidy said. “The laws are being adapted and there are
prospects for real estate development there.”  Solidere has fallen 10.7 percent on the  Beirut  stock
exchange in the last 12 months. The country’s benchmark BLOM
Stock Index is little changed over that period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  