-- Mediterranean Diet Rich in Olive Oil or Nuts Slashes Risk
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-02-25T17:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/mediterranean-diet-rich-in-olive-oil-or-nuts-slashes-risk.html
A  Mediterranean diet  with extra
servings of olive oil or mixed nuts reduced the risk of a first
heart attack, stroke and death by almost 30 percent in less than
five years, according to a study from Spanish researchers.  The research involved 7,477 high-risk volunteers, all of
whom were diabetic or had a host of risk factors including
obesity, high cholesterol, family history of heart disease or
smoking. Heart damage was significantly more likely to occur in
people told to watch their fat intake than in those given olive
oil or nuts and told to follow a Mediterranean diet, according
to the study in the  New England Journal of Medicine . The study
was halted after the benefits of the diet became clear, the
researchers said.  The findings add more weight to the benefits of a
Mediterranean diet rich in fruits, vegetables, fish and oils,
the researchers said. While numerous studies show healthy eating
can cut complications in people who already have heart disease
and help ward off ailments including Alzheimer’s disease and
diabetes, the study is the first to show a diet can prevent
deadly  heart disease  from developing.  “These results support the benefits of the Mediterranean
diet for cardiovascular risk reduction,” said the researchers
led by Ramon Estruch from the University of Barcelona. “They
are particularly relevant given the challenges of achieving and
maintaining weight loss,” they said. “The results of our trial
might explain, in part, the lower cardiovascular mortality in
Mediterranean countries than in northern European countries or
the United States.”  Extra Nuts  In the study, 3.4 percent of those on a Mediterranean diet
who were given extra nuts experienced a heart attack, stroke or
died from cardiac complications, compared with 3.8 percent on a
Mediterranean diet plus extra olive oil and 4.4 percent of those
asked to follow a low-fat diet. No one was told to curtail their
calories or assigned an exercise program.  Recommended foods in the Mediterranean diet were olive oil,
nuts, fruits and vegetables, fish, legumes, a mix tomato, onion
and garlic, and wine with meals. Soda, baked goods, spreads and
red or processed meats were discouraged. Those in the comparison
group were encouraged to eat low-fat dairy products, bread,
potatoes, pasta or rice, fruits and vegetables, lean fish and
seafood, and told to avoid vegetable oil, baked goods, nuts, red
meat, fatty fish, spreads and the mix of tomato, onion and
garlic known as sofrito.  The study was funded by the Spanish government’s Instituto
de Salud Carlos III.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  