-- Egypt Seeks Up to $1 Billion From Debut Sukuk
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-02-25T13:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/egypt-seeks-up-to-1-billion-from-debut-sukuk-islamic-finance.html
Egypt  plans to raise as much as $1
billion by June from the sale of its first Islamic bonds as the
government anticipates a return to political stability will
soften the blow of five credit rating cuts.  The cabinet has completed a draft law to allow sukuk sales,
incorporating revisions by the ruling Freedom and Justice Party
and Shariah scholar Hussein Hamed Hassan, said Ahmed El-Naggar,
adviser to Finance Minister El-Morsi El-Sayyed Hegazi. Officials
have compiled a list of about 25 projects that could be used as
assets to back future sales, El-Naggar said in a phone interview
on Feb. 21 from Cairo.  “The international market is waiting for Egypt’s sukuk
sale,” said El-Naggar, an FJP official who became a ministerial
adviser after the ouster of Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed in
a cabinet reshuffle last month. “I hope to start with two
sales, one for domestic investors and one abroad.”  Chaos that accompanied the 2011 uprising that toppled
President  Hosni Mubarak  has shut Egypt out of international debt
markets as  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the country’s credit rating
to B-, the same non-investment grade as Greece and  Pakistan . The
government last sold dollar bonds in 2010, raising $1.5 billion
in 10-year and 30-year notes. The yield on the $1 billion debt
due April 2020 jumped 102 basis points this year to 7.06 percent
as of 3:08 p.m. in Cairo.  Bumpy Transition  Bouts of violence and political unrest that have disrupted
Egypt’s transition to democracy have delayed attempts to boost
the Shariah-compliant financial industry in the most populous
Arab country. The upper house of parliament, which is dominated
by the FJP, is expected to debate the draft sukuk law this week,
El-Naggar said. President Mohamed Mursi, an Islamist, plans to
hold elections for the lower house in April and has ordered the
new assembly to convene in July.  Tunisia and  Morocco  are also seeking to tap Islamic
investors after borrowing costs plunged. The average yield on
sovereign bonds that comply with the religion’s ban on interest
tumbled 126 basis points, or 1.26 percentage points, last year
to 2.65 percent, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Sovereign US
Dollar Sukuk Index. The yield rose 19 basis points this year to
2.84 percent on Feb. 22, the data show.  Soccer Fans  Global sukuk sales are set to surpass last year’s record of
$46 billion, led by issuance from the Gulf Cooperation Council,
 Mohammed Dawood , Dubai-based managing director of debt capital
markets at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an interview in Dubai this
month.  Egypt’s borrowing plans come against the backdrop of
increasing opposition to Mursi by some ultra-conservative
Salafis, political parties calling for a secular state and
soccer-fan groups seeking the removal of the public prosecutor
in connection to fatal violence in Port Said last year.  The crisis has erased most of the gains in Egyptian bonds
since Mursi’s election in June. The premium investors demand to
hold Egypt’s dollar-denominated 2020 debt over the benchmark
dollar swap rate, or the z-spread, surged 22 basis points last
week to 553, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was at
562 today, the highest level since June 25, a day after after
Mursi was declared winner in the presidential election.  Credit Risk  The cost of insuring Egypt’s dollar-denominated debt for
five years soared 176 basis points over the past month to 635,
the world’s second-worst performer after  Argentina , according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The swaps suggest that “Egypt will have to pay a lot to
issue the sukuk,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset
management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital PSC. “On a macro
level, things are not looking that good. However, this might
change if we see political stability which would result in
improvement in the economy.”  Egyptian officials held a seven-hour meeting at the  Finance
Ministry  on Feb. 20 to discuss issues including how to secure
the best pricing for the first sale, El-Naggar said. The size of
the first issuance will be between $500 million to $1 billion,
he said.  2013 Growth  The nation’s economic growth slowed in the last quarter of
2012 to 2.2 percent from 2.6 percent in the previous three
months and investment declined, according to government data.
Expansion may reach 3 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of 11 analysts on Bloomberg.  Sovereign dollar sukuk sales in the Arab world are limited
to Dubai, Qatar, Bahrain and the emirate of Ras Al-Khaimah,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s
6.396 percent notes due 2014 is little changed this year at 2.12
percent, the data show. The spread between the bonds and
 Malaysia ’s 3.928 percent sukuk due June 2015 was 73 basis points
today, down from 80 at the end of 2012.  The Egyptian government is working to amend the nation’s
accounting standards to comply with the Accounting & Auditing
Organization, a Bahrain-based body known as AAOIFI, El-Naggar
said. The government is also preparing to resume talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan to help
reduce borrowing costs to finance the biggest  budget deficit  in
the  Middle East .  The sukuk sale is going through regardless of IMF talks,
El-Naggar said. “We are taking the loan into our consideration
but in the end the sukuk issue is separate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  