-- Egypt’s New Economic Program Limits Tax Rises Amid Unrest
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-25T15:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/egypt-s-new-economic-program-limits-tax-rises-amid-unrest.html
Egypt’s government outlined an
economic plan to win  International Monetary Fund  loans, with
steps to narrow the  budget deficit  toned down to avoid inciting
further unrest.  Sales taxes will increase on six commodities instead of 25
suggested earlier, while the income-tax exemption will rise to
12,000 Egyptian pounds ($1,780) from 9,000 pounds, Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil told reporters in Cairo today. The plan
would “gradually” increase fuel prices for energy-intensive
industries, aiming to cap the deficit at 10.9 percent this
fiscal year and narrow it to 9.5 percent in the next.  It’s the latest bid by President Mohamed Mursi and his
government to complete a $4.8 billion IMF loan request whose
delay has compounded the country’s economic crisis. The economic
program was released against a backdrop of mounting unrest and
outbursts of violence. Opposition groups have opposed Mursi’s
commitment to parliamentary elections starting in April, and
resisted his efforts for a dialogue to bridge differences.  Yields on  Egypt ’s benchmark dollar bonds surged to an
eight-month high today as the political standoff persisted, and
the  main stock index  fell to the lowest this month.  “If no measures are taken to deal with the current
situation, the Egyptian economy will face grave dangers as the
unemployment problem will be aggravated in the absence of
investments or the financial surplus necessary” for  job
creation , the government said in the program distributed today
to reporters at the Cabinet.  Public Opposition  The yield on $1 billion of 5.75 percent dollar-denominated
bonds due in April 2020 rose 11 basis points to 7.06 percent as 
of 4:35 p.m. in Cairo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. 
That’s the highest level on a closing basis since June 25, one 
day after Mursi was declared winner in the presidential election.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) , which has risen 24 percent since June, 
fell 0.6 percent today.   Egypt signed a stand-by agreement with the IMF for the loan
in November, then requested a delay and suspended the tax
increases it had linked to the IMF program. The government cited
public opposition to its proposals for the U-turn, which came
amid growing street protests against Mursi and his proposed new
constitution, approved in a December referendum.  The country’s budget deficit would widen to 12.3 percent
without the program, the government said. It includes a 0.1
percentage-point fee for buyers and sellers of stocks. The six
items that will see sales tax increases include alcoholic and
non-alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, iron and cement.  Plunging Reserves  Egypt’s  economy has stalled  in the two years since the
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , as tourists and investors stayed
away and  foreign reserves  plunged. The IMF loan is seen by
officials and investors as key to rebuilding confidence and
securing other donor funds.  The economic program targets increasing reserves to $19
billion by the end of next fiscal year, from $13.6 billion last
month, Investment Minister Osama Saleh said. He told reporters
in Dubai that the country’s financing gap may widen
“slightly,” while the program would also include a 10 percent
tax on initial public offerings.  Mursi, in an interview aired early today on the Al-Mehwar
satellite channel, called on the opposition to meet for talks on
the parliamentary elections, which he says are vital to
stabilize the nation. His secularist and youth activist critics
have shunned previous calls for dialogue, and many say they will
boycott the four-stage vote, which is set to begin April 22.  Election Boycott?  The National Salvation Front, which includes Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei’s Constitution Party, will not join the talks
because they’re “not serious,” spokesman Khaled Dawoud said by
phone today. “Boycotting the elections may be the best
option,” though a decision will be reached tomorrow, he said.  The Salafi Nour Party, which follows an ultraconservative
brand of Islam and has recently quarreled with Mursi, today said
it would participate in the vote and called on other political
forces to do the same. Bassam El-Zarqa, a Nour official who
recently quit as an aide to the president, called in a televised
press conference for a transparent vote.  The latest wave of unrest in Egypt has centered on the
Mediterranean city of Port Said, where soccer fans are
spearheading a civil disobedience campaign that has spread to
other parts of the country.  Mursi said in the interview while he respected the rights
of people to voice their opinions, what was happening in Port
Said and elsewhere went beyond that. “Civil disobedience should
come through the people’s will to express their opinions in
peaceful ways, and not by threatening people at gun point,” he
said.  The comments risk further inflaming tensions in the Suez
Canal city. More than 30 people were killed last month in
protests against death sentences awarded to local soccer fans
for their alleged role in a stadium riot last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net 
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  