-- Heinz to Sell China Packaged Food Business
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-25T08:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/heinz-to-sell-china-packaged-food-business.html
H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) , the ketchup maker
which agreed to be acquired in a $23 billion buyout this month,
will sell its China packaged food business to  Zhengzhou Sanquan
Foods Co. (002216)   Zhengzhou Sanquan signed a deal with H.J. Heinz’s
subsidiaries, Country Ford Development Ltd. and Heinz (China)
Investment Co., to buy Shanghai Long Fong Co. on Feb. 22, Henan-
based Zhengzhou Sanquan said in a statement to the Shenzhen
stock exchange dated Feb. 23.  Zhengzhou Sanquan rose to its highest in 11 months in
Shenzhen trading. The company, which sells frozen meals and
snacks such as fried chive dumplings on the mainland, said the
purchase will help increase competitiveness and expand market
share. The acquisition will be financed using internal cash, it
said, without giving a value for the deal.  The sale is in line with “Heinz’s global strategy to de-
emphasize non-core frozen food businesses outside the U.S.” the
Pittsburgh-based foodmaker said in an e-mailed statement. “The
decision to seek a buyer for our Long Fong frozen foods business
in China is unrelated to the merger agreement with Berkshire
Hathaway and 3G Capital.”  Heinz agreed Feb. 14 to sell itself to  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital Inc.
for about $23 billion.  Shanghai Long Fong is involved in food packaging and frozen
food on mainland China. The Long Fong brand sells products in
eight major categories including dumpling, rice ball, dim sum
and hot-pot base, according to Heinz’s website.  Zhengzhou Sanquan, which resumed trading today after being
halted on Feb. 22, gained 3 percent to 29.33 yuan, the stock’s
highest close since March 19.  The transaction is expected to be completed in four months
or less, Heinz said. Three calls to the main telephone line of
Zhengzhou Sanquan returned a busy signal.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  