-- Merck, Bristol Diabetes Drugs Linked to Pancreatitis Risk
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-02-25T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/merck-bristol-diabetes-drugs-linked-to-pancreatitis-risk.html
Diabetes drugs sold by  Merck & Co. (MRK) 
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  may double a user’s risk of
developing an inflammation of the pancreas linked to cancer and
kidney failure, an analysis of insurance records shows.  Patients hospitalized with pancreatitis were twice as
likely to be taking Januvia, Merck’s top-selling drug, or using
Bristol-Myers’s Byetta, than a control group of diabetics who
didn’t have pancreatitis, according to the analysis today in the
journal  JAMA Internal Medicine . Both drugs increase GLP-1, a
hormone that stimulates insulin production from the pancreas.  Doctors have been concerned that this category of diabetes
treatments may damage the pancreas since the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration said in 2007 it received a high number of reports
of pancreatitis in patients taking Byetta. The agency issued a
similar alert for Januvia in 2009. The study, which analyzed
data from 2005 to 2008, showed a doubling in pancreatitis cases.  “This is the first real study to give an estimate of what
the risk is, until now we just had a few case reports,” said
Sonal Singh, the study’s author and an assistant professor of
medicine at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. “These drugs
are effective in lower glucose, but we should also consider the
risk of pancreatitis and balance the risk versus the benefit.”  Merck, the second-largest U.S. drugmaker, reported
$4 billion in sales, or about 9 percent of total revenue, from
Januvia last year. The daily pill blocks an enzyme that breaks
down GLP-1. Janumet, which combines Januvia with the older
diabetes drug metformin, generated $1.7 billion in sales last
year for Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck.  Novo’s Victoza  Bristol-Myers, based in New York, acquired Byetta when it
bought Amylin Pharmaceuticals last year for about $5 billion.
Byetta, which mimics GLP-1, had sales of $148 million for
Bristol-Myers last year, and $159 million for Indianapolis-based
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , which ended its marketing partnership with
Amylin in 2011.  “Bristol-Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca are confident in the
positive benefit-risk profile of Byetta and Bydureon as
demonstrated by extensive clinical trial data and safety
surveillance data,” Ken Dominski, a Bristol-Myers spokesman,
said in an e-mail. The companies “will continue to carefully
monitor any post-marketing reports of acute pancreatitis.”  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , based in  London , has a partnership with
Bristol-Myers on diabetes treatments. Bydureon is a longer
acting version of Byetta.  Other drugs that increase the level of GLP-1 in the body
include Bristol-Myers’s Onglyza and  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s Victoza.
The analysis only looked at Januvia and Byetta because the other
treatments weren’t on the market during the study period.
Januvia was approved in the U.S. in 2006, and Byetta in 2005.  Pancreatic Cancer  Singh said long-term studies should be done to determine if
GLP-1 therapies also increase the risk of pancreatic cancer.  “We really need to know more about these drugs as
pancreatitis is on the pathway to pancreatic cancer,” he said.  Merck said it has thoroughly reviewed preclinical, clinical
and post-marketing safety data and found “no compelling
evidence of a causal relationship between” the active
ingredient in Januvia and pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer.  “Nothing is more important to Merck than the safety of our
medicines and vaccines and the patients who use them,” Pam Eisele, a company spokeswoman, said in a statement.  Diabetes Patients  In diabetics, pancreatitis occurs in about 3 in 1,000
patients. A doubling of that risk, such as that seen in the
study, would drive that number to 6 in 1,000 for patients taking
Byetta or Januvia, Singh said. About 8.6 percent of Americans,
or 25 million people, had diabetes in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The number may rise to more than 34
million by 2020.  The study looked at 1,268 diabetics who had been
hospitalized with pancreatitis and compared them to the same
number of patients who didn’t have the condition. Among those
with pancreatitis, 87 had filled a prescription for Byetta or
Januvia compared with 58 in the control group. When adjusting
for variables that can make a patient more likely to develop
pancreatitis, the researchers determined there was a doubling of
risk, Singh said.  The study was funded by grants from Johns Hopkins, the
National Center for Research Resources, and the National
Institutes of Health Roadmap for Medical Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  