-- Merck KGaA Drug Fails in Late-Stage Brain Cancer Trial
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-02-25T08:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/merck-kgaa-drug-fails-in-late-stage-brain-cancer-trial.html
Merck KGaA’s (MRK)  experimental tumor-
fighting drug cilengitide failed to help patients with a form of
 brain cancer  in a late-stage clinical trial, adding to recent
drug-development setbacks for the company.  The medicine didn’t significantly increase survival in
patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma when added to
standard chemotherapy, the Darmstadt, Germany-based drugmaker
said in a statement today. Merck shares fell as much as 2.8
percent, the biggest intraday slide in two months, and were down
0.6 percent at 105 euros at 9:45 a.m. in Frankfurt.  The setback comes after the family-controlled chemicals and
pharmaceuticals company said in December that a therapy known as
L-BLP25 failed to improve survival significantly in lung-cancer
patients.  “The results of Centric are disappointing, especially for
people who are fighting this devastating and difficult-to-treat
cancer,” said Annalisa Jenkins, the head of global  drug
development  and medical for Merck’s prescription medicines
division. “We remain committed to advancing our pipeline and
developing new treatment options in oncology for patients with
high medical need.”  Detailed results of the trial, dubbed Centric, will be
submitted for presentation at the American Society of Clinical
Oncology meeting this year.  The result is “another blow” for the Merck Serono
pharmaceutical division, Odile Rundquist, an analyst at Helvea
SA, said in a note to investors.  The drug is still being tested in a mid-stage clinical
trial in patients with unmethylated MGMT gene promoter status.
Tumors with the MGMT protein don’t respond well to treatment
with temozolomide, the current standard of care.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  