-- Ericsson Works With SAP on Technology for Directing Machines
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-25T09:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/ericsson-works-with-sap-on-technology-to-give-orders-to-machines.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  will work
together to offer technology that may be used to detect risks at
oil refineries and direct vending machines to restock items
appropriate to the weather.  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless networks,
will deliver hardware to connect machines to the Internet, while
software from Walldorf, Germany-based SAP will analyze data and
issue commands, according to the companies, which will announce
details of the accord today during the  Mobile World Congress  in
Barcelona.  Phone companies, equipment manufacturers and software
makers are among businesses seeking to benefit as items such as
refrigerators and oil drills join smartphones and computers in
making connections through the Internet. Machine-to-machine
communication will help global mobile data revenue overtake
voice revenue by 2018, according to the GSM Association, which
represents mobile-phone operators.  “What we want is to see that operators can tap into the
machine-to-machine market and make money,”  Hans Vestberg , chief
executive officer of Stockholm-based Ericsson, said in a phone
interview. “We will create the scale for them and take down the
barrier of entry.”  Wireless Sensors  Using the new technology, sensors will be able to send
information about chemical levels and temperatures at oil plants
to a database that can rapidly determine whether there’s a
problem and send instructions for a shutdown, Sanjay Poonen,
head of SAP’s mobile division, said in a phone interview.
Vending machines could order a restocking based on information
that the next day will be hotter or colder.  The system will be sold through a phone company or a
network integrator, with whom Ericsson and SAP will share
revenue, Poonen said. While the technology can be deployed in a
matter of “weeks or months,” customers first need to make sure
their machines are equipped with sensors to generate the data,
he said.  “This is a solution that’s not ‘vaporware,’ it’s got some
very tangible use cases that we think show the future of the
world,” Poonen said.  Ericsson  shares  rose as much as 1 percent in  Stockholm  and
were up 0.8 percent at 79.05 kroner at 10:16 a.m., extending the
gain this year to 21 percent. SAP gained as much as 1.4 percent
in  Frankfurt  and was up 1.1 percent to 60.23 euros, paring its
loss this year to 0.8 percent.  Ericsson this month announced a partnership with Gemalto
NV, which will supply SIM cards needed to secure and remotely
control machines.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  last week announced a
partnership with German phone company  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  to
link machines in order to enable cities to  better manage 
traffic, optimize routes and organize parking spaces.  Gartner Inc. estimates that the number of connected items
will double to 30 billion by 2020 from 15 billion in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  