-- Let Online Higher Ed Mature Before Giving Financial Aid
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-25T23:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/let-online-higher-ed-mature-before-giving-financial-aid.html
The growth of free online college
classes has set off a wave of excitement about changes in higher
education. “MOOCs” (massive open online courses) have been
celebrated by some as a  revolution  and pooh-poohed by others as
 canned educational materials .  Now U.S. President  Barack Obama  has hinted that students
who take these classes should be eligible for federal financial
aid. In the  policy agenda  released with his  State of the Union 
address this month, Obama proposed an option for overhauling
college accreditation that  could allow  MOOCs to charge tuition
and accept federal money.  That would bring more competition to higher education.
Unfortunately, it would also warp MOOCs into subsidy-driven
enterprises before they had time to mature, short-circuiting the
kind of experimentation that could reveal whether they can be
good models for education.  Federal support should wait until MOOCs, now only a niche
service, develop ways to address higher education’s fundamental
economic problem: the high cost of labor-intensive attention and
feedback from professors.  Smart, intellectually curious go-getters who fill  Davos
panels  or work in Silicon Valley are excited about MOOCs because
they imagine how great the courses could be for people like
them, only less geographically and economically privileged.
What’s unclear, however, is how MOOCs can be more than the
latest twist on correspondence courses, educational television,
language-learning CDs and other useful but limited alternatives
to regular classroom instruction.  Online Learners  Today’s primary online learners include working adults in
search of job-related skills or credentials and people who are
hungry for intellectual stimulation. Both are highly motivated,
unlike the typical college student who needs the discipline
imposed by attending a regularly scheduled class. For more
typical students, professors are like personal trainers, who
make sure you show up and do the exercises.  In MOOCs, students help other students. It’s a cheaper
alternative that can work only in a highly motivated class.  Even so, for most students, a teacher’s feedback -- whether
questions during class discussions, comments on papers or red-
pencil grading -- is crucial. This is why professors get paid as
much to grade as to teach.  Grading is also the part of the job most professors hate,
because it can be so time-consuming, tedious and demoralizing.
To save time, instructors in large lecture classes at state
universities often use machine-graded, multiple-choice exams.
These are an option for MOOCs -- if someone can figure out how
to avoid rampant cheating. But automated grading merely provides
a check to see what students have learned; it doesn’t give them
comments and criticisms they can build on. Nobody has figured
out how to effectively automate feedback on the essays and in-
class discussions that hone critical thinking.  There are also worrisome signs that MOOCs won’t tolerate
professors who are too conscientious and demanding. This month,
Richard McKenzie of the University of California at  Irvine  told
his online microeconomics students that he had “agreed to
disengage” from his course, provided via the  Coursera  company,
because of “disagreements over how to conduct” it.  According to 
the Chronicle of Higher Education, only about 2 percent of the
37,000 people registered for the course were actively engaged in
class discussions, and some students had criticized McKenzie for
assigning too much work and for using a textbook that they had
to pay for. In one of many lengthy memos to students, McKenzie
said he would “not give on standards.”  New online institutions will undoubtedly emerge in higher
education, as they have in news, entertainment and retailing.
But they won’t be in a form anyone anticipates today. Real
improvements will require much trial and error. It would be a
mistake to bring MOOCs into the federal aid system before we
find out what they can do well.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 