-- EU Eyes March 22 Deadline for Basel Law to Avoid Delays
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-02-26T10:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/eu-eyes-march-22-deadline-for-basel-law-to-avoid-delays.html
The European Union must press ahead
with global bank capital standards to avoid fresh delays and to
give certainty to lenders that must abide by the overhaul, the
bloc’s financial services chief said today.  “We need agreed rules as soon as possible so that banks
know which way they are going,”  Michel Barnier  said in an
interview on the sidelines of a conference in Paris.  Lawmakers and EU negotiators will meet tomorrow to try to
break logjams over banker bonuses, financial reporting
requirements and the amount of power retained by national
regulators. An EU planning document warned the EU should finish
its laws on the new rules by March 22.  If the measures aren’t finalized next month, the EU may run
out of time to hit its January 2014 target date to implement the
so-called Basel III accord, according to the Feb. 22 document
drawn up by Ireland’s EU presidency and obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Missing the March deadline may force the EU either to
shorten its transition period, putting undue strain on lenders
to adjust by the start of next year, or delay starting the new
bank rules until July 2014 or January 2015.  Barnier said he’s working “on the hypothesis there won’t
be a delay” so the EU can stick to its schedule. He reiterated
the Brussels-based commission’s goal of regulating when
countries can set their own safeguards for lenders.  “The commission is very attached to having a working
single regime,” Barnier said. He said EU lawmakers are focused
on issues relating to banker pay.  Basel Delays  The EU, like the U.S., has struggled to agree on
legislation to apply the international standards on capital,
known as Basel III, which were published in 2010 as part of
efforts to prevent any repeat of the financial crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  After talks failed to reach a deal last week,  Othmar Karas ,
the European Parliament’s chief negotiator on the measures, said
this week’s talks would be the last opportunity to reach a deal
using fast-track procedures.  The Basel rules negotiations also have been stalled on how
much additional capital should be required for systemically
important financial institutions, and on banker bonuses,
according to the document. Ireland, which holds the EU’s
rotating presidency, offered several possibilities for
compromise, with no success so far.  “The European Parliament has not indicated any immediate
positive reception towards any of these elements,” the document
said. Options include allowing banks to “claw back” bonus pay
or require longer-term compensation plans.  Core Capital  Lawmakers are pushing the EU to include in the capital
rules a requirement for country-by-country reports on profits,
losses and taxes, according to the document. Nations have been
reluctant to expand the scope of the capital rules, preferring
to tackle the topic in separate accounting legislation.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  brings together
banking regulators from 27 nations including to the U.S., U.K.,
and  China  to coordinate their prudential rule-making.  The Basel III measures, which must be written into national
laws, would more than triple the core capital lenders must hold
and set standards for how lenders should manage risks.  Representatives of Karas and the Irish presidency in
Brussels declined to comment on the paper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  