-- EU Parliament Set to Decide on Carbon Fix in April Plenary Vote
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-25T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/eu-parliament-set-to-decide-on-carbon-fix-in-april-plenary-vote.html
The European Parliament won’t opt
for fast-track negotiations with member states on a carbon-
market fix and will instead discuss it at a plenary session in
April, according to lawmaker Matthias Groote.  Groote, a German member of the Parliament, oversees a draft
law change that would enable reducing oversupply of permits in
the world’s largest cap-and-trade market. Carbon allowances sank
as much as 12.7 percent to 4.53 euros a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange after his announcement that the next
steps on the proposal will be decided by the whole assembly
rather than the environment committee.  The EU carbon-market rescue plan assumes delaying auctions
of 900 million permits from 2013-2015 to 2019-2020 to
temporarily reduce a record glut aggravated by the economic
crisis. The strategy, designed by the European Commission and
known as backloading, also needs approval from member states.   “We will vote in plenary,” Groote said in a text message.
“I’ll stick to the timetable and we will get backloading.”  His decision follows calls by the European People’s Party,
the biggest group in the EU Parliament, that the draft measure
be considered by the whole assembly due to its complexity. The
proposal, aimed at helping carbon prices rebound from a all-time
low, has divided governments, members of the Parliament and
industry.  “It is such an important issue that the whole house should
decide about that,” Eija-Riitta Korhola, EPP’s lead lawmaker on
the measure, said in a phone interview today.  Energy Prices  Korhola, who is a Finnish member of the EU Parliament, said
majority of EPP members oppose the carbon fix because it
undermines predictability for investors and leads to higher
energy prices, threatening the competitiveness of European
businesses.  The Parliament’s industry committee recommended rejecting
the commission’s proposal last month. The panel has an advisory
role in the legislative process.   The environment committee last week supported the rescue
plan in a non-binding opinion that serves as a recommendation to
the whole parliament. EPP was split on that issue, according to
the voting results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  