-- EU Parliament’s Biggest Group Wants Plenary Talks on Carbon Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-25T12:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/eu-parliament-s-biggest-group-wants-plenary-talks-on-carbon-fix.html
The biggest group in the European
Parliament wants the whole assembly to decide about talks with
governments on a carbon fix, avoiding fast-track negotiations,
lawmaker Eija-Riitta Korhola said.  The EU Parliament’s environment committee is considering a
change to the bloc’s emissions trading law that would enable
temporary curbs on oversupply of carbon permits. Korhola, who is
the European People’s Party lead lawmaker on the draft measure,
said the proposal’s complexity requires a plenary rather than a
committee authorization on further legislative steps.   “It is such an important issue that the whole house should
decide about that,” Korhola said in a telephone interview
today. Her political group, known as the  EPP , expects a vote in
the environment committee tomorrow on whether to pursue
accelerated talks with member states or seek the opinion of the
full assembly before starting the negotiations, she said.   EU carbon allowancesdropped to an all-time low of 2.81
euros a metric ton last month as the economic crisis curbed
demand for pollution rights, leading to a record oversupply in
the world’s biggest cap-and-trade market. The EU proposal to
temporarily reduce the glut by delaying auctions of some permits
in 2013-2015 has divided governments, members of the European
Parliament and industry.  Korhola, who is a Finnish member of the EU Parliament, said
a majority of EPP members oppose the carbon fix because it
undermines predictability for investors and leads to higher
energy prices, threatening the competitiveness of European
businesses. The rescue plan for the emissions market, designed
by the European Commission, is known as backloading because the
900 million permits to be delayed at auctions would be returned
to the market in 2019-2020.  Market Mechanism  “It wouldn’t be wise to intervene in a market mechanism,”
Korhola said.  The Parliament’s industry committee, known as ITRE,
recommended rejecting the commission’s proposal last month. The
panel has an advisory role in the legislative process.   The environment committee last week supported the rescue
plan in a non-binding opinion that serves as a recommendation to
the whole parliament. EPP was split on that issue, according to
the voting results. In a separate vote the panel decide to delay
by a week a decision on whether to follow a fast-track approval
of the measure, which also requires qualified-majority backing
from EU governments.  Matthias Groote, the chairman of the Parliament’s
environment committee who oversees the law change in the
assembly, hasn’t announced yet whether he would call a vote on
the mandate to start accelerated talks with member states
tomorrow, Korhola said. Majority of EPP members will vote
against such authorization without a prior plenary discussion,
she said.  “It would be utterly undemocratic after the ITRE vote to
let the environment committee only decide about the procedure,”
Korhola said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  