-- EU Tax Chief Urges U.S. Support for Transactions Levy
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-02-26T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/eu-tax-chief-urges-u-s-support-for-transactions-levy.html
The European Union’s tax
commissioner urged U.S. supporters of a financial transaction
tax to keep up their efforts and said a global tax should be a
reality at “some time.”  “I believe that things can evolve,” Algirdas Semeta said
yesterday in a speech at the Center for American Progress in
 Washington . “Nowadays, every government needs new sources of
public funding.”  So far, 11 countries have signed up to work toward the EU’s
tax. The plan would impose a wide-ranging levy on trades of
stocks, bonds, derivatives and other financial instruments, to
raise revenue and discourage speculative trading.  The U.S. Treasury Department opposes the EU tax, warning
about the effects on U.S. investors. Payson Peabody, managing
director and tax counsel at the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association in Washington, said his group
agreed a tax could harm U.S. investors.  Despite skepticism from the U.S. and other countries,
Semeta said in an interview that the EU would build momentum
toward a global tax.  “Somebody has to start to demonstrate that it could
work,” he said.  Semeta met yesterday with Lael Brainard, Treasury’s
undersecretary for international affairs. Brainard expressed
concern at the meeting about the potential effect on U.S.
investors of the tax proposal, and said she hoped it would
“evolve so it does not have adverse cross-border impacts”
Holly Shulman, a Treasury spokeswoman, said in a statement.  Lew’s Response  Some Democratic lawmakers in the U.S., including Senator
Tom Harkin of  Iowa  and Representative Peter DeFazio of  Oregon ,
back implementing similar tax proposals in the U.S. Semeta said
he will meet today with both lawmakers, whose proposal has
gained little momentum in Congress or with President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  “The administration has consistently opposed a financial
transactions tax on the grounds that it would be vulnerable to
evasion, create incentives for financial re-engineering, and
burden retail investors,” Jack Lew, Obama’s nominee for
Treasury secretary, said in response to a written question from
Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the top Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee.  Transaction taxes “have an outsized impact, negative
impact on growth and jobs,” Peabody said. “And we think that
policy makers on both sides of the aisle understand that.”  The proposed EU tax would set a rate of 0.1 percent for
stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent on derivatives trades.
The EU estimates that the plan could raise 30 billion euros ($40
billion) to 35 billion euros annually.  EU Nations  To become law, the proposal must be approved by the EU
nations that agreed to consider imposing the tax. They now
include  Belgium , Germany,  Estonia , Greece, Spain, France,  Italy ,
 Austria ,  Portugal , Slovenia and Slovakia.  International financial institutions won’t be able to avoid
the tax because they won’t want to pull out of all of those
countries, Semeta said in the interview. He added that the U.S.
concerns show that the tax won’t lead companies to relocate to
jurisdictions without the levy.  “It demonstrates that the tax is well-designed and it will
not lead to the shifting of transactions to other countries,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  