-- Euro Declines to Six-Week Low Amid Italian Election Concern
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-02-25T22:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/euro-erases-gain-versus-dollar-as-poll-shows-berlusconi-in-lead.html
The euro fell to the lowest level in
six weeks versus the dollar after partial election results from
 Italy  suggested the four-way race may end in a divided
parliament requiring another vote.  The yen rose from the weakest since May 2010 against the
dollar and rallied against the euro as the election renewed the
traditional refuge appeal of the Japanese currency. The 17-
nation euro erased earlier gains as forecasts by state
broadcaster RAI showed Democratic Party candidate Pier Luigi
Bersani winning the lower chamber and Silvio Berlusconi with a
blocking minority in the Senate. The pound overtook the yen as
the biggest loser this year out of 10-developed nation
currencies following the U.K.’s rating downgrade.  “There’s a flight to safety that’s symptomatic of the
frustration investors are facing due to increased uncertainty
from the political sphere,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
 Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a telephone interview. “The sudden
drop we saw in the euro was reflective of that level of
frustration.”  The euro declined 1 percent to $1.306 as of 5 p.m. in New
York after gaining as much as 1 percent. It touched $1.3048, the
lowest since Jan. 10. The yen appreciated 1.7 percent to 91.82
per dollar after touching 90.88, the strongest since Jan. 31.
 Japan ’s currency added 2.7 percent to 119.93 per euro after
gaining as much as 3.6 percent, the most since Jan. 24.  The euro rose 1.3 percent this year, according to a gauge
of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The yen fell 3.9 percent, the second biggest decline
after the pound’s 5.2 percent loss. The dollar added 2.4
percent.  Rand, Loonie  South Africa’s rand rose to its strongest level in more
than a week as investors gauged the currency’s slump this year,
the worst among emerging-market currencies, is overdone. The
currency was little changed at 8.8638 per dollar after touching
8.8098, strongest since Feb. 15.  The Canadian dollar fell to its lowest level against the
greenback in nearly eight months on speculation Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney may suggest economic growth is slowing more
than forecast. The so-called loonie depreciated 0.5 percent to
C$1.0262 per U.S. dollar after earlier falling to C$1.0278, its
weakest since June 29.  Colombia’s peso fell the most versus the dollar since Aug.
15 after Banco de la Republica lowered the  overnight lending
rate  by a quarter-percentage point to 3.75 percent on last week.
The currency decreased 0.8 percent before trading down 0.7
percent to 1,812.20 per dollar.  Italy Election  In Italy, besides Berlusconi, the big winner was Beppe
Grillo, the comic-turned-anti-corruption activist who called
established politicians “failures.” His Five Star movement
contesting its first election took 25.4 percent of the lower-
house vote compared to 25.9 percent for Bersani’s bloc, the pre-
election front-runner, according to Interior Ministry data from
82 percent of polling stations.  The result may lead to President Giorgio Napolitano
installing an interim government, such as the one headed by
incumbent Mario Monti, to write a new election law as the
prelude to another vote.  “We think the euro will remain under pressure until we get
more clarity,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in
New York at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a telephone interview.
“There’s a lot of uncertainty there, and it’s weighing on the
euro and risk assets in general.”  ‘Support Growth’  The yen fell earlier on speculation Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe will select Haruhiko Kuroda, a supporter of aggressive
monetary easing, as the next  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor. With
current BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and two deputies stepping
down March 19, Abe is set to reshape the leadership of a central
bank that has adopted his 2 percent inflation target and plans
to begin open-ended asset purchases next year.  “The market seems to have formed an opinion that Kuroda is
a dove and if he indeed becomes the new BOJ governor, he would
be willing to do much more to support growth,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a senior currency strategist at UBS AG in  London . “The yen
is weakening on speculation there will be more policy easing.”  The central bank had “substantial room” for further
loosening and additional measures may be justified this year,
Kuroda, currently president of the Asian Development Bank, said
in a Feb. 11 interview.  Futures traders increased bets the yen will weaken against
the dollar, figures from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission released Feb. 22 showed. The  difference  in the number
of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on a
decline compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts --
was 65,891 on Feb. 19, compared with 61,306 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  