-- HP Investor Adviser Group Seeks Board, Accountant Changes
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-02-26T14:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/hewlett-packard-chairman-ray-lane-to-meet-with-investor-group.html
CtW Investment Group, part of the
labor group Change to Win, is pushing for  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  to
remove its two longest-standing board members and urging the
computer maker to drop Ernst & Young LLP as its auditor.  After a two-hour meeting with Hewlett-Packard Chairman  Ray Lane  and other  directors  yesterday in  Washington , CtW is
recommending that investors vote against the election of John Hammergren and G. Kennedy Thompson, who have been on the board
since 2005 and 2006, respectively, Michael Pryce-Jones, a senior
analyst at CtW, said in an interview.  Meg Whitman , Hewlett-Packard’s  fourth  chief executive
officer in three years, is attempting to revive growth and win
back investor confidence after six quarters of declining  sales 
and profit and management missteps. The last board shakeup was
in 2011, when four directors were ousted to quell criticism over
the way it handled the departure of former CEO  Mark Hurd .  “They’ve had too much change at the top,” said Pryce-
Jones, who attended the meeting at the office of the Council of
Institutional Investors. “It’s tough to justify two folks like
Hammergren and Thompson, who’ve been on the board for so long
and have overseen so many missteps.”  Lane “came off as very credible and sincere” and CtW
won’t seek his ouster, Pryce-Jones said.  Auditor Questioned  Howard Clabo, a spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-based
Hewlett-Packard, said yesterday’s meeting was “productive” and
that the company appreciates “the opportunity to answer
questions for our investors.”  “We feel we have the right board in place to turn HP
around,” Clabo said in a statement.  CtW is advising shareholders to vote against the
appointment of Ernst & Young, citing the auditor’s failure to
unearth accounting irregularities at Autonomy Corp. that later
resulted in Hewlett-Packard writing down most of the
acquisition, Pryce-Jones said.  “We also think there’s a problem with the auditors,” he
said.  Amy Call Well, a spokeswoman for Ernst & Young, declined to
comment.  Hewlett-Packard’s board has established a special committee
to review claims made against the company in shareholder
lawsuits related to the Autonomy acquisition, Clabo said. The
committee plans “to make a recommendation to the full board as
to its response to these claims,” he said.  Board Missteps  Lane and directors Ralph Whitworth,  Patricia Russo  and
Rajiv Gupta met with William Patterson, executive director of
CtW Investment Group. Some  investors , including the California
State Teachers’ Retirement System, Colorado Public Employees’
Retirement Association and  New York  City’s comptroller, took
part in the meeting.  CtW Investment Group will recommend “no” votes on
electing Hammergren and Thompson, and on ratifying Ernst & Young
at Hewlett-Packard’s March 20 shareholder meeting. The group,
which advises labor unions’ benefit funds that hold about 5
million Hewlett-Packard shares, is pushing for the changes after
a steep decline in the company’s  stock price  and an $8.8 billion
writedown related to Autonomy.  Whitman has said it will take five years to turn around
Hewlett-Packard, which she took over after the ouster of  Leo Apotheker  as CEO in 2011. While Apotheker had pushed for the
deal to buy Autonomy as part of a now-abandoned shift in
strategy toward a greater focus on software, he had left by the
time the acquisition was completed.  Accounting Improprieties  “They were replaying the message you’ve seen elsewhere in
the news -- that this was Apotheker’s fault and they moved to
get rid of Apotheker,” said Pryce-Jones. “He was a new CEO --
the board needed to be on top of things.”  The company said on Nov. 20 it was writing down most of the
value of the Autonomy purchase after discovering “serious
accounting improprieties” at the unit. In December, Apotheker
said the board, led by Lane, shares responsibility for the deal.  Whitman’s efforts showed some progress last week, when the
company gave a forecast for fiscal second-quarter profit that
exceeded analysts’  estimates  and reported higher-than-projected
first-quarter sales and profit.  Shares of Hewlett-Packard were unchanged at $19.07 at 9:47
a.m. in New York. Through yesterday, the stock had risen 14
percent since Feb. 20, the day before the earnings report,
compared with a 1.6 percent decline for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  