-- Ex-Governor Teams With Investor Activist on Stillwater
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-02-25T21:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/ex-governor-teams-with-investor-activist-on-stillwater.html
Former  Montana  Governor and
potential presidential candidate Brian Schweitzer has joined
activist investor Clinton Group Inc. to shake up  Stillwater
Mining Co. (SWC) , the largest public company in his home state.  “The only board of directors that is doing worse is the
 U.S. Congress ,” Schweitzer, a 57-year-old Democrat, said in an
interview. “Clinton Group is trying to protect  shareholder
value , and I am too. But I’m also trying to protect this unique
asset that we have in Montana.”  Schweitzer, who left the governorship last month after
eight years due to  term limits , will be part of an eight-person
slate nominated by shareholder Clinton for the board of
Stillwater, a palladium and platinum producer based in Billings,
Montana. In December, Clinton cited a declining stock price in
calling for the retirement of Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Frank McAllister, cost-cutting and the sale of a mining
project in  Argentina .  “The stock has performed poorly in the last couple of
years and is significantly undervalued today,” Greg Taxin,
Clinton’s managing director, wrote in a letter to the Stillwater
board in December. “We believe change is needed.”  Clinton notified Stillwater’s management of its plans today
in an e-mailed letter, Taxin said.  Clinton’s Nominees  Stillwater fell 1.1 percent to $12.85 at the close in New
York. The shares had  declined  12 percent in the 12 months
through Feb. 22. That compares with an 18 percent gain for the
 Standard & Poor’s SmallCap Materials Index (S6MATR) , of which Stillwater
is a member. The company had a market value of $1.52 billion at
the end of last week, down from $2.6 billion in March 2011.  Stillwater is scheduled to report fourth-quarter  results  on
Feb. 27. In the third quarter, revenue fell 29 percent to $181
million and net income dropped 68 percent to $13 million.  Mike Beckstead, a Stillwater spokesman, and Chief Financial
Officer Gregory Wing didn’t respond to telephone requests for
comment.  Taxin said in an interview he and Charles Engles, a former
Stillwater chairman and CEO, are among Clinton’s other nominees
for the nine-person board. Engles led the company from 1994-97,
which included its initial public offering.  Clinton owned more than 800,000  Stillwater shares , or 0.7
percent of the stock, at the end of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cautionary Tale  Schweitzer said he became skeptical of Stillwater
management while still governor after it bought Vancouver-based
Peregrine Metals Ltd. in 2011 for $262.9 million. The purchase
gave Stillwater a copper and gold project in Argentina that
might take as much as $2.5 billion to develop.  The stock  fell 22 percent on the day the deal was
announced. Schweitzer said that reminded him of what he
described as a cautionary tale from Montana’s past. Anaconda
Copper Mining Co. had a property in  Chile  confiscated by the
government in 1971. That helped weaken the company and
eventually led to the closing of a mine in Montana and job
losses, Schweitzer said.  “We’ve had our belly-full in Montana of good Montana-based
mining companies throwing the long ball in  South America ,”
Schweitzer said.  Clinton and Schweitzer want Stillwater to focus on its
palladium mining in Montana and reconsider a diversification
strategy that has also included buying Marathon PGM Corp. for
C$134.7 million ($131.3 million) in 2010 to gain a project in
Ontario.  Recent Investor  Schweitzer said his background as a business owner running
ranches and farms, the holder of a master’s degree in soil
science, and creating budget surpluses while governor make him a
legitimate board nominee. He said he’s also a recent investor,
buying 25,000 Stillwater shares since leaving office.  As governor, he met with management, including the CEO, and
said he intervened on behalf of the company when he pushed
 General Motors Co. (GM)  to reverse a decision to cancel a contract
with Stillwater as part of its bankruptcy reorganization in
2009.  Stillwater’s annual meeting is scheduled to be held on May
2, according to the New York Stock Exchange’s  website . The
record date to be able to vote at the meeting is March 6.  Schweitzer reiterated Clinton’s critique that Stillwater
raised capital by issuing what he described as costly
convertible bonds last year instead of issuing high-yield debt.  Pamela Anderson  He also agreed with Clinton’s criticism of the company
spending more than $10 million a year funding Palladium Alliance
International, a group that promotes use of the metal in fine
jewelry. In 2011, the group ran an ad campaign featuring actress
Pamela Anderson.  It’s an issue, Schweitzer said, because a small percentage
of palladium is used for jewelry. The largest use is for the
catalytic converters in cars.  “It will only take one or two more of these bad decisions
to drive this company out of business,” he said.  Schweitzer, who lives in Montana, said that beyond trying
to get on the Stillwater board, he isn’t sure about his future,
including running for the White House in 2016.  “There are many people who say I am one of the top
prospects to run for president,” Schweitzer said. “That might
be a decision that I make sometime in the future, but I haven’t
made one now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  