-- F-35 Flights May Resume Within Week of Tracking Down Fault
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-25T21:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/f-35-flights-may-resume-within-week-of-finding-fault-chief-says.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter may resume flying within a week of working out
problems that caused its grounding, the program chief for the
Pentagon’s most expensive weapon program said.  The grounding won’t affect delivery of the planes and the
cause of the engine problems will be known by the end of the
week, Chris Bogdan, head of the F-35 program at the U.S.
Department of Defense, said in a briefing today in  Melbourne .
 Australia  is deciding its order of the stealth aircraft, amid a
7 percent cut to its defense equipment budget and delays in the
delivery timetable for the aircraft.  The Pentagon suspended all flights of the $396 billion
aircraft program Feb. 22 after an engine inspection revealed a
crack on a turbine blade. The program is already facing cost
pressures after a redesign, bulkhead cracks, too much weight,
and delays to essential software put it seven years behind
schedule and 70 percent over budget.  “Once we know what the root cause is and I think we should
know that before the end of the week, we have various options
for when we get the planes back into flight,” said Bogdan. “If
it’s as simple as a foreign object damage problem or a
manufacturing quality problem I could foresee the airplane being
back in the air in the next week or two.”  The total $1.1 trillion cost of the program could be cut by
billions, and events such as the grounding aren’t unusual for
planes during development, according to Bogdan. The price of
individual aircraft is coming down, he said.  Smoke Incident  In a separate incident, an F-35 test flight on Feb. 14 was
cut short after the cockpit had some “smoke issues” and the
pilot landed safely, according to Nathan Drevna, a spokesman
with  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , a supplier to Lockheed. That
aircraft’s thermal management system, which controls cabin
temperature, is being shipped to Honeywell for testing, Drevna
said today in a telephone interview.  About a quarter of the aircraft’s production run will be
purchased by U.S. allies including Australia, the U.K.,  Japan ,
 Israel ,  Turkey , the Netherlands, and  Norway . Italy, Canada and
 Denmark  have already scaled back their planned purchases amid
pressure on defense budgets and a near-doubling of the cost of
each plane to $137 million since 2001.  Australia expects to spend $13.21 billion if it takes out
its full order of 100 F-35s, according to a  report last
September  by the government’s audit office, and has already
approved a  A$2.36 billion ($2.4 billion) spend  on the first
phases of the project.  Australian Deliveries  The first two aircraft will be delivered during 2014 for
testing and training, with an additional 12 to arrive two years
behind schedule from about 2017 to 2019. A further decision to
lift the total to 100 probably won’t be taken until 2015,  the
government says .  The delays to the program could prove expensive, the
government’s spending auditor said in a report last September,
if it forces a delay to the retirement of  Boeing Co. (BA)  F/A-18
Super-Hornet fighters beyond a planned withdrawal date in 2020.  “Defence’s capacity to absorb any more delays,” according
to a  report  from auditor-general Ian McPhee, “is likely to be
costly, and has implications for capability.”  Budget Cuts  The Australian government has been trimming its defense
spending as it tries to hit a target to reach  budget surplus  in
the year ending this June amid a slowdown in the mining boom
that’s powered the country’s economy since the 2008 financial
crisis.  Delays to the F-35 program have saved  A$1.6 billion  from
the budget projections, according to a briefing paper attached
to the government’s spending review last May. Funding for
Australia’s Defence Materiel Organisation will be  cut by seven
percent  to A$9.1 billion this year, mainly as a result of a
A$664 million cut in capital investment plans, the government
said at the time.  The F-35 program is a “catastrophic technical and
managerial failure on multiple fronts,” Peter Goon, a
consultant at think tank Air Power Australia, told a
parliamentary committee  last February.   “The Joint Strike Fighter is a failed program with no
prospect of recovery,” he said. “The Joint Strike Fighter
aircraft is the wrong product.”  The jet is also facing scrutiny in the U.S. as a March 1
deadline approaches to avert automatic budget cuts set up as
part of a 2011 deal to increase the country’s debt limit.  The cuts, to be split almost evenly between defense and
non- defense spending , would take as much as $45 billion this
year from Pentagon programs, including the F-35.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  