-- Facebook to Remove Sandy Hook Posts, Connecticut Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-02-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/facebook-to-remove-sandy-hook-posts-connecticut-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  agreed to take
harassing postings off tribute pages for victims of the Sandy
Hook Elementary School shooting after meeting with Connecticut’s
attorney general about the sites.  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen, who met with
the company Feb. 24, said in a statement yesterday that the
company would remove postings “designed to harass or
intimidate” victims and their families.  “We’re continuing conversation with Facebook, and we’re
monitoring the situation,” Jaclyn Falkowski, a spokeswoman for
Jepsen, said in a phone interview. “Facebook has been extremely
responsive.”  Facebook spokeswoman Jodi Seth said the company is working
with the attorney general’s office, families and the foundation
representing victims.  “For the past few months, our rapid response team has
acted swiftly to remove inappropriate materials flagged by the
foundation and the families,” Seth said in a statement. “We
will continue to be vigilant.”  The Stamford Advocate  reported  Feb. 22 on dozens of
unofficial tribute pages on the social networking site dedicated
to Victoria Soto, a first-grade teacher who was killed in the
December massacre. Soto’s mother, Donna, has complained about
the pages and sent a personal message to Facebook Chief
Executive  Mark Zuckerberg , the paper said.  Connecticut Senators  Richard Blumenthal  and Chris Murphy
and Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty said in a statement yesterday
that they wrote a letter to Zuckerberg asking that the company
remove pages that have been used “to harass or exploit” the
families of victims.  “Many give the appearance they were created by loved ones
in the names of the victims,” they wrote in the letter.
“Unfortunately, many of these pages have become vehicles for
harassment, intimidation and possibly financial fraud.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   Jpickering@bloomberg.net  