-- Fed's Rosengren Sees Need for Big Banks to Raise Capital
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-02-25T00:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/fed-s-rosengren-sees-need-for-big-banks-to-raise-capital.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said regulators should require the
largest U.S. banks to hold more capital because the government
may be unable to rescue them in another financial crisis.  “Minimum standards for large institutions may be too low”
given the magnitude of losses at the biggest banks during the
crisis beginning in 2008, Rosengren said in to remarks prepared
for a speech today at a Bank for International Settlements
conference on financial regulation in  Seoul . “Government
authorities don’t want to be in a position of having to provide
support again, and in fact, might not be able to so.”  Under the overhaul of global financial rules, known as
Basel III, banks need to increase capital to avert turmoil
similar to the financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. While standards for the U.S.
haven’t been finalized, systemically important U.S. financial
institutions, or SIFIs, probably will be required to set aside
additional capital, Rosengren said.  Boston Fed researchers found that half of large banks, if
they maintained a tier 1 common equity ratio of at least 7
percent, would have remained above the 5 percent ratio during
the most severe part of the crisis, Rosengren said. Regulators
view tier 1 capital as the most important for loss absorption
because it is composed of common stock and retained earnings.  Eight of the 26 banks studied would have had capital losses
that exceeded the maximum level proposed by the buffer known as
the “SIFI surcharge,” Rosengren said. That would have caused
their capital levels to fall below the 5 percent tier 1 ratio
used in the Fed’s stress tests of whether they could withstand a
severe economic contraction, he said.  “This highlights that while the capital buffers should
provide significantly greater capital than was held prior to the
crisis, the capital buffers do not seem excessive given the
losses experienced during the financial crisis,” Rosengren
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  