-- First Quantum May See Zambia Rival BlackRock as Top Holder
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-02-26T18:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/first-quantum-may-see-zambia-rival-blackrock-as-top-shareholder.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  may see
Zambia’s state-owned mining company become its second-biggest
shareholder if it converts a stake in the continent’s largest
copper operation into equity.  ZCCM Investment Holdings Plc (MLZAM)  will “hopefully” decide this
year, said Mukela Muyunda, chief executive officer of the
company that’s 88 percent owned by the government of  Africa ’s
largest copper producer.  If ZCCM decides to exchange its stake in the Kansanshi
mine, located near the  Democratic Republic  of Congo border, for
First Quantum shares, it could end up owning about 10 percent of
the company, said  George Topping , an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus Canada Inc. in Toronto.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
biggest money manager, is First Quantum’s largest owner, with
about 12 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We would be happy if ZCCM becomes a shareholder in First
Quantum as part of a step in transforming ZCCM into a sovereign
fund,” John Gladston, a Zambia-based spokesman for First
Quantum, said in an e-mail yesterday. “It is something First
Quantum would be willing to accommodate.”  Zambia sold most of its  mining industry  to private
investors between 1996 and 2001, maintaining stakes from 10
percent to 21 percent in companies, which it holds through ZCCM.
That reversed a nationalization that took place in the 1970s.  Valuation Method  ZCCM first said it was considering swapping its Kansanshi
stake for shares in First Quantum in its strategic plan made
public in December. The company sold its 2.28 percent stake in
Equinox Minerals Ltd. to  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  for more than $160
million in 2011, having paid $30 million for the shares five
years earlier.  Topping bases his calculation of the shareholding ZCCM may
get in First Quantum on a $5.4 billion valuation of the
Kansanshi mine, he said. Kansanshi is worth about $6 billion,
Patrick Jones, a London-based analyst with Nomura International
Plc said in a Jan. 16 research report. First Quantum has a
market value of C$9 billion ($8.8 billion).  ZCCM had previously planned to decide on converting its
Kansanshi stake by the end of last year, Muyunda said by mobile
phone Feb. 21. First Quantum shares rose 1.6 percent to C$18.71
as of 1:12 p.m. in Toronto yesterday. ZCCM rose 1.6 percent to
2.66 euros by the close on the NYSE Euronext exchange in Paris.  Finance Minister  “When all the necessary consultations are concluded,”
with Zambia’s finance ministry, ZCCM will make a decision,
Muyunda said.  Finance Minister Alexander Chikwanda declined to comment.  “We’ll leave that to ZCCM,” he said  in an interview in
Lusaka.  Companies including Barrick Gold Corp.,  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED)  and  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  also operate mines in the
country. Zambia doubled royalty rates for metals used in
industry including copper to 6 percent effective in April,
abandoning an earlier move to introduce a windfall tax.  Copper for delivery in three months slipped 0.4 percent to
$7,803 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange by 9:31 a.m. in
Johannesburg, extending the decline this year to 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  