-- France Won’t Negotiate With Boko Haram, Minister Says
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-02-26T13:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/france-s-ayrault-says-hostages-probably-held-by-boko-haram.html
France  won’t negotiate with the
militant Islamist group Boko Haram that kidnapped seven French
citizens including four children last week, French Defense
Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said today.  “We will use all means possible to ensure the liberation
of the hostages,” he said on RTL radio. “But we won’t take
part in this bidding war because it’s terrorism we are dealing
with here. This is the first time we have children taken
hostage. It is an unacceptable situation.”  French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said yesterday that
the hostages are probably held in Nigeria by Boko Haram. A video
posted yesterday on YouTube showed what appeared to be the
French hostages sitting on the floor, including children aged
between five and 12. Two masked and armed captors in camouflage
are standing beside them while another is seated in front, and
all three said they were part of Boko Haram.  Authorities in  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s largest oil producer and
most populous nation, have been battling an insurgency by Boko
Haram that’s killed hundreds of people since 2009. The group has
carried out attacks in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja, the
capital. Nigeria’s population of more than 160 million has a
predominantly Christian south.  “The president of France knows he has waged a war on
Islam, and we have fought him everywhere,” one of the masked
captors said in the video.  Militant Demands  France has about 4,000 troops in  Mali , where it intervened
to fight Islamists and rebel forces to restore state control
over a nation that vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-biggest
gold producer.  The hostages will be released only if Nigerian President
 Goodluck Jonathan  frees women linked to the group who have been
captured by the authorities and if Cameroonian President Paul Biya releases their imprisoned “brothers,” one of the captors
said.  “We tell you, implement all those things,” one of the
masked men said, warning the hostages would be killed if their
demands weren’t met.  Nigerian authorities are collaborating with the French and
Cameroonian governments, Foreign Affairs Ministry spokesman
Ogbole Amedu Ode said by phone today from Abuja. The tourists
were seized Feb. 19 from Dabanga village, about 960 kilometers
(597 miles) northeast of the Cameroonian capital, Yaounde.  Fighting between French special forces and Islamist
militants is now in the “final phase” and France will start
withdrawing troops in a few weeks, Le Drian said Feb. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  