-- LG Acquiring WebOS Software, Engineers From Hewlett-Packard
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-02-25T18:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/lg-acquiring-webos-technology-engineers-from-hewlett-packard.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  is acquiring
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s WebOS mobile-software operations and
hiring several dozen engineers who worked on the program, part
of an effort to improve Internet-capable televisions.  Hewlett-Packard will retain WebOS’s patents and license
certain technology to LG, Hewlett-Packard Chief Operating
Officer Bill Veghte said in an interview today. LG Electronics,
the world’s second-largest maker of TVs, plans to put the
technology into Web-connected sets as early as next year, said
Skott Ahn, the company’s president and chief technology officer.  Hewlett-Packard bought WebOS in 2010 through the $1.2
billion acquisition of Palm Inc. The computer maker shut down
Palm in 2011 after abandoning a plan to compete in the market
for tablets and smartphones.  Meg Whitman , who took over as
Hewlett-Packard’s CEO just after that decision, has been working
to salvage some value from the Palm deal.  LG will pay Hewlett-Packard an undisclosed amount for the
WebOS code and “many, many dozens” of engineers in Silicon
Valley, and acquire an open-source software version of the
operating system called  Open webOS , Veghte said.  LG, which ships smart TVs using its own software and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Google TV, will incorporate WebOS into future products,
though not those arriving this year, said Ahn. The company may
also use use WebOS in home appliances, he said.  “We’d like to improve our platform using WebOS,” he said.
The company is planning to increase television sales 15 percent
this year by offering sets with new display technology and more
advanced functions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  