-- Gender Parity Prevails as Sweden Central Bank Cuts Rates
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-26T11:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/gender-parity-prevails-as-sweden-central-bank-cuts-rates.html
Karolina Ekholm argued for looser
monetary policy for almost three years on the Swedish Riksbank’s
board. Her perseverance, grounded in scholarly analysis of
global trends, is now bearing fruit.  The world’s oldest central bank has reduced its benchmark
interest rate four times since December 2011. Each time, Ekholm
voted for deeper cuts or a lower rate outlook, saying policy
makers should focus less on asset prices and more on promoting
economic expansion and job creation to keep  Sweden  from
importing the euro area’s recession. Her argument reverberates
across central banks in a sluggish global economy.  “She’s been right about how the economy has developed,
since the board eventually was forced to cut rates to boost
growth and inflation,” said Par Magnusson, chief economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Stockholm . He was a student of
Ekholm’s at Lund University. “The board would have been a
poorer place without her.”  In her four years at the 345-year-old central bank, Ekholm,
48, has disagreed with the majority in every meeting since June
2010. She’s facing resistance from policy makers concerned they
may be fueling an asset-price bubble, with Governor Stefan Ingves saying household credit growth may be prompting
unsustainable increases in  home prices .  Four of the six board members, led by Ingves, have voted in
concert since 2010 for a tighter policy than Ekholm was
advocating. The six-member board is evenly split between men and
women.  No Risk?  Even so,  inflation  adjusted for mortgage costs in the
biggest Nordic economy is half the bank’s 2 percent target, and
Ekholm says  interest rates  aren’t the best way to tame rising
household debt.  “Given that there seems to be no inflation risk and that
unemployment after all is higher than we think it needs to be in
the long term, I don’t see any reason why we shouldn’t try to
cut the jobless rate,” Ekholm, who is on leave from a
professorship at Stockholm University, said in an interview.  An espresso machine sat on her windowsill as she spoke in
her office,  furnished  in sleek, understated Scandinavian wood
and light colors. She also served coffee in her office at
Stockholm, leading students who gathered there to call it Cafe
Ekholm, said Katariina Nilsson Hakkala, a researcher whose
thesis Ekholm co-supervised. Charismatic and sociable, Ekholm
would draw people in for discussions, Nilsson Hakkala said.  ECB Cuts  Balancing policy goals also weighs on other central banks.
The  Bank of England  has tolerated three years of above-target
inflation and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has
cut rates three times since joining the bank in 2011, pledging
last July to do “whatever it takes” to protect the euro. In
the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  is focusing on reducing the
jobless rate after decades of emphasizing low inflation.  The Riksbank kept its seven-day  repo rate  at 1 percent on
Feb. 12, with Ekholm advocating a cut to 0.75 percent and
calling for lower rates through the first quarter of 2016.  Publicly airing her views on economic policy wasn’t
something Ekholm set out to do. After resisting calls from her
anthropologist mother to study sociology and abandoning plans to
follow in her father’s footsteps to become a physician, she
decided in favor of macroeconomics after being told it was the
most difficult of the social sciences.  During her first year at Sweden’s  Uppsala University , she
“didn’t understand that much,” she said. Her decision to
pursue a career in the field came when she took a course on
cost-benefit analysis in 1987.  ‘Incredibly Nerdy’  “That sounds incredibly nerdy because nobody thinks cost-
benefit analysis is fun,” she said. To her it was interesting
since she got to “apply theory to create the basis for pretty
difficult decisions like infrastructure investments and
investments to improve the environment.”  Ekholm originally planned to become a civil servant.
Instead, she stayed in academia: as a researcher at the Research
Institute of Industrial Economics between 1996 and 2000, a
teacher at the Stockholm School of Economics until 2006 and an
associate professor at  Stockholm University . She received her
professor title while at the Riksbank in 2010.  She taught while earning her degree, and informally
mentored some of her economics students. Most, though not all,
were women. Her own mentor, the late Johan Torstensson, who
studied international trade, was a fellow Ph.D student. He was
“an inspiring person with a passion for economics,” Ekholm
said.  Ekholm is missed in the research world, where her departure
“left a black hole,” according to Nilsson Hakkala, who called
Ekholm a role model.  Role Model  “Her courage has taught me a lot,” Nilsson Hakkala said.
“I’ve learned to not fear commenting on the research of
economists more senior than myself. I’ve always thought: what
would Karolina have done?”  In the acknowledgments to her thesis, Nilsson Hakkala said:
“I always had to be prepared for criticism from Karolina.
However, the criticism was never unjustified and I am very
grateful for it.”  “She introduced me the art of solving general equilibrium
models numerically and suddenly I found it very enjoyable to run
GAMS-simulations late at night. It has been very stimulating to
work with Karolina.”  In 2007, Ekholm was asked to sit on the  Swedish Fiscal
Policy Council , which assesses the government’s tax and spending
issues. Ekholm’s work there gave her a policy background,
opening the door to joining the central-bank board, she said.  ‘Generally Sensible’  “I think that Lars Calmfors, who was chairman of the
council, thought that I seemed to be a generally sensible
person,” she said. The main take-away from her academic career
has been “that in order to make well-informed decisions, you
have to carry out proper analyses, which involves both thinking
through how things work in the abstract as well as looking
systematically at facts.”  Ekholm came to the Riksbank in March 2009 at the height of
the financial crisis. After concurring with the board on
monetary policy through her first year, Ekholm began to advocate
lower rates than the majority wanted.  “She has a very solid background in international economy,
which is definitely a benefit in today’s increasingly globalized
world,” said Rikard Forslid, an economics professor at
Stockholm University. “That’s good for the Riksbank, which has
often had more of a domestic focus.”  Ekholm also is a long-distance runner who “likes to hang
out with friends,” he said.  Growth Threat?  When policy makers embarked on a cycle of rate increases in
June 2010, Ekholm argued for holding rates lower to ward off a
threat to growth from the euro-area debt crisis, according to
the minutes of the meeting.  The central bank’s staff provides forecasts on economic
developments ahead of each rate meeting, and board members can
order up additional research. Ekholm says she deduces the policy
consequences from the staff’s forecast, then tends to “ask for
simulation results” for other policy options, which also are
shared with the board.  Ekholm’s case has been supported by fellow board member and
former Princeton University Professor Lars E.O. Svensson, 65,
who criticizes the central bank for having kept headline
inflation an average 0.6 percentage point below the bank’s 2
percent target since 1997. This has pushed  unemployment  0.8
percentage point higher than necessary, without any large effect
on  household debt , Svensson says. He spoke out for even bigger
rate cuts than Ekholm wanted this month.  Jobless Rise  The jobless rate will climb to an average 8.1 percent this
year from 7.7 percent in 2012, the central bank predicts. That
compares with last month’s  7.9 percent  in the U.S. and 6.8
percent in  Germany , the euro area’s biggest member.  A more expansionary monetary policy would bring inflation
closer to the 2 percent target and reduce unemployment, Ekholm
said on Feb. 12, according to minutes of the meeting published
today.  “I have worked with her for many years and have also known
her to be stubborn,” said Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe, an
economics professor at the University of Oslo, who is close
friends with Ekholm. Together they’ve set up a research network
for Nordic economists specializing in international economics,
which organizes yearly workshops.  Ekholm gained her doctorate at  Lund University  with a
thesis titled “Multinational Production and Trade in
Technological Knowledge.” It was an examination of, among other
things, how global companies choose locations for their overseas
operations and trade in specialized services. Ekholm says there
was very little previous research on multinational businesses to
build on.  ‘Academic Approach’  “She’s more analytically and model-driven and has a more
academic approach to things than a lot of the board members, who
use more of a gut feeling when setting rates,” said Forslid,
who has known Ekholm since graduate school in Lund.  Ekholm said she’s impressed with Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , who has disagreed with colleagues taking the view that
accommodative policy can’t help create jobs. She’s also argued
the Fed should accept somewhat more inflation to do so.  In a Feb. 12 speech, Yellen signaled stimulus may outlast
the Fed’s bond purchases, saying the central bank could hold the
federal funds rate near zero as long as the inflation rate isn’t
forecast to rise to more than 2.5 percent in the near term and
unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent.  Room Left  Higher rates in Sweden than abroad are putting pressure on
the currency. The ECB this month kept its benchmark at 0.75
percent, and the Fed’s target is zero percent to  0.25 percent .
The krona has strengthened 7.6 percent against the euro and 12
percent against the dollar since it began rising in May, eroding
the competitiveness of Sweden’s export sector.  “I’m not that worried about the strengthening krona so far
since we still have a repo rate at 1 percent, so we have quite a
bit of room for further cuts,” Ekholm said. “The natural thing
to do if the  exchange rate  should change in a way that risks
deflation is to use the monetary-policy rate to try to lift
inflation toward the target.”  A drive in Sweden to get women into high-powered jobs has
helped Ekholm climb the career ladder, she said.  Same Merits  “I have been asked to take part in things that I perhaps
wouldn’t have been asked had I not been a woman, if I had been a
man with the same merits,” she said, adding that the invitation
to join the fiscal policy council was probably one of those,
since her expertise wasn’t in fiscal policy or the  labor market .  The process of moving more women into top jobs in Sweden
still is “going very, very slowly,” partly because women tend
to prioritize kids and family over careers, she said. Ekholm
isn’t married and has no children, a fact she says has made it
easier to focus on work.  One in five professors in Sweden is female, an increase
from about 5 percent in 1984, a report by the Swedish National
Agency for Higher Education found in 2011. In the U.S., about 29
percent of professorships were held by women in fall 2011,
according to data from the  Department of Education .  “I thought when I was working on my Ph.D. that I would be
part of a generation of women that would become associate
professors and professors and so on,” she said. “In reality,
many dropped out along the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  