-- German Stocks Rise as Deutsche Boerse Surges on Approach
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-02-25T17:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/german-stocks-rise-amid-boj-speculation-italian-election.html
German stocks  advanced to a three-
week high as Deutsche Boerse AG rallied after CME Group Inc. was
said to approach the operator of the  Frankfurt  exchange to
consider merger talks.  Deutsche Boerse jumped the most in more than seven months.
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  climbed as a gauge of carmakers posted the biggest
gain among the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP) 
 K+S AG (SDF)  rose to the highest in more than two months as Citigroup
Inc. upgraded its recommendation on the shares.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  increased 1.5 percent to 7,773.19 at the
close of trading in Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge has climbed
2.1 percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
budget avoiding automatic fiscal changes that had threatened to
push the world’s biggest economy into recession. The broader
HDAX Index added 1.3 percent today.  “There was some quite high volume buying this morning
which pulled the index higher,” Angus Campbell, head of market
analysis at Capital Spreads in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “M&A activity has also supported the rally.”  The volume of DAX-listed shares changing hands today was 48
percent greater than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The gauge had gained as much as 2.6 percent after an early
poll from SkyTG24 Tecne showed Pier Luigi Bersani of  Italy ’s
Democratic Party, which favors maintaining budget rigor, on
track to win parliamentary elections. The index pared its
advance after a separate survey by Istituto Piepoli for RAI, the
country’s public broadcaster, forecast Silvio Berlusconi’s
People of Freedom and the allied Northern League may win the
largest share of the vote for the senate, or upper house.  In Italy, prime ministers require control of both houses of
parliament. The election finished at 3 p.m. and the Interior
Ministry is expected to release official results later today.  Japan Bank  In  Japan , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will probably nominate
Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda as  Bank of
Japan  governor, according to two officials with knowledge of the
discussions. Kuroda said earlier this month additional monetary
easing can be justified for 2013.  Deutsche Boerse jumped 5.6 percent to 49.30 euros, after
earlier rising as much as 12 percent.  CME (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, has approached the operator of Frankfurt’s
stock exchange to consider beginning talks on a merger,
according to four people familiar with the situation.  CME contacted Deutsche Boerse at the end of last year,
before IntercontinentalExchange Inc. announced plans to buy NYSE
Euronext on Dec. 20, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the information is private. Deutsche Boerse, which
had its takeover of NYSE Euronext blocked by European regulators
a year ago, is hesitant about entering talks, the people said.  Deutsche Boerse said it isn’t in merger talks with CME.  Carmakers Gain  Volkswagen,  Europe ’s biggest carmaker, advanced 1.5 percent
to 166.20 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest
manufacturer of luxury cars, added 2.6 percent to 70.58 euros
for its biggest gain this year.  K+S AG climbed 2.6 percent to 35.77 euros as Citigroup Inc.
upgraded the stock to buy and raised the forecast price on the
shares to 42 euros from 38 euros. A recovery in potash demand,
driven by new contracts from  India , should support K+S,
Citigroup said.  Wirecard AG (WDI) , a provider of Internet-payment and processing
services, jumped 3.2 percent to 19.99 euros, a record high, as
it formed a partnership with Vodafone Group Plc.  Merck Rises  Merck KGaA (MRK) , the maker of the Erbitux cancer drug, reversed
earlier losses, rising 0.8 percent to 106.45 euros, its highest
price in more than two months. The company’s experimental tumor-
fighting drug cilengitide failed to help patients with a form of
brain cancer in a late-stage clinical trial.  The medicine didn’t significantly increase overall survival
in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma when added to
standard chemotherapy, the Darmstadt, Germany-based company said
in a statement today.  Fresenius Medical Care AG, the world’s biggest provider of
kidney dialysis, dropped 1.5 percent to 52.32 euros. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analyst Veronika Dubajova said that the
voluntary recall by Affymax Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.
of their Omontys anemia treatment for kidney dialysis patients
after reports of fatal reactions was negative for Fresenius
Medical. The German provider of kidney dialysis has been using
Omontys for about 18,000 U.S. patients on a trial basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  