-- Gillard Slips in Australia Poll as Tax Damages Credibility
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-25T23:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/gillard-slips-in-australian-poll-after-tax-damages-credibility.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  slipped
behind opposition rival  Tony Abbott  as Australia’s preferred
leader for the first time since August after her credibility was
dented when a mining tax she helped design brought in less
revenue than forecast.  On the question of who would make the better prime
minister, Gillard fell 5 percentage points to 36 percent, while
Abbott rose 1 point to 40 percent, according to a  Newspoll 
survey published in the Australian newspaper today. The ruling
 Labor party  rose 1 point to 45 percent on a two-party preferred
basis, with the Liberal-National opposition down 1 point to 55
percent, it showed.  Gillard is struggling to build momentum ahead of elections
due Sept. 14, amid opposition claims the shortfall in revenue
from the tax on iron ore and coal profits is an example of her
government’s economic incompetence. Australia’s first female
prime minister has also been confronted with scandals involving
former Labor lawmakers and the resignation of two senior
ministers, leading to speculation predecessor  Kevin Rudd  may
make another challenge to her leadership.  “Gillard’s position is looking extremely difficult,” said
Paul Strangio, a senior lecturer in politics at  Monash
University  in Melbourne. “Governments have come back from
similar positions and this one needs to make sure it works hard
to get its message out and is not distracted by any leadership
speculation.”  Rudd’s Support  In today’s poll, 24 percent of respondents said they were
more likely to vote for Labor if Rudd was restored as party
leader, with 13 percent saying they were less likely to and 62
percent saying it would make no difference.  The Feb. 22-24 telephone survey of 1,143 people had a
margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. The
 previous poll  was held Feb. 1-3. The two-party preferred measure
is designed to gauge which major party is likely to win the
seats required to form a government.  Gillard’s minority Labor government on Feb. 8 announced
that the mining tax raised A$126 million ($129 million) in its
first six months, less than 10 percent of the A$2 billion the
Treasury forecast for the year to June 30.  Abbott, 55, who has vowed to rescind the mining levy and a
tax on  carbon emissions , says the revenue shortfall is an
example of the government’s failure to manage the A$1.45
trillion  economy .  “There’s very little wrong with our country that a change
of government wouldn’t fix,” Abbott told an audience of
business leaders in Sydney on Feb. 15.  Mining Critics  The Minerals Resource Rent Tax, which puts a 30 percent
levy on  iron ore  and coal profits, was designed by Treasurer
Wayne Swan and Gillard after she ousted Rudd as party leader and
prime minister in June 2010. Rudd’s popularity with voters had
plunged in part due to an advertising campaign conducted by the
 mining industry  against his proposed levy on resource profits.  Rudd, who failed in a challenge for Gillard’s leadership a
year ago, said in a Feb. 12 interview on  Sky News  that changing
the tax was a matter that should be addressed by Gillard and
Swan as it “has not collected any real revenue of any
significance.”  The shortfall was due to “global instability, commodity
price volatility and a high dollar,” Swan said Feb. 8. Shadow
Treasurer  Joe Hockey  called on Swan to resign, saying the tax
was fundamentally flawed when designed and that Labor could no
longer rely on revenue from the levy to fund promised education
and welfare programs.  State Royalties  Under an agreement Gillard negotiated with  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ,  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group and Xstrata Plc, mining companies can
claim depreciation allowances on their iron ore and coal
projects. Any royalties paid to state governments on iron ore
and coal can also be deducted.  Western Australia , the nation’s biggest iron ore producer,
said in May 2011 it would increase its royalty rate from 5.625
percent to 7.5 percent by July 1, 2013, for every ton of the
steel-making ingredient mined in the state, effectively cutting
the revenue Gillard’s government could reap.  Rio Tinto  said Feb. 14 it had booked a deferred tax asset
from the mining tax of $1.13 billion in the second half.  “Swan admitting that the revenue raised from the tax was
minimal was bad enough, but then Rio Tinto coming out and
basically saying that Australian taxpayers now owe the company
money was devastating for Labor,” said  Andrew Hughes , who
conducts political-marketing research at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “The government is rapidly losing
whatever trust the voters still had in it.”  Getting Nervous  Labor backbenchers in marginal seats will be getting
nervous and may ask Rudd to re-contest the leadership, Hughes 
said. Rudd told Channel 7 television on Feb. 15 that a challenge 
to Gillard was “not happening.”  Gillard’s bid to focus on policies including increased
education spending and a national disability insurance program
has been hampered by scandals involving Labor politicians.  Craig Thomson , a former national secretary of the Health
Services Union and former Labor party lawmaker, faces charges
that he misused a union credit card to pay for prostitutes,  air
travel  and cash advances between 2002 and 2007. The alleged
misconduct occurred before he entered parliament.  In New South Wales, the nation’s most-populous state, an
anti-corruption inquiry has been hearing allegations that former
Labor lawmaker Eddie Obeid earned millions of dollars from
illegal property deals.  Gillard was forced to reshuffle her ministry this month
after Attorney General Nicola Roxon and party Senate leader
 Chris Evans  resigned from cabinet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  