-- Glencore’s CEO Says Rival Mining Chiefs ‘Really Screwed Up’
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-02-26T17:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/glencore-s-glasenberg-berates-mining-ceos-for-building-new-mines.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s
billionaire Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg criticized
his recently departed mining CEO peers for swamping the industry
with mines and new production that crimped profits.  “The big guys really screwed up,” Glasenberg, 56, who
runs the world’s largest publicly traded commodities supplier,
told investors yesterday in a presentation.  “We’ve always been wanting to keep building and keep
putting the cash which we generate into new assets,” he said.
“That’s what we’ve got to stop doing as a mining industry.
We’ve got to learn about demand and supply.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s two
largest mining companies, and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  have reported
lower profits this month on rising costs and waning global
growth. The CEOs of those three have quit or announced plans to
depart after investors criticized them for the acquisition of
assets whose value was later written down.  “Now we have a new generation of CEOs; I hope CEOs have
learnt their lesson,” Glasenberg told the BMO Capital Markets
conference in Hollywood,  Florida . “They built, they didn’t get
the returns for their shareholders. It’s time to stop
building.”  Glasenberg, a 28-year veteran of Glencore and the company’s
largest shareholder with a 16 percent stake, took over as CEO of
the Baar, Switzerland-based company in 2002 and pursued a
strategy of growth by acquisition.  Xstrata, Viterra  Since a $10 billion initial public offering in 2011, he has
agreed to a $34 billion all-share deal to buy  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  to add
mines and smelters, and completed a C$6.1 billion ($5.9 billion)
takeover of Viterra Inc. in December to boost agriculture
operations.  Rio Tinto ’s new CEO  Sam Walsh  said at the same conference
yesterday that he will be “taking steps to rein in capital
expenditure.” Walsh replaced Tom Albanese as CEO on Jan. 17
after his predecessor quit following a $14 billion writedown on
the value of takeovers.  Last year’s spending of $17.4 billion on projects by Rio
will represent its peak year of investment, he said. The company
estimates spending of about $13 billion this year though this
may be reviewed, he said.  “I’ll be looking at existing projects with a fresh pair of
eyes and considering all alternatives,” Walsh said. “These
could include continuing with the current plan, slowing it down,
introducing new partners or canceling projects altogether. This
review has high priority.”  Cutting Spending  BHP’s newly appointed CEO  Andrew Mackenzie  plans to make
cutting costs and boosting productivity a priority, he said in a
Feb. 24 interview with the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
according to a transcript.  Faced with falling prices crimping profits, BHP unveiled
$1.9 billion in cost savings when it released its half-year
results Feb. 20, as  net income  dropped 58 percent after
commodity prices declined. Mackenzie, the head of BHP’s copper
unit, who previously worked at  BP Plc (BP/)  and Rio Tinto, takes over
from Marius Kloppers on May 10.  Anglo American’s  Cynthia Carroll  departs in April, with her
replacement  Mark Cutifani , currently head of  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s largest producer of the precious metal.  “There’s no doubt in the world that shareholders are
demanding discipline in terms of the way we allocate capital
now,” Cutifani said in  Cape Town  on Feb. 7.  “As an industry,
we’ve lost a bit of trust and as leadership we’ve got to regain
that trust.”  Higher Prices  Stalling development of new mines will help prolong higher
prices for commodities and bolster dividends for investors,
Glasenberg, a former accountant and coal trader, told the
conference yesterday.  “We will get better returns on our investments, we will be
able to kick out more cash to our shareholders,” he said. “We
will be late to invest. So, who cares? We’ll be late and we’ll
have to invest in five years’ time. It’ll take us three years to
build the mine but we could hopefully have an eight-year run.”  Glencore rose 0.3 percent to 383.05 pence by the close in
London trading, valuing it at 27.2 billion pounds ($41.1
billion).  After combining with Xstrata, the company will have
interests in about 35 coal mines in Colombia,  Africa  and
Australia, and make up about 10 percent of global seaborne
exports of the fuel.  Tight Market  It also will be the world’s third-biggest producer of mined
copper, the largest zinc miner, and the biggest exporter of coal
burned by power stations. The company will have about 11 percent
of the 13 million metric-ton global zinc market and about 40
percent of the 1.9 million tons of the metal produced in  Europe .  “What we’ve got to do, when the markets do get stronger,
no need to keep building a new asset and let’s keep the market
tight for a while,” Glasenberg said. “Not that we’re here to
create an anti-competitive nature, but we’ve got to get returns.
You the investors want to get returns on our assets and it’s
easily done if we just use our brains.”  Glencore hopes to get final regulatory approval for the
Xstrata takeover from China by a March 15 deadline, Glasenberg
said. The CEO said he doesn’t think Xstrata’s 25 percent stake
in  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  is a “long-term asset” for the next company.  “I hope we are in a new paradigm in the  mining industry ,”
Glasenberg said. “It’s really, I believe, catastrophic what
we’ve done in this industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  