-- Glorious Property Markets Dollar Notes as Asian Bond Risk Falls
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-25T04:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/glorious-property-markets-dollar-notes-as-asian-bond-risk-falls.html
Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. (845)  is
marketing a sale of U.S. dollar-denominated notes as bond risk
across the Asia-Pacific region falls.  The developer, founded by Chinese billionaire Zhang Zhi
Rong who resigned as chairman in November, is offering five-year
securities at about 13.25 percent, according to a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the terms aren’t set. The cost of insuring corporate bonds
against non-payment dropped in  Asia ,  Japan  and  Australia ,
according to credit-default swap traders.  Glorious Property’s bonds would be the first by a Chinese
issuer in the U.S. currency this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The sale comes after authorities in
Beijing on Feb. 20 urged local authorities to “decisively”
curb real-estate speculation. CIFI Holdings Group Co., a Hong
Kong-listed developer, canceled a planned note sale last week
citing unfavorable market conditions, four people with knowledge
of the details said at the time.  “Glorious Property’s proposed deal should provide a litmus
test for the market,” said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit
desk analyst at Credit Agricole CIB. “That’s especially the
case given this morning’s weak Chinese manufacturing data and
the overhang of Italian election results.”  Economic Headwinds  China ’s manufacturing is expanding at the slowest pace in
four months, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an
e-mailed statement today following a preliminary reading of
their  Purchasing Managers ’ Index, underscoring the headwinds
faced by policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy.
Italians are meanwhile awaiting the results of the presidential
election.  Chinese issuers  pay  an average 5.34 percent for dollar
debt, 23 basis points more than at the end of last year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes as of Feb. 22. The
rate dropped 7 basis points last week. Asian yields have risen
19 basis points in 2013 to 4.23 percent, the indexes show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 2 basis points to 122.5
basis points as of 9:09 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices. The gauge declined last week for an 11th
straight week and reached as low as 117.3 on Feb. 13, the least
since July 2011, according to data provider CMA.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined 1 basis point to 108.5 as of
8:22 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. The gauge is on course to drop 7.7 basis points in
February, CMA prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 1.5 basis points
to 114 as of 9:55 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking Corp. prices
show. The benchmark is down from 127.5 at the beginning of the
year, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  