-- GM Bringing 4G Broadband to New Autos in 2014 With AT&T
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/gm-bringing-4g-broadband-to-new-vehicles-next-year-with-at-t.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, said its OnStar unit will begin offering 4G LTE
service in vehicles next year in a partnership with  AT&T Inc. (T)   The faster mobile data speed will first be available in
most 2015 model year vehicles in the U.S. and Canada, GM said
today in an e-mailed statement. Additional markets and service
providers will be announced in coming months, the company said.  “We’re making a global commitment to embed 4G LTE mobile
broadband across all of our vehicles,” Mary Chan, president of
GM’s Global Connected Consumer, said in an interview. “This is
the largest commercial deployment of 4G LTE services in the auto
industry.”  The move marks an evolution for GM’s OnStar, which has 6
million subscribers in the U.S. and  Canada  for the in-car
communication service. The Detroit-based automaker traditionally
emphasized OnStar’s operators while other automakers have
developed programs that used onboard navigating systems with
video screens or systems that piggybacked off of connections
with smart phones.  GM’s OnStar operator-emphasis strategy is changing with the
introduction of new telematic systems in Cadillac and  Chevrolet 
and today’s announcement.  “This is a big deal,” said Thilo Koslowski, an industry
analyst with Gartner Inc. based in San Jose,  California . “They
want to actually have embedded connectivity in their connected
vehicles rather than relying on a mobile phone going forward,
that’s a pretty big shift in terms of where other vehicle
manufacturers are today.”  Faster Speeds  Long-term evolution, or LTE, is a higher speed, fourth-
generation wireless technology compared with third-generation,
or 3G. AT&T,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
and T-Mobile USA Inc. are adding LTE to their networks. LTE
allows mobile users to load videos and stream music as much as
10 times faster than 3G, according to the statement.  With 4G, GM said it could include in-vehicle Wi-Fi hot
spots, streaming videos and faster application downloads.  “This enables them to actually have the capabilities to
support all kinds of innovative services and needs that
consumers may evolve or may desire in the future by having this
technology available,” Koslowski said.  GM didn’t disclose pricing details.  “There’s going to be different tier levels of service that
customers can choose and buy from,” Chan said. The faster
service won’t be available for older vehicles, she said.  AT&T, the second-largest wireless carrier, said the OnStar
agreement will boost prospects for the Dallas-based company.  “We think telematics will be a $1 billion business for
AT&T,” said  Glenn Lurie , head of emerging businesses at AT&T
Mobility. “Moving forward with GM and OnStar is a big step in
that direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  