-- Google Said Developing Subscription Music Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-02-25T22:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/google-said-developing-subscription-music-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , developer of the
Android mobile-phone platform, plans to start a subscription
music-streaming service to challenge Spotify Ltd., said two
people with knowledge of the situation.  Negotiations are under way with major record labels to
license their music, said the people, who sought anonymity
because the talks are confidential. Google, which also owns the
YouTube video website, is also discussing renewing deals that
cover the use of songs in videos made by consumers, they said.  The worldwide service is targeted for a third quarter
start, said one of the people. The effort would strengthen
Google’s ties to consumers through its Android software, the
most popular operating system in smartphones, as consumers
access more music and videos on the go. Spotify  lists  5 million
paying subscribers and 20 million users of its ad-supported
service in 17 countries.  Christopher Katsaros, spokesman for Google, said the
company doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation. Google’s talks
with the record companies and music publishers for a streaming
service was reported by the Wall Street Journal on Feb. 22.  Apple, maker of the iPhone, is also planning a music
service that would challenge Spotify in streaming and  Pandora
Media Inc. (P)  in Web-based radio, people with knowledge of the
situation said in September.  Google’s service would work on Android and non-Android
devices, one of the people said.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, declined 1.1
percent to $790.77 at the close in New York, leaving the  stock 
up 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  