-- Gupta Must Pay Goldman $6.2 Mln for Fees Spent in Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/gupta-must-pay-goldman-6-2-mln-for-fees-spent-in-probe.html
 Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director convicted of passing tips to his
friend  Raj Rajaratnam , was ordered to pay the bank more than
$6.2 million in restitution as a victim of his insider trading.  Goldman Sachs argued that as a result of Gupta’s crimes, it
was entitled to $6.9 million in legal fees and other expenses it
had spent during a federal probe of the bank by the  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney’s Office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
as well as a parallel investigation by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Gupta, 64, who sat on the board of New York-based Goldman
Sachs and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , was convicted
in June of passing information he gathered at board meetings to
Rajaratnam, his former business associate who was co-founder of
the hedge fund Galleon Group LLC.  “Goldman Sachs has proved by a preponderance of the
evidence that 90 percent of its tendered expenses were both
necessary and incurred during its participating in the
investigation and prosecution,” U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
who presided over Gupta’s criminal trial, said in a ruling
yesterday.  Bill Records  Rakoff said that he reviewed the more than 542 pages of
billing records from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, which represented
the firm during the investigation of both Gupta and Rajaratnam.
Rajaratnam, convicted of insider trading in 2011, is serving an
11-year prison sentence.  Gupta was found guilty of leaking tips to Rajaratnam about
Goldman Sachs, including information about a $5 billion
investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  on Sept.
23, 2008 and a second tip about a quarterly loss at the firm in
October 2008.  “We’re pleased the court ordered Mr. Gupta to pay
restitution,” said  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman
Sachs.  The firm said it was entitled under the Mandatory Victims
Restitution Act to recoup legal fees and other related costs
that were a “direct and foreseeable result of Gupta’s
offense.”  “In convicting Gupta of conspiracy and substantive insider
trading violations, the jury necessarily determined that Gupta
breached his duty as a director of Goldman Sachs,” said Steven Peikin, a Sullivan & Cromwell partner. “The victim here is
Goldman Sachs.”  Internal Investigation  Peikin had argued that Goldman Sachs was entitled to
recover expenses including money it spent conducting an internal
investigation; funds spent representing the firm during U.S.
criminal and civil investigations of both Rajaratnam and Gupta
and expenses paid to Gupta for his defense. Goldman Sachs also
said it was entitled to funds it paid the law firm in response
to the government’s request for documentation and the
preparation of Goldman Sachs witnesses. Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein testified at both Rajaratnam’s
and Gupta’s trials and was deposed during the parallel SEC case.  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, declined to comment on
the judge’s ruling.  On Oct. 24, Rakoff sentenced Gupta to serve two years in
prison and ordered him to surrender to U.S. prison officials on
Jan. 8. A federal appeals court allowed Gupta to remain free
while he fights his conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  