-- Iceland Failed Bank Creditors Face Writedowns, Gudmundsson Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-02-25T14:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/iceland-failed-bank-creditors-face-writedowns-gudmundsson-says.html
The creditors of Iceland’s failed
lenders will have to write down as much as 200 billion kronur
($1.6 billion) in claims against the three lenders, central bank
Governor Mar Gudmundsson said.  The currency, already under “considerable” pressure from
payments on foreign loans, faces an additional overhang of krona
assets that will be needed to be paid out to foreign creditors,
the governor said in a parliament hearing in Reykjavik today.  The creditors “can take all the foreign exchange, which
they claim from foreign parties, but” the krona assets “will
be written down to a considerable degree,” he said. “So it may
well be that their return on this will not be great or that it
will be very negative.”  Iceland imposed  capital controls  in 2008 after Kaupthing
Bank hf, Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki Islands hf all failed
within weeks of each other, defaulting on $85 billion in debt.
The controls are now blocking as much as $8 billion from being
offloaded.  Iceland refused to bail out its banks to avoid a sovereign
default. Most of the domestic assets were siphoned into new
state-created units and shares in the new banks, Arion banki hf,
Islandsbanki hf and Landsbankinn hf, were then handed over to
the creditors of the failed banks as compensation.  “Even though we can calculate that this will be 200 billion
kronur, which will be added to the kronur overhang if this will
all be paid out, we also know that this will never be the case,”
Gudmundsson said today.  Steinunn Gudbjartsdottir, head of Glitnir’s winding up
committee, said on Friday she had no knowledge of any plans
forcing the failed lender to write off its kronur assets. A call
to Johannes Runar Johannsson, a member of Kaupthing’s winding-up
committee, wasn’t immediately returned.  Iceland’s economy and financial system collapsed in 2008
after its banks were unable to roll over the debt they’d
amassed. The country, which exited an International Monetary
Fund program in August 2011, is now emerging from the meltdown
and outgrowing much of  Europe . Iceland earlier this month had
the outlook on its Baa3 rating raised to stable from negative by
Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net . 