-- Ikea Withdraws Meatballs Across Europe After Horse-Meat Find
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-25T19:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/ikea-withdraws-meatballs-across-europe-after-horse-meat-find.html
Ikea Group, the world’s biggest
furniture retailer, became the latest company to be drawn into
 Europe ’s horse-meat scandal after it stopped serving and selling
Swedish meatballs across most of Europe.  The company widened an earlier stop on total meatball sales
which was limited to  France  and  Sweden . Now “the sales stop
concerns meatballs manufactured by one supplier in Sweden who
supplies meatballs to all European countries,” except  Norway ,
 Russia  and Switzerland, as they “have alternative suppliers,”
Ikea said in a statement.  The decision followed the discovery by authorities in the
Czech Republic of traces of horse meat in the product.  The horse-meat scandal that started in Ireland in mid-
January has spread across Europe as retailers withdraw products
such as frozen beef burgers, lasagnas and meat balls from the
shelves. The European Union has ordered immediate testing across
the region for equine DNA in beef products and the veterinary
drug phenylbutazone in horse meat.  “The scandal has been a shock to the European food
industry, which is coming to the end of the knee-jerk stage of
the crisis” said Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital in
Liverpool. “There may be a fundamental re-examination of supply
chains by retailers and brand owners too.”  Nestle Action  Ikea is now testing its meatballs again to validate the
Czech findings and expects to have the results by the end of
this week. The company serves the product in its restaurants and
also sells them to take away.  According to Ikea’s U.K.  website , a meal of 10 Swedish
meatballs in the restaurant costs 3.89 pounds ($5.88). A portion
of 15 sells for 4.50 pounds and 20 for 5.79 pounds.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company, said today it
dropped Spanish supplier Servocar, after beef products were
found to contain horse meat. That follows the Swiss company’s
decision on Feb. 18 to withdraw beef ravioli and beef tortellini
products and stop all deliveries of products with beef from H.J.
Schypke, a subcontractor of Nestle supplier JBS Toledo NV.  “As we have seen from recent announcements by Ikea and
Nestle, this is an issue right across the European supply
network,” said U.K. environment minister Owen Paterson after a
meeting of agriculture ministers in Brussels today. His Irish
colleague Simon Coveney said the issue represented “fraud on a
massive scale” and that criminal investigations are underway.
Still, all policy makers reiterated that for now it was not a
food safety issue.  In the U.K. two separate rounds of testing have so far
found that the “overwhelming majority” of products tested
contained no horse DNA, the Food Standards Agency said Feb. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  