-- Indian Rupee Gains Most in Three Weeks on Foreign Fund Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-02-25T12:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/indian-rupee-rises-a-second-day-on-optimism-inflows-to-continue.html
India ’s rupee strengthened the most
in more than three weeks on speculation more monetary stimulus
in developed economies will boost inflows to higher-yielding
emerging markets.  Global funds have pumped $8.2 billion into Indian stocks
this year and their holdings of the nation’s debt rose to a
record $33.8 billion on Feb. 21, exchange data show. Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is very likely to nominate Haruhiko
Kuroda as central bank governor, according to a government
official with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named
as the talks are private. Kuroda said Feb. 11 the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
has “really substantial room” for further easing.  “India has seen inflows largely because of global
liquidity,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of money markets and
currency trading at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  in Mumbai. “The flows are
likely to continue for some time, as any withdrawal of stimulus
would mean policy makers have utmost confidence in the
recovery.”  The rupee advanced 0.6 percent, the most since Jan. 30, to
53.8750 per dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected
moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 9.40 percent.  India’s 10-year government bonds yield a premium of 583
basis points over similar maturity  U.S. Treasuries .  Austere Budget  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
testify before lawmakers tomorrow and the next day, and is
likely to describe asset purchases as an important tool to
improve the U.S. economy, Jefferies & Co. analysts, including
 Ward McCarthy  in New York, wrote in a Feb. 22 research report.  BNP Paribas SA and Nomura Holdings Plc set up trades to buy
the rupee last week, saying they expect an “austere” annual
budget to be unveiled by Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram on Feb. 28.  The minister will seek to narrow the  budget deficit  to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the year starting April,
from this year’s goal of 5.3 percent, according to a Bloomberg
survey of analysts and investors.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 54.99 per
dollar, compared with 55.39 on Feb. 22, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 54.82 versus 55.17. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  