-- Indonesia WTO Nominee Brings Crisis Lessons to Spur Doha Talks
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-02-25T03:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/indonesia-wto-nominee-brings-crisis-lessons-to-spur-doha-talks.html
Mari Pangestu , Indonesia’s candidate
to succeed  Pascal Lamy  as head of the  World Trade Organization ,
said her experience helping the country recover from the 1998
financial crisis may help revive the  Doha Round  of trade talks.  Trade has led to growth, development and reduced poverty in
Indonesia, transforming the nation after the crisis, said Mari
Pangestu, who was the country’s trade minister for seven years
until being named tourism and creative economy minister in 2011.  “The experience means not only do I understand the
challenges that  developing countries  face when they are in the
process of opening up, but also how to manage these
challenges,” Pangestu, 56,  said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday.  The WTO’s next leader will face completing the Doha
negotiations, which Pangestu said will boost global growth amid
an uneven U.S. expansion, a recession in the euro area and
slowing growth in  China . The talks, which began in 2001, have
made little headway as member nations bicker over agriculture
subsidies and industrial tariffs.  “A multilateral trading system has to be inclusive,”
Pangestu, who witnessed the riots at the 1999 WTO conference in
 Seattle  where she spoke as a representative of a non-government
organization, said in an interview in her office in Jakarta Feb.
15. “That means to bring along the lesser and least developed
countries so that they can benefit from the greater  market
access .”  The  organization  needs a face-lift to make it relevant in
the 21st century, Amina Mohamed, deputy head of the United
Nations Environment Programme and  Kenya ’s candidate for the
trade arbiter’s top post, said Jan. 17.  Other Candidates  Pangestu is competing against candidates from Brazil,
 Ghana ,  Costa Rica , Jordan, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand and
Kenya. She’s one of three women seeking to replace Lamy. The
Geneva-based WTO has had only one head from a developing country
since it was created in 1995 and no women have ever vied for the
job before.  Indonesia’s economy shrank 13 percent during the 1998
financial crisis. The country took a $43 billion bailout from
the  International Monetary Fund  as its currency slumped,
companies defaulted on debt and more than 80 banks failed, were
nationalized or recapitalized.  Rising exports led by commodities such as  palm oil  and coal
and domestic spending have helped Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy post one of the fastest economic growths among the G-20
countries. Exports almost tripled in the seven years Pangestu
was trade minister, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I breathe, live and experience trade,” Pangestu said.  ‘Be Consistent’  “You’ve got to be consistent in doing your reforms,” said
Pangestu, who joined the government the same year as former
Finance Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati , now a managing director
at the World Bank. “When we were put in government, we like to
think that we succeeded in achieving a number of reforms, which
I think laid the foundation for growth as well for consolidating
democracy.”  Economic growth in the world’s third-most populous
democracy after  India  and the U.S. was 6.11 percent in the three
months through December, holding above 6 percent for nine
quarters as gains in domestic consumption countered a decline in
exports.  The nation’s exports fell 9.8 percent last year amid a
slowing global economy. In September, the WTO cut its forecast
for 2013 global trade growth to 4.5 percent from 5.6 percent.
Sentiment against a multilateral trading system has become more
dominant than that in favor of it, Pangestu said.  “We need to do a better job of explaining the benefits of
trade,” she said. “Addressing these challenges is going to be
one of the priorities. And that would involve obviously a
different way of looking at the world and better outreach.”  Government Adviser  Before becoming trade minister in 2004, Pangestu advised
the government on financial sector liberalization in the late
1980s. She worked as a researcher and then executive director
for the  Centre for Strategic and International Studies  in
Jakarta. She was a consultant to the  World Bank , the  Asian
Development Bank  and a task force coordinator on poverty and
development for the United Nations Millennium Project, according
to her curriculum vitae.  Indonesia will play host to the WTO’s ninth ministerial
conference in December in Bali. Member countries need to agree
on topics related to trade facilitation, agriculture and
developing countries by the middle of the year to reach a deal
in Bali, Director-General Lamy said Jan. 26.  The Doha talks have so far resulted in a balanced package,
meaning there’s something for everyone, and the challenge now
lies in completing the “last mile,” Pangestu said. The WTO
chief must know when the opportunity comes up to find that
consensus and common ground, she said.  Building Bridges  “You have to be seen as an honest broker, building bridges
and being able to bridge the interest of a large range of
countries with very diverse positions and diverse levels of
development,” Pangestu said, recalling her favorite phrase by
the late Indonesian economist Mohammad Sadli describing the
nation’s struggle for reforms: “We always muddle through, but
as long as we’re moving forward we should be optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  