-- Lira Drops to 2-Week Low Against Euro as Bersani Seen as Victor
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-02-25T16:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/lira-drops-to-two-week-low-against-euro-after-yields-tumble.html
The Turkish lira depreciated to the
weakest level in more than two weeks against the euro as the
common currency advanced on expectations that the winning party
in Italian elections will maintain austerity measures.  The lira fell 0.5 percent against the euro to 2.3830 at
5:50 p.m. in Istanbul, declining for a second day and headed for
the lowest settlement since Feb. 6. The currency lost 0.7
percent against the euro last week. Pier Luigi Bersani’s center-
left alliance probably captured a majority of 340 seats in the
lower house, the Chamber of Deputies, according to a SkyTG24
poll.  “Expectations on Italian elections are turning more
positive,” Ali Cakiroglu, a strategist at HSBC Asset Management
in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. The euro is also
benefitting from “position-switching” as investors sell the
British pound for euros following a downgrade of the U.K. by 
Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 22, he said.  The lira fell 0.1 percent against the dollar to 1.8024,
depreciating for a sixth day in the longest streak of losses
since August last year. Yields on benchmark two-year lira notes
rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.73 percent
today.  The “low level” of Turkish rates has weakened the lira,
 Emre Balkeser , head of trading at Garanti Securities in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. The currency, which lost
the most since May last week, is down 1.1 percent against the
dollar this year, in the biggest depreciation among  emerging
markets  in  Europe  after the  Czech Koruna  and the Polish Zloty.  Yields on benchmark bonds tumbled to 5.64 percent on Feb.
20, the lowest on record, from 9.67 percent on March 22, and the
central bank’s  average cost of funding  for lenders fell to 5.53
percent last week, the lowest level since December, after the
bank trimmed its overnight borrowing and lending rates to 4.5
percent and 8.5 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  