-- Iran Nuclear Talks Reflect History of War and Deceit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/iran-nuclear-talks-reflect-history-of-war-and-deceit.html
Iran meets world powers today in
 Kazakhstan  in the latest round of talks intended to ensure that
Iran doesn’t develop nuclear weapons.  Diplomats convene in Almaty for their first meeting since
negotiations broke down in June. European Union foreign policy
head Catherine Ashton is leading the meeting with Iran on behalf
of the so-called P5+1 group of countries -- China,  France ,
Germany,  Russia , the U.K. and U.S.  Iran calls the dozens of international sanctions affecting
its economy unfair and says its nuclear program is for peaceful
purposes and is within the bounds of its treaty rights. The
 United Nations Security Council  has ordered the country to
suspend its atomic work until international investigators can
demonstrate Iran hadn’t developed the technology in the past
with a military intent.  The U.S. and  Israel  have threatened to take military action
if necessary to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear power.  The following timeline traces key events in the development
of Iran’s nuclear work and its diplomacy with world powers.  September 1967: U.S. helps build Tehran Research Reactor and
 supplies  highly enriched uranium for it.  February 1970: Iran ratifies Nuclear Non-Proliferation  Treaty .  January 1973: The  Atomic Energy Organization of Iran  is founded
under Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi with plans to develop 20
reactors, or 23,000 megawatts of nuclear power.  1974: Iranian oil production peaks at 6.1 million barrels per
day.  June 1974: Iran  loans  France $1 billion for rights to 10 percent
of uranium enriched by a European consortium.  December 1974: Iran signs  International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA) safeguards  agreement  on nuclear inspections.  1975: Iran signs contract with  Siemens AG (SIE)  and AEG Telefunken to
build a 1,000-megawatt reactor near Bushehr, Iran.  1979: The Islamic revolution topples the Shah’s government.
Construction of the Bushehr reactor stops and the contract is
eventually canceled.  September 1980:  Iraq  invades Iran. In November, Iraq begins to
use  chemical weapons  against Iran.  March 1984: Iraqi planes bomb the Bushehr reactor.  February 1986:  Pakistan nuclear scientist and smuggler A.Q. Khan visits Bushehr and signs secret  nuclear-cooperation 
agreement.  August 1988: War ends with Iraq.  October 1988: Future Iranian president Ali Akbar Rafsanjani says
in  broadcast remarks  that a lesson of the war is that “we
should fully equip ourselves both in the offensive and defensive
use of chemical, bacteriological, and radiological weapons.”  November 1992: Central Intelligence Agency report warns that
Iran could develop a nuclear weapon by 2000.  August 1992: Iran signs nuclear-cooperation agreement with
Russia to build  power plants .  March 1994: Russian nuclear engineers begin construction at
Bushehr.  January 2002: U.S. President George W. Bush names Iran part of
an “axis of evil,” along with Iraq and  North Korea .  August 2002: Iranian opposition group reveals Iran didn’t
declare construction of a uranium enrichment plant in Natanz.
Iran’s original IAEA agreement called for the country to provide
such design information “as early as possible before nuclear
material is introduced.”  March 2003: U.S. invades Iraq, citing reasons including that war
was necessary to prevent  Saddam Hussein  from developing weapons
of mass destruction. IAEA begins  formal probe  of Iran nuclear
work.  May 2003:  Iran  offers  to hold direct talks with the U.S. aimed
at normalizing their relationship. The U.S. turns down the
offer.  October 2003: Iran implements Additional Protocol allowing IAEA
inspectors wider access and agrees to suspend enrichment
activities during negotiations with the European Union  July 2005: U.S. officials show IAEA investigators nuclear-weapon
related documents on a laptop alleged to have been taken from
Iran.  August 2005: Iran resumes uranium-enrichment activities.
Enriched uranium is the heavy metal that can be used both to
fuel nuclear reactors and to form the core of atomic weapons.  February 2006:  Iran  suspends the Additional Protocol permitting
wider inspections. IAEA reports Iran to UN Security Council,
citing ‘ ‘many breaches ’’ of the safeguards agreement.  April 2006: Iran says it enriched uranium to the 3.5 percent
purity required to fuel a power reactor. IAEA inspectors in June
verify that none of the material has been diverted for possible
military use.  December 2006: First UN Security Council sanctions imposed on
Iran.  November 2007: U.S. National Intelligence Estimate produced by
16 spy agencies concludes that Iran stopped its nuclear weapons
program in 2003, though it may be keeping its options open.  September 2009: Intelligence reveals, and Iran admits to, a
second uranium enrichment facility, which was built into a
mountainside near Fordo, Iran.  January 2010: First targeted killing of an Iranian nuclear
scientist by an unidentified assailant on a motorcycle who
attached a bomb to the man’s car. Iran blames Israel and the
U.S.  February 2010: Iran enriches uranium to 20 percent level, saying
it needs the fuel for the Tehran Research Reactor. While the
reactor produces radioactive isotopes for medical use, it also
has potential weapons use, and 20 percent enriched uranium is a
step toward the approximately 90 percent enrichment needed for
bomb fuel.  June 2010: Stuxnet computer virus hits Iranian nuclear
facilities. Iran blames the U.S. and Israel for the computer
worm that damages centrifuges at its Natanz uranium enrichment
plant.  December 2010: P5+1 and Iran meet in Geneva for inconclusive
talks.  January 2011: Deputy head of enrichment at Natanz, Mostafa
Ahmadi Roshan, is killed in a targeted assassination. Iran says
he was the fourth nuclear scientist targeted. P5+1 and Iran meet
in Istanbul  September 2011: Bushehr, Iran’s first nuclear power reactor,
connects to power grid.  November 2011: IAEA releases  outline  of evidence received by
unidentified countries, which the agency calls “credible,”
showing possible military dimensions of  Iran’s nuclear program   February 2012: Iran Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei says possession
of nuclear weapons is “unnecessary, harmful and dangerous.”  May 2012: P5+1 and Iran meet in  Baghdad , followed the next month
by a meeting in Moscow.  September 2012: Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  tells
the UN General Assembly that Iran is approaching a nuclear “red
line,” indicating the point at which Israel and the U.S. may
determine a need to take military action.  2012: Iran daily oil  output  falls to 2.9 million barrels.  January 2013: Iran announces centrifuge upgrade at Natanz.  February 24: Iran said recent discoveries of uranium resources
have almost tripled the country’s reserves of the radioactive
fuel and that it plans to build reactors at 16 new locations.  February 26, 2013: P5+1 and Iran meet in Kazakhstan.  (Sources: International Atomic Energy Agency, Federation of
American Scientists, Institute for Science and International
Security, Arms Control Association, Nuclear Threat Initiative,
 World Nuclear Association )  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  