-- Iran Intensifies Its Violent Campaign Against Jews
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-02-25T23:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/iran-intensifies-its-violent-campaign-against-jews.html
This past weekend, Jews celebrated
Purim, the boisterous holiday that commemorates the escape by
their forebears in Persia from certain annihilation.  The  Scroll of Esther , which is read each Purim, recounts
the unraveling of a genocidal plot initiated by the dyspeptic
vizier Haman, who convinces his king, Ahasuerus, that a certain
stiff-necked group should be expunged from his realm: “There is
one nation scattered and dispersed among the nations throughout
the provinces of your kingdom, whose laws are unlike those of
any other nation and who do not obey the laws of the King. It is
not in the King’s interest to tolerate them,” Haman tells
Ahasuerus, according to the story. “If it please the King, let
an edict be issued for their destruction.”  The counterplotting of two brave and canny Jews, Mordechai
and his cousin Esther (who, as it happened, was married to
Ahasuerus), saves the day, and Haman ends up hanging from the
rope meant for Mordechai. All’s well that ends well. For a
while, at least.  Leap forward with me now a couple of thousand years, from
the quite possibly apocryphal past to the very real Persian
present -- to the corridors of power of the Islamic Republic of
 Iran , the latest incarnation of the Persian Empire.  The leaders of this would-be empire, just like those in the
period of the Purim story, find Jews intemperate, obstinate and
fit for elimination. The desire of Jews for national equality in
their traditional homeland -- a desire not to live, as they did
for so long, at the sufferance of foreign kings -- infuriates
the leaders of Iran. Most everything about the Jews, in fact,
seems to infuriate these leaders.  Targeting Jews  Purim seems like the appropriate moment to review some of
the Islamic Republic’s Haman-like attacks on Jews and their
state over the past year or so. Although Iran’s terrorism-
support infrastructure has been preoccupied in  Syria  -- where it
is desperately trying to maintain in power the mass murderer
Bashar al-Assad, Iran’s only Arab ally of consequence -- its
Jew-targeting program is still robust.  On Feb. 5, the government of  Bulgaria  publicly  implicated 
Hezbollah, Iran’s Lebanon-based subsidiary, in a July bombing
that killed five Israeli tourists and a Bulgarian bus driver in
the city of Burgas. Operatives associated with the Quds Force,
the overseas-terrorism arm of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards
Corps, have been implicated by intelligence agencies in recent
attempts to kill Israelis in  Thailand ,  India ,  Georgia  and
 Azerbaijan .  On Feb. 21, in a courtroom in Cyprus, a Hezbollah operative
 testified  that he had been ordered to track the landing times of
Israeli flights and other tasks. Cypriot prosecutors think
Hezbollah was attempting to stage a Bulgaria-style attack on
their island. Last week, Nigerian security officials said they
arrested three men for  associating  with Iranians in a “high
profile terrorist network.” The Iranians had allegedly
instructed the men to gather intelligence on hotels visited by
Israelis and Americans to plan attacks.  Of course, Iran is also the primary rocket supplier to both
Hezbollah and Hamas, which recently launched attacks on Israeli
civilian targets.  Rhetorical Attacks  While seeking the physical elimination of Jews, the Iranian
government has only deepened its rhetorical attacks. Spokesmen
for the government argue that the regime isn’t opposed to Jews,
only to “Zionists,” who, in their understanding of the term,
would include the 45 percent or so of world Jewry that lives in
 Israel  and the vast majority of Jews outside Israel who support
its existence.  The attacks directed at “Zionists” aren’t motivated by
opposition to, say, the Israeli government’s settlement policy
on the  West Bank , but to the idea that Jews are worthy of a
state at all. Even so, the regime’s credulous (or cynical)
apologists in the West often argue that official Iranian
opposition to Israel is motivated only by concern for the
benighted Palestinians.  This is nonsense, and we have to thank -- as ever --
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , Iran’s unhinged, misanthropic (and, as a
bonus, Holocaust-denying) president, for proving that it is
nonsense.  In a speech in August, Ahmadinejad announced that justice
and freedom would only be achieved on our planet if “Zionists”
were eradicated. Here is the idiosyncratically worded account of
his speech from his  English-language website : “Ahmadinejad said
that a ‘dreadful Zionist current’ has been managing the key
international affairs over the past 400 years and ‘behind the
scene of the world’s main powers, media, monetary and banking
centers.’”  The speech goes on to note that “people around the world
have the right to enjoy justice, respect and freedom with no
discrimination and exception, urging all freedom-seeking and
justice-seeking nations to adopt a measure to rout the epitome
of the Zionist hegemony, with the final purpose of establishing
justice and freedom across the globe.”  Yes, the defeat of “Zionists” would bring about the reign
of freedom and justice, not just in the  Middle East  but also in
every corner of the earth. Only an eliminationist anti-Semite
would speak this way. And only an eliminationist anti-Semite
would blame “Zionists” for 400 years of global misery. Zionism
is a political movement that is roughly 130 years old. Before
Zionism, there was simply Judaism and Jews, and these are what
Ahmadinejad and the regime actually loathe. It is the official
position of the president of Iran that Jews are a plague, and
should thus be removed from the world. Other Iranian officials
argue that Jews should at least be suppressed and returned to
their traditional second-class status, if the world is to be
made whole.  It is a mistake to overreact to such prejudice. But it
would be a mistake, as well, to write off Purim as an enjoyable
holiday about an archaic phenomenon, particularly when Haman is
trying to get a nuclear weapon.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.) 