-- Irish Public Pay Cuts Backed by Government, Union Chiefs
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-25T14:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/irish-public-pay-cuts-backed-by-government-union-chiefs.html
Ireland’s government and leaders of
its largest labor unions backed pay cuts for public-sector
workers aimed at shaving  1 billion euros  ($1.3 billion) off
spending to rein in one of the euro area’s largest deficits.  Public-sector workers earning more than 65,000 euros a year
face reductions of at least 5.5 percent under the proposals,
Bernard Harbor, spokesman for the Irish Congress of Trade
Unions’ public-services committee, said by phone. The reductions
increase to 10 percent for state employees earning more than
185,000 euros, he said.  The measures put forward today by the Dublin-based Labour
Relations Commission, an independent arbitrator, “constitute a
fair and balanced agenda to repair our public finances,” Public
Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin said in a statement. “It is
now a matter for each union to table proposals to their own
membership.”  Ireland has faced pressure from its international creditors
to shave its public-sector costs further even after the pay bill
fell almost 18 percent to  14.4 billion euros  between 2009 and
2012, according to government data. Most of the reductions have
been through job cuts, as pay was protected by a 2010 accord.  Deficit Forecast  The government, which received a 67.5 billion-euro
international bailout in 2010, last year completed three-
quarters of the 33.4 billion euros of budget cuts planned to run
for eight years through 2015. Still, its deficit is set be the
highest in the euro area this year, at 7.3 percent of gross
domestic product, the European Commission said on Feb. 22.  The commission  said  last month that it and other members of
Ireland’s bailout troika reiterated to authorities in Dublin in
October “that reductions in allowances and salary scales for
some workers could be considered in a way to better align pay
rates” with other countries.  While the LRC proposals don’t represent an accord between
the government and unions, they’re a “proposal for agreement”
that labor leaders have “agreed to present to their members,”
Jack O’Connor, general president of  SIPTU , the  largest union,
said in an interview with state-owned RTE Radio.  The talks “have resulted in better protections for public
servants than across-the-board pay cuts or other measures that
could have been imposed by the government,” the umbrella Irish
Congress of Trade Unions said in a statement. The proposals rule
out compulsory redundancies, it said.  Longer working hours and some freezes on pay increases are
also included in the proposals, said ICTU’s Harbor.  ‘Industrial Battle’  Union members need to decide whether the LRC proposals
would be better than a “government-legislated pay adjustment”
or what could be achieved “through a protracted industrial
battle,” O’Connor said.  While public-sector workers haven’t staged a mass strike
since 2009, four unions -- the Irish Nurses and Midwives
Organization, Unite, the Irish Medical Organization and the
Civil Public and Services Union -- withdrew from the talks
overnight.  “The accumulative impact” of the government’s “bottom
line was too punishing,” INMO General Secretary Liam Doran told
RTE.  The new pay accord would run between July 2013 and June
2016, according to the Department of Public Expenditure and
Reform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  