-- Is Your Marijuana a Tequila Shot or a Merlot?
-- B y   R o b e r t   F r i c h t e l
-- 2013-02-25T23:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/is-your-marijuana-a-tequila-shot-or-a-merlot-.html
If you’re inclined to have an
alcoholic beverage on occasion, I suspect that you don’t simply
go into a restaurant or bar and say “Give me a drink,” not
knowing whether you’re going to get a glass of merlot or a shot
of tequila.  As an informed consumer, you’re likely to know that those
two options are very different in appearance, taste, smell and
alcohol content. We order a drink that’s specific to the
experience we want.  Something  similar  might be said of the fruits and
vegetables we eat. We can buy organic products, helping us
eliminate some or all of the pesticides and inorganic
fertilizers that may be used to grow these foods.  It’s not so simple for a cannabis patient in the 18 states
(plus the U.S. capital) where marijuana is legal for medical
purposes, or in  Colorado  and Washington, where marijuana has
been approved for recreational use. The consumer is left either
uninformed or, at best, with anecdotal information. Standards
and industry benchmarks  don’t exist . With marijuana, you don’t
really know what you’re going to get.  Yet there are some things we know. Modern growing
techniques and available cannabis strains are yielding more
potent marijuana today than in years past. Concentrations of
tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, the most widely recognized
psychotropic component in marijuana, have increased consistently
since the 1970s, when they were on average believed to be about
1 percent.  Stronger Strains  Today’s  medical-grade marijuana , which is often available
to recreational users, has THC concentrations that average 16
percent and can reach 24 percent or higher.  There is an argument within the industry that stronger THC
concentrations lead consumers to smoke or ingest less cannabis
product. This might have the equation backward. I believe it’s
more likely that overconsumption occurs, and possibly before
consumers know they have exceeded their comfort level. This is
one reason that formal quality guidelines and labeling are
needed.  Some, but not all, states  require  oversight of commercial
growers, monitoring production quantities and security of the
plants and related equipment. But the focus is on how much
marijuana is being cultivated and whether the facilities are
safe and won’t be an easy target for thieves.  There are few rules for how a plant is grown, what
fertilizers are used or what pesticides are sprayed on the
plants. And though many growers are very prudent about how they
raise their crops to ensure safe cannabis, not all are so
careful. Some let the profit incentive override safety concerns.  Here’s an example of what can happen in the absence of
strict monitoring of production techniques: Say a grower winds
up with an infestation of  spider mites , a common pest that can
cause severe damage to household plants and marijuana, too. The
grower may well spray the plants with a chemical pesticide that
can stay on leaf surfaces through harvest and consumption.
Because cannabis is usually smoked as the method of ingestion,
any residual pesticide will be taken directly into the
consumers’ lungs, which may be dangerous.  In November, Colorado voters backed the legalization of
recreational marijuana use. The law’s tag line was, “Regulate
marijuana like alcohol.” This was an easy way to explain to
voters that marijuana would be  sold much  like alcohol: through
designated stores and only to those older than 21. The stores
would be licensed and monitored by the state, and marijuana
would be properly labeled.  Washington  state’s law was approved
with a similar proviso.  Better Warnings  It isn’t yet clear what information labels should show.
Focus groups, involving industry participants, government
officials and the public, are still working on promulgating
rules.  The marijuana industry (both medical and recreational)
needs to develop production standards concerning pesticides and
chemicals and appropriate disclosure on the labels.  Warnings 
should be included about driving or operating machinery and that
use by those younger than 21 is illegal. The industry should
also create a simple grading system that shows THC potency. It
probably wouldn’t need to be as specific as the alcohol-content
labels on most beverages, but perhaps based on a scale of
“light,” “medium,” “heavy” and “extra heavy.” That way a
consumer will be less likely to exceed his or her limit.  (Robert Frichtel is managing partner of the Medical
Marijuana Business Exchange. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Frichtel at   robert@mymmjexchange.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 