-- J&J Told to Pay $3.35 Million in First Vaginal Mesh Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-26T05:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/j-j-failed-to-warn-of-vaginal-mesh-risks-n-j-jury-rules-1-.html
A New Jersey jury ordered a  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ)  subsidiary to pay $3.35 million in the first of 2,100
lawsuits over its vaginal mesh implant, and will now weigh
punitive damages that may total as much as $16.75 million.  The  Atlantic City  jury yesterday found that J&J’s Ethicon
unit failed to warn a South Dakota woman’s surgeon of the risks
tied to its Gynecare Prolift vaginal mesh implant and
fraudulently misled her. Linda Gross, a 47-year-old nurse, sued
along with her husband, complaining of constant pain and 18
operations she had after the device was implanted.  J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care products,
didn’t defectively design the mesh and didn’t make fraudulent
misrepresentations to Gross’s surgeon, the jury ruled.  “This verdict establishes that Johnson & Johnson and
Ethicon failed to tell physicians and women the truth about the
catastrophic complications that can result from the Prolift,”
Gross attorney Adam Slater said in an interview.  Superior Court Judge Carol Higbee ruled Gross’s lawyers can
ask jurors today for punitive damages. Compensatory damages pay
victims for losses and injuries. Punitives are used to punish
defendants for willful and wanton behavior. State law caps
punitive damages at five times compensatory damages, or $16.75
million, although jurors won’t learn of the cap.  Medical Treatment  Jurors, ruling after five days of deliberations, awarded
Gross $1.1 million for her pain and suffering; $180,000 for lost
wages; $500,000 for future lost wages; $385,000 for past medical
treatment; $1 million for future medical treatment; and $180,000
for her husband’s loss of companionship and conjugal affections.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  told J&J, C.R. Bard
Inc. and 31 other manufacturers in January 2012 to study rates
of organ damage and complications linked to vaginal mesh
implants. Doctors implanted more than 70,000 such devices in
U.S. women in 2010 to shore up pelvic muscles.  Slater argued to jurors that company documents and e-mails
showed Ethicon knew the mesh would cause pain and harm women.
Gross blamed the mesh for constant pain that makes it hard to
sit and for subsequent operations to remove mesh that hardened.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, claimed during the
trial that Prolift is safe and effective, and the company warned
adequately of risks.  Mixed Verdict  “We will present evidence to the jury tomorrow in the
punitive phase of the trial, which followed a mixed verdict by
the jury,” Sheri Woodruff, vice president of communications at
Ethicon Surgical Care, said yesterday in a statement. “While we
are always concerned when a patient experiences medical
conditions like those suffered by the plaintiff, all surgeries
for pelvic organ prolapse present risks of complications.”  The Prolift, made of a polypropylene mesh, was inserted
through an incision in the vagina. In August, J&J stopped
selling four mesh devices in the U.S., including the Prolift.
J&J, based in New Brunswick,  New Jersey , said in June that it
would end sales worldwide because the products lacked commercial
viability, not because of their safety and effectiveness.  Slater claimed that Gross’s chronic pain and other health
problems were risks Ethicon knew about before first selling
Prolift in March 2005. Slater said Ethicon knew the device
caused pain and often became exposed through the vaginal skin.
He said it hardened in women’s bodies and was difficult for
surgeons to remove.  Life Changed  Gross, of Watertown, South Dakota, testified Jan. 31 that
her life has changed dramatically for the worse since her mesh
was implanted. She said she is in constant pain and can no
longer sit comfortably, and she has prescriptions for 20
different medicines to help with her pelvic problems.  “Who you see standing here now is not who I was,” Gross
told jurors. “I was eager and energetic, loved to go to work,
loved to participate in church activities, school activities.”  Kevin Benson, the  South Dakota  surgeon who implanted her
Prolift on July 13, 2006, to shore up pelvic muscles, was “so
gung-ho” about the Prolift that she thought she needn’t worry.
She understood from talking to Benson and reading a company
brochure that she faced little risk and that the mesh could be
removed easily, she said. Had she known all the risks, she said,
she wouldn’t have chosen the Prolift.  Gross said she has had more than 400 visits to doctors and
physical therapists for treatment, exams and tests, which have
been “horrific.”  “I am fearful of dying because this pain is so bad,” she
said.  ‘Not Right’  On cross-examination, Jones sought to establish that before
many of her surgeries, doctors warned that they may not help her
pain. At one point, Gross shouted at Jones: “You’re trying to
blame it on me, and it’s not right.”  Jurors saw the video deposition of Benson, who did three
follow-up surgeries to remove portions of the mesh to help Gross
with her pain. Other doctors also removed parts of her mesh.  During jury deliberations, the jury reheard testimony from
both Gross and Benson. During the trial, which began Jan. 10,
jurors also heard from 11 company witnesses and several experts
on each side.  Johnson & Johnson shares fell 68 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
$75.57 in trading in  New York  yesterday.  The case is Gross v. Gynecare Inc., Atl-L-6966-10, Superior
Court of Atlantic County, New Jersey (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  