-- J&J Expert Grilled on Calculation of Hip Placement Device
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/j-j-expert-grilled-on-calculation-of-hip-placement-device-1-.html
A witness for  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
miscalculated in testifying that a Montana man’s metal hip
device failed because of the angle at which it was implanted,
the man’s lawyer said in cross-examination.  Avram Edidin testified at a trial about a lawsuit by Loren
Kransky that claims J&J defectively designed his ASR hip device
and failed to warn of risks. Kranky’s lawsuit in Los Angeles is
the first of 10,000 to go to trial. Analysts say J&J may pay
billions of dollars to resolve cases over the devices, which the
company recalled in August 2010.  Edidin, a professor at Drexel University’s School of
Biomedical Engineering in Philadelphia, described the metal cup
placed in a hip, and the metal ball placed atop a femur that
rotates in those cups. The ideal angle of cup placement, he
said, is 45 degrees. Kransky’s surgeon placed his cup at an
angle of 63 to 65 degrees, causing the metal to wear, he said.  Kransky’s cup “was implanted at a high inclination
angle,” Edidin told state court jurors. Higher angles are
“associated with higher wear. If you put any component in that
position,” he said, “you are going to see the kind of wear
that you see on Mr. Kransky’s component.”  On cross-examination, Kransky lawyer  Michael Kelly  showed
the jury the X-ray on which Edidin had drawn the angle. Kelly
superimposed a protractor on the image and showed the actual
angle was 57.5 degrees, not the 63 to 65 degrees calculated by
Edidin.  ‘Protractor’  “You are aware you can find a protractor at Walgreens, are
you not?” Kelly asked.  “I am,” said Edidin, who testified as an expert.  He offered no explanation of the discrepancy. On his
redirect testimony after a lunch break, Edidin said he reviewed
several images of Kransky’s ASR before the revision surgery, re-
measured the angle and determined it was 63 degrees. Kelly
didn’t ask about the matter again.  J&J, the world’s largest seller of health-care products,
recalled the hips when their failure rate hit 12 percent in the
U.K. Since then, the failure rate hit 40 percent in  Australia .
J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , denies that it
defectively designed the device or failed to warn of the risks.  Edidin, who has spent much of the past 13 years working as
an expert on the spine, told the jury that he analyzed the
design file of the ASR hip and found no flaws. He said J&J’s
DePuy unit had done “an extraordinary amount” of testing
before selling the device in the U.S. in 2005.  Steep Angle  Edidin told the jury that his analysis showed that because
of the steep angle of implantation, Kransky’s ASR was “sub-
luxing,” a phenomenon where the metal ball joint slightly
dislocated when Kransky walked.  Kransky’s hip was implanted in December 2007 and removed,
or revised, in February 2012.  Edidin conceded that none of the several surgeons or other
doctors who examined Kransky prior to his revision ever
determined that such dislocations were occurring.  Kelly showed him a DePuy document from the Health
Hazard/Risk Evaluation Executive Review Board at the time of the
recall. Under “market action strategy” were three possible
explanations for the recall. The company checked Class A for
“defective product that would affect product performance and/or
could cause health problems.”  Among those who signed the document was DePuy’s former
president, David Floyd.  ‘Know Better’  “Do you believe you know better than the president of the
company?” Kelly asked.  “Based on the evidence I see, yes,” Edidin testified.  “Have you called them and asked them to put it back on the
market?” Kelly asked.  “No,” Edidin said.  Kranksy’s lawyers have faulted DePuy for doing no clinical
testing on the ASR before it was first sold. Asked about the
dichotomy between his testimony that DePuy did extensive testing
and the high revision rates, Edidin said, “The tests don’t
speak to revision rate. There’s no test that predicts revision
rates.”  He said that “clinical trials will do that.”  In 2009, DePuy finally did some testing at implantation
angles other than 45 degrees. Tests at 55 degrees showed from an
increase in wear ranging from fivefold to tenfold, while the
increase in wear at 60 degree ranged from nine-fold to 17-fold.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 