-- Japan Finds Ally in Sweden as Yen Measures Defended
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/japan-finds-ally-in-sweden-s-borg-as-yen-measures-are-defended.html
Japan  is taking “natural steps” in
trying to buoy its economy through a more expansionary monetary
policy and a weaker yen, Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
said.  “Once you’ve cut the interest rate and can’t do more with
that, then probably the most effective way to achieve a more
expansionary monetary policy, one of the most effective ways, is
to intervene in your own exchange rate so that you in that way
achieve a weakening of the currency and support economic
growth,” Borg said yesterday in Gothenburg,  Sweden .  Japan’s currency slid yesterday to its lowest against the
dollar since 2010 amid speculation Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
will nominate a central bank chief who favors stimulus. Moves by
the world’s third-largest economy to revive growth through a
weaker yen have raised concerns over a so-called currency war as
central bankers from New Zealand to  Norway  signal they’re ready
to stem exchange rate swings.  One notable exception has been Sweden, where policy makers
argue the krona’s gains are justified and likely to last. Borg
said earlier this year that Swedish businesses must accept the
currency’s strength and predicted depreciation is unlikely for a
“couple of years.”  Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda, said to
be Abe’s preferred choice to lead the central bank, said this
month there is “substantial room” for easing. Japan’s currency
has dropped about 7 percent this year, the biggest loser among
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  Biggest Winner  Sweden’s krona is only behind New Zealand’s dollar as the
biggest winner in the index, gaining 2.9 percent, as of
yesterday. The currency is up 7 percent against the yen this
year.  “Japan has almost no inflation and almost no growth, so I
think it’s very hard to criticize them for doing this,” Borg
said. “It’s a natural step of their monetary policy.”  Sweden’s central bank this month predicted economic growth
in the Nordic country will pick up to 1.2 percent this year and
2.7 percent in 2014, from 0.9 percent last year. Sweden’s  OMX30
stock index  has risen 8.6 percent this year.  Seasonally adjusted
unemployment  held at 8 percent last month, as the pace of job
cuts subsided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  