-- Kerry Hints at Syria Policy Change as Opposition Talks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-02-26T14:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/kerry-says-he-s-determined-to-change-assad-calculation-on-ground.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said Syrian rebels should be given aid if President Bashar al- Assad refuses to join talks and goes on killing his own people.  “If the president of the country decides he isn’t going to
come and negotiate and he’s just going to kill his people, then
you at least need to provide some support for the people who are
fighting” for their freedom, Kerry said in remarks to students
today in Berlin. He didn’t specify what support he meant.  Kerry, who’s on his first overseas trip as the top U.S.
diplomat, yesterday hinted at a  Syria  policy change as that
country’s opposition agreed under American pressure to attend an
international meeting this week in Rome. “We’re determined to
change the calculations of President Assad on the ground,” he
said, without offering details.  The change of heart by forces opposing Assad, which had
threatened to boycott the Feb. 28 Rome event, comes as Kerry
seeks a breakthrough to end a two-year conflict that has left
70,000 dead and created almost a million refugees.  “The moment is ripe” to consider further steps on Syria,
Kerry said yesterday at a  London  news conference with British
Foreign Secretary  William Hague . Kerry said he’s a new secretary
of state and that President  Barack Obama  has won a “significant
mandate” to act in his second term.  He also said Obama “has been engaged in examining exactly
in what ways we may be able to contribute.”  Rome Meeting  On its official Facebook page, Syrian opposition head Moaz al-Khatib agreed to Kerry’s plea to attend the gathering of
about 60 nations in Rome. Officials from the countries have met
four times so far on the Syria conflict, giving the opposition
legitimacy while failing to come up with effective ways to usher
Assad from power.  Khatib, a former imam of the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus who
has presented himself as a moderate, said yesterday that the
opposition would “re-evaluate its relations with the
international sides based on the results” reached in Rome.  Vice President  Joe Biden  telephoned Khatib to welcome the
decision by the opposition members to attend the Rome meeting,
and stressed Obama’s “commitment to a political transition in
Syria to a democratic and inclusive post-Assad government that
protects the rights of all its citizens,” the White House said
in a statement released last night.  Biden said the meeting offered an opportunity for
discussions “on ways to speed assistance to the opposition and
support to the Syrian people.”  U.S. Proposals  Kerry, in his comments in London, said, “We have a lot of
ideas on the table and some of them I am confident will come to
maturity by the time we meet in Rome.” Others, he said, “will
take a little gestation period, but they’re no less part of the
mix.”  Kerry meets later today in Berlin with Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to discuss Syria.  Russia  has supplied
Assad with weapons and vetoed United Nations sanctions against
the country.  Lavrov met yesterday in Moscow with Syrian Foreign Minister
Walid al-Muallem, who said the Assad regime was willing to talk
to the armed opposition, according to the Syrian state-run news
agency SANA. There was no mention of his terms for talks, such
as whether the rebels would have to disarm and whether the talks
would include removing Assad from power.  As officials from the U.S., the U.K.,  Germany , Russia,
 China , and  France  meet with Iranian officials today in Almaty,
 Kazakhstan , Kerry said that the prospect of an Iranian nuclear
weapon “is simply unacceptable.”  He said that a “window for a diplomatic solution is open
today,” and that the so-called P5+1 group is “prepared to
negotiate in good faith, in mutual respect, in order to avoid
whatever terrible consequences might follow.”  “The choice is Iran’s,” Kerry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Berlin at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  