-- Kevin Spacey Backs Bankers, Makes Pirate Film With Hanks
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-02-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/kevin-spacey-backs-bankers-makes-pirate-film-with-hanks.html
He plays a crooked Washington
congressman, runs a  London  theater, and follows his favorite
tennis player all the way to  Melbourne .  Kevin Spacey  leads a transcontinental existence. The two-
time  Oscar  winner, 53, is soon due to start shooting the second
season of the series “House of Cards” (which he executive-
produced), where he plays the scheming Congress majority whip.  In London, he’s celebrating 10 years as artistic director
of the Old Vic Theatre, with two more to go. And in his spare
time, he’s on the tennis circuit watching  Andy Murray  -- most
recently at the U.S. and Australian Opens.  Spacey joins me for a phone conversation just before flying
to the U.S. He sounds as suave as his congressman character,
minus the hypocrisy. I ask if his team-up with online movie-
streaming company Netflix is a comment on the state of cinema.  “In a lot of cases, the studios have started to focus more
on the sort of big tent pole films and the films that are not
necessarily driven by character,” says Spacey. “It does seem
that when there is a vacuum, people go to a different
playground.”  Good writers, actors and directors are now flocking to
television, he says, while portals like Netflix are saying, “we
want to compete in a bigger arena.” Netflix “outbid everybody
and gave us the kind of artistic, creative freedom that we were
looking for.”  Spacey sounds pretty disillusioned with the studios.  Hollywood Money  “Hollywood will make whatever makes money,” he says. “So
if we return to a kind of brilliant 1970s Alan Pakula, Hal Ashby
world of cinema and it makes money, how awesome, how brilliant,
how great, let’s do more of those.”  In reality, smaller movies don’t get big releases, he says.  There are exceptions -- such as the trio of “not obvious”
movies that Spacey, wearing his producer hat, persuaded Sony
Pictures to fund: “21” (2008), “The  Social Network ” (2010),
and to-be-released “ Captain Phillips ,” starring  Tom Hanks ,
about the hijacking by Somali pirates of a U.S. cargo ship.  One recent independent movie he starred in -- Oscar-
nominated “Margin Call” (2011) -- is about a bank executive
who gets fired and soon realizes his bosses were cooking the
books.  Spacey says he was driven to do the film because “there
was a period of time where bankers became the bad guys no matter
who they were.” Researching the movie, he met many “just doing
their jobs” who’d “pick up the paper and read about themselves
as if they were all in one boat, and all deserved to be so
maligned.”  Banking Cleanup  “There’s no doubt there are a number of them who crossed
the line, in an industry that clearly needs and needed
cleanup.”  Back at the Old Vic, Spacey has been staging well-attended,
well-reviewed plays in a house with no subsidy. Recent hits
include “Noises Off,” “Hedda Gabler,” and “Kiss Me Kate.”  I tell Spacey that a London-based financier once calculated
he was giving up $30 million a year in movie earnings by being
at the Old Vic. “It’s always nice to have someone mention the
monetary side,” Spacey says, diplomatically.  It’s “not something that I either know about or focus on,
and who really knows,” he says. When the Old Vic offered him
the job, he’d spent a decade “carving a film career,” and
after the Oscar for “American Beauty” (1999), “I felt that
that had gone much better than I could have possibly hoped.”  “I didn’t want to pursue the same particular dream for
another decade,” he explains.  Theater Appeal  Before leaving the Old Vic, Spacey has two missions: to
raise 30 million pounds ($46 million) for an endowment, and to
fix the building -- “the damp and the Victorian plumbing and
the roof that was never fixed in World War II after it was
bombed.”  Currently, the theater needs to generate 2.7 million pounds
a year to keep afloat. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is its
season sponsor.  Spacey won’t be leaving London for good. “I suspect I’ll
always want to be in the  United States  and be in Great Britain:
They’ve become my homes.”  So what’s next besides “House of Cards” and the Old Vic?
“I could not possibly look beyond both of those two things,”
he says. What about the scripts that must be piling up on his
doorstep? “The great news is, I’m really not available.”  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on U.K. theater,  Jeremy
Gerard  on U.S. theater,  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Craig Seligman  on
books and interviews by  Zinta Lundborg .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 