-- N.Y. MTA Labor Talks Drag as Union Fights Part-Time Bus Drivers
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-02-25T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/n-y-mta-labor-talks-drag-as-union-fights-part-time-bus-drivers.html
New York ’s Metropolitan
Transportation Authority has long been an anomaly in the public
transit world, with almost all of its 66,000 employees working
full time. If the agency follows the lead of many American
employers, that would change.  The biggest U.S. transit agency’s proposal to use part-time
bus drivers to cut costs is one of the most contentious points
in contract talks now in their second year with its largest
bargaining unit. The plan is part of a package of measures,
including three years of no wage increases, that union leaders
hope to derail when they send hundreds of workers to swarm the
offices of lawmakers in  Albany  next month.  Leaders of Transport Workers Union Local 100 say allowing
an army of part-time drivers would shrink paychecks, threaten
public safety and harm the economic stability of families.  “There’s no such thing as a part-time family or a part-
time mortgage,” said Jim Gannon, a TWU spokesman. “If some
schmuck wants to work part-time, go get a job at  Best Buy. (BBY) ”  Contracts calling for only full-time drivers were common
around the U.S. until the late 1970s, when part-time positions
were negotiated in  Seattle , said Greg Dash, who consults transit
agencies on labor issues as president of John A. Dash &
Associates in Havertown,  Pennsylvania . About 85 percent of
public agencies now use part-time drivers to save money, he
said, and private bus operators often do the same.  Rush Hours  Mass transit, especially in metropolitan areas, requires
the most vehicles and workers during morning and evening rush
hours to meet demand. Work rules that the MTA calls “outdated”
require eight-hour shifts. During midday lulls, workers are
often paid even when they’re not driving.  Shifts lasting more than eight hours can’t be broken up
between multiple employees, forcing the MTA to pay one worker
overtime to do the whole thing.  One bus driver with a base pay of $55,994 in 2009 more than
doubled his take-home with $70,473 in overtime pay, according to
a 2010 audit by state Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli.  In 2010, overtime cost the MTA $560 million for the extra
wages, or 13 percent of payroll, the equivalent of employing an
extra 7,000 full-time workers, according to the authority. This
year, it budgeted $506 million. Toll and fare increases that
take effect in March are expected to bring in only $450 million
a year.  Teresa Garcia, a driver for 14 years based at the
Kingsbridge depot in  Manhattan , said she typically works 42 to
45 hours week. Many of her colleagues log up to 60 hours a week
-- there’s no limit -- and have come to rely on the extra
income, she said. Overtime, at one-and-a-half times the normal
rate, is paid for anything more than eight hours in a day.  ‘Affecting Everything’  “When you take that away from us and give that extra
overtime to part-time workers, you’re affecting everything --our
lifestyles, our pensions, our children’s futures,” said Garcia,
39. “It’s just something that we hope doesn’t happen.”  J.P. Patafio, a union vice-president who’s worked 17 years
for the MTA, says safety is his biggest concern.  “I don’t care what people say -- if you’re going to work a
part-time job in New York City, you’re going to work two or
three of them” to make ends meet, he said. There’s no guarantee
that part-timers will abide by agency policy requiring approval
of outside employment and sufficient rest between shifts, he
said.  The part-time proposal would apply only to bus drivers in
the TWU. The union represents 8,371 of 11,611 such operators. No
subway or train workers would be affected.  Higher Profits  Union leaders compare the MTA to companies that have
 increasingly  replaced full-time workers with part-timers as a
way to reduce spending on pay and benefits, and bolster profit.
Yet the two aren’t analogous, said Dash, the consultant.  “What you’re doing is eliminating overtime spending,” he
said. “It’s not typically taking a full-time, eight-hour job,
cutting it in half and making two part-time jobs out of it.”  No full-time employee would be forced to work part-time,
said an MTA official familiar with the negotiations, who asked
not to be identified because talks are still going on. It might
be appealing to workers looking to scale back instead of
retiring, or to those who have school or family obligations, the
official said.  Part-time workers would have health-care coverage for
themselves only, not family members, and would remain eligible
for pensions, which are based on earnings, the MTA official
said.  Deficit Projection  The MTA pegged the cost savings at $13 million a year,
according to a union official familiar with the discussions, who
asked not to be identified because talks are continuing. The MTA
declined to comment on the figure. The agency projects $333
million in deficits from next year through 2016, according to
 budget  documents.  Rarely mentioned in the debate over part-time labor is that
the MTA already employs bus drivers less than full time, though
they represent a sliver of the total workforce.  Thirty-five of 158 bus drivers represented by the
Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1181 work part-time under a 2010
contract that pays them $1 an hour less than full-timers,
according to the MTA.  The Houston unit of the Transport Workers Union lost a
similar fight against part-time drivers, said Wayne Jackson, a
vice president of Local 260. The result created divisions
between workers who are paid different wages to do the same job,
he said.  “We’ve been trying to get rid of it ever since,” Jackson
said. “Everyone’s trying to hold on to what they have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  