-- New Hedge Fund Deposits to Triple, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-02-25T10:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/new-hedge-fund-deposits-to-triple-in-2013-deutsche-bank-says.html
(Correct to say report is the 11th in sixth paragraph.)  New allocations to hedge funds may
more than triple this year, pushing the global industry’s assets
to a new high, according to an annual survey by  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Hedge fund assets worldwide may increase 11 percent to $2.5
trillion by year-end, according to the survey by the  Germany ’s
largest bank. Investors indicated they will add $123 billion of
capital to the industry, in addition to investment returns that
are expected to boost assets by $169 billion, the Frankfurt-
based bank said.  Hedge funds are forecast to draw more net deposits as
investors, especially institutions, pursue more stable returns
with low correlation with other assets such as stocks and bonds,
the report showed. The $2.3 trillion global industry  gained  an
average 6 percent last year, taking in $34.4 billion of net
inflows, according to Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund
Research Inc.  “Despite a challenging market backdrop in 2012, hedge fund
performance toward the end of last year and the beginning of
this year has been promising,” said Harvey Twomey, the bank’s
Hong Kong-based head of prime finance distribution for  Asia .  Investors are eager to allocate more to managers that can
deliver steady performance in the future, he added.  The annual survey, the 11th, polled 324 pension, endowment,
fund of funds, foundations, insurers, consultants, private banks
and family offices in 25 countries that manage or advise on a
combined $1.2 trillion of hedge-fund assets.  Boosting Allocations  “Overall, 2013 looks to be promising for the industry,”
authors led by Marlin Naidoo, who heads the bank’s hedge fund
capital group for Americas, wrote in the report. “Those  hedge
funds  that are able to post consistent returns year after year
are emerging as an attractive option for investors looking for
both better risk-adjusted returns and capital preservation.”  About 62 percent of the investors said they expect their
hedge fund holdings to increase this year, compared with 42
percent whose allocations increased in 2012, the survey showed.  Sixty-five percent of all investors in the survey,
including 79 percent of institutions, target returns between 5
percent and 10 percent for their hedge fund investments this
year. Hedge fund underperformed the 13 percent rally in the  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  last year as prices of so-called risky assets such
as stocks advanced on easing global macroeconomic concerns.  “The current market backdrop has unquestionably changed
since the days of double-digit return expectations,” the report
said. It added a return in the high teens is now considered
attractive because of low  interest rates  and politics-driven
markets.  Pension Investors  About 57 percent of institutions, including pension plans,
endowments, foundations and insurers, reported increased hedge
fund holdings last year, while 37 percent of non-institutions
such as family offices, private banks, asset managers and funds
of hedge funds did so, the survey showed.  Discounting returns and withdrawals, 44 percent of
institutions added capital to hedge funds last year, versus 10
percent of non-institutional investors, it added.  Pension funds, in particular, are building up their hedge
fund investments, with 66 percent of them having increased such
holdings in 2012, said the report. By contrast, 57 percent of
private banks saw declines last year.  About 47 percent of pension funds plan to increase their
hedge fund allocations by at least $100 million this year,
according to the report. Mounting funding gap is pushing
pensions to accelerate hedge fund investments in hopes of excess
returns over benchmarks, it said.  “We expect their increasing contribution in the industry
to continue and serve as a bellwether for other institutional
investors,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  