-- New York Times to Drop International Herald Tribune Name
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r ,   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2013-02-25T18:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/new-york-times-plans-to-drop-international-herald-tribune-name.html
The  New York Times Co. (NYT)  said its
International Herald Tribune newspaper will be renamed the
International  New York  Times, eliminating a global brand that
traces its roots to 1887.  The new name will debut later this year, the New York-based
publisher said today in a statement. The publication will be
edited from Hong Kong, Paris,  London  and New York, according to
Times Co., which said it would release more details on the
transition in coming months.  “There is significant potential to grow the number of New
York Times subscribers outside of the  United States ,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Thompson  said in the statement. “This is
the right moment to rename the IHT as the International New York
Times to create a single global media brand.”  The newspaper, which started out as the European edition of
the New York Herald, came under full ownership of the New York
Times in 2003. The change eliminates a brand that has long held
cachet among American travelers and English-speaking expatriates
in  Europe  -- especially in Paris, where the newspaper is based.
The Jean-Luc Godard movie “Breathless,” a classic of the
French New Wave movement, features a girl who sells the Herald
Tribune on the streets of the city.  By the 1980s, the IHT began transmitting its pages to  Hong
Kong  via satellite, becoming the first newspaper to be  available
at the same time  on opposite sides of the world, according to
its website.  Editorial Oversight  Larry Ingrassia, a top New York Times editor, is overseeing
international coverage, said Eileen Murphy, a company
spokeswoman. There will continue to be a senior editor in Paris
helping direct coverage, she said. Alison Smale is currently
executive editor of the International Herald Tribune.  The move furthers the parent company’s efforts to focus on
its New York Times brand. Last week, the publisher said it would
sell the Boston Globe and related newspapers amid a slump in
print advertising. The company has already sold its About.com
informational website and a regional-newspaper business over the
past 13 months.  Times Co. fully acquired the IHT a decade ago after buying
out a 50 percent stake owned by Washington Post Co. Already, the
paper carries the subtitle: “The global edition of the New York
Times.” In 2010, Times Co.  rebranded  its worldwide sales
operation with the New York Times Global name.  Online Paywall  Thompson is increasingly relying on online subscription
revenue to make up for slumping ad sales. National advertising
dropped 10 percent across all newspapers in the first nine
months of last year, according to the  Newspaper Association of
America .  The New York Times newspaper now makes more money from
readers than advertisers, helped by its Internet-subscription
program, which has more than 640,000 paying customers. Like the
Times, the Herald Tribune has a so-called paywall, meaning
readers have to pay if they want to see all the stories.  “The digital revolution has turned the New York Times from
being a great American newspaper to becoming one of the world’s
best-known news providers,” Thompson said. “We want to exploit
that opportunity to attract international audiences, digital
subscriptions and advertisers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net 
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  