-- News Corp.’s James Murdoch Expects Asia, Sports to Fuel Growth
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-02-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/news-corp-s-james-murdoch-expects-asia-sports-to-fuel-growth.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  executive  James Murdoch ,
son of the media company’s founder Rupert Murdoch, said viewers
in  Southeast Asia  and  Latin America  will help fuel growth for
its cable-programming business in the next two to three years.  “India is a very important market for us -- it’s one of
our largest international markets,” Murdoch, who serves as
deputy chief operating officer, said yesterday at an investment
conference hosted by Morgan Stanley in San Francisco. “We’ve
also made great strides in  South America  over the last few
years, particularly the launch of our sports business there.”  News Corp. also wants to streamline some of its overseas
businesses that aren’t consolidated, Murdoch said. Last month,
the company increased its stake in German pay-TV company  Sky
Deutschland AG (SKYD) , giving it majority control and putting it a step
closer to creating a pan-European broadcaster. It suffered a
setback in those ambitions in 2011, when a scandal involving its
U.K. newspapers prompted it to drop an attempt to acquire the
entirety of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “There is some unfinished business there, but there are no
immediate plans on that,” Murdoch said yesterday.  Adding assets such as BSkyB would increase the value of
News Corp.’s television business, which Chief Executive Officer
 Rupert Murdoch  plans to split off from the declining publishing
division by the middle of this year. The idea is to form a
faster-growing company by freeing News Corp.’s Twentieth Century
Fox film studio and the Fox cable and broadcast networks from
the weight of newspapers, where ad dollars and circulation are
falling industrywide.  Sports Network  The company also is looking to build a national U.S. sports
cable network to compete against Disney Co.’s ESPN, people
familiar with the matter said last March. In November, News
Corp. agreed to acquire a 49 percent stake in the YES Network,
which broadcasts New York Yankees baseball games.  In December, News Corp. said its publishing business lost
$2.1 billion in fiscal 2012 because of restructuring, falling
sales and the costs of a U.K. hacking scandal. For the three
months ended in December, the publishing division generated $234
million in operating income, little changed from a year earlier.  Journalists at the company’s U.K. publishing group were
charged with phone hacking, leading to dozens of arrests and the
closure of the News of the World tabloid newspaper in July 2011.
A parallel bribery probe is also under way.  News Corp. shares  fell 2 percent to $28 yesterday in  New
York . The stock has risen 9.8 percent this year, beating the 4.3
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  