-- Nickel and Aluminum Drop as China Manufacturing Expansion Slows
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-25T10:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/nickel-and-aluminum-drop-as-china-manufacturing-expansion-slows.html
Nickel extended the biggest weekly
drop since 2011 in London and aluminum fell after figures showed
manufacturing is expanding at the slowest pace in four months in
China, the world’s largest consumer of the metals.  A  Purchasing Managers ’ Index gave a preliminary reading of
50.4 for February, a statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed today. That compared with January’s final level
of 52.3. Voting stations close at 3 p.m. local time in Italy,
where former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  has promised to
overturn tax increases if he is returned to office.  “The majority of metal prices are continuing to show
weakness,”  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt, said by e-mail today. “Besides the restraint being
exercised by market players on account of the Italian
elections,” the Chinese gauge was “doubtless also weighing on
sentiment,” he said.  Nickel for delivery in three months slid 0.8 percent to
$16,832 a metric ton by 10 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Copper climbed 0.5 percent to $7,841 a ton after dropping the
most since December 2011 last week and the metal for delivery in
May rose 0.3 percent to $3.562 a pound on the Comex in New York.  Money managers reduced net-long positions, or wagers on
rising copper prices, by 51 percent from a week earlier to
11,413 Comex futures and options contracts as of Feb. 19,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Prices slid last week amid concern the  Federal Reserve  may
vary the pace of stimulus in the world’s biggest economy. Data
this week will show the  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S.
 factory index  stayed near a nine-month high in February, said
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “We see the recent pullback in the complex as a temporary
one,”  Michael Lewis , head of commodities research at Deutsche
Bank AG in London, said in a report today.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the LME climbed for an
eighth session to 430,725 tons, the highest level since Oct. 28,
2011, data showed today. Orders to remove the metal from
warehouses were little changed at 27,800 tons.  Aluminum and zinc fell in London, tin rose and lead was
little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  