-- Nigeria Oil Licenses to Await Passage of New Industry Law
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-02-26T11:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/nigeria-oil-licenses-to-await-new-industry-law-regulator-says.html
Nigeria , Africa’s biggest oil
producer, won’t award new oil exploration licenses until
lawmakers pass a reform bill now being considered, Department of
Petroleum Resources Director Osten Olorunsola said.  “You need firm commitment and firm predictability of the
law,” he said in a Feb. 21 interview in Abuja, the capital.
“We have to wait for the bill to be passed.”  The Petroleum Industry Bill, first sent to the National
Assembly in 2008, didn’t become law during the tenure of a
previous legislature and was reintroduced by President Goodluck Jonathan in July. Fiscal provisions in the bill seek to raise
Nigeria’s share of revenue to 73 percent from 61 percent,
Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said on Sept. 28.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
 Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent
of the country’s oil. The West African nation last held an oil
licensing round in 2007.  “The major concern is that oil production has remained
virtually stationary over the past few years due to the lack of
investment in the sector which partially reflects the
uncertainty surrounding,” the bill,  Samir Gadio , a London-based
emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Plc, said in an e-
mailed reply to questions today.  Stagnant Investment  Companies including Shell and Exxon Mobil have criticized
the fiscal terms as likely to make investment in offshore
oilfields unprofitable. Most have held back on funding more
exploration while Shell and ConocoPhillips have sold some of
their onshore assets to Nigerian companies.  Bonny Light Crude, Nigeria’s top export grade, gained 0.1
percent to $115.35 by 11:19 a.m. in London, the lowest since
Feb. 21. Oil exports account for more than 90 percent of the
country’s export earnings and about 80 percent of government
revenue, according to the Petroleum Ministry.  While the major energy companies have “toned down their
investments” and shunned exploration because of uncertainty
about the new law, smaller producers are increasing drilling
activities as they seek to boost output, Olorunsola said.  Companies including London-based  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  and
Lagos-based Neconde Energy Ltd. bought stakes in Nigerian  oil
fields  jointly owned by Shell, Total and Eni.  Oando Plc (OANDO) , a
Nigerian energy company, purchased the local unit of
ConocoPhillips.  Smaller Producers  “A lot of that is coming from all these indigenous
companies that are buying assets from Shell as well as some
success from some marginal field holders,” Olorunsola said,
referring to areas producing volumes of crude too low to be
profitable for bigger companies. “We had about 10 rigs, much
more in comparable terms and timing in 2012. And that just shows
the success of all these divestments.”  Forty-seven oil rigs were operating in the country’s Niger
River delta region in the fourth quarter compared with 37 a year
earlier, according to the Department of Petroleum Resources.  Nigeria’s crude oil reserves were down 1.9 percent to 36.5
billion barrels in 2012 from 37.2 billion barrels a year
earlier. Average daily oil and condensate output stands at 2.6
million barrels, according to the regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  