-- Nokia to Sell Cheaper Lumias to Challenge Android
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-25T13:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/nokia-to-sell-cheaper-lumias-to-challenge-android.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker attempting a comeback, unveiled two cheaper Lumia
smartphones and two basic handsets, broadening its portfolio to
challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices using Android.  The Lumia 520 will cost 139 euros ($185) before wireless-
carrier subsidies, Nokia’s cheapest handset using the Windows
Phone 8 software from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The Lumia 720, which
includes wireless charging similar to the flagship 920, will
cost 249 euros. Both are set to start shipping this quarter, and
will be available from carriers including  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ,
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop said at the  Mobile World
Congress  in Barcelona today.  The devices will compete with cheaper Android phones from
makers such as Huawei Technologies Co. while trying to lure
customers who don’t want to spend more on an iPhone. The latest
iPhone version starts at $649 and Nokia’s high-end Lumia 920
costs about $500 or more when bought without a carrier contract.  The new Lumias position Nokia “very well to compete
against mid-range Android devices,” Francisco Jeronimo, an
analyst at research firm IDC, said in an e-mail. The phones are
set to appeal to carriers seeking cheaper devices and
alternatives to the dominant operating systems of Google Inc.’s
Android and Apple’s iOS, he said.  Windows Apps  Nokia, which reported a seventh straight drop in quarterly
revenue last month, advanced 2.2 percent to 2.91 euros at 3:41
p.m. in Helsinki. The stock  has lost  more than 80 percent since
the iPhone and the Android software were introduced in 2007.  Marco Argenti, the head of developing at Nokia, said the
Windows Phone ecosystem is growing at a faster pace as
developers take advantage of the Espoo, Finland-based company’s
investments in location-based services, imaging and
entertainment.  “It’s more about the quality of the apps than the
quantity,” he said in an interview. “The momentum of the
Windows Phone ecosystem is growing at a faster pace.”  Elop has cut more than 20,000 jobs in a bid to revive Nokia
after the former smartphone-market leader fell outside the top
five in rankings. Nokia sold 4.4 million Lumias last quarter, a
fraction of the 160 million devices shipped by manufacturers
using Android and the 48 million iPhones sold by Apple,
according to IDC.  Nokia also unveiled the 105 and the 301 for its basic
mobile-phone category. The dust- and splash-proof 105 is Nokia’s
least-costliest phone ever at 15 euros, and it will be available
in  Africa ,  Asia  and  Europe . The 65-euro 301 comes with video
streaming, Web access and e-mail.  The devices are meant to compete against basic handsets
from competitors such as Samsung Electronics Co., which
announced its Rex set of feature phones this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Barcelona at  aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  