-- Nokia Siemens Sees Few Survivors in Network Industry Shakeup
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-02-25T10:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/nokia-siemens-sees-three-survivors-on-network-industry-shakeup.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, the
telecommunications equipment venture between  Finland ’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
and  Siemens AG (SIE)  of  Germany , predicts three profitable vendors
will outlive consolidation in the industry, according to its
chief executive officer.  “There’s space for three long-term profitable companies
that can thrive over the next few years,” Rajeev Suri said on
the eve of the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona. “The players
who make it will need to be focused and lean,” he said, without
elaborating on who may be left standing.  The six-year-old company’s German parent is pushing for an
exit. Talks about the future of Nokia Siemens, which competes
with Ericsson AB and Alcatel-Lucent SA as well as Asian
suppliers Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , have
accelerated as a shareholder agreement comes up for renewal in
April, people familiar with the matter said this month.  One scenario under discussion is a joint buyout of Munich-
based Siemens’s 50 percent stake by Nokia and a strategic
partner, people familiar with the situation said this month.
Nokia Siemens held exploratory talks with Paris-based competitor
Alcatel-Lucent SA, the people said.  The French vendor last week named  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
executive Michel Combes as CEO to replace Ben Verwaayen, who had
agreed to step down after his three-year turnaround plan failed.
The French government is meanwhile considering options for
Alcatel-Lucent including an investment in the company, people
with knowledge of the deliberations said last week.  ‘First Step’  “I said already in October 2009, when I first started this
job, that the industry would consolidate,” Suri said. “What
we’ve seen since in the results of some of our competitors is
the first step. It’s already a form of consolidation.”  Ericsson CEO  Hans Vestberg  said today at the Barcelona
convention that he’s seen “competition on fewer segments, that
footprints have become smaller due to consolidation in the
industry.” Still, “consolidation isn’t easy,” he said, given
Ericsson’s experience with Nortel Networks Corp.’s North
American assets, which it bought in 2009 to boost U.S. sales.  “Integrating Nortel, that wasn’t easy. It’s hard to do
these integrations,” Vestberg said. “If we’ve got a billion to
spend, we’d rather put it into R&D than to buy another company.
That doesn’t mean we won’t look at M&A to grow our portfolio.”  Nokia added 1.5 percent to 2.89 euros at 11:45 in Helsinki.
Siemens rose 1.1 percent in  Frankfurt , while Ericsson climbed
0.8 percent on the Stockholm exchange.  NSN Savings  Nokia Siemens, which in 2011 announced plans to eliminate
17,000 jobs, is on track to exceed its target of saving 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in operating expenses by the end of
this year, Suri said. The company aims to seize growth
opportunities when the market is growing and focus on improving
margins where industry revenue doesn’t increase, he said.  The company, which has sold assets to refocus on wireless
infrastructure, wants to boost its services business. It said
yesterday it hired Eva Elmstedt from Ericsson to head the unit.  “You can’t say in this market that you’ll be an end-to-end
player just because you were a decade ago, and you can’t keep
selling the same products just because you did in the past,”
Suri said. “We once had strong growth in our sector, but that
is no longer the case. That means business needs to be managed
differently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  