-- OGX Penniless by 2014 Triggers Batista Cash Hunt: Brazil Credit
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-02-25T14:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/ogx-penniless-by-2014-triggers-batista-cash-hunt-brazil-credit.html
Bondholders are increasing pressure
on Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  to raise outside money for
his oil producer, pushing up borrowing costs to levels
associated with companies on the verge of collapse.  After surging to more than 11.6 percent last week, yields
on $2.56 billion of notes due 2018 issued by OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA ended Feb. 22 at 11.06 percent following a
report by Sao Paulo-based newspaper Valor Economico that Batista
is in talks to sell a stake in OGX to  Malaysia ’s state energy
company. Company officials declined to comment on the report.  OGX’s  cash hoard  dropped 23 percent in the six months
through September to 5.1 billion reais ($2.56 billion) as subpar
production at its first two  oil wells  put output goals out of
reach. Bonds of OGX, which will run out of cash in less than two
years at its current burn rate, have suffered even after Batista
said in October that he would pump $1 billion of his own money
into the company that he founded in 2007.  “The roller coaster ride of these bonds is pretty
dramatic, to say the least,”  Ian McCall , who manages $107
million in emerging-market assets at Quesnell Capital SA in
Geneva and holds OGX bonds, said in a telephone interview. A
stake sale to Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the state
producer known as Petronas, “is the logical ending for this
situation.”  Stake Sales  OGX said in a Feb. 22 statement to Brazilian regulators
that it had no transactions to inform the market of at the
moment.  Azman Ibrahim and Ridzuan Zulkifli, spokesmen for Petronas,
didn’t respond to e-mail messages seeking comment sent after
normal office hours in  Kuala Lumpur .  OGX’s 8.5 percent 2018 bonds, rated B by  Standard & Poor’s ,
or five levels below investment grade, pay 0.44 percentage point
more than global bonds rated CCC and lower that S&P says are
currently vulnerable to nonpayment, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and Bank of America Corp.  Batista lost his place among the world’s 100 richest people
this month after Rio de Janeiro-based OGX, the biggest of his
commodities businesses that include shipbuilder OSX SA and coal
producer CCX Carvao da Colombia SA, lost more than  80 percent  of
its market value in the past 12 months as oil production and
free cash flow fell short of estimates.  Batista has a net worth of $10.4 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . The commodity mogul, whose EBX
Group Co. controls six publicly traded companies, aims to raise
as much as $5 billion selling stakes in electricity producer MPX
Energia SA and closely held gold mining startup AUX, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said Feb. 19.  ‘Lost Faith’  A lack of access to international  capital markets  may make
stake sale or partnership the best option for Batista to raise
money for OGX, according Omar Zeolla, an analyst at Oppenheimer
& Co. in  New York .  No Brazilian company has issued bonds overseas paying more
than 11 percent since Minerva SA sold $350 million of securities
to yield 12.625 percent in February 2012, according to data
compiled by  Bloomberg. (MMXM3)   Batista “was very popular a few years ago,” Zeolla said
in a telephone interview. “People have lost faith. It would be
very difficult for OGX to come to the market now.”  Turning to Asia  Batista turned to Asian investors to raise capital on three
previous occasions.  China ’s Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. is the
second-biggest stakeholder in Batista’s miner MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA, followed by  South Korea ’s SK Networks Co.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. South Korea’s Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co. holds a stake in OSX and is a partner in
the company’s shipyard unit. He also sold a 5.6 percent stake in
EBX to Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co.  For investors disenchanted with OGX’s failures to meet
production and  cash-flow  projections, a partnership with
Petronas wouldn’t be enough to make the company attractive,
according to Cornel Bruhin, a  money manager  at MainFirst Schweiz
AG, which manages about $4.2 billion of emerging-market debt.
The company pumped 9,100 barrels of oil per day in the third
quarter after abandoning its original production goal of 40,000
barrels a day June 26.  “If he sells 25 percent or 75 percent, it doesn’t change
that we lost faith” in Batista, Bruhin said in a telephone
interview from Zurich.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 167 basis points at
9:22 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co data.  The cost to protect Brazilian bonds against default for
five years dropped two basis points to 124 basis points. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.9665 per dollar.
Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January 2014
climbed seven basis points to 7.9 percent.  OGX needs to abandon its strategy of developing unproven
 oil fields  without any partners to share the hazards and
expenses before investors will embrace the company’s bonds,
according to Quesnell’s McCall. The notes may rally about 10
cents to 100 cents on the dollar if the company announces a
partnership, he said.  “It’s a risky business and people diversify the risk by
bringing in partners, so this will be the logical outcome at
some point in time,” McCall said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  