-- Oil Falls to 7-Week Low on Italian Election
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-02-25T22:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/oil-rises-for-second-day-before-iran-talks.html
West Texas Intermediate oil fell to
the lowest level in seven weeks in electronic trading after the
settlement as partial election results in Italy heightened
concern that the euro-zone debt crisis may deepen.  Prices dropped as much as 1.1 percent as U.S. stocks
tumbled and the euro weakened against the dollar. Early election
results showed Italy may be left with a divided parliament,
spurring concern that renewed turmoil in European markets will
crimp global growth. Oil also fell as U.S. Secretary of State
John Kerry signaled that a diplomatic solution to a standoff
over  Iran ’s nuclear program is possible.  “The markets don’t like uncertainty,” said Jacob Correll,
a Louisville, Kentucky-based analyst at Summit Energy Inc.,
which manages more than $20 billion in companies’ annual energy
spending. “It’s indicative that the euro-zone crisis is not
over yet and there is still a lot of headwind.”  WTI for April delivery fell $1.02, or 1.1 percent, to
$92.11 a barrel at 5:01 p.m. in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It touched $92.07, the lowest level in
intraday trading since Jan. 4. Futures settled down 2 cents at
$93.11 a barrel after the close of floor trading.  The volume of
all futures traded was 11 percent below the 100-day average at
4:49 p.m.  Brent for April settlement dropped 66 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $113.44 a barrel. Brent closed up 34 cents at
$114.44 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume
was 12 percent below the 100-day average. The European benchmark
crude was at a premium of $21.33 to WTI at the settlement, up
from $20.97 on Feb. 22.  Italian Elections  Italy  may require another election after the four-way race
that ended today. Forecasts by state broadcaster RAI showed Pier Luigi Bersani, the Democratic Party candidate, winning the lower
chamber of parliament, and Silvio Berlusconi with a blocking
minority in the Senate. Bersani, who led in opinion polls
throughout the two-month race, campaigned to maintain the budget
rigor of outgoing Prime Minister Mario Monti.  “Those projections show a risk of ungovernability,”
Stefano Fassina, economic-policy spokesman for Bersani, said
today on Italy’s La7 television.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.8 percent after
climbing as much as 0.7 percent. The euro was down 0.9 percent
against the dollar after rising 0.9 percent to $1.3319. A weaker
euro and stronger dollar curb oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  “Things completely changed throughout the day,” Correll
said. “It’s a pretty sharp reversal for everything.”  Iranian Talks  Futures also dropped as the U.S. and its partners urged
Iran to accept what they call a “good and updated offer” in
exchange for a step-by-step lifting of sanctions on oil exports.
Iran will hold talks with the U.S.,  China ,  France ,  Germany ,
 Russia  and the U.K. tomorrow in Kazakhstan, following an eight-
month lapse in negotiations.  “A window for a diplomatic solution is open” with Iran,
Kerry told a news conference in  London  after talks with U.K.
Foreign Secretary William Hague. Iran should “negotiate in good
faith” with world powers over its nuclear program, Kerry said.  The talks between Iran and the world powers, dubbed the
P5+1 group, come following sanctions by the U.S. and the
European Union that are costing Iran about $98.9 million a day
in lost oil sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “That kind of response from Kerry would be more bearish
for oil,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “The market has turned its
corner and it’s vulnerable to some further downside weakness.”  Nuclear Program  Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian energy and
medical research. The U.S., other UN Security Council members
and the European Union suspect a covert atomic weapons program.  “The fact that the West seems anxious to negotiate and
Iran does not tells me that they’ll be less inclined to do a
deal,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in St. Louis, which oversees $1.4 billion.  Iran pumped 2.6 million barrels of oil a day in January,
the lowest level since February 1990, a Bloomberg survey of oil
companies, producers and analysts showed. Iran, the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ biggest producer after Saudi
Arabia a year ago, is now tied with the United Arab Emirates for
fifth place.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 437,636
contracts as of 5:02 p.m. It totaled 395,138 contracts Feb. 22,
28 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.65
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at  