-- Tombini Says Brazil CPI to Slow on Food and Currency
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-26T12:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/tombini-says-brazil-inflation-to-slow-in-second-half-of-2013.html
(Corrects to say reserves in dollars in last paragraph of
story originally published Feb. 25.)  Brazil ’s inflation will slow in the
second half of the year as the country produces a bumper crop of
grains and the real doesn’t weaken as it did last year, central
bank President Alexandre Tombini said.  “Apart from any major shocks, food inflation should not be
as unfavorable as it was last year,” Tombini said at an event
today in  New York . A 14 percent increase in the output of grains
in 2013 will help restrain food prices, he said.  The central bank’s monetary policy committee will hold the
target lending rate at a record low for a third straight time
next week in an effort to boost growth without further stoking
inflation, according to a Bloomberg survey. In the minutes to
its January meeting, the bank’s board said it would hold rates
for “a sufficiently prolonged period.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.85 percent at 5:39 p.m. local time. The
real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.9793 per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil’s annual inflation rate through mid-February
surpassed economists’ forecasts for the eighth consecutive
month, reaching 6.18 percent as measured by the IPCA-15 index.  Inflation has accelerated even after growth slowed in 2012
for a second consecutive year to 1 percent, according to
estimates by the central bank.  Currency Outlook  Faster inflation amid faltering growth has led traders to
bet policy makers will allow the currency to strengthen in a bid
to rein in consumer prices. The real, after posting the second-
worst performance among major currencies last year, has led
gains among the 16 most-traded currencies in 2013.  Tombini said the government now has more pressing issues in
Brazil aside from the so-called currency war, a term coined by
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  in 2010 to describe policies
adopted by rich nations to weaken their currencies.  The annual pace of consumer price increases has exceeded
the 4.5 percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range for
more than two years, and last year food and beverage prices rose
9.9 percent.  Inflation is showing “more resistance” than policy makers
would like, Tombini said.  He reiterated the central bank will maintain its policy of
accumulating reserves. Reserves have  climbed  to $373 billion
from $289 billion at the start of President Dilma Rousseff’s
administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  