-- Cadwalader, Thompson & Knight, Ogletree: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-25T13:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/thompson-knight-ogletree-paul-weiss-business-of-law.html
Jim Woolery, co-head of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s North American mergers and acquisitions practice
that’s leading in 2013 dealmaking on the continent, is leaving
the bank for a senior position at law firm Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Woolery, who joined JPMorgan in January 2011, will start at
Cadwalader today as a deputy chairman, he said in an interview.
Woolery previously spent 17 years as an M&A lawyer for Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP.  Woolery, 43, advised Dell Corp. on founder  Michael Dell ’s
offer to take the company private with Silver Lake Management
LLC for $24.4 billion, a deal that helped propel JPMorgan to the
top spot among mergers advisers in North America. He also worked
on  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s failed effort to acquire  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile USA.  “This is an opportunity to take a leadership role at a
great organization,” Woolery said in the interview. “I will
have an opportunity to drive the company and do it directly.”  He will report to Cadwalader chairman Chris White.
Cadwalader has about 450 lawyers and 1,000 employees. Woolery
said he and White plan to expand the M&A practice at Cadwalader
and “enhance the entire platform with lateral hires over time
and done prudently.”  Woolery was one of a handful of top M&A lawyers to attempt
a switch to investment banking. In 2000, Cravath partner Robert Kindler left to become a banker at Chase Manhattan Corp., now
part of JPMorgan, and another partner, George Bilicic, went to
Merrill Lynch & Co. In 2005, Dennis Hersch left Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP to join JPMorgan.  Kindler now runs mergers and acquisitions at  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Bilicic is at  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , and Hersch has left banking.  JPMorgan leads the global M&A financial adviser rankings
this year with $97.75 billion in deals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It also is No. 1 in  North America , the
data show. Besides Dell, the firm this year advised on H.J.
Heinz Co. being taken private for $27.4 billion and Comcast
Corp.’s acquisition of the remaining stake in NBCUniversal.  Thompson & Knight Elects Nine Lawyers to Management Committee  Thompson & Knight LLP elected nine lawyers to its
management committee for 2013, including Emily A. Parker, who
will serve her second term as managing partner.  Parker, based in Dallas, represents taxpayers in IRS audits
and appeals proceedings, state tax audits and hearings, and
federal and state tax refund and deficiency litigation. She was
previously acting chief counsel and deputy chief counsel for the
Internal Revenue Service, according to her firm profile.  Other members of the committee are Houston tax member Roger D. Aksamit; Dallas trial member William L. Banowsky; Dallas
intellectual property practice member Max Ciccarelli; Dallas
trial member Greg W. Curry; Dallas corporate and securities
member J. Holt Foster III; Houston corporate and securities
member Timothy T. Samson; Dallas finance practice group leader
Shad E. Sumrow; and Mark Weibel, co-chairman of the real estate
capital markets practice group in Dallas.  Thompson & Knight has about 330 attorneys at 11 offices in
the U.S., Europe and North  Africa .  SNR Denton, Salans, FMC Merger Set for March 28  The three-way merger of U.S.-based SNR Denton LLP with
Salans LLP of  France  and Canada’s Fraser Milner Casgrain LLP to
create a firm known as Dentons, with $1.3 billion in annual
revenue, now has a date -- March 28, according to spokesmen at
two of the firms.  SNR Denton, a product of a 2010 tie-up between Sonnenschein
Nath & Rosenthal LLP and the U.K.’s Denton Wilde Sapte LLP, will
combine with the others to create a firm with “no headquarters,
no dominant culture” or geography, Elliott Portnoy, SNR Denton
chairman, who will be the chief executive officer, said in
November when it was announced.  The proposed deal will be structured under a so-called
verein, allowing the firms to keep their profit pools separate.
Portnoy will serve as global CEO and Washington-based Joseph Andrew as chairman.  All “the world’s largest firms are either U.S., U.K., or a
combination of the two,” Andrew also said in November. “This
is a firm that comes from all of the developed centers of the
world.”  The new firm will have offices in 79 locations in 52
countries in the Americas, Europe, the  Middle East   Asia , and a
network of 22 associated offices in Africa.  Moves  King & Spalding Hires Steinthal for IP Practice in  San Francisco   King & Spalding LLP hired intellectual property lawyer
Kenneth Steinthal as a partner in its San Francisco office. He
was previously at Greenberg Traurig LLP, where he was head of
the San Francisco office. He brings along an IP counsel from the
firm to King & Spalding.  “Kenny is an outstanding litigator whose great experience
and skills -- particularly in handling trials and appeals in the
copyright and ‘new media’ space -- will contribute greatly to
our efforts in the Bay area, across the United States and
internationally.” Donald F. Zimmer Jr., managing partner of
King & Spalding’s San Francisco office, said in a statement.  Steinthal’s practice focuses on intellectual property
rights matters arising from the distribution of audio and
audiovisual content, the firm said. He has litigated copyright
infringement and rate-setting cases in both traditional and new
media contexts. He also counsels clients on copyright, music
rights, DMCA safe harbor and other issues arising from his
clients’ widescale audio and audiovisual media content
distribution.  Prior to his time at Greenberg, Steinthal was co-head of
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP’s IP/media practice, the firm said.  The arrival of the two lawyers increases King & Spalding’s
intellectual property team on the West Coast to 16 lawyers and
patent agents, including six partners.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Ogletree Hires Airline and Railway Practice Group Head  Elizabeth Dougherty joined Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak &
Stewart, PC as a shareholder in its  Washington  office. Dougherty
will formalize and lead Ogletree Deakins’ new airline and
railway practice group and will be active in supporting the
firm’s governmental affairs practice group based in the
Washington office.  Dougherty was previously on the  National Mediation Board ,
an independent agency that oversees airline and railroad labor
relations and administers the  Railway Labor Act . Her
responsibilities included oversight and mediation of collective
bargaining, conducting and investigating representation
elections, and oversight of the grievance arbitration program,
the firm said. During that time, she served twice as chairman of
the board, from 2009 to 2010 and 2006 to 2007. She was special
assistant for domestic policy at the White House under President
 George W. Bush , where she covered labor and transportation
issues.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers at 43 offices
across the U.S. and in Europe.  Atlanta Banking Attorneys Join Troutman Sanders From Kilpatrick  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP financial institutions
lawyers James W. Stevens and Richard R. Cheatham join Troutman
Sanders LLP as partner and senior counsel respectively in the
firm’s Atlanta office.  “Their addition to our recognized financial institutions
practice will deepen our bench strength and further enhance our
ability to deliver creative solutions to clients operating in an
increasingly complex business and regulatory environment,”
Thomas O. Powell, a partner and deputy practice leader of the
firm’s financial institutions practice group, said in a
statement.  Stevens provides general corporate and bank regulatory
advice to bank clients and has experience in the representation
of public and private companies and financial institutions in
mergers and acquisitions, securities offerings and regulatory
reporting and compliance, the firm said.  Cheatham focuses his practice on the representation of
financial institutions on bank regulatory matters and corporate
and securities law applicable to financial institutions and
their holding companies and other affiliates, according to the
firm statement.  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers and 15 offices
in the U.S. and Asia.  Construction Partner Joins Wilson Elser in Las Vegas  Wilson Elser Moskowitz Edelman & Dicker LLP announced that
Christine D. Burkhart, previously of Wolfe & Wyman LLP, has
joined the firm as a partner in the  Las Vegas  office.  Burkhart focuses her practice on construction defect;
product liability; premises liability; and trucking and
transportation matters, the firm said.  Wilson Elser has almost 800 attorneys in 24 offices in the
U.S.  Corporate Lawyer Joins Rimon in Palo Alto Office  Rimon PC has added corporate attorney Frank Vargas as a
partner in its Palo Alto,  California , office. Vargas was
previously at Gray Plant Mooty, where he was a principal.  Vargas has spent a large portion of his career in
 Minneapolis  and the Midwest and intends to continue practicing
in that region.  Vargas has created many new companies, including Aethlon
Capital, an  investment banking  boutique; a company designed to
provide general counsel services to early stage innovators in
the medical and computer areas; and Finazz.com, a tech company
which automated mergers and acquisition process for companies,
the firms said.  Vargas has worked for more than 25 years representing
venture and private equity funds in fundraising and investment
activities as well as regulatory matters. In addition to his
work with companies, he also represents broker dealers with
their regulatory issues before Finra and the SEC.  Rimon has lawyers at 11 offices in the U.S and Israel.  Paul Weiss Hires White-Collar Partner in Washington  Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP hired
Alexandra Walsh as a partner in the litigation department in
Washington. She was previously a partner at Baker Botts LLP.  She will focus her practice on white collar criminal
litigation, civil litigation, internal corporate investigations
and appellate litigation.  Paul, Weiss has more than 700 lawyers at eight offices in
the Americas, Europe and Asia.  Video  Law Professor: I May File Law School Ethics Charges  Ben Trachtenberg, an associate professor at University of
Missouri School of Law who has written about law schools
misrepresenting incoming student GPAs, LSAT scores and graduate
employment data, says he may file legal ethics complaints with
state bars against those who allegedly published the bogus data.  “Almost every day when I get up, I have to wonder is today
the day I’m going to break down and file a complaint” with
state bar ethics panels, he tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  Trachtenberg would prefer ethics charges be filed by the
schools that employed those who published the bogus data. “It’s
getting to be a little nuts that the folks who really know
what’s going on aren’t doing anything about it,” he says.  For more, click here.  News  Cost of Dropping Citizenship Keeps Earners From Exit: Taxes  Tax attorney Seth Entin has fielded about a dozen calls
since Jan. 1 from individuals or companies thinking about
exiting the U.S. or moving assets abroad.  “I don’t think I’ve ever gotten more calls in this
particular area,” said Entin, who focuses on international tax
at Miami-based Greenberg Traurig LLP. “A fair amount of the
time I wind up telling people that it’s easier said than done,
and if they try to do it they may wind up in a worse
situation.”  Exit taxes and other costs make it prohibitive for most
high-income taxpayers and small-business owners to leave the
U.S., though they may want to go because of higher taxes at the
federal level and in states such as California. Those who
expatriate must renounce their citizenship to avoid U.S. taxes
and navigate several sets of  Internal Revenue Service  rules when
setting up a foreign corporation.  A high-income couple worth $100 million whose assets have
$50 million in gains may have a $10 million tax liability if
they decided to leave this year, said Henry Christensen, a
partner at Chicago-based McDermott Will & Emery LLP who manages
the firm’s international private client practice.  While the number of people giving up their U.S. passports
has been higher in the past few years than in the previous
decade, the numbers are a small portion of the population. About
932 people gave up their U.S. citizenship in 2012, IRS data
show. That compares with 1,781 in 2011 and 742 in 2009.  The U.S. taxes citizens on their  worldwide  income even if
they live in another country. That’s why people give up their
passports to avoid the IRS’s reach.  Top earners will incur higher taxes this year. Congress
raised the maximum  tax rate  to 39.6 percent from 35 percent on
taxable income exceeding $400,000 for individuals and $450,000
for married couples.  The increase is coupled with higher levies on  capital gains 
and dividends for top earners of as much as 23.8 percent
compared with 15 percent in 2012. States including California
also have raised taxes on top earners. California’s tax on
income of $1 million or more was boosted to 13.3 percent, the
highest in the nation.  The U.S. government generally imposes an  exit tax  on high
earners to discourage them from expatriating as a way of
avoiding taxes.  For more, click here.  SEC Enforcement Chief Sees Priority Shift From Crisis Cases  George Canellos, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s acting enforcement chief, said his unit is at an
“inflection point” in redefining priorities previously focused
on conduct related to the 2008 credit crisis.  Investigators are now looking at the conduct of gatekeepers
such as accountants and board members, new and evolving market
technologies, and activity in the private-equity industry in an
environment of low  interest rates , Canellos said Feb. 22 during
a panel discussion at a securities law conference in Washington.  The SEC overhauled the enforcement division in 2010,
creating specialized units to focus on areas such as structured
products that helped fuel market turmoil in 2008 after the U.S.
housing market collapsed. An enforcement advisory committee has
been set up to evaluate new priorities, according to David Bergers, the enforcement division’s acting deputy director.  The advisory panel’s primary goal is to make it easier for
SEC attorneys to investigate and litigate cases, Bergers said.
The agency is more aggressively seeking to enforce subpoenas
when companies delay requests for documents, he said.  The enforcement unit is working on a tool that can help
predict accounting fraud by mining information in public filings
and identifying outliers in discretionary accruals, according to
Bergers.  Investigators will continue to monitor for well-timed bets
ahead of merger and acquisition announcements, said Sanjay Wadhwa, a senior attorney in the SEC’s  New York  office.  “As the global M&A market rebounds and kicks into gear, I
dare say you will see more of these actions coming out of the
SEC,” said Wadhwa, who also spoke on the panel.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  