-- Honda to Add Three China-Focused Models to Line by 2015
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-25T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/honda-to-sell-three-china-focused-models-by-2015-to-gain-share.html
Honda (7267)  Motor Co. will introduce three
models catering to the China market with partner  Dongfeng Motor
Group Co. (489)  by 2015 in a bid to regain market share lost after
tensions escalated over a Sino-Japanese territorial row.  The new products are part of the automaker’s drive to
almost double sales by 2015, and will include a global model to
be first introduced in China and two country-specific cars, Chen
Binbo, executive vice president of Dongfeng Honda, said in a
Feb. 20 interview in Wuhan, China.  Honda is betting more China-oriented models will help win
back customers in the world’s largest vehicle market, after
demand slumped by a record in the quarter ended December as
consumers shunned Japanese brands following a dispute between
the two countries over ownership of some islands. The backlash
sent the market share for Japanese car brands plummeting to
about 9 percent in October, or less than half the full-year
average in 2011, data from China’s auto association show.  “It will take Japanese carmakers at least three years to
recover the market share of about 23, 24 percent during the best
times,” Chen said. “To achieve this, all Japanese carmakers
should work hard to speed up the introduction of new products
and to better understand customers’ needs.”  Honda will also begin to produce and sell the Concept-S, a
wagon-like model first unveiled at the 2012 Beijing auto show,
in the second half of this year, Chen said.  Japan ’s third-largest automaker will also upgrade
powertrain systems in China within two to three years to include
direct injection technologies and turbochargers, he said.
Details will be announced at the  Shanghai  auto show in April.  Sales Slump  “It’s the right decision to introduce more models that
cater to Chinese needs,” Lin Huaibin, an analyst with
researcher IHS Automotive in Shanghai. “One of the reasons why
Japanese brands have lost ground in recent years is because they
have been slower to embrace Chinese tastes.”  Honda deliveries in China fell a record 32 percent in the
October-to-December period, based on company statements dating
back to 2006, to cap a 3 percent drop in full-year sales.  Japan’s three largest automakers reported their first year-
on-year gains last month since September, when rioters in  China 
smashed Japanese-brand cars.  Dongfeng Honda, based in Wuhan in central China’s Hubei
province, is the only Japanese joint venture that saw an
increase in sales last year, helped by the revamped CR-V,
Honda’s best-seller in China, and Civic compacts.  “The CR-V managed to achieve almost the same sales as
Tiguan of VW last year even as there was anti-Japanese sentiment
among consumers,” Yasuhide Mizuno, Dongfeng Honda’s president,
said in a separate interview. “I’m sure the CR-V will regain
pole position in the mid-range to high-end SUV category this
year.”  Elysion Minivan  Dongfeng Honda is renewing marketing of the Elysion minivan
this year, following the anti-Japanese protests that hurt sales
soon after its introduction in 2012, Mizuno said.  The automaker began production at its second plant in Wuhan
last year and will have a full capacity of 500,000 units by
2015. The joint venture sold 280,000 cars in 2012, 11 percent
more than the previous year, and targets to sell 340,000 units
in 2013, according to the company.  “There’s a lot of pressure, as we only have three years to
almost double our sales,” Chen said.  Honda has another joint venture in China with Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  