-- Moody’s Promises Caps on Mortgage-Bond Ratings as Terms Loosen
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-02-25T20:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/moody-s-promises-caps-on-mortgage-bond-ratings-as-terms-loosen.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it
won’t assign its top ratings to certain residential mortgage-
bond deals with issuer-friendly terms, signaling a potentially
tougher stance than competitors as the  market  revives.  Home-loan securities without government backing probably
will be able to get rankings only as high as Moody’s Aa tier if
“significant” limits are placed on when and how repurchases
can be forced of mortgages that fail to match their stated
quality, the New York-based firm said today in a report.  Ratings companies, after fueling the U.S. mortgage-credit
bubble that caused a global financial crisis, are now
confronting lenders and bond sponsors such as  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that seek safer contracts for
themselves. Moody’s competitors have said investors may get
enough protection with weaker so-called representations and
warranties if the deals have bigger loss buffers or offsetting
features, such as upfront third-party reviews of all loans.  “Fraudulent loans are extremely hard to detect,” Kathryn Kelbaugh, a senior analyst at Moody’s, said today in a telephone
interview. “The due diligence, no matter how good it is, isn’t
going to catch every rep and warranty breach. Should the
investor eat that loan?”  Moody’s views may do little to impair issuance because bond
creators are free to choose which firm to hire for grades, a
practice known as ratings shopping. During the housing bubble
that began to  burst  in 2006, that flexibility pushed graders to
engage in “a race to the bottom” to avoid losing market share,
a Senate panel said in a 2011 report.  Contract Clauses  Credit Suisse issued mortgage bonds in November with
contract clauses that voided some repurchase requirements after
36 months or if a borrower defaulted because life events such as
a job loss, illness or divorce. Those types of concessions in
combination would probably be enough to cap Moody’s ratings,
Yehudah Forster, a senior credit officer, said, without
commenting on the particular deal.  Fitch Ratings  criticized the AAA ratings assigned by
 Standard & Poor’s  to $306 million of the Credit Suisse
securities, citing the size of their so-called credit
enhancement, or loss buffer provided by items such as some bonds
taking losses first.  S&P ratings reflected the “super prime” quality of the
loans and 100 percent due diligence performed on them, Sharif
Mahdavian, an S&P director in structured finance, said at a
securitization conference last month in  Las Vegas . The firm’s
grades on the deal were “not a broad endorsement of the
practice” of allowing loan warranties to sunset, he said.  More Protections  Credit Suisse and JPMorgan have been working on deals this
month that may offer themselves or lenders more protections than
found in the initial transactions by  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  after
the market revived in 2010. JPMorgan’s transaction may include
36 month to 60 month sunsets, according to person familiar with
it who asked not to be named because the terms weren’t set.
Credit Suisse’s latest deal doesn’t include sunsets for lenders,
though it does include them for the bank’s backstops of their
promises, Dow Jones Newswires reported.  April Kabahar, a S&P spokeswoman, declined last week to
comment on its approach, while Drew Benson, a Credit Suisse
spokesman, and  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman,
declined to comment on their deals.  Moody’s also said in its  report  today its ratings could be
limited to its third-highest A tier amid a combination of
weaknesses on items such as rep-and-warranty protocols, the
amount and quality of upfront diligence, and potential conflicts
of interest such as loan files being held by the firms that
would be required to take back the mortgages.  ‘Defective’ Mortgages  While changing rep-and-warranty paradigms can increase
investors’ exposure to “defective” mortgages, the complexity
of the issue and details of the variations that issuers are
considering will prevent Fitch from using a “one-size-fits-all
approach,” the firm said in a Feb. 20 report.  The company said it would generally assign grades assuming
higher expected losses with more issuer-friendly terms. Still,
it said it some changes in covenants, depending on their nature,
could be offset with other deal features being stronger. At the
same time, other types of provisions could make it impossible to
get “high investment-grade ratings,” Fitch said.  Kroll Bond Rating Agency analyst Glenn Costello and DBRS
Ltd. analyst Quincy Tang also said in interviews this month
their firms will generally demand more credit enhancement when
the terms are weaker. Costello said that “nothing is
mandatory,” though Kroll may be more troubled by certain items,
such as expirations of putback rights for fraud.  DBRS prefers sunset provisions that are conditioned on
loans not going delinquent, Tang said. While it has encountered
covenants in securitization deals that caused it to cap its
ratings in the past, it generally prefers to avoid that approach
because “as rating agencies, we can’t structure deals” and
instead try to assess their risks, Tang said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  