-- More Cantaloupe Inspections Planned by FDA After Outbreak
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-02-25T22:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/more-cantaloupe-inspections-planned-by-fda-after-outbreak.html
Cantaloupe packers may be subjected
to more inspections by U.S. regulators this growing season
following listeria and salmonella outbreaks in the past two
years linked to unsanitary processing of the melons.  “We intend to initiate inspections with a sampling
component at a subset of the cantaloupe packinghouses,” the
 Food and Drug Administration  said in a letter today to growers,
processors and shippers.  The action follows outbreaks in 2011 and 2012 of listeria
and salmonella that collectively sickened 400 people and caused
at least 36 deaths. Investigations into those outbreaks found
unsanitary production, handling conditions and practices at
packinghouses, according to the letter.  “The aim of these inspections is in part, to assess the
current practices by this segment of the produce industry and to
identify insanitary conditions that may affect the safety of
cantaloupe destined for distribution to consumers,” Michael Landa, director of the FDA’s Center for Food Safety and Applied
Nutrition, wrote in the letter. “In the event of adverse
findings, we will take action as needed to protect the public
health.”  The rough exterior of cantaloupes, known as netting, may
harbor pathogens because they can hide in the crevices,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Pathogens on
cantaloupe may get into the edible part of the fruit when a
knife is used for cutting.  Inspections are welcome by the industry, which has already
made strides to ensure safe handling and processing of
cantaloupe, Ray Gilmer, a spokesman for the Washington-based
United Fresh Produce Association, said by telephone.  “It’s going to demonstrate the cantaloupe industry has
made tremendous progress,” Gilmer said. “If there are any
operators not following modern guidelines, they need to get out
of the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  