-- Morgan Stanley’s Chappuis Leaves for Carlyle, Lev Takes Role
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-02-25T22:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/morgan-stanley-s-chappuis-to-leave-firm-lev-to-take-on-aip-role.html
Jacques Chappuis, head of  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s fund-of-funds business, Alternative Investment
Partners, will leave the firm in May to join  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)   Chappuis, 43, will run the re-branded Solutions business at
Carlyle, the second-largest U.S. private-equity firm, according
to a statement today from the Washington-based company. Arthur Lev will replace Chappuis as head of Morgan Stanley’s AIP,
according to a memo sent to the bank’s employees.  Carlyle is seeking to have Chappuis expand the fund-of-
funds business in the same way Michael “Mitch” Petrick, 51,
who joined from Morgan Stanley in 2010, has built Carlyle’s
Global Markets Strategies segment, which manages hedge-fund and
structured-credit investments. The fund-of-funds unit started in
2011 with the acquisition of a 60 percent stake in AlpInvest
Partners BV, a Dutch  money manager  and  Europe ’s largest investor
in private-equity funds at the time.  “Jacques has an extraordinary track record of innovation
in the development and delivery of products and services that
meet and anticipate investor needs,” Carlyle co-CEO David M. Rubenstein, 63, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
delighted that he will bring his experience and energy to take
our solutions business to a new level of success.”  Citigroup Alumnus  Carlyle bought the AlpInvest stake as part of its broader
effort to diversify beyond leveraged buyouts, which produce
volatile earnings and delivered lower returns following the U.S.
financial crisis. Chappuis will be charged with creating new
offerings for Carlyle’s limited partners, including customized
accounts, fund-of-funds investments, portfolio advice and risk
management, Carlyle said in the statement.  “Demand for investment product customization and
specialization increases by the day,” Chappuis said.  Carlyle’s fund-of-funds business has $44 billion of assets
under management, according to the firm’s most recent earnings
report. It produced 2.6 percent -- or $18 million -- of the
company’s $688 million in distributable earnings last year.
Global market strategies, which has been the fastest-growing
division for Carlyle, earned $168 million in 2012.  Chappuis joined Morgan Stanley in 2006, after working at
Citigroup Inc. and Boston Consulting Group Inc. He served as
head of alternative investments for Morgan Stanley’s retail
brokerage division before heading AIP.  ‘No Reason’  Lev, 51, will take on leadership of AIP in addition to his
role leading the long-only asset-management business, according
to the memo from  Greg Fleming , 49, who oversees the New York-
based bank’s asset-management division. Matt Burkhard, a Morgan
Stanley spokesman, confirmed the contents of the memo, a copy of
which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54,
said soon after he took over in 2010 that “there’s no reason”
the firm couldn’t have the world’s largest fund-of-funds
business. AIP has about $29 billion of assets under management
and advisement, a 53 percent increase over the last three years,
according to the memo.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s Alternative Asset
Management, which has $46 billion in assets under management,
 calls itself  the world’s biggest.  AIP manages portfolios of  hedge funds , private-equity and
real-estate funds, helping investors spread their money across
holdings. Mustafa Jama leads AIP’s hedge-fund group, while
Thomas Dorr heads private-equity investments and David Boyle and
Paul Vosper run the real estate group. Rui De Figueiredo leads
AIP’s portfolio solutions group.  Lev previously held roles as chief strategy officer of
Morgan Stanley’s traditional asset-management unit and general
counsel of Morgan Stanley Investment Management. He left Morgan
Stanley in 2002 to join Greenwich, Connecticut-based FrontPoint
Partners LLC, returning in 2006 when the bank bought the hedge
fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  