-- Osborne Says Markets Back Him as He Shrugs Off U.K. Cut
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-25T16:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/osborne-says-markets-back-him-as-he-shrugs-off-u-k-downgrade.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said investors have backed his fiscal and economic plans
as he cast aside concerns about his policy after the U.K. lost
its top  credit rating .  “We have not seen excessive volatility in markets,”
Osborne told lawmakers in London today after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the U.K. to Aa1 from Aaa. “This government’s
economic policy is tested day in and day out in the markets and
it’s not been found wanting today.”  The chancellor, who has repeatedly referred to retaining
the top rating as a test for his economic policy, was speaking
after the opposition  Labour Party  tabled an emergency question
on the downgrade in Parliament. Investors often ignore ratings
changes, as evidenced by the fact that U.S. and French sovereign
yields are lower than they were when rating companies downgraded
the nations over the past two years.  U.K. 10-year bonds were little changed today, with the
yield on the debt at 2.11 percent as of 4:00 p.m.  London  time.
That compares with a record low of 1.407 percent on July 23 and
an average of 3.945 percent in the past decade. Still, the pound
weakened against 14 of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
It fell 0.4 percent against the euro, taking its decline this
year to 7.1 percent.  Osborne said the reasons for the downgrade were not to do
with his policies and he cited Moody’s analysis of the weak
global economic backdrop and a “necessary” deleveraging.  In its report, Moody’s blamed the rating cut on the
“continuing weakness” of the economy and the challenge this
poses to Osborne’s fiscal plans. It said part of the poor U.K.
outlook is due to the “anticipated slow growth of the global
economy.”  Downgrade Warning  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
That’s worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based
on more than 300 changes since 1974. Investors ignored 56
percent of Moody’s rating and outlook changes and 50 percent of
those by S&P.  With the opposition calling for a rethink of Osborne’s
fiscal squeeze, Osborne said the downgrade by Moody’s was a
“warning to anyone who thinks we can run away from dealing with
our problems.”  Labour’s Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  said Osborne is in
“complete denial, offering more of the same failing medicine.”  “The chancellor needs to get out of his denial and get a
new plan on growth, jobs and the deficit that will actually
work, or the prime minister will have to get a new chancellor,”
Balls said in Parliament.  Britain’s debt as a percentage of gross domestic product
will climb to 98 percent next year from 90 percent last year and
95.4 percent in 2013, the European Commission said in its winter
forecast on Feb. 22.  Osborne said in his autumn statement Dec. 5 that he’s no
longer likely to meet his target to begin cutting the burden of
government debt in 2015-16.  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.K.’s
rating on a negative outlook a week later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  