-- Moscow Targets March Move to 2-Day Settlement: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-26T04:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/moscow-targets-march-move-to-2-day-settlement-russia-overnight.html
The Moscow Exchange is accelerating
plans to transition to two-day settlement of transactions as the
bourse seeks to lure more foreign investors and bolster trading
after its initial public offering.  Russia ’s main stock and fixed-income exchange will move
from the current system, where trades must be settled on
execution, to the T+2 mode that is the norm in U.S., German and
Brazilian markets by March 26 for some equities, spokesman
Nikita Bekasov said by e-mail yesterday. The bourse, which
raised $498 million in its Feb. 15 IPO, is modernizing its
systems and opening up access as Russian equities trade at the
cheapest level among 21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  “Clients will no longer have to pay their brokers to
borrow stock and finance settlement to make their stock sales,”
 Luis Saenz , the head of equity sales at BCS Financial Group,
said by e-mail from  London  yesterday. “Lower trading costs and
higher post-trade transparency will bring more liquidity onto
the local market.”  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  stock gauge slid 1.1
percent to 100.64 yesterday, the lowest level since Jan. 11.
Futures on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index fell 1.3
percent to 154,390 in U.S. hours yesterday. The benchmark  Micex
Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.5 percent yesterday in Moscow to 1,503.66.  The exchange will move its whole market to T+2 settlement
in July, Bekasov said yesterday, without giving any details. The
exchange is expected to introduce T+2 settlement in March for 20
of its most liquid stocks, Saenz said, citing unidentified
sources at the exchange.  Cheapest Valuation  Shares of the exchange, created out of a merger between the
Micex and the RTS, rose 0.6 percent to 54.75 rubles, or $1.80,
in Moscow yesterday. The price represents a 0.5 percent slip
from the IPO price of 55 rubles.  The  Micex gauge , with  six of the 10 biggest  companies in
the oil and natural gas sectors, has the cheapest valuation of
the biggest emerging markets. Stocks on the index trade at an
average multiple of 5.7 times estimated earnings, compared with
15.6 for  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex Index, 11.2 for  Brazil ’s Bovespa
and 10 for  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sergey Sinkevich, the exchange’s head of primary markets at
the time, said in November that the settlement reform was
expected by end-2013. Russia merged its two competing
depositories on Nov. 6 to bring settlement procedures into line
with international norms as President  Vladimir Putin  seeks to
turn Moscow into a financial hub.  $40 Billion  Euroclear Bank SA, the world’s largest bond settlement
system, began settling local bond transactions directly for
foreigners on Feb. 7. It received approval from the country’s
regulators to expand access to corporate and municipal debt and
plans to begin those operations within months, after sorting out
technical issues, Frederic Hannequart, Euroclear’s chairman,
said in an interview in Moscow on Feb. 13.  Russia should speed up plans to make the country’s equities
available for trading through banks including Euroclear to the
start of 2014, six months earlier than planned, Finance Minister
Anton Siluanov said this month. Barclays Plc estimates the
changes will see foreigners increase Russian domestic government
bond holdings by as much as $40 billion in 2013 to 2014.  Moscow ranked 64th on the  Global Financial Centers Index  in
September, a survey compiled by Z/Yen Group, a London-based
consulting firm. Earlier this month, the government has hired
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to burnish the nation’s image overseas
and attract more institutional investors.  ETF Plunges  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S. exchange-
traded fund that holds Russian shares, sank 2 percent to $28.78
yesterday, dropping to the lowest level since Dec. 24. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the index
futures, rose 0.4 percent to 19.98.  “Investors are far from being enthusiastic about Russia at
the moment,” Andrey Tretelnikov, an analyst at Rye Man & Gor
Securities, said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “They are
cautious and they are nervous, so Russian equities decline as
oil drops and European worries intensify.”  Oil for April delivery slumped 1.1 percent to $92.11 a
barrel in New York yesterday as U.S. Secretary of State  John
Kerry  signaled that a diplomatic solution to a standoff over
 Iran’s nuclear program  is possible and as the euro reversed
gains against the dollar.  Brent oil for April settlement dropped 0.6 percent to
$114.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
as partial election results in  Italy  heightened concern that the
euro-zone debt crisis may deepen.  Urals crude  declined 1 percent
to $110.89.  Polyus Slides  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PGIL)  fell 3.3 percent to $3.21,
the lowest since Jan. 23. The stock was the biggest decliner on
the Bloomberg Russia-14 gauge yesterday.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s biggest Internet company, rallied 2
percent to $24.08 yesterday and was the biggest gainer on the
Russia-14 gauge. Trading volume exceeded the average for the
past three months by 41 percent.  The ruble weakened 0.3 percent to 30.5070 per dollar in
Moscow yesterday. The currency was steady at 34.7631 against the
 dollar-euro basket  used by the central bank to minimize swings
in the ruble that hurt exporters. Futures on the currency showed
the ruble declining 0.8 percent to 30.623 per dollar yesterday.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
lost 0.4 percent to HK$4.48 in Hong Kong trading as of 12 p.m.
local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  