-- Emerging ETF Sinks as Italy Elections Concern Curbs Risky Assets
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-02-25T22:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/most-emerging-stocks-decline-as-china-data-outweighs-valuations.html
The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded fund sank to the lowest level this year
and emerging-market consumer stocks fell as concern elections in
 Italy  won’t deliver a government cut demand for riskier assets.  Cia de Bebidas das Americas  drove declines among consumer
staple companies, and Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil
producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA plunged the most
since June.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  sank the most in a month after the
South Korean won strengthened against the yen. PGE SA, Poland’s
largest utility, dropped to a record.  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028)  rose the most in 10 weeks in  Shanghai  as the government
allowed refiners to raise fuel prices.  The iShares ETF retreated 1.3 percent to $42.70 in  New
York , the lowest level since Dec. 6. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,054.41, with 359 stocks rising and
387 falling. Italy may need a second election after the four-way
race that ended today looked to result in a divided parliament.
The 21 countries in the developing-nations gauge send about 26
percent to the European Union on average, data compiled by the
World Trade Organization show.  “If the emerging market fundamentals don’t change
overnight, sentiment is souring,” Seth Freeman, chief executive
officer at EM Capital Management LLC, said by phone from  San
Francisco  today. “Italy has a high level of borrowing and debt,
and that part makes investors very nervous and highlights the
importance of governance.”  Berlusconi’s Government  Emerging-market companies are posting the longest stretch
of weaker-than-estimated earnings since the global financial
crisis in 2009, dragging equity valuations to a four-year low
versus developed-nation shares.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, surged 24 percent to 21.86.  The Italian elections suggest three-time premier  Silvio Berlusconi  may have built a blocking minority in the Senate to
deny victory to Pier Luigi Bersani. A hung parliament at third-
biggest euro-area economy would challenge the European Union’s
embrace of austerity aimed at resolving the region’s debt crisis
and pulling it out of recession. The euro-area economy will
shrink in 2013, the European Commission predicted on Feb. 22,
paring a previous forecast for growth.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage points, to 293, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Mexico, Brazil  The Mexican IPC index declined 0.9 percent to the lowest
level in two months.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  fell as Cia de Bebidas das
Americas, Latin America’s largest brewer, dropped 3.3 percent,
the most since June 1. OGX sank 8.9 percent. Usinas Siderurgicas
de Minas Gerais SA jumped 6.8 percent to the highest level in a
week.  Russia ’s Micex Index added 0.5 percent, led by preferred
shares of OAO Surgutneftegas, an oil producer. The ruble lost
0.3 percent versus the dollar.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest natural-gas producer, rose 1
percent to its highest close since Feb. 7.  Renaissance Capital 
raised its estimate to $14, while it reiterated a buy
recommendation for Gazprom.  The Czech PX Index jumped 1.4 percent, leading gains among
major emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  AAA Auto Group NV (AAA) ,
a chain of used-car dealerships, increased 3.6 percent in
 Prague , its biggest leap since Jan. 11.  Poland’s WIG20 Index rose 0.7 percent, paring gains of as
much as 1.2 percent. PGE fell 3.9 percent to a record low 15.39
zloty ($4.84) in Warsaw in its second day of declines.  Debt Restructuring  Central European Distribution Corp. (CEDC) , maker of the Zubrowka
and Bols vodka brands, sank 55 percent to 62 cents in the U.S.,
a record plunge, while its Warsaw-traded shares dropped 20
percent to the lowest level since at least 2006. CEDC announced
 exchange offers  for convertible senior notes due 2013 and senior
secured bonds due 2016 in an effort to restructure the company’s
debt, according to a company filing posted after the close in
New York. The debt restructuring is needed to avoid bankruptcy.  Netia SA (NET)  climbed 4.2 percent, its biggest jump in two
weeks. Morgan Stanley will look for an industry or financial
investor interested in buying Netia’s shares held by private
equity funds Third Avenue Management LLC and Sisu Capital Ltd.,
Dziennik Gazeta Prawna reported today, citing people with
knowledge of the deal.  The shekel fell 0.5 percent to 3.7276 versus the dollar
after the  Bank of Israel  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at its lowest in more than two years as rising house
prices balanced slowing growth and inflation.  Monetary Easing  Gauges consumer discretionary companies in the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index declined 0.3 percent, the most among 10
 industry groups . The broader measure is down less than 0.1
percent this year, compared with a 3.9 percent increase in the
MSCI World Index of developed nations.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 1.4 percent to 92.86 as Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co., the world’s biggest silicon-based
solar panel maker by capacity, sank to the lowest level this
month.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 0.8 percent to a
record, while  Indonesia ’s Jakarta Composite Index climbed 1
percent to an all-time high. Vietnam’s VN Index increased 1.3
percent after a report showed inflation slowed and on
speculation the central bank is accelerating measures to resolve
bad debt among lenders.  Won Gaining  Bank Central Asia Tbk PT (BBCA)  surged 7.1 percent to a record, as
investors believe the company will post better-than-expected
2012 earnings, Syaiful Adrian, analyst at Ciptadana Securities
said by phone today. The company was the biggest gainer on the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Asian Development Bank President Kuroda said this month
there is “substantial room” for monetary easing.  China ’s
manufacturing is expanding at the slowest pace in four months, a
private survey showed today, underscoring the headwinds faced by
policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 0.1 percent.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.5 percent, its first
increase in three days. Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. dropped 5
percent to the lowest since Dec. 4.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index and  South Korea ’s Kospi index sank 0.5
percent each. Hyundai Motor dropped the most in a month on the
South Korean won’s gain against the yen. Hyundai, South Korea’s
biggest automaker, fell 2.1 percent and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  slid
0.9 percent.  China Petroleum, also known as Sinopec, advanced 2.7
percent, its first gain in three days, after the government
allowed refiners to boost prices for the first time since
September. Gasoline will increase by 300  yuan  ($48) a metric ton
and diesel by 290 yuan a ton effective today, the National
Development and Reform Commission said in a statement on its
website yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  