-- Lowe’s Falls After Clearance Sales Hurt Profitability
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-02-25T22:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/lowe-s-profit-tops-estimates-on-housing-recovery.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, tumbled the most in six months after
forecasting profit this year that trailed analysts’ estimates
amid sales to clear slower-moving merchandise.  Lowe’s dropped 4.8 percent to $35.86 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since Aug. 20. The shares have gained
1 percent this year, compared with a 4.3 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  is revamping the
retailer’s merchandising strategy after trailing larger  Home
Depot Inc. (HD)  in sales growth. As Lowe’s stores give greater
prominence to faster-selling items such as cleaning supplies,
clearance sales of older merchandise are hurting profit, Niblock
said.  “We are still having to clear that excess inventory,” he
said today in a telephone interview. “Generally when you are
selling through those, you are marking them down.”  Profit this year will be about $2.05 a share, the
Mooresville, North Carolina-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts’ estimated $2.10, on average.  Spending on store improvements and hiring also will weigh
on profitability in 2013, Chief Financial Officer  Robert Hull 
told analysts today on a conference call.  Fourth-quarter net income fell 11 percent to $288 million,
or 26 cents a share, from $322 million, or 26 cents, Lowe’s
said. Analysts  projected  23 cents, the average of 24 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  Sales at stores open at least a year increased 1.9 percent
as builders started single-family housing at the fastest rate in
four years and homeowners in the northeastern U.S. made repairs
after  Hurricane Sandy .  Disappointing Margins  “Sales were above expectation, helped by Sandy, but gross
margin was a bit of a disappointment,” Robin Diedrich, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres , Missouri, said today
by telephone. She recommends buying Lowe’s.  Diedrich had projected gross margin of 34.5 percent, higher
than the 34.3 percent it reported. Gross margin is the portion
of sales left after subtracting the cost of goods sold.  Lowe’s also said today it authorized a new $5 billion share
 buyback  program that it expects to use in the next two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  