-- Pension Swaps, Austria Banks, SEC, Madoff: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-25T13:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/pension-swaps-austria-banks-sec-madoff-compliance.html
The U.S. Labor Department said $6.8
trillion in pension funds can be invested in cleared swap
transactions as long as certain conditions are met.  The market for privately negotiated derivatives, with $639
trillion in notional value as of June, is being regulated for
the first time in its three-decade history, requiring most
trades to be backed by a clearinghouse where banks and brokers
act as intermediaries. The Labor Department already allows
pension funds to be invested in futures contracts under similar
guidelines, said Supurna VedBrat, co-head of market structure
and electronic trading at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The role of clearing was expanded by the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act based on the track record of clearinghouses during the
credit crisis. The idea took hold after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. failed in 2008 and LCH.Clearnet Ltd., the world’s largest
interest-rate swap clearinghouse, settled $9 trillion of the
derivatives held by the New York-based investment bank.  Pension investments are governed by the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act, or Erisa. It sets fiduciary standards that
plan managers must follow, among other requirements.  The Labor Department  said  on its website Feb. 7 that
default procedures and other clearinghouse rules don’t breach
Erisa fiduciary standards if they are spelled out in preliminary
clearing agreements. Margin payments don’t constitute plan
assets and clearing members don’t have a fiduciary duty while
closing out a pension-fund customer account that has defaulted,
the Labor Department also said.  The conclusion is important because it means an asset
manager such as BlackRock won’t have to tailor investment
strategies for funds that contain money governed by Erisa and
those that don’t, VedBrat said. It also allows access to the
added protection of clearing to pension investments, she said.  The market for swaps, in which investors trade payments for
as long as 30 years, is measured by notional value to calculate
money flows and doesn’t represent cash that has changed hands.  Compliance Policy  Austria to Allow Regulators Early Intervention in Failing Banks  Austria’s bank regulator will be authorized to order banks
to sell assets, raise capital or restructure liabilities when
they begin to run into trouble, according to a draft law
presented by the government.  The Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator, which oversees lenders
in the Alpine republic together with the central bank, will be
able to intervene before a bank actually falls below legally
mandated capital levels, according to the draft released by the
finance ministry Feb. 22. Lenders would have to draw up advance
plans, or living wills, for how to restructure and wind down
their business in a crisis. The law is scheduled to enter into
force next year if it passes parliament.  Austria, which lost its top debt rating at Standard &
Poor’s last year mostly because of its banking industry, has
19.8 billion euros ($27 billion) at risk after it nationalized
three lenders on the brink of collapse between 2008 and 2012.
The bank restructuring law, which preempts European Union rules
still under consideration in Brussels, was brought forward after
last year’s nationalization of  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)   Under the new law, a bank would have to specify measures
needed to restore its financial health if it hits predefined
triggers gauging its weakness. The measures to be prepared
include the quick sale of assets, capital raisings, and debt
restructurings.  U.S. Consumer Bureau Seeking Comments on Student-Debt Policies  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is seeking
public input on possible policies to ease repayment of  student
loans , the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  The CFPB is asking for input on how student loans might
affect the broader economy and impede access to other forms of
credit. It also wants to collect more information on how
struggling borrowers manage their loan repayments, options for
lowering monthly payments and examples of repayment plans in
other markets that might work for student loans.  In a July  report  to Congress, the CFPB and Education
Department said that “too many student loan borrowers are
struggling to pay off private student loans that they did not
understand and cannot afford.” Aggregate private student-loan
debt amounted to about $150 billion at the time, representing 15
percent of total education debt, the report said.  About 30 lenders issue private loans. Among the largest are
 SLM Corp. (SLM) , better known as  Sallie Mae ;  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ; and
 Discover Financial Services (DFS) , according to the Washington-based
Consumer Bankers Association.  Public comments are due by April 8.  China CSRC Finishes Revision of RQFII Rules, Securities Says  The  China Securities Regulatory Commission  will release
revised rules on its RQFII investment trial “soon,” the China
Securities Journal reported, citing the regulator.  RQFII refers to rules for Qualified Foreign Investors.  The regulator is also working on detailed regulations on
the RQFII program for Taiwanese investors, according to the
report.  The qualified foreign institutional investor, or RQFII,
program, allows the investing of offshore yuan in China.  Compliance Action  NYSE Considering Changes to Disaster Recovery Model After Sandy  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , owner of the largest U.S. equities exchange,
is considering ways to improve its plan for dealing with
disasters and said exchanges should consider mandatory testing
after Hurricane Sandy caused the longest weather shutdown since
1888.  The exchange industry should weigh whether regular testing
of connectivity and backup facilities should be mandatory,
according to comments NYSE Euronext e-mailed Feb. 22 in response
to questions from a U.S. Senate committee concerning
computerized trading venues.  Trading was halted for two days at the end of October when
concerns about human safety and how well the New York Stock
Exchange’s backup plan would work convinced executives that
moving ahead was too risky. The Securities and Exchange
Commission may consider whether exchanges’ emergency regimens
need to be bolstered, a person familiar with the regulator’s
thinking said in November. The person asked not to be named
because the matter is private.  FCC Should Study Ways to Improve Receiver Performance, GAO Says  The Federal Communications Commission should study ways to
improve performance by receivers, the GAO said in a report.  The  Government Accountability Office  cited increased demand
for radio spectrum in support of its conclusion.  Government policy has focused on transmitters, the GAO
noted. Receivers play a role when interference happens, the GAO
said in the report.  The  report  looks at ways to improve receiver performance.  LightSquared’s proposal for a nationwide wireless network
was stopped by the FCC amid concerns over interference to other
services.  RBS Said to Plan IPO for U.S. Citizens Financial Group Unit  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, will signal this week it plans to sell
a 15 percent to 25 percent stake in its Citizens Financial Group
Inc. unit, according to a person familiar with the plan.  No deal is imminent and the process will probably take
about two years to complete, the person, who asked not to be
named because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the
matter, said Feb. 23.  RBS (RBS)  will announce the move when it reports
full-year earnings on Feb. 28.  RBS, based in Edinburgh, has been under pressure from U.K.
Financial Investments Ltd., the steward of the government’s 81
percent stake in the bank, and lawmakers to sell the U.S.
consumer and commercial lender it acquired in 1988. Chief
Executive  Stephen Hester  said in August the bank would keep hold
of Rhode Island-based Citizens because it’s a “core” part of
the company that will be more valuable in three years.  The Telegraph newspaper, which reported the possible IPO
Feb. 23, said a full sale of Citizens could ultimately raise 8
billion pounds ($12.13 billion).  Canada’s Toronto-Dominion Bank held informal talks to buy
the unit, the New York Post reported on Aug. 3, without saying
where it got the information.  An RBS official declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  Hester has cut assets by more than 800 billion pounds,
eliminated 36,000 jobs and scaled back RBS’s securities and
Irish units since he took over from  Fred Goodwin  in 2008.  Kabel Deutschland Buy of Tele Columbus Vetoed by Cartel Office  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ’s plan to acquire Tele
Columbus Group was vetoed by Germany’s antitrust regulator,
which said the concessions offered weren’t enough.  The takeover would have strengthened the existing
nationwide oligopoly held by Kabel Deutschland, Germany’s
biggest cable company, and Unitymedia KabelBW GmbH, the Federal
Cartel Office in Bonn said in an e-mailed statement Feb. 22.
Even with the concessions Unterfoehring-based Kabel Deutschland
had offered, competition would have been gravely impaired, the
office said.  The company said in May it would buy Berlin-based Tele
Columbus for 603 million euros ($795 million) plus accrued
interest to reach more pay-television households. Creditors took
ownership of Tele Columbus after a debt restructuring.  Kabel Deutschland is itself the target of a potential bid
by Vodafone Group Plc.  Turkey Antitrust Board to Hear Bank Defenses Today, Tomorrow  Twelve Turkish banks are expected to present verbal
defenses in a probe into alleged collaboration in setting
interest rates on loans, Competition Board Chairman Nurettin
Kaldirimci said in televised comments in Ankara today.  Akbank (AKBNK) ,  Denizbank (DENIZ) ,  Finansbank (FINBN) , HSBC Turkey, ING Turkey,
 Turk Ekonomi Bank (TEBNK)  representatives speak today.  Garanti, Halkbank, Isbank, Vakifbank, Yapi Kredi and Ziraat
will speak tomorrow.  Parts of hearings will be open to press.  Courts  Trade-Worker Funds Can’t Recover Madoff Losses, Court Says  Building-trade worker benefit funds that invested in feeder
funds to Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC won’t be
able to recover money from the Ponzi schemer’s estate, a federal
appeals court ruled.  The pension, health-care and benefit funds for bricklayers,
construction workers, electrical workers and others don’t
qualify as “customers” of Madoff under the Securities Investor
Protection Act and are not eligible for recovery, the appeals
court in Manhattan said Feb. 22.  The funds invested in Spectrum Select LP and Spectrum
Select II LP, which in turn invested in hedge funds Rye Select
Broad Market Fund LP and Rye Select Broad Market Prime Fund LP,
according to the ruling. The Rye funds funneled capital to
Madoff’s firm, according to the ruling.  The worker funds, including the Bricklayers and Allied
Craftsman Local 2 Annuity Fund, the Central New York Laborers
Annuity Fund, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers Local Union NO. 43 and Electrical Contractors Pension
Fund, appealed from previous rulings by a bankruptcy court and
federal district court.  The case is In Re: Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 12-410, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  Interviews  SEC Enforcement Chief Sees Priority Shifting From Crisis Cases  George Canellos, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
acting enforcement chief, said his unit is at an “inflection
point” in redefining priorities previously focused on conduct
related to the 2008 credit crisis.  Investigators are now looking at the conduct of gatekeepers
such as accountants and board members, new and evolving market
technologies, and activity in the private equity industry in an
environment of low interest rates, Canellos said Feb. 22 during
a panel discussion at a securities law conference in Washington.  The SEC overhauled the enforcement division in 2010,
creating specialized units to focus on areas such as structured
products that helped fuel market turmoil in 2008 after the U.S.
housing market collapsed. An enforcement advisory committee has
been set up to evaluate new priorities, according to David
Bergers, the enforcement division’s acting deputy director.  The primary goal of the advisory panel is to make it easier
for SEC attorneys to investigate and litigate cases, Bergers
said, adding that the agency is more aggressively seeking to
enforce subpoenas when companies delay requests for documents.  The enforcement unit is working on a tool that can help
predict accounting fraud by mining information in public filings
and identifying outliers in discretionary accruals, he said.  Walter Discusses ‘Prudential’ Regulation, Crowdfunding at PLI  The Dodd-Frank Act aims to minimize systemic risk and
maximize safety, Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Elisse Walter said.  She made the remarks in prepared comments for a conference
in Washington Feb. 22 at the Practicing Law Institute’s SEC
Speaks Conference.  “Bank capital requirements are important, as is increased
prudential regulation of systemically important financial
institutions, but as we work to limit systemic risk, we don’t
want to discourage all risk-taking,” Walter said, according to
her prepared remarks.  “Soon, crowdfunding will bring the potential for a broader
range of investors to provide private capital, though their
investments will and should be limited,” Walter said, touching
on the trend for raising capital in small amounts known as
crowdfunding.  Krawcheck Says Banks Seeking ‘Right Thing’ for CEO Pay  Sallie Krawcheck, former head of  Bank of America Corp. ’s
wealth-management division, talked about compensation and job
cuts in the banking industry, and the importance of financial
advisers.  Executive pay has been an important topic in compliance
policy in the years following the financial crisis.  She spoke with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen and Alix Steel on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  Martin Feldstein , an
economics professor at Harvard University, also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Benmosche Discussed Bailout, AIG Plans Non-U.S. Life Sales  Robert Benmosche , chief executive officer of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , talked about the insurer’s global
business strategy, executive pay and U.S. corporate tax policy.  Benmosche also discussed the taxpayer bailout of AIG during
the financial crisis and his battle with cancer. He spoke with
Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 