-- Peugeot Sees China Turning Into Biggest Market as Europe Weakens
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/peugeot-sees-china-turning-into-biggest-market-as-europe-weakens.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  predicts  China 
will overtake  France  as its biggest market from as early as
2015, as  Europe ’s second-largest automaker increases the number
of dealerships and expands into smaller Chinese cities.  Peugeot expects to boost sales in China this year by 22
percent to 540,000 vehicles, excluding its upscale DS line,
according to Gregoire Olivier, chief executive officer of its
Asian operations. The Paris-based automaker plans to introduce
the revamped Citroen C-Elysee and Peugeot 301 sedan models this
year and is readying its flagship DS dealership in  Shanghai .  “This year we expect is going to be another good year,”
Olivier, who is based in Shanghai, said in a Feb. 22 interview.
“We’re on a very active development plan and very nice
growth.”  Gaining sales in China will help Peugeot reduce its
reliance on Europe, where the market is projected to decline for
a sixth consecutive year and it sells three in five vehicles.
The loss-making automaker will have to wrest customers from
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which lead among foreign
nameplates in China.  “The DS brand has no influence at all in the premium
segment so it’s going to be a tough challenge,” said  John Zeng ,
Shanghai-based managing director of auto researcher LMC
Automotive. “As for the Peugeot and Citroen brands, they still
have lots of work to do in terms of bringing the proper products
to China.”  Brand Awareness  To help increase its brand awareness among Chinese
consumers, Peugeot will step up advertising and marketing
activities to support its introduction of models such as the
Peugeot 3008 compact crossover, according to Olivier.  Peugeot outbid Volkswagen to become the top foreign spender
for prime-time advertising slots this year on state-owned  China
Central Television , according to Advertising Age. The French
automaker declined to say how much it spent on television
airtime with the broadcaster, the most widely watched in the
country of 1.3 billion people.  The company plans to increase the number of dealerships for
its Peugeot, Citroen and DS brands by 27 percent to 944 this
year. Its cheapest offering in China is the Citroen C2, which
starts from 71,800  yuan  ($11,500), according to its website.  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said earlier this
month that the automaker will upgrade cars from the Peugeot
division to differentiate them more from the company’s Citroen
models and target to raise the number of upscale vehicles it
sells. The company reported a 5.01 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)
 net loss  last year.  European Decline  Industrywide European auto sales fell 7.8 percent in 2012,
with Peugeot’s deliveries dropping 13 percent, according to the
Brussels-based  ACEA  trade group. Peugeot will work toward
delivering 50 percent of its vehicles outside Europe by 2015.
Its  home region  accounted for 62 percent of the French company’s
deliveries last year.  To achieve its China target, Peugeot will have to attract
more customers like Wang Dong Yi, who is considering buying the
Citroen C4L sedan for its design and value.  “I’ll get more features and accessories with the C4L than
a Volkswagen at a similar price,” said the 24-year-old
graduate, who is training to be a teacher and was visiting a
Citroen dealership off Nanjing West Road in central Shanghai.  The automaker will open its third factory in the central
Chinese city of Wuhan with joint venture partner  Dongfeng Motor
Group Co. (489)  in the second half of this year, boosting its total
annual capacity to 750,000 units, Olivier said.  The French automaker will produce cars for its DS line in
Shenzhen with Changan Automobile Group. The first locally
produced DS car will be the DS5 in October, with three more
models planned in the next two years, Olivier said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  