-- Peugeot Debt Cut to B+ at Fitch on European Auto Market
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-02-25T17:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/peugeot-debt-cut-to-b-at-fitch-on-european-auto-market.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s credit rating
was cut one step to four levels below investment grade by Fitch
Ratings, which said a contraction in Europe’s car market will
put the auto manufacturer’s plans to restore cash flow at risk.  Peugeot’s long-term debt was lowered to B+ from BB- with a
negative outlook, indicating the credit-rating company may
downgrade it again, Tom Chruszcz, an analyst at Fitch in Warsaw,
said today in a statement. Fitch also cut Italian carmaker  Fiat
SpA (F) ’s debt by one level to BB- from BB.  “We are concerned by the continuously adverse market
environment, notably in Europe,” the region that dominates
Peugeot’s sales, and its strategy to reverse losses and cash
consumption “may prove long and difficult,” Chruszcz said.
Fiat’s plan to take its cars upmarket “will take time and
carries significant execution risk,” he said in a separate
statement.  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-biggest, reported a 576 million-
euro ($761 million) operating loss for 2012 as a recession
caused industrywide sales in the region to shrink for a fifth
consecutive year. Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin vowed
on Feb. 13 to put Paris-based Peugeot on a break-even level by
end of 2014 through spending reductions and a new strategy that
includes moving its Peugeot brand upscale.  Regional Drop  Car-industry executives are forecasting another decline in
their European sales for 2013. Peugeot is predicting a drop of 3
percent to 5 percent in the auto market.  France ’s government provided guarantees last year for as
much as 7 billion euros of new bond sales by the Banque PSA
Finance unit. Peugeot is striving to maintain the division’s
investment grade at Moody’s Investors Service, with measures
that include refinancing the division’s debt.  Peugeot was “prepared” for a downgrade, Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a spokesman for the carmaker, said today by phone,
reiterating a statement from mid-February, when Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services cut Peugeot’s debt by one level and
downgraded debt at its banking unit to junk.  “This doesn’t impact the financing conditions of the bank,
because its financing is secured over the next three years,”
Salmon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  