-- PGA Tour Opposes Proposed Ban From USGA, R&A on Anchored Putters
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/pga-tour-opposes-proposed-ban-from-usga-r-a-on-anchored-putters.html
The U.S.  PGA Tour  said it opposes
the proposed ban on anchored strokes by golf’s rule makers,
yielding the possibility that events on the world’s richest
circuit could eventually have different rules for putting than
major championships such as the U.S. and British Opens.  The U.S. Golf Association and the Royal & Ancient Golf
Club, targeting changes in putting, said Nov. 28 that they’d
consider input from others in the sport before deciding in April
or May whether to prevent golfers from making strokes with a
club anchored to their bodies.  PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said yesterday that the
tour’s Player Advisory Council researched the issue and informed
the USGA and R&A that a ban wouldn’t be in the best interest of
golf or the PGA Tour.  “The essential thread that went through the thinking of
the players and our board of directors and others that looked at
this was the absence of data or any basis to conclude that there
is a competitive advantage to be gained by using anchoring,”
Finchem said at a  news conference . “Given the amount of time
that anchoring has been in the game, there was no overriding
reason to go down that road.”  A stroke in which the putter’s butt-end is rested against a
player’s body to create a pendulum-like swing has been used by
the winners of three of golf’s past five major tournaments.  While the clubs -- including long-handled and so-called
belly putters -- wouldn’t be banned, their intended method of
use would be under the rule proposed to take effect in 2016.  Rules Partners  Finchem said that the PGA Tour has worked with the USGA on
a range of issues over the past 20 years and the debate about
anchored putting strokes won’t cause a rift between the
organizations.  “We hold the USGA in the highest regard as a key part of
the game of golf,” Finchem said. “We don’t attempt to
denigrate that position in any way whatsoever. It’s just on this
issue we think if they were to move forward, they would be
making a mistake.”  Finchem said he hasn’t spent much time “worrying” about
whether PGA Tour events could have different rules than the  U.S.
Open , which is run by the USGA, or the British Open, which is
organized by the R&A. The U.S. Open is the second of golf’s four
annual majors, preceded by the  Masters Tournament  and followed
by the British Open and PGA Championship.  “Our regulations provide that we will follow the rules as
promulgated by the USGA,” he said. “However, we retain the
right not to in certain instances if we see fit.”  USGA Statement  The USGA said yesterday in a  statement  that it will
continue to listen to varying points of view during its 90-day
comment period set to conclude this week. The organization said
its position remains to “clarify and preserve the traditional
and essential nature of the golf stroke.”  Belly anchored putters have been around for two decades,
although their use had been mostly limited to players on the 50-
and-over senior tours. Their popularity has increased among
junior golfers and PGA Tour players in recent years. In 2012, 15
percent of professional golfers used anchored putters, up from 6
percent from 2006 through 2010, the USGA and R&A said.  “An awful lot of amateurs today use anchoring and a number
of players on the PGA Tour who have grown up with a focus on
perfecting the anchoring method did so after the USGA on
multiple occasions approved the method years ago,” Finchem
said. “For us to join in supporting a ban we think as a
direction is unfair to both groups of individuals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  