-- Philadelphia Eagles Cut Tackles Cullen Jenkins, Mike Patterson
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-25T21:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/philadelphia-eagles-cut-tackle-cullen-jenkins-after-two-seasons.html
The  Philadelphia Eagles  cut
defensive tackles  Cullen Jenkins  and Mike Patterson as they
continue to rebuild following a 4-12 campaign.  The moves were announced separately on the  National
Football League  team’s website, with the release of 32-year-old
Jenkins reported first.  Jenkins “has been a very productive player in this league
for a long time, but we felt in our team’s best interests that
we go in a different direction,” Howie Roseman, the Eagles’
general manager, said in a statement.  Jenkins was scheduled to make $5.5 million this season,
according to ESPN.com. The nine-year NFL player started all 32
games in his two seasons in Philadelphia, recording 9 1/2 sacks
and 56 tackles.  Patterson, 29, had been the longest-tenured player on the
team after being drafted in the first round out of the
 University of Southern California  in 2005. He started 106 of 122
games, including playoffs, missing the first seven last season
after a seizure during training camp that was revealed to be a
rare brain condition.  “Mike Patterson is one of the toughest players I have ever
been around in the National Football League,” Roseman said.
“He has overcome many obstacles throughout his career and I
have the upmost respect for him because of it.”  Patterson leaves Philadelphia with 338 tackles and 16.5
sacks.  “I want to thank the fans for all of their support over
eight years in Philadelphia,” Patterson said in a statement
released by the Eagles. “It is never easy to say goodbye to a
fan base that supported me no matter what.”  Cornerback Nnamdi Asomugha, who like Jenkins joined the
Eagles in 2011, has been asked to restructure his contract, ESPN
said, citing people in the league it didn’t identify. Asomugha
is scheduled to make $15 million next season, including $4
million guaranteed, according to ESPN.  The Eagles, who fired  Andy Reid  as coach after 14 seasons,
also have restructured quarterback  Michael Vick ’s contract.
Philadelphia holds the fourth pick in the 2013 draft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  