-- Pimco Joins Invesco Finding Value in TIPS With Low CPI
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-02-25T13:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/pimco-joins-invesco-finding-value-in-tips-even-with-dormant-cpi.html
At a time when the  bond market 
expects inflation to stay at about the past decade’s average,
the biggest buyers of government debt say they need protection
from rising consumer prices as central banks focus on growth.  Pacific Investment Management Co. and Invesco Ltd. say
growing central-bank tolerance of inflation means securities
with interest or principal tied to consumer prices are the ones
to own. Global expectations indicated by the gap between yields
on so-called linkers and government bonds reached a 21-month
high of 1.70 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show. Economists in Bloomberg surveys forecast consumer-price
gains of 2.72 percent in 2013, in line with the 10-year average.  After four years of stimulating economies, central bankers
are starting to see signs of accelerating growth, spurring some
bond investors to prepare for a rise in yields from record lows.
Index-linked securities are favored because sovereign-debt
returns are being erased by what little inflation there is.  “There’s an element of central banks, whether they say it
or not, being more relaxed about allowing inflation to rise,”
Paul Mueller, a London-based  fund manager  at Invesco Asset
Management, a unit of  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , which manages $713 billion,
said in a telephone interview Feb. 19. “While I don’t think we
are going to see inflation escaping to very high levels, it does
make sense to have protection.”  Global Stimulus  Policy makers from the  Federal Reserve  to the  Bank of
England  to the  Bank of Japan (8301)  pumped more than $3.5 trillion into
economies to stimulate growth during the five years following
the start of the deepest global slump since World War II. Global
gross domestic product will expand almost 2.4 percent this year,
from 2.2 percent in 2012, a Bloomberg composite of economist
estimates shows, increasing speculation that inflation will also
start rising.  Investors seeking insurance against future price rises have
helped inflation-protected issues in developed markets
outperform regular securities by 0.25 percentage points this
year through Feb. 20, according to Pimco indexes. Linkers have
beaten non-indexed bonds in the U.K.,  Japan , Germany,  Italy ,
 Sweden , Australia and  New Zealand .  Securities with maturities of 10 years or more across the
G-10, except Japan, are losing out to shorter-dated debt as
investors demand more compensation for the risk of inflation,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Bond Yields  U.S. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, have
lost 1.32 percent this year as Treasuries declined 1.3 percent,
according to the Barclays U.S. Inflation-Linked Bond index and
the Barclays U.S. Government Comparator Bond Index, which is
adjusted to reflect the longer duration of TIPS. They returned
7.26 percent in 2012, compared with 3.3 percent for the
duration-adjusted government bond index.  Yields on U.S. 10-year notes dropped last week by four
basis points to 1.96 percent amid speculation the Fed’s asset
purchases may support bond prices, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The benchmark 2 percent note due in February 2023
rose 11/32 or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 10/32. The
yield on 10-year TIPS due January 2023 dropped on the week to
negative 0.57 percent.  Ten-year notes yielded 1.98 percent and the TIPS rate was
negative 0.56 percent as of 08:10 a.m.  New York  time.  BlackRock Picks  “One should be looking to own inflation-linked bonds
rather than nominal bonds and that argument is more compelling
the further out the curve you go,” Martin Hegarty, the co-head
of BlackRock Inc.’s inflation-linked bond funds, which holds
more than $28 billion of assets, said in a telephone interview
Feb. 20.  Hegarty, whose company oversees $3.8 trillion as the
world’s largest money manager, favors inflation-linked debt with
three- to seven-year maturities in Germany, Italy and the U.K.
He is also buying TIPS with maturities of one to two years, even
though BlackRock doesn’t anticipate any immediate jump in
consumer prices unless there is a surge in energy costs.  The global break-even rate, a measure of inflation
expectations, is at 1.64 percentage points, compared with a 10-
year average of 1.2 percentage points and a peak of 2.14
percentage points in July 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show.  The  break-even rate  in the U.S. was as high as 2.61
percentage points this month, from 2.24 percentage points Sept.
4. It rose to 2.73 percent on Sept. 17, four days after the Fed
announced an open-ended bond buying plan to keep pumping funds
into the financial system, the highest since May 2006. The
central bank announced the additional Treasury purchase program
of $45 billion per month on Dec. 12.  ‘Good Time’  “It’s a good time to seek inflation protection,” Craig Veysey, the head of fixed income at Sanlam Private Investments
Ltd. in  London , part of the Sanlam Group which oversees $72
billion of assets, said by phone Feb. 12. “Central banks, which
for years have been trying to keep inflation at a relatively low
level, now understand they need to do much more. I’m not saying
inflation is likely to rise sharply. The market has not
sufficiently priced in the risk.”  U.S. consumer prices rose 1.6 percent in January from a
year earlier, the Labor Department reported Feb. 21. Inflation
averaged 2.5 percent over the past decade.  The Treasury sold $9 billion of 30-year TIPS Feb. 21.
Indirect bidders, a gauge of demand from overseas buyers, bought
54.5 percent of the issue, the second-biggest share on record
going back to 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Under Pressure  With economies still failing to shrink debt and grapple
with above-average unemployment, growth and inflation are likely
to stay subdued, according to Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. The  U.S. economy  contracted in
the fourth quarter while Japan and the 17-nation euro area
extended recessions.  “Break-even rates may come under pressure again if risk
appetite falters,” Anton Heese, the global head of inflation
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London said by phone on Feb. 13.
“My impression is that a lot of investors lack conviction on
the recovery we are seeing at present. The output gap in the
economy is still substantial. Therefore, there is potential for
growth to pick up with inflation remaining subdued.”  Target Rate  The Fed cut its benchmark overnight bank lending rate from
5.25 percent in September 2007 to a record low of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008. It began buying $1.7 trillion in
mortgages, Treasuries and agency debt to encourage new bank
lending in 2008, followed by a $600 billion second round of
Treasury purchases in November 2010. Operation Twist in
September 2011 replaced $667 billion in short-term bonds with
longer-maturity issues.  The central bank is now buying $85 billion of mortgages and
Treasuries each month to underpin the economy and reduce the 7.9
percent  unemployment  rate. Its  balance sheet  topped $3 trillion
for the first time last month.  Policy makers said in December they would hold  interest
rates  at about zero so long as projected inflation stays at 2.5
percent or less and unemployment remains above 6.5 percent. The
jobless rate was 7.9 percent in January, government data show.  Investors should buy TIPS because the Fed’s policies will
eventually fuel inflation, according to  Bill Gross , co-chief
investment officer at Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund. “We’re not inflationary hawks in 2013. We simply think
because central banks are writing trillions of dollars worth of
checks, ultimately that will produce the desired inflation they
are targeting,” he said in a telephone interview Feb. 22.  International Linkers  Gross said he owns 10-year and 15-year TIPS that reflect
inflation expectations for 2020 and 2025, as well as New Zealand
and Mexican linkers. He sees U.S. inflation at 2 percent this
year and 2.5 percent for the three years after that.  While the Bank of England’s 2 percent inflation target was
 breached  for the 38th consecutive month in January, Governor
 Mervyn King  said Feb. 13 that central bank officials will keep
encouraging growth. The latest minutes of its policy meeting,
published Feb. 20, said further asset purchases “could help the
process of rebalancing the economy.”  The BOE said in July that the 200 billion pounds ($305
billion) spent on  bond purchases  from March 2009 to January 2010
increased output by as much as 2 percent and inflation by 1.5
percentage point.  ‘Kitchen Sink’  In Japan, the central bank raised its inflation target to 2
percent in January from 1 percent. New Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
campaigned on promises of more  monetary stimulus  and weakening
the yen, which has dropped 17 percent against the dollar since
Oct. 1, its worst performance over a similar period since 1985.  “Central banks have made it even clearer they are not
prepared to tolerate anything less than inflation,” Neil Williams, chief economist at Hermes Fund Managers, which
oversees $42 billion of assets, said in an interview Feb. 14.
“That means they will throw a kitchen sink at it in terms of
liquidity injections.”  The value of global equities surged $6.5 trillion since
mid-November, with the  Standard & Poor’s  500  index  reaching a
five-year high. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 12 percent since
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged July 26 to
do “whatever it takes” to safeguard the monetary union.  Several policy makers said the Fed should be ready to vary
the pace of monthly bond purchases, according to the minutes of
the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Jan. 29-30 meeting. They
review the program March 19-20.  “The Fed is more tolerant of higher inflation outcomes in
order to work on the other side of their mandate” to cut
unemployment, Michael Pond, head of global inflation-linked
research in New York at primary dealer Barclays Plc, said by
phone on Feb. 21. “Inflation-linked securities offer very cheap
insurance because if the Fed is going to get it wrong, they are
going to get it wrong on the side of leaving accommodation
longer rather than risking removing it too early.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  