-- Pistorius May Ask to Ease Bail Conditions, Lawyer Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-02-25T15:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/pistorius-may-ask-to-ease-bail-conditions-lawyer-says.html
Oscar Pistorius , the double-amputee
track star charged with the murder of his girlfriend, is
considering asking a South African court to ease his bail
conditions, his lawyer Kenny Oldwage said.  The athlete, known as the “ Blade Runner ” because of his
prosthetic running blades, reported to a police station in
Pretoria for the first time today after being released from
custody on Feb. 22, eNCA TV said. While Pistorius, 26, will
resume training, he won’t take part in competitions, coach Ampie
Louw told reporters last week.  “He just really wants to get on with his life,” Oldwage
said by phone today.  Magistrate Desmond Nair granted Pistorius 1 million rand
($113,000) bail last week before his trial for the shooting
death of model Reeva Steenkamp, 29, at his home in  Pretoria  on
Feb. 14, Valentine’s Day. The athlete, who says he thought she
was a burglar, doesn’t pose a flight risk and isn’t predisposed
to violence, according to Nair. Pistorius must hand in his
passports and guns and can’t drink alcohol or return to his
Pretoria home, Nair said.  While lawyers agreed that he would report to police twice a
week, Nair didn’t include that in his order, eNCA reported,
citing Medupe Simasiku, a spokesman for the National Prosecuting
Authority.  Corporate Sponsorships  Companies including  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the largest sporting-goods
company,  Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) ’s Oakley and Clarins SA’s Thierry
Mugler perfume brand have suspended or dropped sponsorships of
Pistorius, who has won six Paralympic gold medals and became the
first amputee runner to compete at an  Olympic Games  in London
last year.  Police Commissioner Riah Phiyega appointed the head of
detectives in South Africa, Lieutenant-General Vinesh Moonoo, to
the case, after the former lead investigator was charged with
seven counts of attempted murder for a separate incident.  Hilton Botha made a series of errors in the initial
investigation, Nair said in his two-hour bail ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  