-- Pneumonia, Heart Failure Among Most-Missed Diagnoses
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-02-25T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/pneumonia-heart-failure-among-most-missed-diagnoses.html
The most-frequent diagnostic errors
are for common conditions seen by primary care doctors,
including ailments such as pneumonia and heart failure that can
lead to severe harm if not treated appropriately, a study found.  The misdiagnoses occurred most often during the doctor’s
examination, including trouble getting a complete history from
the patient, performing the physical exam and ordering tests,
according to research published today in  JAMA Internal Medicine .
Other common misdiagnoses were for  kidney failure , urinary tract
infection and cancer.  The findings show that doctors miss or wrongly diagnose a
wide range of conditions that can be harmful to patients’
health, said lead study author  Hardeep Singh . To reduce the
number of misdiagnoses, more needs to be done by doctors and
hospitals to engage the patient in their own health care and to
improve their access to physicians, he said.  “If we do it together with patients, providers and health
care systems, we will have a much deeper impact of understanding
and improving this problem,” Singh, chief of health policy and
quality program at the Health Services Research and Development
Center at the Michael E. DeBakey  Veterans Affairs  Medical Center
in Houston, said in a telephone interview today.  Researchers looked at the medical records of patients at a
large urban Veterans Affairs facility and a private health care
system to determine how often patients returned to doctors after
a primary care visit.  190 Errors  The researchers focused on 190 errors in primary care
visits between October 2006 and September 2007 that involved 68
unique conditions.  The most common were pneumonia at 6.7 percent, heart
failure, 5.7 percent, kidney failure, 5.3 percent, cancer, 5.3
percent and urinary tract infections, 4.8 percent. Difficulty
with diagnosing occurred not only during the initial patient
exam, but with the patients themselves, failure of doctors to
follow up and track tests and referrals.  “Given the range of conditions associated with diagnostic
errors in this setting, disease-specific efforts to reduce these
types of diagnostic errors are unlikely to be sufficient,” the
authors wrote. “Thus, preventive interventions must focus on
common contributory factors, particularly those that influence
the effectiveness of data gathering and synthesis in the
patient-practitioner encounter.”  Better follow up may help reduce errors, Singh said. One
idea for doctors who aren’t certain of a patient’s condition
would be to tell the person it may be one ailment but call back
in a day or two if symptoms don’t improve or worsen because it
could be something else, he said. This increases the chance that
patients may actually call the doctor if they aren’t feeling any
better, he said.  Another suggestion is to have a team-based approach in
which a doctor, administrator and nurse work together to care
for a patient so everyone is involved in the treatment, he said.
That model is used at hospitals operated by Veterans Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  