-- Policing Bank Risk Becomes Turf Scuffle in Sweden
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-25T07:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/policing-bank-risk-becomes-turf-scuffle-in-sweden.html
As Sweden’s households continue to
add to their record debt burdens, the central bank and the
financial regulator are marking out their territories.  The Riksbank, the world’s oldest central bank, argues it’s
time to broaden its powers to monitor system-wide bank risks.
The nation’s financial watchdog says it’s already doing that.  Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves , who is also the chairman
of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, has repeatedly
warned that household credit growth is too fast. Yet the bank,
which targets price stability, says its policy interest rate is
too blunt a tool to steer such risks. Ingves’s deputy,Kerstin af Jochnick, said last month the solution is the creation of a
“functioning framework for macro-prudential policy.” No need,
says the regulator.  “Macro-prudential policy is often presented as a future
question, but it’s not a new field for the future,” Martin Andersson, head of the Financial Supervisory Authority, said in
an interview in Stockholm. “It’s a very central part of our
supervision.”  Similar feuds are playing out across  Europe  as central
bankers try to stem asset bubbles they say they lack the tools
to tackle. At the same time, regulators from Europe to the U.S.
are defending their roles amid criticism they failed to identify
many of the symptoms that led to the crisis. Yet merging bank
oversight with monetary policy may create new risks, according
 Roger Josefsson , chief economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Stockholm.  ‘Undemocratic’  “The Riksbank has a really important policy area,
stabilization policy, to stabilize economic cycles and the
inflation target,” Josefsson said by phone. “That’s a
sufficiently large area for an undemocratic institution.”  Josefsson argues that macro-prudential policy should come
under an elected legislature. “Leave it to the FSA, which
answers to the government,” he said.  Still, central banks are succeeding in extending their
reach. In  Germany , the Bundesbank says it will assume the lead
role in the country’s Financial Stability Board. The creation of
a single European bank supervisor inside the European Central
Bank has also fueled debate in the region.  Sweden ’s government
has been a particularly outspoken critic.  Sweden, a AAA rated nation with a government debt load
that’s less than half the average in the euro area, has managed
to steer clear of the region’s fiscal turmoil. Policy makers are
now trying to ensure low interest rates born of the global
crisis don’t fuel an asset bubble in their backyard. It’s a
dilemma that’s also playing out in other rich nations.  Rich Countries  Switzerland this year ordered its banks to hold 1 percent
additional capital against risks posed by the biggest property
boom in two decades. Norway in December proposed tripling the
risk weights banks apply to mortgage assets to 35 percent and is
moving toward a cyclical buffer framework with the central bank
as an adviser.  Sweden’s FSA in 2010 introduced a cap on mortgage lending
that limits loans to 85 percent of a property’s value. The
regulator last year proposed tripling risk weights on mortgage
assets to 15 percent. Sweden’s biggest banks, including  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , will need to set aside 12 percent core Tier 1 capital
by 2015. Basel III rules set a 7 percent minimum by 2019.  Andersson in the Feb. 13 interview said he’s ready to do
more should the caps introduced to date prove inadequate.  Debt Growth  “Several of the measures we’ve introduced in the past few
years have been the use of what today is often called macro-
tools,” Andersson said.  While those steps slowed the pace of household borrowing,
indebtedness in the largest Nordic economy has continued to
swell, reaching 173 percent of disposable incomes last year, the
central bank estimates. That compares with a peak of 135 percent
during Sweden’s 1990s banking crisis.  Though the real estate market has cooled in the past two
years, property prices have soared about 25 percent since 2006.
Apartment prices jumped an annual 12 percent in the three months
through January, according to data from Maeklarstatistik.  “In the absence of a clear framework for macro-prudential
policy, we have discussed the risks linked to the high level of
household debt in Sweden at our monetary policy meetings,” af
Jochnick said. “This is because we have wanted to avoid the
consequences that many other countries have experienced as a
result of high indebtedness and falls in house prices.”  Af Jochnick argues Sweden should either hand responsibility
for macro-prudential policy to the central bank, or allow the
central bank to have a supervisory role over a number of
institutions. Such a system, based on the German model, would
give the Riksbank a veto right over any decisions made, or the
power to select a chairman.  ‘Unfortunate’ Step  Andersson at the FSA disagrees and in a subsequent  speech 
responded that micro and macro policies can’t be separated and
need to be addressed from within the same entity.  “What we need for the future is to strengthen and develop
the way we cooperate around macro-prudential risks, but it would
be unfortunate if many authorities and other parties should
apply these tools from different perspectives,” he said. “In
the end, it’s about regulating individual companies, and there
we already have a system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  