-- Polypore’s Celgard Files Suit Against Sumitomo Over Batteries
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   S t e v e n   F r o m m
-- 2013-02-25T15:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/polypore-s-celgard-files-suit-against-sumitomo-over-batteries.html
Polypore International Inc. (PPO) ’s
Celgard unit filed a patent-infringement suit against  Sumitomo
Chemical Co. (4005)  over lithium-ion battery technology used in
electronics and electric vehicles.  The complaint, filed Feb. 22 in federal court in Charlotte,
North Carolina, claims Sumitomo is infringing a patent issued in
2002 for a separator in high-energy rechargeable batteries. The
separators prevent short circuits that can reduce efficiency and
limit safety problems from overheating.  Sumitomo Chemical makes the chemicals and materials for
lithium ion batteries that use Celgard’s invention without
permission, according to the complaint. The separators are used
in batteries made by  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  for  laptop computers ,
Celgard said in the suit.  “Celgard has a long history of innovation in lithium-ion
battery separators and is a world leader in this technology,”
Polypore Chief Executive Officer Robert Toth said in a
statement. “We have a responsibility to our customers,
partners, and shareholders to safeguard the investments we make
in innovation.”  Tokyo-based Sumitomo Chemical has filed a trademark
application to use the name “Pervio” for its separators,
according to the complaint.  Polypore is seeking a court ruling that prevents the future
use of the invention, plus cash compensation.  Polypore, based in Charlotte, also makes Duralife
automotive batteries, and separators for health-care products
like hemodialysis machines and beverage filtration machines.
Weakness in the end market for electronic devices and electric
vehicles were blamed for a 4 percent drop in fourth-quarter
sales to $180.2 million, Polypore said Feb. 20.  The case is Celgard LLC v. Sumitomo Chemical Co., 13cv122,
U.S. District Court for the Western District of  North Carolina 
(Charlotte)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Fromm at 
 sfromm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  