-- Pound Slides to Lowest Since 2010 After Downgrade; Gilts Gain
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-02-25T17:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/pound-drops-to-16-month-low-versus-euro-after-moody-s-downgrade.html
The pound fell to its lowest level
since July 2010 against the dollar after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the U.K.’s AAA credit rating, sapping demand for the
nation’s currency.  Sterling dropped to the weakest in almost 16 months against
the euro as Moody’s said its decision was based on weakness in
the nation’s growth outlook and challenges to the government’s
plan to cut the deficit. U.K. government bonds gained after an
aide of Democratic Party candidate Pier Luigi Bersani said
there’s increasing risk another Italian election will be needed,
spurring demand for safer assets.  “Although the timing of the downgrade was a surprise,
overall the market has been anticipating a ratings change,”
said Ian Stannard, head of European foreign-exchange strategy at
Morgan Stanley in  London . “In recent weeks we have seen
sterling’s safe-haven status erode. After the initial knee-jerk
reaction there is the potential for a rebound.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5119 as of 5:20 p.m.
London time after declining to $1.5073, the lowest level since
July 13, 2010. The U.K. currency dropped 0.2 percent to 87.16
pence per euro after depreciating as much as 1.3 percent to
88.15 pence, the weakest since Oct. 28, 2011.  The U.K. currency has weakened 5.8 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. Only the yen has fallen more,
losing 5.9 percent. The pound has slumped 7 percent in 2013
against the dollar and 6.9 percent against the euro.  Volatility Rises  Three-month implied volatility on the pound versus the euro
climbed as high ad 9.56 percent, the most since May 18. A
similar gauge for sterling versus the dollar increased to 9.23
percent, the highest since June 19.  U.K. 10-year gilts reversed an earlier decline as partial
results of the  Italy ’s election suggest former Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi may have built a blocking minority in the
Senate to deny outright victory to Bersani.  The 10-year gilt yield dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.08 percent after climbing as much as six
basis points. The 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 rose
0.24, or 2.40 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 97.155.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said markets
hadn’t been much affected by Moody’s decision.  “We have not seen excessive volatility in the market
today,” Osborne told lawmakers in Parliament in London. “The
government’s policy is tested day in and day out in the markets
and it has not been found wanting today.”  Opposite Direction  Investors often ignore credit-rating changes as shown by
the drop in French 10-year bond yields following a downgrade
last year and a rally in Treasuries after the U.S. lost its AAA
rating at Standard and Poor’s in 2011.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.  “With so many other advanced economies having already been
downgraded by at least one ratings agency, we do not expect a
major market fallout from the decision,” Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. economists Kevin Daly and Sebastian Graves wrote in a note
published Feb. 23. “The experience of the U.S. also suggests
that any impact will be reasonably short-lived.”  U.K. government bonds lost 2.1 percent this year through
Feb. 22, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German debt
dropped 1.2 percent and Treasuries declined 0.7 percent.  While the U.K. faces further downgrades, such an outcome
would be unlikely to cause investors to sell gilts, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “I wouldn’t be at all surprised if we get a second
downgrade and if it comes reasonably soon,” Michael Amey, a
money manager at Pimco in London, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua . “I’d be surprised if
there’s a lot of forced selling on a further move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  