-- Pragma Expects CVCI, BC Capital, Argus Exits in Turkey in 2013
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-02-25T10:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/pragma-expects-cvci-bc-capital-argus-exits-in-turkey-in-2013.html
Private equity firms may choose this
year to exit their investments in  Turkey ’s grocer  Migros Ticaret
AS (MGROS) , clothing retailer  Boyner Buyuk Magazacilik AS (BOYNR)  and Memorial
hospital group, said Kerim Kotan, managing director of
investment adviser  Pragma Corporate Finance  in Istanbul.  Kotan cited “the M&A market conditions along with
potential investor interest” as reasons for the expected exits.
Last year, Pragma completed 8 deals that it says were valued at
about $650 million including selling 30 percent of Turkish
hosiery maker  Penti Corap Sanayi & Ticaret AS  to The  Carlyle
Group .  Citi Venture Capital International , or CVCI, a buyout fund
owned by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , bought 30 percent of Boyner Buyuk for
$48 million as well as half of Beymen Magazacilik AS, a unit of
Boyner Buyuk, for $143 million in 2007 through Fennella Sarl.
CVCI’s partner Boyner Holding AS is a likely buyer, Haberturk
reported Feb. 22. CVCI may also decide to sell Istanbul-based
generic drugmaker  Biofarma Ilac Sanayi & Ticaret AS  this year,
said Kotan.  “I expect Turkey’s healthcare, branded food, restaurant
operations, media and entertainment as well as finance
industries to see increased level of M&A activity this year,”
Kotan said. “An increase in the middle-income group’s
disposable income and net wealth directly benefit these
industries.”  Canceled Auction  The government canceled the sale of operational rights of
Turkey’s toll roads and two Bosporus bridges on Friday, citing
lower than expected prices submitted during their auction. A
group including Koc Holding AS, Turkey’s biggest group of
companies, Istanbul-based private equity firm  Gozde Girisim
Sermayesi Yatirim Ortakligi AS (GOZDE) , and  Malaysia ’s UEM Group Bhd bid
$5.7 billion in Ankara on Dec. 17. The government may have an
initial public offering of shares instead of a sale, Milliyet
reported, citing Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  on Sunday.  Kotan said he expected “M&A deal volume this year to be
around $24 billion, lower than the 2012 levels, which was about
$30 billion, after the cancellation of the highways
privatization deal.”  Turkey’s economy, which expanded 2.5 percent last year,
according to Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan, is  forecast  to
grow 4 percent this year to $858 billion. Turkish mergers and
acquisitions will probably amount to 3 percent of gross domestic
product this year, compared with 3.5 percent in 2012, with the
slowing deals sustained by privatizations,  Deloitte & Touche LLP 
said Jan. 3.  Finance Deficits  At a minimum, M&A transactions will reach $15 billion as
the government is expected to sell state assets to help finance
budget and current account deficits, said Mehmet Sami,
Deloitte’s partner for financial services in Turkey.  Celikler Taahhut Insaat & Sanayi AS, an Ankara-based
builder and miner, bid $2.25 billion to buy the 600-megawatt
Seyitomer power plant and operate the  coal mine  that feeds it in
a government auction on Dec 28. A group consisting of local
builders Cengiz Insaat, Kolin Insaat, Limak Insaat won an
auction to operate the electricity grid on Istanbul’s European
side for $1.96 billion Dec. 14.  Providence Equity Partners Inc., a Rhode Island-based
buyout firm that holds 46 percent at Digiturk, Turkey’s biggest
digital TV platform, may also sell the stake, Kotan said.  Possible Sales  Medical Park Saglik Hizmetleri AS , partly owned by  Carlyle
Group LP (CG) , is also up for sale, he said. TPG Capital and CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. are competing to acquire as much as 70
percent of the Turkish hospital chain, people with knowledge of
the matter said Nov. 21.  In 2010, Argus Capital Ltd., a European buyout fund, and
Qatar First Investment Bank purchased 40 percent of hospital
chain Memorial Health Group.  An attempt by CVCI to sell Biofarma failed in 2011, when
the owners, which also include Partners in Life Sciences and the
Greek private-equity firm Global Finance, hired JPMorgan Chase &
Co. to manage the sale at a value of as much as $700 million for
the entire company, people familiar with the sale then said.  BC Partners Ltd. leads a group of buyout firms that formed
MH Perakendecilik & Ticaret AS, which bought the entire Migros
stake from  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL)  and smaller shareholders for $3.25
billion in 2008 in the biggest private equity deal in the
country’s history. The firm cut its stake to 80 percent after a
secondary share sale at Migros in 2011.  Deal Sizes  Average deal sizes in Turkish mergers and acquisitions
won’t probably change in the next two to three years from the
2012 average of as much as $110 million, Kotan said.  “In the next 3 years, the transaction size in most of the
M&A deals will continue to be below $250 million in Turkey,
which will continue to be a mid-cap market,” Kotan said.  Turkish investors are increasing their share in the total
M&A volume with almost half of the deals auctioned last year won
by locals, Kotan said. “If you exclude privatizations, foreign
investors had as much as 80 percent of share in the volume.”  Completed deals, which last year fell to $7 billion, or 30
percent of their pre-financial crisis average in Turkey, may
struggle to overcome an increase in prices, according to
Istanbul-based buyout firms  Unlu & Co . and Turkven Private
Equity. The enterprise value of listed Turkish companies is 9.4
times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, more than double  Russia  and  Poland , according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (MXEF) 
multiple is 7.4.  Higher Multiples  “It’s only natural to have higher multiples in Turkish
assets than those in Western countries as investors want to
benefit from higher growth in the country, and they are paying
exactly for this in terms of higher multiples,” Kotan said.  At 9.4, Turkey’s ratio of enterprise value to Ebitda
compares with a multiple of 4.1 for Russia and 4.4 for Poland.
Stocks in the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are valued at 9.4
and 8.3 for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   CarrefourSa (CARFA) , a supermarket joint venture between  Carrefour
SA (CA)  and  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) ; and  Yapi Kredi Sigorta AS (YKSGR) ,
a non-life insurer that also has a life unit both owned by  Yapi
Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) , are among other assets that may be sold this
year, Kotan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  