-- Princeton Poet Paul Muldoon Grabs Guitar for Joe’s Pub
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-02-25T16:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/princeton-poet-paul-muldoon-grabs-guitar-for-joe-s-pub.html
When he isn’t writing verse or
teaching at  Princeton University , Irish poet Paul Muldoon taps
into his inner Dylan and jams with the New Jersey rock group
 Wayside Shrines .  Muldoon, whose poetry collection “Moy Sand and Gravel”
won the  2003 Pulitzer Prize , writes song lyrics and plays guitar
for the group. He’s modest about his avocation.  “I certainly don’t present myself as a musician. That
would be inappropriate,” Muldoon, 61, said by phone with a
gentle brogue. “I’m not really a guitar player. I tell people
that I’m working my way up to the third chord.”  Muldoon makes his foray into songwriting with the
publication this month of his new collection, “The Word on the
Street: Rock Lyrics” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux).  He writes lyrics for the Shrines, who are led by singer and
guitarist Chris Harford, a 1980s-era alternative rocker. The
rest of the band’s lineup includes: vocalist and guitarist Ila
Couch; violinist Tim Chaston; drummer Ray Kubian; keyboardist
and Princeton musicology professor Noriko Manabe; Kate Neal on
accordion; and Nigel Smith, a Princeton English professor, on
bass and mandolin.  Rock producer Paul Kolderie, whose credits include
Radiohead, the Pixies and Warren Zevon, worked with the group in
the recording studio.  “We’re allergic to the idea of a single sound associated
with the band,” Muldoon said. “There are a number of
songwriting teams within the band. No two songs really sound the
same.”  Psychotic Cat  At a performance last week at  Joe’s Pub  in  Manhattan ,
Muldoon’s lyrics easily topped the band’s music for the show’s
highlight. The words to “It’s Never Too Late (For Rock ’N’
Roll)” triggered smiles among the crowd. The song started with:  It may be too late to learn ancient Greek  Under a canopy of gnats  It may be too late to sail to Mozambique  With a psychotic cat  Muldoon, looking like a cross between a middle-aged rocker
and a brainy professor with his thick black eyeglasses, black T-
shirt and pin-striped sport coat, appeared happy and comfortable
onstage. Plucking his guitar, his head bobbed to the music while
Harford led the band through a set of eclectic songs.  “We’re part of the bridge-and-tunnel set!” Muldoon said
to the audience.  Different Music  Muldoon had seen Harford perform in the Princeton area and
two years ago approached him about working with the group. The
poet started writing song lyrics for the Shrines and soon
realized it was very different from poetry.  “The poem brings its own music that’s kind of built into
it, whereas the lyric needs the music,” Muldoon said.  One of Muldoon’s favorite guitars in his collection is a
1952  Fender  Telecaster Thinline. An avid collector, he concedes
that he has too many.  “I’m at a stage in my life where I’m very happily getting
rid of things, and I’ve given away a few guitars recently,” he
said. “If there are any hoarding shows that would like to do an
intervention on me, I’m sure we could arrange something!”  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine ,  Craig Seligman 
on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  