-- Putin Signs Anti-Smoking Law to Curb Cigarette Demand
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-02-25T09:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/putin-signs-anti-smoking-law-to-curb-cigarette-demand.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin
today signed a package of anti-tobacco measures aimed at curbing
demand in the world’s second-largest cigarette market, the
Kremlin said in a  statement .  Effective June 1, the  law  bans smoking in public ares
including workplaces, stairwells of apartment buildings and near
schools and hospitals. It also sets minimum prices for
cigarettes and allows for higher excise taxes. The ban on public
smoking will be extended to restaurants, hotels and train
stations from June 1, 2014, and sales will be banned in street
kiosks not big enough for clients to enter.  Putin, who returned to the Kremlin last year for a third
term as president, is limiting sales and advertising of alcohol
and tobacco in the biggest public health initiative since Soviet
leader  Mikhail Gorbachev ’s failed campaign in the late 1980s.
Smoking and drinking kill about 900,000 people a year in Russia,
according to official estimates.  “There are some concerns that the tobacco lobby will be
able to win concessions to make the process less transparent and
more drawn out,” said  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP
Paribas SA in Moscow. “On excise taxes, in particular, they’ll
look to reach an agreement.”  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  British American Tobacco
Plc (BATS) ,  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  control
93 percent of the $19.5 billion Russian market. China is the
world’s biggest tobacco consumer.  Imperial, the maker of Davidoff cigarettes, added 0.2
percent to 2,383 pence at 9:35 a.m. in London. BAT, Europe’s
largest cigarette producer, climbed 0.2 percent to 3,459 pence.  Russian Concessions  Tobacco companies  have already won some compromises. The
government had originally proposed outlawing all tobacco
advertising and sponsorship as well as kiosk sales immediately,
with bans on trade in small retail outlets and smoking in public
places taking effect Jan. 1, 2015.  The compromise was reached after a “multi-million-dollar
campaign” by the tobacco lobby, Dmitry Nosov, an Olympics judo
bronze medalist who now serves as a deputy in the State Duma,
said in an interview last month.  Almost 40 percent of Russians are regular smokers,
according to the  World Health Organization . About 400,000
Russians, or 0.3 percent of the population, die each year from
smoking-related diseases, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said in
October.  WHO Convention  The legislation is intended to bring Russia into line with
obligations to reduce the effects of second-hand smoke after the
country ratified a World Health Organization  convention  in 2008,
the Kremlin said today in a website statement. Lawmakers in
Russia’s upper house of parliament passed the bill Feb. 20.  The success of the initiatives will depend in part on how
actively Russian officials enforce the measures and whether they
signal any lenience, according to Tsepliaeva. More Russians
began wearing seat belts after the introduction of 500-ruble
($16.5) fines to reduce road fatalities, she said.  “Experience shows that Russians are no less law-abiding
than everyone else,” Tsepliaeva said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  