-- Radian to Sell Shares, Notes to Boost Mortgage-Unit Capital
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-25T22:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/radian-to-sell-shares-notes-to-boost-mortgage-unit-capital-1-.html
Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  said it is issuing
shares and convertible notes as the company boosts capital for
its unprofitable mortgage insurance business.  The insurer has begun offering as many as 30 million shares
of common stock and $200 million in notes, Philadelphia-based
Radian said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer S.A. Ibrahim has helped Radian
outlast rivals such as PMI Group Inc. and Triad Guaranty Inc.,
which were forced to stop selling new policies after falling
short of regulatory standards. Radian’s stock more than doubled
in the past 12 months as the housing market improved and Ibrahim
benefited from reinsurance deals. Mortgage insurers cover losses
when homeowners default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  Radian will use proceeds for “additional capital support
for our mortgage insurance business,” to fund working capital
requirements and for general purposes, according to the
statement.  Selling 30 million shares would raise about $244.5 million
based on today’s closing price of $8.15 a share. The stock
dropped to $7.70 at 5:04 p.m. in extended trading.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Radian debt fell 57
basis points to 611 basis points at 4:28 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Credit Swaps  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves, pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Underwriters have the option to buy an additional 4.5
million shares and $30 million in notes, according to the
statement.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are
managing the offerings.  The senior notes are due in 2019 and are convertible into
stock, cash or a combination, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  