-- Debelle Says RBA Retains Scope to Cut Rates to Offset Aussie
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-02-26T00:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/rba-retains-scope-to-cut-rates-to-offset-currency-debelle-says.html
Australia ’s central bank still has
room to cut  interest rates  to ease pressure on the economy from
a strong currency, Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said.  “We have been able to counter the effects of the higher
Australian dollar with lower interest rates,” Debelle, who
oversees financial markets, said in a  speech  in the southern
city of Adelaide today. “We still obviously retain scope to
lower interest rates further, should the need arise, including
to counterbalance the pressures of an elevated exchange rate.”  When asked about the conditions needed to provoke the
 Reserve Bank of Australia  to intervene in markets to weaken the
local dollar, Debelle said conventional monetary policy was not
“exhausted.” The RBA has lowered its  overnight cash rate
target  by 1.75 percentage points in the past 16 months to 3
percent, matching a half-century low reached in 2009.  “Jawboning and rate cuts are the RBA’s weapons of choice
when it comes to talking down the somewhat overvalued
currency,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics
in Sydney. “The RBA is reluctant to intervene in the currency
because it believes the market is more efficient at setting the
exchange rate.”  The Australian dollar, together with the  New Zealand ,
Canadian, Swedish and other currencies, has strengthened as
nations such as the U.S.,  Japan  and the U.K. reduce rates to
near-zero and undertake quantitative easing to boost their
economies.  Currency Reaction  “While it may be the case that the monetary policy
settings we see at the moment might be good for the global
economy as a whole, they may not be beneficial for every
country,” Debelle said. “The Australian dollar is somewhat on
the high side.”  The Australian currency traded at $1.0265 at 10:44 a.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0277 before Debelle’s speech, extending its
longest stretch above parity with the U.S. dollar since it was
freely floated in 1983.  Asked about the circumstances necessary to provoke the RBA
to intervene or cap the nation’s currency, Debelle said: “It’s
probably higher than where we are now.” He said the RBA has
room to move on rates unavailable to some other central banks.  “If the  exchange rate  continues to have a contractionary
effect on the economy, we still have some scope to offset it
with regular conventional monetary policy. So that’s not
exhausted,” he said.  Debelle acknowledged that in the second half of last year
the RBA sold Australian dollars to an offshore customer and
opted to retain the foreign currency.  ‘Upward Pressure’  “If we had sold the foreign exchange in the market, we
would have been buying back Australian dollars putting further
upward pressure on the Australian dollar at the margin, which we
didn’t think was appropriate given our assessment was that the
currency was already somewhat on the high side,” he said.  The RBA’s sales of its own currency outside foreign-
exchange markets rose to a three-year high last year as it sold
A$1.4 billion ($1.44 billion) more than it bought in the three
months to October to a category of buyers that can include
foreign central banks.  That was the largest amount since the period ended July
2009, official data showed. It purchased Aussie dollars in the
market in 2008 as the domestic currency fell toward a five-year
low versus the greenback as equity markets slid after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The Aussie has climbed
46 percent since the end of 2008, the biggest gainer among more
than 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  RBA Reserves  Debelle said today the central bank holds A$36 billion in
reserves: 45 percent are held in U.S. dollars, 45 percent in
euros, and the remainder split between yen and Canadian dollars.  “Some of the reserves are held to fund Australia’s
potential commitments to global financial institutions such as
the  International Monetary Fund ,” Debelle said. “But the
primary motivation is to provide the capacity for the bank to
intervene in the foreign exchange market when necessary. Over
the past two decades, we have, on occasion, intervened to
facilitate an orderly depreciation of the Australian dollar,
when conditions in the market warranted.”  Responding to a question on the RBA’s holdings, Debelle
said it was conceivable the RBA would hold the Chinese currency
as part of its reserves in the future.  New Zealand central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said last
week the monetary authority is prepared to step in to smooth
peaks in the nation’s currency, even as he recognized that it
would be unable to determine the kiwi’s level.  ‘Contractionary Effect’  Wheeler said Feb. 20 the bank is exploring the use of
macro-prudential tools to support monetary policy as it tries to
arrest an increase in  house prices .  Debelle said today “there are large uncertainties about
how effective such tools really are.”  Debelle said the  RBA’s board  considers that the so-called
Aussie “is exerting a contractionary effect on the economy, and
to offset that effect they’ve lowered interest rates” to spur
growth.  “In the normal state of affairs, lowering interest rates
tends to also lower the exchange rate,” Debelle said. “That
obviously hasn’t happened over the past six or nine months. The
exchange rate is still basically where it was before we
commenced the most recent easing cycle. So that sort of
transmission channel of monetary policy isn’t working the way it
normally does. But others still are.”  Borrowing rates in Australia are “basically as low as
they’ve ever been” for businesses and for mortgages, just a
little bit higher than where they got to in 2009, Debelle said.  “So those transmission channels of monetary policy are
still very much working, the  Reserve Bank ’s ability to set the
cash rate and influence that structure of interest rates in the
economy is still very much there,” he said. 