-- RBS Leads European Banks Higher on Preparations for Citizens IPO
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-02-25T10:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/rbs-leads-european-banks-higher-on-preparations-for-citizens-ipo.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, led European bank
shares higher as it prepared to sell a stake in its Citizens
Financial Group Inc. unit through an initial public offering.  The stock climbed 8.4 pence, or 2.4 percent, to 353.4 pence
as of 9:49 a.m. in  London , the biggest increase in the 40-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and  Financial Services (HIG)  Index. The
government paid the equivalent of 502 pence a share when it
provided a 45.5 billion-pound ($67 billion) bailout of the
lender in 2008.  The lender will announce its intention to sell a 15 percent
to 25 percent stake in U.S.-based Citizens when it reports
earnings on Feb. 28, said a person with knowledge of the plans.
The process will probably take two years to complete, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  “Plans to sell Citizens would probably be taken well by
the market as it would potentially enhance RBS’s dividend-paying
potential and bring forward the likely privatization
timetable,”  Michael Helsby , a  Bank of America  Corp. analyst,
wrote in a note to clients this morning.  Chief Executive  Stephen Hester  said in August that the bank
would keep control of Rhode Island-based Citizens because it’s a
“core” part of the company that will be more valuable in three
years. RBS acquired the consumer and commercial lender in 1988.  The Scottish lender may also announce further cuts at its
investment-banking operation to reduce the size of its balance
sheet by as much as 30 billion pounds, the Telegraph reported,
without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  