-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Falls Most Since November on Italy’s Vote
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-02-25T22:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/treasuries-remain-higher-after-35-billion-2-year-note-auction.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields down the most since November, as polls indicated the euro
area’s third-largest economy, Italy, may be left with a hung
parliament, stoking refuge demand.  The benchmark yield  reached  a one-month low after the U.S.
sale of $35 billion in two-year notes, with direct bidders, non-
primary dealer investors that place their bids directly with the
Treasury, purchasing the highest amount of the securities since
October. U.S. debt gained as Italy may require another vote
after the four-way race that ended today was poised to result in
a divided parliament, spurring concern of renewed turmoil in
European markets.  “The move today is all about the Italian elections, which
is giving a bid to Treasuries,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “When there is concern about one of the largest
economics in  Europe  with one of the largest debt loads in the
region, you will see a flight to quality.”  The benchmark 10-year yield dropped 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 1.86 percent at 5:02 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield fell
the most since Nov. 7 and reached the lowest level since Jan.
25. The 2 percent note maturing in February 2023 added 7/8, or
$8.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 7/32.  Thirty-year bonds rose more than two points, pushing the
yield down 10 basis points to 3.05 percent, the least since Jan.
25.  Trading Levels  “A lot of people had a bearish outlook and a lot of stops
have been hit,” said Larry Dyer, a U.S. interest rate
strategist with HSBC Holdings Plc in New York, one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve. “Most investors
were looking for rates to increase at the start of the year, and
that had them short the market, and now suddenly we’re back in
risk off.” Stops are preset orders triggered when prices reach
a certain level, while short positions are bets that an asset
will decline in value.  The difference between 10-year yields on regular U.S.
government securities and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, known as the 10-year break-even rate, was 2.51
percentage points, the least since Jan. 25. It touched 2.73
percentage points on Sept. 17, the highest since 2006.  The two-year notes drew a yield of 0.257 percent, compared
with a forecast of 0.258 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.33, the least since July 2011 and
compared with an average of 3.83 for the past 10 sales.  Bid Pattern  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 31.6 percent of
the notes at the sale, compared with an average of 18.84 percent
for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 22 percent of the notes, compared with
an average of 28.13 percent for the past 10 sales.  “With the level of interest rates, there are fewer reasons
to be involved in those securities,” said Thomas di Galoma, a
managing director at Navigate Advisors, a brokerage for
institutional investors in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If one was
to look at better value on the curve you’d probably opt for
longer dated maturities.”  Two-year notes have returned gained 0.03 percent this year,
after returning 0.28 percent last year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Auction Reading  “The auction, overall, fit in with the recent 2-year note
auctions,” said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in
New York at Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer. “The bid-
to-cover ratio was sort of low. But when you consider the fact
that the auction sold at the yield it did and we have a strong
buy-side bid, it still was positive.”  The Treasury is selling $99 billion in notes and bonds this
week. It’s due to auction $35 billion of 5-year securities
tomorrow and $29 billion of 7-year debt on Feb. 27.  Treasuries rallied as preliminary results from Italian
elections show former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi may have
built a blocking minority in the Senate to deny outright victory
to opponent Pier Luigi Bersani.  Italy ’s 10-year yield rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.49 percent, after
falling as much as 28 basis points, the most since Aug. 3.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke testifies before lawmakers
tomorrow and the following day. Bernanke’s two-day testimony
begins tomorrow at 10 a.m. in the Senate and continues Feb. 27
in the House.  Fed Policy  The Fed is purchasing $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities a month, a policy known as
quantitative easing, or QE. Bernanke and his colleagues on the
Federal Open Market Committee have pledged to continue buying
bonds until the labor market improves “substantially.”
Unemployment was 7.9 percent in January.  “There has been a lot ink spilled on this, but it’s worth
remembering that even if the Fed stops QE at the end of this
year, that’s still $1 trillion worth of balance-sheet growth,”
said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest rate strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in New York, on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen
and Michael McKee. “It’s not exactly going easily into the
night.”  The central bank bought $3.3 billion Treasuries maturing
from May 2020 to February 2023.  Treasury 10-year yields will fall to 1.85 percent by the
end of March and then climb to 2.30 percent by Dec. 31, based on
a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  