-- Treasuries Gain on Italy’s Election Before Note Sale
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-02-25T17:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/treasuries-fall-on-speculation-kuroda-to-head-boj.html
Treasuries rose, pushing yields
below 2 percent for a third day, as polls indicated the euro
area’s third-largest economy,  Italy , may be left with a hung
parliament, stoking refuge demand.  U.S. debt fell earlier today before the U.S. sells $99
billion of notes this week starting with $35 billion of two-year
securities today. Preliminary results from Italian elections
show former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi may have built a
blocking minority in the Senate to deny outright victory to
opponent Pier Luigi Bersani. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke testifies before lawmakers tomorrow and the following
day.  “The concern is that Berlusconi will take off the
austerity measures,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors. “It’s not set in stone,
but it’s brought in heavy buying.”  The benchmark 10-year yield dropped three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.93 percent at 12:04 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
note maturing in February 2023 added 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 20/32.  Two-year notes  yielded  0.25 percent, matching the upper end
of the Fed’s target range for overnight loans between banks.  Auction Data  Treasuries handed investors a loss of 0.8 percent this year
through Feb. 22 after accounting for interest payments,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares returned 4.4 percent.  The securities being sold today yielded 0.26 percent in
pre-auction trading. The U.S. is also due to auction $35 billion
of five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year notes
on Feb. 27.  Indirect bidders , the investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 18 percent of the notes at the previous
two-year auction on Jan. 28. The average for the prior 10 sales
was 30 percent.  Direct bidders , non-primary dealer investors
that place their orders with the Treasury, purchased 30 percent.  Bernanke’s two-day testimony, known as Humphrey-Hawkins for
the legislation that established the semi-annual appearances,
begins tomorrow at 10 a.m. in the Senate and continues Feb. 27
in the House.  Fed Buys  The Fed is purchasing up to $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities a month, a policy known as
quantitative easing, or QE. Bernanke and his colleagues on the
Federal Open Market Committee have pledged to continue buying
bonds until the labor market improves “substantially.”
Unemployment was 7.9 percent in January.  “There has been a lot ink spilled on this, but it’s worth
remembering that even if the Fed stops QE at the end of this
year, that’s still $1 trillion worth of balance-sheet growth,”
said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest rate strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in New York, on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen
and Michael McKee. “It’s not exactly going easily into the
night.”  The central bank bought $3.3 billion Treasuries maturing
from May 2020 to February 2023.  Demand for the safest securities was damped earlier as
economists said U.S. reports this week will show sales of new
homes increased in January and  consumer confidence  improved this
month.  Sales of  new homes  in the U.S. rose 3 percent in January to
a 380,000 annual rate, according to the median prediction of 61
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the Commerce Department
releases the data tomorrow. Confidence among consumers increased
in February from its lowest level in 14 months, the New York-
based Conference Board will say tomorrow, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey.  Treasury 10-year yields will fall to 1.86 percent by the
end of March and then climb to 2.30 percent by Dec. 31, based on
a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  