-- Reckitt Benckiser Faces Generic Threats After FDA Rejection
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-02-25T13:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/reckitt-benckiser-says-fda-rejects-suboxone-safeguard-petition.html
     Feb. 25 (Bloomberg) -- Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc faces
competition in pharmaceuticals for the first time after the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  approved two generic variants of
its Suboxone heroin-dependency drug, thwarting the company’s
attempts to keep rivals away from its most profitable business.  The company said today that two manufacturers have FDA
approval to produce generic Suboxone tablets in the U.S.
Competition could arrive within a month, according to Alex Howson, an analyst at Jefferies International in  London .  Reckitt Benckiser  shares  fell as much as 4.4 percent, also
hurt by the FDA’s rejection in a Feb. 22 letter of the company’s
September petition asking that makers of similar medicines
implement more safeguards. The FDA also asked the Federal Trade
Commission to look into claims by generic drug makers of anti-
competitive business practices on Reckitt Benckiser’s part.  The shadow of competition to Suboxone has hung over the
Slough, England-based company since it lost U.S. patent
protection in 2009. The pharmaceuticals unit generated 21
percent of profit last year, and analysts today reduced their
2013 profit estimates by as much as 4 percent.  “The market has been waiting for this news since October
2009, when Suboxone’s orphan drug status lapsed,” Deutsche Bank
AG analyst  Harold Thompson  said in a note today. “The tougher
and longer-term impact will be to know how current film users
react, with cash payers the most open to switch.”  Generic Competitors  Reckitt Benckiser, which said it was “disappointed” by
the rejection of its petition, has said generics would eliminate
as much as 90 percent of tablet sales and up to 20 percent of
the newer film-strip version, which dissolves under the tongue
and has captured a 64 percent volume share in the U.S.  One of the generics will come from Bridgewater, New Jersey-
based Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC, which said in a statement
today that is has received FDA approval for a generic version of
Suboxone tablets, to be available in March. The other will be
made by  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  of Parsippany,  New Jersey , which said in a
 statement  it intends to begin shipping its product immediately.  Reckitt Benckiser said it’s sticking with its decision to
stop producing Suboxone in tablet form next month as it weans
patients onto the film-strip version, which it unveiled in 2010.  The shares were down 3.7 percent at 4,350 pence at 1:30
p.m., the second-biggest drop in the U.K. FTSE 100 Index. The
earlier 4.4 percent decline was the most since May 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  