-- Republican Reality Check Begins
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-02-25T23:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/republican-reality-check-begins.html
Some Republicans haven’t gotten to
the first step: the one where you admit there’s a problem. In a
roundup of reactions to the 2012 U.S. presidential election by
the magazine Commentary, for example, conservative writer
Wilfred McClay says Republican worriers are “wildly overwrought”
because the 2012 election was “close.”  So it counts as a good sign that the chairman of the
Republican National Committee has a different perspective.  “We haven’t won a decisive presidential election in 24
years,” says Reince Priebus -- the first name is short for
Reinhold -- in his office. George H.W. Bush’s election in 1988,
he points out, was the last time Republicans carried  California ,
New Jersey,  Illinois  or  Pennsylvania . (He could have accurately
added another large state,  Michigan .) With so many electoral
votes off-limits, Republicans have to carry almost every tossup
state to win.  Priebus isn’t the man to save the party from shrinking to
irrelevance -- that will take a presidential candidate -- but
Republicans are generally happy with the job he has done, even
in a season of gloom. They are still grateful that he is not
Michael Steele, the man he replaced in January 2011. Priebus
doesn’t get in the news for saying dumb things, which was a
weekly occurrence under his predecessor.  After Steele’s tenure, the Republican National Committee
had to do some rebuilding, especially in regaining the
confidence of major donors. Although it was $24 million in the
red when Priebus took over, it now has $7 million in the bank.  ‘Permanent Politics’  He now wants to spend a chunk of that money expanding the
party’s infrastructure. The main tactical lesson Priebus draws
from the 2012 election is that “we’ve entered a world of
permanent politics.” By this he means that it isn’t enough for
parties to contact voters in the months before elections. They
have to maintain a constant presence in every community they are
trying to reach, as President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats
did.  In particular, Republicans have to do better with “low
propensity voters.” In  Wisconsin , where Priebus was a successful
state party chairman before coming to  Washington , 550,000 more
people voted in the presidential election than had voted a few
months earlier in an election to determine whether Republican
Governor Scott Walker would be recalled. Republicans won the
earlier race but lost the second (and also lost a Senate seat
they thought they had a chance at).  Priebus worries that if they don’t improve their showing
among these infrequent voters, they might find themselves in a
trap where they do well in low-turnout midterms and then become
overconfident about presidential elections.  He doesn’t believe that getting on-the-fence voters to
choose Republican candidates, and then actually vote, is
primarily a matter of improving the party’s use of social
science and technology. What it mostly requires, he says, is a
new mindset from Republicans: “We’ve divorced ourselves from the
culture.” It’s “very harmful” when Republicans make fun of Obama
for going on “The View” instead of understanding how it helps
him make his case.  Priebus also thinks his party has taken the wrong approach
to the issues, not least by letting spending cuts crowd out
other parts of a conservative agenda. “It turns out that people
like sugar more than they like the dentist,” he says. At
Republican gatherings, “we can’t just have one person more mad
than the next about the deficit and the debt. It’s not good
enough to win the math argument.”  Although he acknowledges that Republicans need to make
inroads among groups that don’t vote for them, he also thinks
the party can do more to “run the score up” among groups that
do. He mentions veterans, Mormons and churchgoing Catholics.  Another Fracas  Priebus also wants to change the process that Republicans
use to pick their presidential nominees. He wants a shorter
primary calendar, and fewer media-sponsored debates. Those
reforms would help front-runners and hurt insurgents, which is
presumably the point: less camera time for hopeless candidates.
One idea under consideration is to reduce candidates’ delegate
hauls if they participate in debates the party hasn’t approved.
That proposal could lead to yet another Tea Party-versus-
establishment fracas.  Another part of Priebus’s project won’t face much
resistance, he thinks: Both grassroots supporters and political
donors want the party to be more engaged in the years before
elections. Improved turnout from Republican-leaning voters isn’t
what the party most needs. The state that gave Obama  his 270th
electoral vote ,  Colorado , went for him by  5.4 percentage points .
It’s implausible that a better get-out-the-vote operation can
make up that shortfall. The party needs a new agenda, and
Priebus seems willing to take a back seat to other Republicans
on questions of policy.  What Priebus is doing, though, might make a difference in
close races. It’s up to the party’s candidates to make them
close in the first place.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  