-- Rodeo Creek Gold, Affiliates Seek Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-02-25T18:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/rodeo-creek-gold-affiliates-seek-bankruptcy-protection.html
Rodeo Creek Gold Inc. and three
affiliates, part of an international mining company engaged in
the exploration, development and operation of high-quality gold
properties, sought  bankruptcy protection  to facilitate a sale of
certain assets.  The company listed assets of $50 million to $100 million
and debt of $100 million to $500 million in Chapter 11 documents
filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Reno, Nevada, where it
is based. Affiliates Antler Peak Gold Inc., Hollister Venture
Corp. and Touchstone Resources Co. also sought protection.  The filing became necessary after the companies failed to
secure financing, outside of bankruptcy, to fund operations
through the conclusion of a sale process, Chief Executive
Officer Raymond Dombrowski Jr. said in court papers.  In late December, the company began a pre-marketing process
for the sale of the “Nevada operations.” Although multiple
bids were received, none were “sufficient to warrant a
stalking-horse designation,” Dombrowski said.  The  Nevada  operations consist of a total of about 950
unpatented federal mining claims, covering more than 42 square
miles in the Carlin Trend gold belt, and the Esmeralda Mill
located in Mineral County, according to court papers.  ‘Liquidity Issues’  “Concurrently with the foregoing sale process, the debtors
attempted to resolve myriad ongoing and additional liquidity
issues,” Dombrowski said. “Although many of the debtors’
efforts were successful, the efforts were ultimately
insufficient to overcome severe gold production shortfalls”
which required “substantial additional funding,” Dombrowski
added.  The 20 largest consolidated creditors without collateral
backing their claims are owed about $13.4 million, according to
court documents. The State of Nevada is the biggest with a claim
of $2.7 million for taxes. The three largest trade creditors are
Quality Transportation Inc., with a claim of $2.2 million; San
Juan Drilling Inc., with a claim of $1.5 million; and Sandvik
Mining & Construction USA LLC, with a claim of $1.3 million,
court papers show.  British Columbia-based Great Basin Gold Ltd. is the
ultimate parent of Rodeo Creek and its affiliates. Great Basin
wasn’t included in the bankruptcy filing.  The case is In re Rodeo Creek Gold Inc., 13-50301, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  