-- SEC Missed Chance on Money Funds, Should Step Aside Now
-- B y   A r t h u r   L e v i t t
-- 2013-02-25T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/sec-missed-chance-on-money-funds-should-step-aside-now.html
A former member of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission recently asked me to co-sign
a letter urging a federal oversight body to refrain from taking
regulatory action normally left to the SEC. I believe deeply in
the independence of the agency I once led, but in this case, I
could not place my loyalty to the organization above the larger
goal of protecting individual investors. So I refused to sign.  Every regulatory agency operates with a core mandate, and
the SEC’s is clear: Promote healthy and well-functioning
markets, and protect investors through appropriate regulations
and enforcement actions. The SEC must always place that mission
above all other goals, including its own sovereignty and
independence. When it doesn’t, others may have to.  At stake are much-needed and overdue reforms to money-
market mutual funds, which hold $2.5 trillion. These funds were
at the heart of the 2008 financial crisis. When the Reserve
Primary Fund “broke the buck,” in which the value of a share
fell below $1, investors realized they would get less than $1
back for every $1 invested. The result was a run on all money-
market funds, significant cash hoarding, the evaporation of
short-term credit to even the best borrowers, and some of the
worst days our economy has ever seen.  In the end, only the Treasury Department’s promise to make
whole all investors in these funds stabilized the marketplace,
but at a potential cost of hundreds of billions of taxpayer
dollars.  Useful Fiction  Once thought to be very stable and risk-free, money-market
funds proved to be remarkably unpredictable. One reason:
Investors and fund companies both agreed to live with the useful
fiction that the funds, which trade in and out of low-risk,
short-term securities, would always be worth $1 a share. This
implied that funds never lost money, when we now know that they
frequently did. In many cases since the 1970s (the SEC counts
more than 300), fund sponsors bailed out troubled funds from
losses that would have undermined the $1 per share valuation.  The obvious problem is a lack of pricing transparency.
There is no valuation available to investors other than the $1
per share fictional price. What investors clearly need is a
floating valuation, issued in real-time or close to it.  Mary Schapiro , who made this issue one of her primary
concerns in her final year as SEC chairman, strongly urged the
commission to put out for public comment a floating-valuation
rule, among other reforms. That’s when some money-market-fund
firms ratcheted up pressure on the SEC. They objected to any
reforms. With deep ties to some of the commissioners, they were
able to put a roadblock in front of any new rules. They even
rejected Schapiro’s effort to seek nonbinding public comment
last summer.  There was no reason to block public discussion. Given the
evidence of potential systemic risk posed by money-market funds,
the SEC owed the public a serious inquiry. For the agency to
refuse to engage the issue, even after Schapiro elevated it,
struck me as a failure to meet its primary mandate.  Normally, that would have been the end of the issue. But
with the creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council
under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial-reform law, the potential
for reform still exists. Congress created the FSOC -- it
includes the heads of other financial regulatory bodies and has
the  Treasury secretary  as chairman -- as an oversight body to
address potential sources of systemic risk.  Money-market funds clearly fall into that category. And
because the SEC could not agree to consider the potential for
reform, the FSOC took it up. It conducted its own review and
came to conclusions similar to my own. It now appears ready to
take action.  Industry Interference  At every turn, had the SEC wanted to take the issue up, it
could have done so. The FSOC made that clear in its own
deliberations and would have preferred it.  To suggest that the SEC should be permitted to act on this
issue without interference is missing the obvious: The SEC would
already have taken action were it not for industry interference.
If anyone interfered with the regulatory process, it wasn’t the
FSOC.  At this stage, I’m not even sure that opposition is very
strong. While the FSOC has done its work, the money-market-fund
industry has taken positive steps on its own. Several major fund
groups have announced that they will begin disclosing a daily
market value, or net asset value, rather than make investors
wait 60 days, as SEC rules now allow.  We have also seen thoughtful regulatory reform ideas
brought forward by the industry and others. While I welcome
these actions, voluntary reform is never a substitute for
regulatory action.  If the SEC won’t take action, it would be irresponsible for
the FSOC not to. The lack of transparency in prices in money-
market funds is startling; we would never permit this in any
other publicly traded financial instrument.  As we saw, the orderly trading and valuation of money-
market funds is essential to a healthy, functioning economy.
Companies use the funds to meet payroll; families use the funds
to hold cash for mortgages and college tuition payments; and
institutions use the funds to raise capital for short-term
needs. Failure of this market would place the U.S. taxpayer in
the all-too-familiar role of guarantor.  It is understandable, even desirable, for former regulators
to defend the independence of the agencies they once served. I
normally find myself among the loudest defenders of the
principle of regulatory independence. But in this case, the
national interest -- prevention of systemic risk -- trumps all
other considerations. In this case, the SEC’s mandate to protect
the public interest is paramount. If it won’t pursue that
mandate, the FSOC should.  ( Arthur Levitt , a board member of Bloomberg LP, was
chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1993 to
2000. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Arthur Levitt at  arthur.levitt@carlyle.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  