-- Senators Close in on Background Check Agreement on Guns
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-02-25T21:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/senators-close-in-on-background-check-agreement-on-guns.html
A bipartisan group of U.S. senators
is closing in on an agreement to expand background checks for
gun purchases, a test of how far lawmakers may go to address gun
violence after the shootings in Newtown, Connecticut.  New York  Senator Chuck Schumer, a Democrat, and Republican
 Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  have worked out 90 percent of their
differences over a measure that would expand criminal background
checks to most private sales of guns, according to two Senate
aides who asked for anonymity to discuss the talks.  The senators remain at odds over whether private sellers
must maintain records of sales, which some Republicans oppose
and advocates say is necessary to enforce a broad background
check law. Coburn, who represents a solidly pro-gun state, could
help the measure advance.  The Senate group includes Democrat  Joe Manchin  of  West
Virginia  and Republican  Mark Kirk  of  Illinois .  “They’re close,” said  Jim Kessler , a former legislative
director to Schumer. “It’s like climbing the summit of Mount
Everest, the oxygen gets pretty thin up there,” said Kessler,
now senior vice president for policy at Third Way, a Democratic-
aligned policy group in Washington.  The Senate group set a goal to introduce legislation this
week. Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont
Democrat, today released a series of bills, including an
assault-weapons ban, that his panel may consider later this
week. The panel is scheduled to meet Feb. 28. One of the
measures could be a vehicle for a bipartisan background check
plan if the senators reach agreement.  Assault Weapons  President  Barack Obama  has called on Congress to expand the
nation’s background check system and to restrict sales of
assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition-feeding devices.  While many congressional Republicans have ruled out a
renewed ban on assault weapons, advocates for stricter laws say
there is support for tightening laws to help prevent criminals
and individuals deemed violently mentally ill from obtaining
firearms. A Quinnipiac University  poll  released Feb. 7 found
more than 9 in 10 Americans support universal background checks.  A limit on the number of rounds in high-capacity magazines
also faces challenges to advancing in Congress as the
restriction is being offered in Leahy’s committee in a single
bill along with an assault weapons ban.  In the Republican-controlled House, several Republicans
from the Northeast and states that had mass shootings such as
Virginia have spoken in favor of stronger background checks.
Even so, the  National Rifle Association  opposes a universal
background-check system, and it has proven a formidable opponent
for almost two decades.  Background Checks  The NRA supports strengthening some aspects of the nation’s
background-check system, adding more records of the mentally ill
into the National Instant Criminal Background Check federal
database on purchasers. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, backs that position.  The state of  Colorado  has benefited from stricter laws
passed after the 1999 shooting at Columbine High School, said
Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat.  “People say, well, you know, criminals aren’t stupid,
they’re not going to go through a background check,”
Hickenlooper said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program
yesterday. “Hey, what a surprise. They are stupid, right?”  The state has intercepted more than 1,000 felons with
criminal records, most of them violent, he said.  Private Sales  The Senate plan would expand mandatory background checks to
most private sales, with exceptions for weapon transfers between
family members, the aides said. It includes increased funding
for the NICS database and penalties for states that don’t report
relevant criminal and mental health records.  It may also establish a bipartisan panel similar to the
2010 Simpson-Bowles debt commission to examine additional
legislative action to address the nation’s culture of violence
and access to weapons.  The sticking point is how to keep track of gun purchases to
verify that the background checks are performed. Some
Republicans are concerned that attempts to set up a record-
keeping system would be demonized by gun owners who distrust
government, torpedoing broader legislation.  Among the bills Leahy released today is a measure to combat
illegal trafficking in firearms and straw purchasing, in which
individuals buy a firearm for someone prohibited from owning it.  The bill establishes penalties for anyone who purchases a
firearm with the intention to transfer it to someone else. It
also would make it a crime to smuggle firearms out of the U.S.  The last major gun legislation Congress passed was the 1994
assault-weapons ban, which lapsed in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  