-- Sex, Murder Mix as McAvoy’s Macbeth Vomits in Bloodbath
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-02-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/sex-murder-mix-as-mcavoy-s-macbeth-vomits-in-bloodbath.html
James McAvoy ’s Macbeth is brutal,
bloodthirsty, an unhinged despot. I like him a lot.  At the refurbished Trafalgar Studios in  London , McAvoy
rises to the challenge of portraying the power-crazed Scot, who
runs Lear close for Shakespeare’s most demented monarch.  McAvoy is known for his role in “The Last King of  Scotland ”
-- playing a doctor to a very different dictator with some
equally gruesome tortures. This time, as his deeds come back to
haunt him, he soon can’t even say his own name without vomiting
over it. “Mac-bethhh!” he retches. He cowers over a dirty toilet
bowl, which miraculously pops up on stage just before he pukes.  There’s plentiful use of rain, fog and blood sacs for
maximum gore -- be warned, those of sensitive disposition. The
evening ends with Macbeth’s disembodied head being paraded
around and more ketchup than a Clint Eastwood spaghetti western.  While it sounds pretty awful, the gritty, inventive
production by Jamie Lloyd rightly got an ovation on a press
night attended by actors Hugh Bonneville, Jason Flemyng, Rafe
Spall and Anne-Marie Duff, McAvoy’s wife.  We enjoyed some gloriously long, almost Pintereque, pauses
between McAvoy and  Claire Foy , as Lady Macbeth. To the
Shakespearean script of her playful taunts (in essence, a real
man would murder without worries, so get over it), they add
wordless touches on the lips, embraces and a sexual tension.  Ghost, Witches  Pretty soon Lady Macbeth is sleepwalking to madness. In one
of the best scenes, the ghost of Banquo (a stony-faced Forbes
Masson) prowls around and wrecks their cozy dinner party.  The three witches inexplicably put on various gas helmets
and goggles. It also allows for a doubling of roles, though
their words are less distinct through the masks and the Scottish
accents could come with subtitles at times.  It’s also not clear why even the princes and nobles are
wearing dirty anoraks, ripped jeans and torn sweaters. Perhaps
it’s all a sign of corruption and apocalypse. They look more
like the people sleeping at Charing Cross, across the road from
the theater, rather than extras from  London Fashion Week .  The royal palace is equally rundown on Southa Gilmour’s
huge set. It needs a coat of paint, repairs to broken windows
and has flickering lights that buzz and crackle to signpost
meaningful quotes. There are plenty of them. “What’s done is
done,” “out damned spot,” “brief candle,” “sound and fury,
signifying nothing.”  When all too often Shakespeare is rushed, with wordy
speeches delivered as if the actor has a train to catch, Lloyd
allows the actors to savor these lines.  Three Hours  The bard’s shortest tragedy is played over three hours.
That’s a little too much for some of audience: for me, it was
absolutely worth it.  In the new-style Trafalgar Studio 1, there are now 70 seats
behind the stage. That’s distracting for many in the audience.
Most action is played forward. Those at the back are only feet
from the actors and sometimes right in the spotlight.  This is the first event in the “Trafalgar Transformed”
series and no doubt the theater will get the seating right soon.
This is nonetheless a fine start.  Rating: ****.  “Macbeth” is at Trafalgar Studios, 14 Whitehall, London,
SW1A 2DY through April 27. Information: +44-844-871-7627 or
 http://www.atgtickets.com/shows/macbeth/trafalgar-studios/ ,
 http://www.macbethwestend.com/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater,  Elin
McCoy  on wine,  Craig Seligman  on books and interviews by  Zinta
Lundborg  and  Farah Nayeri .  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 