-- Sexy Bulls Run Wild in ‘Phaedra’; Flat ‘Achilles’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-02-25T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/sexy-bulls-run-wild-in-phaedra-flat-achilles-review.html
Today’s cougars have nothing on
 Martha Graham ’s bulls.  The daughter of Pasiphea, the queen who was forced to mate
with a bull and bear the Minotaur, Phaedra has a thing for her
ripped stepson, Hippolytus. It doesn’t end well.  Terrifically restored to the  Graham company  repertory after
more than a decade, “Phaedra” is part of “Myth and
Transformation,” running through Sunday at the  Joyce Theater .  On the spare stage, Graham’s legendary designer, the
sculptor Isamu Noguchi, provided a colorful totem pole-like
sarcophagus for Hippolytus, a white-and-blood-red heart shell
for the goddess Aphrodite and, at center, a jagged golden chaise
for the heroine (Blakeley White-McGuire).  Lying there, her little bull’s horns curling up like sex
antennae, Phaedra is anguished with lust for Hippolytus
(Maurizio Nardi). He’s exposed section by section, like cuts on
a beef chart, through slats in the vertical sculpture. It’s
physiognomic torture.  Yet it’s not Hippolytus driving poor Phaedra crazy so much
as the competing goddesses yanking her chain: Aphrodite
(Xiaochuan Xie), the hot one, and Artemis (Mariya Dashkina
Maddux), the serene huntress Hippolytus prefers. Head-tripping
for sexual control is the real battle going on in “Phaedra.”  There’s a late, lewd appearance by mom herself, Pasiphea
(PeiJu Chien-Pott), held sinuously above the action by bullish
admirers back from the hunt with Phaedra’s husband, Theseus
(Tadej Brdnik).  It certainly wasn’t beyond Graham to offer up beautiful
bodies -- especially male ones in glittery briefs -- as eternal
enticements. But technically accomplished as the present company
may be, it’s hard to divine intense pelvic stirrings in women
dancers as scarily skinny and sexless as the three principal
dancers here.  Instead, dominance, not lust, is revealed as the
preoccupation here. Anyone expecting Graham’s work to seem
diminished or dated will find “Phaedra” a revelation. It
remains a work of searching power, about power.  The second dance on the opening night program, Richard
Move’s 2002 “The Show (Achilles Heels),” did feel like a
cultural relic from the not-too-distant past.  Taking another chapter from Greek mythology, “The Show”
presents the story of Achilles and the Trojan War as a reality-
TV-cum-quiz-show series, complete with annoying narrator
(Brdnik), a statuesque Helen of Troy (Katherine Crockett) and
the  Mick Jagger-ish hero (Lloyd Mayor) answering dopey
questions.  Misha, Blondie  Arto Lindsay’s rock score is gilded with songs by Blondie,
and Mikhail Baryshnikov and Deborah Harry provided some voice-
over narration.  Choreographer Move is a celebrated Graham impersonator
known for parodying Martha’s angsty characters for comic effect.
I guess it seemed like a smart idea to pair “The Show” with
“Phaedra.” The wisdom eluded me.  “Myth and Transformation” includes many Graham classics
including “Errand Into the Maze,” “Cave of the Heart” and
“Night Journey.” Performances continue through March 3 at the
Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Ave. Information: +1-212-242-0800;
 http://www.joyce.org . Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 