-- MSG May Sell Live Nation Holding, Stifel Nicolaus Says
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-02-25T23:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/msg-may-sell-live-nation-holding-stifel-nicolaus-says.html
Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) ,
controlled by the Dolan family, may sell its  Live Nation
Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  stake after its chairman resigned from the
concert promoter’s board, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst said.  MSG’s 3.9 million Live Nation shares, representing about 2
percent of the company’s stock, are worth about $40 million
before taxes, Ben Mogil, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, wrote
today in a report.  James Dolan’s resignation, which was announced in a filing
by Live Nation today, follows Irving Azoff’s decision to step
down as chairman of the company in December. MSG, based in New
York, acquired its stake as part of a transaction Live Nation
completed in February 2011, when it bought the remaining 25
percent of Azoff’s Front Line Management Group that it didn’t
already own.  “For MSG shareholders, this may accelerate the possibility
that the company looks to divest all/part of their Live Nation
stake,” Mogil wrote in the report, referring to Dolan’s
resignation. Mogil has a buy rating on MSG and a hold
recommendation on Live Nation.  Stacey Escudero, a spokeswoman for MSG in New York,
declined to comment by e-mail.  Live Nation has  traded  an average 757,000 shares a day for
the past three months, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The
MSG stake equals about five days of trading on average.  The Dolan family controls almost 70 percent of the voting
power in MSG, according to an Oct. 12  filing .  MSG climbed as much as 1.2 percent to $55.80 in extended
trading today, after slipping 1.4 percent to $55.15 at the close
in New York. Beverly Hills, California-based Live Nation was
unchanged in late trading after advancing 0.2 percent to $10.32
at the close.  The Dolan family also controls  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) ,
where James Dolan, 57, is chief executive officer, and  AMC
Networks Inc. (AMCX) , where his father, Charles Dolan, 86, is chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  