-- Sharp Drops as Hon Hai Investment Prospects Fade: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-02-25T00:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/sharp-drops-as-hon-hai-investment-prospects-fade-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  fell the most in two
months in Tokyo trading as two people familiar with investment
talks between the company and Foxconn Technology Group said
discussions will probably end March 26 without an agreement.  The Japanese television maker, which said last year there
was “material doubt” about its ability to survive, fell as
much 5.5 percent to 293 yen, headed for the biggest decline
since Dec. 25. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 2
percent as of 9:09 a.m. local time.  Negotiations haven’t led to a deal partly because the
companies can’t agree on a price after Sharp’s shares declined,
said one of the people, both of whom asked not to be named
because the talks are private. Management control and company
strategy are also stumbling blocks, one person said. Sharp said
in November talks might continue beyond March.  Sharp,  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, is
trying to raise funds as it forecasts a record full-year loss of
450 billion yen ($4.8 billion) amid weak demand for its panels
and TVs. Foxconn, founded by billionaire Terry Gou, initially
agreed in March to buy a 9.9 percent stake in Osaka-based Sharp
for 550 yen a share. The deal foundered as Sharp’s shares
plunged for seven straight months, reaching as low as 143 yen.
Foxconn said it would renegotiate the price.  The Mainichi newspaper reported Feb. 23 Sharp may suspend
the share-sale talks, without saying where it got the
information. The Sankei newspaper said the electronics maker is
considering measures including a public share sale to raise
capital by about 200 billion yen, without citing anyone.  Talks Ongoing  Miyuki Nakayama, a Tokyo-based Sharp spokeswoman, said the
company wasn’t the source of either report and that no decisions
have been made on ending negotiations with Foxconn or on selling
shares.  Sharp shares  plunged  55 percent to 303 yen in  Tokyo  in 2012
amid widening loss forecasts. The company has reduced its
workforce, sold assets and mortgaged its headquarters to
refinance debt after posting a record 376 billion-yen net loss
in the fiscal year ended March 31.  “Discussions are ongoing,” Louis Woo, a spokesman for
Taipei-based Foxconn, said by phone on Feb. 23. “We are not
bound by any timetable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  