-- Sleep Loss Alters Genes While Raising Risk of Disease
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-25T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/sleep-loss-alters-genes-while-raising-risk-of-disease.html
Just a week of  inadequate sleep  can
alter the activity of hundreds of genes, which may help
scientists explain how wakeful nights can lead to ailments such
as diabetes, obesity and  heart disease .  Blood samples taken from patients revealed genetic changes
that, with further research, may help answer why sleepless
nights are so harmful to health, according to the  study
published  today in the Proceedings of the  National Academy of
Sciences . While not all of the altered genes have known
functions, some are involved in metabolism and stress response.  More than one-third of Americans sleep fewer than seven
hours a night, affecting their ability to concentrate, according
to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. When
people don’t get enough sleep, have poor-quality rest, or sleep
at the wrong times of day, they are at a higher risk of heart
disease,  kidney disease , high  blood pressure , obesity, diabetes
and depression, according to the  National Institutes of Health .  “These pathways are ones investigators can pursue,” said
 Louis Ptacek , a neurologist at the  University of California , San
Francisco, who wasn’t affiliated with the research. “These
genes are interesting, why is the rhythm dampened?”  Most adults need seven hours to nine hours of rest each
night.  In the study, 26 participants spent a week sleeping fewer
than 6 hours each night and had their blood drawn for samples.
They then were kept busy for 40 hours and allowed to recover.
The next week, they were allowed to sleep as many as 10 hours a
night, and their blood was drawn again. The scientists used RNA
extracted from patients’ blood to measure the effect on genes.  Gene Candidates  Changes were seen in more than 700 genes. In addition,
about 374 of the 1,855 genes that ordinarily  peaked and waned 
during the day also had their functions altered. Among the genes
affected were those known to be involved with circadian rhythms,
stress, how the body regulates itself while it sleeps, and
metabolism.  It’s not clear how many of those changes were due
specifically to lack of sleep, or to the stress caused by a lack
of sleep, Ptacek said. A next step might be to compare the
responses of people with chronic stress with those who are sleep
deprived, he said.  While the participants were awake, their performance was
assessed. When people in the group didn’t get enough sleep, they
suffered more lapses in attention than when they had an adequate
amount of rest, the study found.  The research was led by scientists at the University of
Surrey in the U.K. It was funded by the U.S.  Air Force Office of
Scientific Research .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  