-- Slovenian Party Leaves Governing Coalition as Jansa Faces Vote
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-02-25T16:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/slovenian-party-leaves-governing-coalition-as-jansa-faces-vote.html
Slovenia’s People’s Party left the
governing coalition, further weakening Prime Minister Janez Jansa before a no-confidence vote against his administration
scheduled for this week.  With the party’s departure, Economic Development Minister
Radovan Zerjav and Agriculture Minister Franc Bogovic have
resigned from the Cabinet, Zerjav  told  a news conference in
Ljubljana today, according to a clip on the party’s website.
That leaves Jansa with the support of 30 deputies in the 90-
member legislature. Stocks and bonds fell.  The People’s Party is the third former member of the
coalition to leave after corruption allegations against the
premier. Slovenia’s leaders are scrambling to avert early
elections as the nation tries to fend off a bailout and emerge
from recession with Jansa also acting as finance minister.  The largest opposition party, Positive Slovenia, on Feb. 22
filed a motion to oust Jansa and choose Alenka Bratusek to lead
a new government. Parliament’s Commission for Public Office and
Elections will meet for an extraordinary session at 9 a.m. in
Ljubljana on Feb. 27, according to the assembly’s website.  The benchmark  SBITOP stock index  fell 1.6 percent to 602.46
as of 4:37 p.m. in Ljubljana, the second-most in the world after
the Cyprus gauge, to its lowest since Dec. 11. Yields on
Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing in 2022 rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.238 percent at 4:41
p.m. in Ljubljana, the highest since Dec. 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;  Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  