-- Snowstorm Moving to Northeast After Halting Texas Travel
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-02-25T22:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/snowstorm-moving-to-northeast-after-halting-texas-travel.html
A winter storm that dropped 17
inches (43 centimeters) of snow in Amarillo,  Texas , closed
airports and shut highways will move across the Great Plains
toward Chicago and possibly Boston.  The storm is expected to head northeast, bringing heavy
snow to Kansas and Missouri overnight and as much as 8 inches to
Chicago starting tomorrow, said David Roth, a weather forecaster
with the U.S.  Hydrometeorological Prediction Center  in College
Park,  Maryland .  The heavy snow, the Plains’s second major storm in a week,
may help the region that has been struggling with one of the
worst droughts since the 1930s, Roth said.  “This snowpack is going to be great for them because it is
going to help the winter wheat,” Roth said. “Ultimately, this
will be a very good thing for the Great Plains even if it is a
significant nuisance right now.”  Wheat slid to an eight-month low in  Chicago  today on
speculation that the snow will help ease the dryness. Cattle
futures climbed on concern that the system will disrupt the
movement of animals and supplies.  The storm shut down Interstate 40 and several secondary
roads through the Texas Panhandle, according to the state
 Transportation Department’s  website. A blizzard warning
stretches from eastern  New Mexico  through Texas and into
Oklahoma and Kansas.  Survival Kits  “Falling and blowing snow with strong winds and poor
visibilities are likely,” the  National Weather Service  said.
“Do not travel. If you must, have a winter survival kit with
you.”  Storm warnings, watches and advisories reach into  Illinois ,
including Chicago, and Michigan, Indiana and Ohio.  Amarillo and Lubbock international airports shut. High
winds spawned by the system caused delays of almost 2.5 hours at
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, the  Federal Aviation
Administration  reported.  As of 4 p.m. Eastern time, 304 flights were canceled across
the U.S., with 106 of them into or out of Dallas-Fort Worth,
according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based airline tracking
company.  Roth said while the storm’s energy pushes snow through the
 Great Lakes  and into Ontario, a secondary system will develop in
 North Carolina  and move up the East Coast, bringing rain to
 Washington , Philadelphia and  New York  later this week. There may
be “measurable snow” in Boston in three days, he said.  Northeast Outlook  Interior regions of New York and New England may get 6 to 8
inches of snow starting late tomorrow, he said.  About 56 percent of the contiguous 48 states are affected
by the worst drought since the 1930s. The lack of moisture has
sent corn prices up and lowered Mississippi River levels and
threatens to persist into the coming planting season.  Heavy snow on the cusp of spring can help recharge soil
moisture if the water content is able seep into the soil rather
than just blow off frozen land, said Mark Svoboda of the
National Drought Mitigation center in Lincoln.  Since the U.S. wheat-growing region entered the growing
season at a deficit, the snow “is a good start but it isn’t a
one-off” that will erase the drought, Svoboda said. Soil
moisture was in good shape at the start of last year’s season
and then the drought came on hard and fast, he said.  Wheat Production  U.S. wheat production may decline 7.4 percent this year to
2.1 billion bushels as yields fall to 45.2 bushels an acre from
46.3 bushels, the Department of Agriculture projected Feb. 22.
 Kansas  and Oklahoma were last year’s biggest U.S. growers of
winter wheat, usually planted in the Plains beginning in
September. The crops will emerge from dormancy in the coming
month before harvesting starts in June.  The area of the country that will certainly see some relief
following the latest storms is the Southeast, which has been in
the grip of drought for almost three years, Svoboda said.  The snow is on the north and western side of a large low-
pressure system. To the south, heavy rain and severe
thunderstorms may break out across the U.S. Gulf Coast, the
weather service predicted.  At least one tornado was reported in  Florida , according to
the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma . Large hail
was also seen in Florida, Texas,  Arkansas  and  Louisiana .  A tornado watch was posted in Louisiana and Florida until
later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  