-- Soccer Body Gives Global Bans to Chinese Match-Fixing Officials
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-02-25T11:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/soccer-body-gives-global-bans-to-chinese-match-fixing-officials.html
FIFA, soccer’s global governing
body, gave worldwide bans to 58 people as part of an
investigation into match-fixing in  China .  The players and coaches, already suspended from soccer-
related activity in China, had the punishment extended world-
wide, FIFA said today in an e-mailed statement. Twenty-five
people were suspended for 5 years, while the remainder received
life-time bans, the body said. The Chinese Football Association,
or CFA, cooperated with the investigations.  “The CFA has emphasized its ongoing commitment to stamping
out all forms of match-fixing and corruption in the game,” FIFA
said today in the statement. “The CFA set up a special  task
force  consisting of members of the CFA disciplinary committee in
March 2012 to make recommendations based on the
investigations.”  Earlier this month, the Europol police agency said a
Singapore-based operation tried to fix games across  Europe ,
including  World Cup  and European Championship qualifiers, to
generate more than 8 million euros ($10.6 million) in profit. An
18-month investigation, Operation VETO, found 425 match
officials, club executives, players and criminals in 15
countries worked to cheat in more than 380 matches, with another
300 targeted in other regions.  The Chinese cases come from investigations and trials
conducted by local judicial authorities between 2010 and 2012
with the cooperation of the CFA. The cases involved relate to
match-fixing in the 1990s and early 2000s.  The sentencing of those convicted by Chinese authorities
ended the statutory appeal period for the original sentences
that they handed down in June 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  