-- Son Won’t Spend Dad’s $70 Million in ‘Blood Money’: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/son-won-t-spend-dad-s-70-million-in-blood-money-books.html
Being given $70 million probably
doesn’t do much to firm up a young man’s backbone. That’s how
much Hilly Wise, the narrator of  Stuart Nadler ’s novel “ Wise
Men ,” has in his bank account. Only he won’t touch it.  It came from his father, Arthur Wise, a big-shot litigator
who’s made a fortune on plane crashes, and Hilly regards it as
“blood money.” He rejects the gift and the giver without ever
ceasing to need them both.  Arthur, unlike the son, is a self-made man who belies the
stereotype of the East Coast liberal Jew. For one thing, he
isn’t liberal, as his ties to the Nixon administration suggest.  For another, he’s racist. He calls the family’s black
servant, Lem Dawson, “boy” to his face and worse behind his
back (and -- the year is 1952 -- pays him $8 a week).  So he isn’t thrilled when Hilly develops a crush on Lem’s
niece, Savannah.  “Wise Men” stretches out over more than six decades.
Nadler divides it into three parts: 1947-52, when Hilly is an
adolescent; 1972, when he’s 38; and the present, when he’s in
his 70s. Each part centers on an encounter between Hilly and his
lifelong obsession, Savannah.  When they first meet, he’s rich and she’s dirt poor. When
they see each other again, 20 years later, he’s even richer, but
he doesn’t want to be.  Saving People  Or rather, he does and he doesn’t. As Savannah notes, Hilly
is “always trying to save people,” and money would make that
ambition a lot easier to realize. Meanwhile, he’s scraping by,
his millions untouched, as a civil-rights reporter for a  Boston 
daily, with a nagging girlfriend who’s sick of debt and has none
of Hilly’s scruples about cashing in.  Yet Hilly doesn’t have the character to match his stern
conscience. His good intentions evaporate under pressure; his
urge to help can (and at least once does) lead to disaster.  Like Hilly, “Wise Men” sets itself admirable goals.
Nadler seeks to address American racism and the corrosive
effects of money via two characters, Hilly and Arthur, who are
both, for different reasons, unlikable.  And the author treats the reader as a grown-up. It isn’t
his place to call them to account, his plot suggests, but ours.  But “Wise Men” is a first novel, and Nadler’s reach
sometimes exceeds his grasp. While the  Balzacian  goal of showing
life in all its gaudy unfairness is a fine aspiration for young
novelists, if you’re not going to give the characters justice
then you need to offer the reader other satisfactions, like a
headlong plot or whipped-cream prose.  No Melodrama  Nadler writes modestly quiet, careful prose. As for plot,
at one point Savannah says, “Let’s avoid the melodrama,” and
Nadler seems to take her request more seriously than Hilly does.  The passions that really fuel this story explode offstage,
away from Hilly’s view. He spends his life in his father’s
shadow, and when at last, as an old man, he sits down to write
his memoirs, even then the real story turns out to be Arthur’s.  That complicated irony slices deeper than the easy irony of
the title.  “Wise Men” is published by Reagan Arthur/ Little, Brown (MMB) 
(335 pages, $25.99). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and Zinta
Lundborg on  music .  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 