-- Wheat Drops to 8-Month Low as Plains Snow to Ease Drought
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-25T20:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/soybeans-swing-between-gains-losses-on-record-u-s-crop-outlook.html
Wheat dropped to an eight-month low
on speculation that a snowstorm today in the U.S. Great Plains
will help ease drought conditions before crops emerge from
winter dormancy. Soybeans declined, while corn gained.  Parts of Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas are under a blizzard
warning, with some areas set to get as much as 15 inches (38
centimeters) of snow, T-Storm Weather LLC said in a report
today. While 91 percent of the central to northern Great Plains
was under moderate to exceptional drought as of Feb. 19,
according to the  U.S. Drought Monitor , the dry conditions are
ending with the second storm in a week, T-Storm Weather said.  “Heavy snowfall for the second time in a week is expected
to bring much needed moisture to dormant winter-wheat crops in
parched growing areas of the Plains,” Jim Gerlach, the
president of A/C Trading Co. in Fowler, Indiana, said in a
report.  Wheat futures for delivery in May fell 1.9 percent to close
at $7.0525 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
after touching $7.04, the lowest for a most-active contract
since June 25.  Kansas and Oklahoma were last year’s biggest U.S. growers
of winter wheat, usually planted in the Plains beginning in
September. The crops will emerge from dormancy in the coming
month before harvesting starts in June.  Argentina Rains  Weekend rains in Argentina may aid yield potential for corn
and soybeans, while drier weather will advance harvesting in
central and northern Brazil, reducing demand for U.S. supplies,
Gerlach said.  U.S. corn  inventories  before the 2014 harvest will triple
to the highest since 1988 as output jumps 35 percent to a record
following the worst drought in seven decades, the USDA said Feb.
22. Soybean production may rise 13 percent, doubling reserves
next year.  Soybean futures for delivery in May declined 0.6 percent to
$14.3525 a bushel in Chicago. Corn futures for delivery in May
rose 0.2 percent to $6.855 a bushel on the CBOT.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomber.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 