-- MStar Jumps With MediaTek on Merger Speculation
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-02-25T06:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/mstar-jumps-with-mediatek-on-merger-speculation-taipei-mover.html
(Corrects analyst name in third paragraph.)  Mstar Semiconductor Inc. (3697)  shares
surged the most in almost seven months on speculation Chinese
antitrust authorities may approve a merger with  MediaTek Inc. (2454)   MStar jumped 6.7 percent to close at NT$230 in Taipei, its
biggest gain since Aug. 1. MediaTek rose 3.1 percent to
NT$336.50, its highest close since Dec. 17. The benchmark  Taiex
index (TWSE)  retreated 0.5 percent.  “There’s speculation in the market China antitrust
authorities may approve the merger soon,” Wenwen Wang, an
analyst at Jih Sun Securities Co., said in a phone interview
from Taipei today. “This boosted the stocks, as the merger had
been delayed for some time because of their objection.”  The two companies, which together design more than 70
percent of the chips used in TVs globally, announced the plan in
June. They need antitrust approvals from China and South Korea
because the two countries account for a big portion of their
revenue and could threaten local industry, according to Vickie Hsieh, an analyst at President Capital Management Co. in Taipei.  Yao Jian, a spokesman at China’s Ministry of Commerce,
didn’t immediately answer a call to his office. MediaTek Chief
Financial Officer David Ku and public relations officers weren’t
able to comment because they were in meetings.  MStar Chief Financial Officer Lin Hanfei didn’t answer two
calls to his office. An official from the investor relations
office, who declined to be named because she’s not authorized to
speak to the press, said there’s no progress on the deal.  China accounts for about 60 percent to 70 percent of
MediaTek’s revenue and 50 percent of Mstar’s  revenue , Hsieh said
in a phone interview today. South Korea accounts for about 30
percent of Mstar’s sales, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  