-- Stocks in Switzerland Advance; Transocean, Roche Increase
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-25T11:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/stocks-in-switzerland-advance-transocean-holcim-climb.html
Swiss stocks  rose, after posting two
straight weeks of gains, as investors awaited early results from
Italian elections and speculation grew that Japan may appoint a
central bank chief who favors stimulus.  Transocean Ltd., the world’s largest offshore-rig
contractor, posted the best performance on the equity benchmark.
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the biggest cement maker, advanced after MainFirst
Bank AG recommended the shares.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the largest
maker of cancer drugs, added 1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  gained 0.5 percent to 7,595.1 at
11:58 a.m. in Zurich. The benchmark measure has jumped 11
percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise  federal budget  and the Swiss franc depreciated
against the euro. The broader Swiss Performance Index also added
0.5 percent today.  “The markets appear quite indifferent to political news at
the moment,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of investment
advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank in Brugg, Switzerland. “The
Italian election has been on everybody’s mind. Market
participants are probably prepared for all outcomes.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 24 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Election Results  Italians are voting to choose their next prime minister
amid a debate on the nation’s austerity program. Initial
estimates of the results of the two-day parliamentary elections
will be released after 3 p.m. in  Rome  today.  Incumbent  Mario Monti  and front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani
of the  Democratic Party  have vowed to continue with austerity,
while  Silvio Berlusconi  and Beppe Grillo have promised to
overturn tax increases.  In Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may nominate Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda as  Bank of Japan 
governor, a government official with knowledge of the
discussions said. Kuroda said earlier this month additional
monetary easing can be justified for 2013.  “Speculation on the next Bank of Japan appointment will
have markets cheering in the short-term, but looking beyond, an
expansionary monetary policy can’t cure the illnesses on a
sustainable basis,” said Giantiroglou.  Chinese Manufacturing  In China, manufacturing is expanding at the slowest pace in
four months, a private survey showed. The preliminary reading of
a  purchasing managers’ index  was 50.4 in February, according to
a statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  Transocean rose 1.6 percent to 49.77 francs, snapping three
days of losses.  Holcim increased 1 percent to 73.40 francs after MainFirst
raised the stock to outperform from neutral, meaning investors
should buy the stock.  Roche added 2.20 francs to 214.40 francs, contributing  the
most  to the SMI’s climb. The shares gained 1.5 percent on Friday
after the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Roche and
ImmunoGen Inc.’s breast-cancer therapy.  The approval is “an important milestone for Roche. It is a
further incremental step towards replacing the bestseller
breast-cancer treatment Herceptin before patent expiry in
2015-16,” Bank Sarasin & Cie. analyst David Kaegi, who has a
buy rating on the stock, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  