-- Storm Seen Easing Drought for Moisture-Starved U.S. Wheat
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-02-26T13:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/storm-seen-easing-drought-for-moisture-starved-u-s-wheat-crops.html
The second major snowstorm in a week
for the southern Great Plains is delivering moisture to U.S.
wheat crops that went dormant in November in the worst condition
since at least 1985 because of a drought.  More than a foot (30 centimeters) of snow was expected to
fall in parts of the region, four days after a storm brought as
much as 20 inches, National Weather Service data show. The
precipitation may boost crop prospects in areas where fields
have deteriorated after the most-severe drought since the 1930s,
said Kim Anderson, an agronomist at  Oklahoma  State University.  “It won’t break the drought, but this storm will be enough
to get wheat that’s established up and out of the ground and set
it up for the rest of the year,” Anderson said in a telephone
interview from Stillwater, Oklahoma.  Many areas of the Plains face exceptional-drought
conditions, which signal crop losses and water emergencies,
according to the government. Winter wheat, a variety that
accounts for more than 70 percent of total U.S. production, has
been dormant since about November and will resume growth in
March and April. The crop is mostly harvested in June. Prices
surged 19 percent last year.  Since the end of December, wheat futures on the Chicago
Board of Trade have dropped 9.3 percent. The price for May
delivery was little changed at $7.0525 a bushel today after
touching $6.9775, the lowest for a most-active contract since
June 25.  Storm Updates  Power outages occurred in Columbia,  Missouri , and three
inches of snow fell in half an hour in western  Illinois ,
 Accuweather.com  reported on its website today. The 19 inches of
snow that fell in Amarillo,  Texas , was the snowiest day ever,
beating 18.1 inches that fell on March 25, 1934, it said.  Wheat conditions in  Kansas  improved in February because of
snow, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday. The
 crop  was rated 23 percent good or excellent as of yesterday, up
from 20 percent at the end of  January .  Each foot of snow means about an inch of moisture for
plants, according to Kansas State University agronomist Jim Shroyer.  The storms will improve prospects for hard-red winter
wheat, grown from Kansas through Texas and used to make bread,
said  Bryce Anderson , a senior agricultural meteorologist at
Telvent DTN in Omaha,  Nebraska . Soft-red winter varieties used
in cakes and cookies are planted in the eastern Midwest.  Last Storm  More rain will be needed in March and April to boost
plants, Anderson said. Today’s snow may be the last major storm
for the region through April as forecasts call for conditions to
be drier than normal, Anderson said in a telephone interview.  “They’re going to need more spring precipitation to truly
improve things because the wheat in the southern Plains went
into the winter on the dry side,” Anderson said. “For the next
month to two months, it still looks like they’re going to be on
a below-normal tract on the moisture scene.”  The latest storm poses a risk for livestock because
freezing weather and strong winds can kill young animals, said
 Jason Britt , the president of Central States Commodities Inc., a
brokerage in  Kansas City , Missouri. Cattle futures fell 0.2
percent today on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  “The cattle guys are pretty nervous because they’ve lost
some calves,” Britt said in a telephone interview. “Most of
the time the cattle can handle it, but they don’t do too well
with a foot or two of snow.”  Blowing Dust  As much as 40 percent of crops in some southern Kansas and
northern Oklahoma fields didn’t emerge from the ground after
planting because of the severity of the drought. High winds that
accompanied the dry weather caused blowing dust and closed roads
in scenes reminiscent of the 1930s Dust Bowl era.  The prospect of water from the snowstorms has made farmers
more optimistic for improved yields, Britt said.  “It’s not going to alleviate all concerns that the drought
is over, but you have to wonder when you get these back-to-back
storms if the weather patterns aren’t changing,” he said. It’s
not a cure-all because some of the wheat isn’t coming back, but
it’s definitely beneficial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  