-- Swansea Routs Bradford in League Cup Final for First Major Title
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-02-25T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/swansea-routs-bradford-in-league-cup-final-for-first-major-title.html
Swansea City secured the first major
trophy in its 101-year history by routing Bradford City 5-0 in
English soccer’s League Cup final.  Nathan Dyer and Jonathan de Guzman each got two goals and
Michu also scored for Premier League Swansea at  London ’s Wembley
stadium yesterday. Bradford, which became the first fourth-tier
club to appear in a major Wembley final, had goalkeeper Matt
Duke red-carded when 3-0 down.  Swansea’s breakthrough, which qualifies it for next
season’s Europa League, came a decade after the Welsh club
almost went out of business as it struggled to stay in the
Football League. The 5-0 scoreline was the biggest winning
margin for the competition’s final.  “It was a great performance,” Swansea manager Michael Laudrup, who won the European Cup with Barcelona in 1992, told
Sky Sports. “As a manager it’s absolutely at the top, winning a
trophy for the first time in 100 years. The first trophy is
always special, and now next year in  Europe . It’s a nice
experience.”  Swansea, founded in 1912, was making its first appearance
in a major final and dominated the game with intricate passing.
The Swans opened the scoring in the 16th minute when Duke could
only parry Michu’s shot and Dyer tapped the ball into the net.  Michu made it 2-0 five minutes before halftime, taking
advantage of loose marking to prod the ball through Carl
McHugh’s legs and past Duke. It was his 19th goal of the season
after signing from Spanish club Rayo Vallecano.  Dyer put Swansea 3-0 up in the opening minutes of the
second half when he cut in from the right and curled a shot into
the far corner.  Red Card  Bradford then went a man down after Duke tripped De Guzman,
earning a red card and conceding a penalty. Dyer argued that he
should have a chance to complete his hat trick, though De Guzman
insisted on taking the spot kick and converted past substitute
goalkeeper Jon McLaughlin in the 59th minute. He then added the
fifth goal in stoppage time.  So great was Swansea’s dominance that the game was more
than 80 minutes old before League Two team Bradford won a corner
kick, sparking huge cheers from its supporters.  “When you are 3-0 up and with confidence like that you see
the difference from a Premier League side and League Two,”
added Laudrup, who succeeded Brendan Rodgers as manager last
year when he switched to Liverpool. “I have to say what
Bradford have done this season is impressive, although it is
also impressive what we have done.”  Bradford’s Run  Swansea, which was promoted to  England ’s elite division in
2011, beat Chelsea in the semifinal. Bradford upset Premier
League trio Wigan, Arsenal and Aston Villa on its way to the
final. The club’s only major trophy was the F.A. Cup in 1911.  “We would love to have made more of a game of it,”
Bradford manager Phil Parkinson said. “Conceding the goals when
we did made it really difficult for ourselves. They’re a good
side and things didn’t quite go our way, to put it mildly.”  Rochdale is the only other club to reach a major English
Cup final while in the fourth level. It lost to Norwich in 1962
when the League Cup final was contested over two games.  While Swansea has played in Europe before as the Welsh Cup
champion, this will be its first time as winner of a major
English competition.  Swansea and Bradford have both recovered from financial
crises in recent years. Swansea almost went out of business and
narrowly avoided dropping out of the Football League in 2003,
surviving with a win over Hull City on the final day of the
season. Bradford had two spells in administration, a form of
protection from creditors, after relegation from the Premier
League in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser 
 celser@bloomberg.net  