-- U.K. Data Must Improve After Criticism, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/u-k-data-must-improve-after-criticism-lawmakers-say.html
The quality of U.K. government data
must be improved, lawmakers said, after the Bank of England and
the  Office for Budget Responsibility  rated the standard of
figures from the  Office for National Statistics  as “poor.”  The misuse of statistics by ministers, the early release of
data to the government and the publication of information that
has not been “quality-assured” risk undermining public
confidence in the  U.K. Statistics Authority , the cross-party
Public Administration Committee said in a report published in
 London  today.  “Public confidence in the information produced by
government is vitally important to an effective democracy,” the
committee chairman, Conservative lawmaker Bernard Jenkin, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The Statistics Authority must be and
be seen to be an effective, independent watchdog able to ensure
statistics are produced efficiently and to a set standard.”  Delays in publication, gaps in data and errors caused by
switching to a new website led the  Bank of England  to rate the
ONS as “poor” in a survey included as part of the Statistics
Authority’s  submission  to the committee.  “Given the national accounts’ particular importance to us,
this year’s Blue-Book problems have weighed heavily on the
bank’s overall assessment,” the bank said in the survey,
referring the annual statistics publication. “The consistency
of long-run datasets remains a concern -- in particular, GDP has
been deflated using the new methodology only from 1997.”  Andrew Dilnot, the chairman of the Statistics Authority,
should also be encouraged to continue the work of his
predecessor, Michael Scholar, by intervening publicly when
ministers misuse statistics, the panel said.  Dilnot corrected Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s misuse of
the terms debt and deficit on Feb. 1 and criticized Health
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt ’s use of “research” in December last
year. Scholar warned Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith in January 2012 over his department’s use of data on
foreign claimants of state benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  