-- U.K. Stocks Climb as Investors Assess Italian Polls
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-25T16:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/u-k-stocks-climb-for-a-second-day-as-bp-shares-advance.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for a second day
as investors assessed conflicting polls for evidence that  Italy 
will get a government committed to economic reform, while
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Britain’s debt rating.  BP climbed 1.6 percent after a report that the U.S. Justice
Department and the states of Alabama and  Louisiana  have
considered settling claims stemming from the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill in 2010. Antofagasta gained 3 percent after Bank of
America Corp. recommended buying the shares.  Pearson Plc (PSON)  tumbled
the most in seven months after predicting its operating profit
will stagnate in 2013.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  increased 19.67 points, or 0.3 percent, to
6,355.37 at the close in  London , after earlier rising as much as
0.9 percent. The equity benchmark is still headed for its ninth
consecutive monthly advance, its longest stretch of gains since
1997. The gauge has  rallied 7.8 percent  this year after U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a compromise  federal budget . The broader
FTSE All-Share Index also added 0.3 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 0.4 percent.  “The risk of a hung parliament where Bersani and Monti win
the lower house, but not the senate is high,”  Alberto Gallo ,
head of European macro credit research at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, wrote in a note before the senate poll. “A hung parliament
would be a strong negative for the market, as the senate can
virtually block any key laws passed in the lower house. Both a
hung parliament and a weak majority could generate a period of
political instability.”  Italy’s Election  Berlusconi’s People of Freedom and the allied Northern
League may win the largest share of the vote in an election for
Italy’s senate or upper house, according to a survey by Istituto
Piepoli for RAI, the country’s public broadcaster.  Italians voted in a parliamentary election yesterday and
today that was called after Mario Monti decided to stand down as
prime minister. Pier Luigi Bersani of the Democratic Party will
probably win the lower house, according to a SkyTG24 Tecne poll.
Bersani, an ex-communist, and Monti have both vowed to maintain
budget rigor, while Silvio Berlusconi and Beppe Grillo have
promised to reverse tax increases. The Interior Ministry will
release the official results later today.  The U.K.’s credit rating was lowered one level to Aa1 from
Aaa and the outlook on the nation’s debt changed to stable from
negative, Moody’s said in a statement late on Feb. 22. The
government will probably fail to reverse its deteriorating
balance sheet before 2016, the company said.  The downgrade may reinforce policy makers’ tolerance for a
weaker pound and their willingness to continue stimulus through
monetary easing, Citigroup Inc. U.K. economist Michael Saunders
wrote in a note.  BP, Antofagasta  BP, the owner of the Macondo well that blew up in 2010,
gained 7.1 pence to 451.2 pence. The Justice Department and the
states along the Gulf of Mexico may offer BP $16 billion to
settle the civil claims related to the world’s largest
accidental oil spill, the Wall Street Journal reported late on
Feb. 22, citing people familiar with the talks.  Antofagasta, the copper company controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, rose 33 pence to 1,117 pence. Bank of America
raised its rating on the stock to buy from neutral, with
analysts led by Jason Fairclough saying the group has retained
its focus on value and cash returns. The shares have still
dropped 16 percent this year.  Senior, Pearson  Senior Plc (SNR) , a British maker of parts for planes, advanced
7.1 percent to 237 pence, its highest price since at least 1991.
Adjusted pretax profit climbed to 91.1 million pounds ($138
million) in 2012 from 78 million pounds a year earlier, the
Rickmansworth, England-based company said. Sales increased 14
percent to 729.8 million pounds.  Elan Corp. rallied 6.9 percent to 8.52 euros in Dublin
after RP Management LLC offered to buy the Irish drugmaker for
about $6.5 billion. The New York-based company invests in
drugmakers that generate royalty payments.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  added 2.8 percent to 354.8
pence. The U.K.’s biggest government-backed lender may sell a 15
percent to 25 percent stake in Citizens Financial Group Inc.
through an initial public offering, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The bank may announce its plan when it
reports full-year earnings on Feb. 28., the person said.  Pearson lost 3.7 percent to 1,171 pence after saying
adjusted operating profit fell to 936 million pounds in 2012
from 942 million pounds a year earlier. The company also said it
will have about 150 million pounds of restructuring costs in
2013. The publisher of the Financial Times newspaper added that
adjusted operating profit at the FT Group dropped 36 percent
last year.  “The FT is a valued and valuable part of the business,”
Chief Executive Officer John Fallon said on a conference call
today. “There is no process and no conversations about the sale
of the FT.”  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  dropped 3 percent to 4,381
pence, its biggest retreat since May. The Slough, England-based
drugmaker said it will face competition to its Suboxone heroin-
dependency treatment after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approved two generic variants of the drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  