-- U.K. Starts Process to Replace Libor Operator After Scandal
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-02-25T14:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/u-k-starts-process-to-replace-libor-operator-after-scandal.html
The U.K. government formally started
the search for a replacement body to oversee the London
interbank offered rate as it tries to restore credibility to a
benchmark tainted by scandal.  A seven-member panel including Sarah Hogg, chairman of the
Financial Reporting Council, the Financial Services Authority’s
Martin Wheatley, and the Bank of England’s  Paul Fisher  will
recommend a new administrator this year, the Treasury said in a
statement on its website today. Members of the British Bankers’
Association, the lobby group that created the benchmark in 1986,
voted earlier today to relinquish oversight of Libor.  Wheatley recommended in September the BBA should be
stripped of responsibility for the benchmark rate for more than
$300 trillion of securities after regulators found firms had
tried to manipulate the gauge.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  have been fined more than $2.5
billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators for rate-rigging, and more
than a dozen more firms are still being probed.  “The government is determined to rebuild the reputation of
U.K. financial services,” Treasury minister Greg Clark said in
the statement. “The committee will follow the principles laid
out by the Wheatley Review and recommend an organization that
displays the highest standards of transparency and probity to
administer Libor.”  The other members of the panel are: George Handjinicolaou,
deputy chief executive officer of the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association; John Kingman, second permanent
secretary at the Treasury;  John Stewart , chairman of  Legal &
General Group Plc (LGEN) ; and Colin Tyler, CEO of the Association of
Corporate Treasurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  