-- U.K. University Cancels U.A.E. Conference Citing Curbs
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-25T14:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/u-k-university-cancels-u-a-e-conference-citing-curbs.html
A conference in the  United Arab
Emirates  on the Arab Spring organized by British and U.S.
universities was canceled amid complaints about restrictions
imposed by the authorities.  The event, organized by the  London School  of Economics and
the American University of Sharjah, on “The  Middle East :
Transition in the Arab World,” was due to take place yesterday.
Academics from around the world were set to present papers and
debate the causes of the 2011 uprisings, according to a press
release issued by the American University earlier this month.  The decision to cancel the conference “was made in
response to restrictions imposed on the intellectual content of
the event that threatened academic freedom,” the LSE said in an
e-mailed statement today.  Kristian Coates Ulrichsen, an associate fellow of the
London-based  Chatham House  who was due to present a paper on
Bahrain at the conference, was stopped by U.A.E. officials at
the airport and sent back to London. The official WAM news
agency said Ulrichsen was denied entry because he “has
consistently propagated” views against Bahrain’s government,
citing a statement by the by the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs .  Bahrain cracked down on protests led by the Shiite
community in 2011 as they called for greater democracy and more
rights in the Persian Gulf island nation. The protests left
dozens dead and the economy growing at the slowest pace in 17
years. The Bahrain government has accused members of the Shiite
Muslim majority of resorting to violence and says they receive
encouragement from co-religionists in  Iran . They deny this.  Troops Sent  The members of the Gulf Cooperation Council have backed
Bahrain’s monarch in response to the protests.  Saudi Arabia  and
other members of the GCC sent troops to neighboring Bahrain in
March 2011 to help crush a mainly Shiite-led uprising.  “At this extremely sensitive juncture in Bahrain’s
national dialogue it would be unhelpful to allow non-
constructive views on the situation in Bahrain to be expressed
from within another GCC state,” WAM said, citing the statement.  Academic freedom is not formally restricted in Bahrain but
teachers and professors have tended to avoid sensitive issues
and scholars who criticize the government are subject to
dismissal, according to Freedom House, a research organization
which monitors democracy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  