-- U.S. Refiners May Use RINs to Meet Requirement on Biofuel Use
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-02-25T14:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/u-s-refiners-may-use-rins-to-meet-requirement-on-biofuel-use.html
U.S. oil refiners may draw from a
reserve of 2.5 billion Renewable Identification Numbers that
they’ve banked in previous years to meet federal requirements
for the amount of ethanol they blend into gasoline this year.  Blenders can use as much as 20 percent of the current
year’s volume of the RINs to meet the Environmental Protection
Agency’s Renewable Fuel Standard set out in 2007, according to a
report released today by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  RINs represent the mechanism the EPA uses to ensure
companies comply with the rules, which are aimed at promoting
the use of biofuels that substitute for oil and help reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. Refiners have been authorized to bank
RINs accrued in previous years and may use them this year to
meet the mandate, the London-based researcher said.  “The biofuels sector faces difficult choices”, said
Alejandro Zamorano Cadavid, U.S. analyst for biofuels at New
Energy Finance. “Corn ethanol use has expanded rapidly in the
U.S. as an oxygenate in gasoline. But this year, biofuels must
by law play a significantly bigger role in the U.S. transport
sector, and that is raising significant challenges.”  The report said two of the EPA’s rules will collide this
year, giving refiners few options on how to comply with the law.
New Energy Finance estimated the industry will be able to
produce about 13.4 billion gallons of ethanol this year. That’s
almost the same as the 13.8 billion gallon mandate under the
Renewable Fuel Standard. It’s also about the same as the maximum
permitted to be mixed into gasoline.  Legal Requirements  Blenders seeking to comply with the law can either use more
ethanol in their fuels or spend RINs they banked in previous
years. The law requires oil refiners to blend 36 billion gallons
of biofuels a year with their products by 2022. If a company
hasn’t blended enough, it can buy RINS from another company that
has surpassed its requirement that year.  Ethanol cost about 50 cents less than gasoline per gallon
in the U.S. on average last year, encouraging refiners to use as
much as they can. Because most  car engines  aren’t designed to
run on ethanol, the government limits its usage in fuels.  “At $2.51 a gallon, ethanol is very cheap right now,
cheaper than gasoline,” Cadavid wrote in the report. “This
discount existed throughout most of the past decade” because of
a tax credit designed to encourage ethanol use.  The EPA estimates that there are about 2.5 billion banked
RINS that may be used this year, New Energy Finance said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  