-- U.S. Corporate Credit-Default Swaps Rise the Most in Three Weeks
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-25T21:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-drop-before-italian-election-results.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk advanced the most in three weeks amid concern that  Italy 
may be left without a stable government and may need another
election.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
3.7 basis points to a mid-price of 90.1 basis points at 4:08
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest intraday gain since Feb. 4, when the measure
jumped 4.2 basis points.  Partial election results suggested former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  may have built a blocking minority in the
Senate to deny outright victory to Pier Luigi Bersani. Bersani,
who led in opinion polls throughout the two-month race,
campaigned to maintain the budget rigor of outgoing Prime
Minister  Mario Monti . The instability may stoke concern that the
government will move away from austerity plans.  “Investors are definitely concerned about the Italian
elections; Berlusconi seems to be leading now in the Senate and
he can create pro-austerity coalition problems, pushing yields
higher.”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategy at
New York-based GMP Securities LLC, said in a telephone
interview.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Election Results  Front-runner Bersani of the  Democratic Party  has vowed to
continue the austerity program, while Berlusconi and Beppe
Grillo have promised to overturn tax increases.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 15.5 basis points to 450.7 basis points, the
highest level in three weeks, Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt widened 4.3 basis points to 507.3 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  