-- Iran Urged to Move Toward Nuclear Deal by U.S., Partners
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-02-26T10:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/u-s-allies-said-to-offer-iran-new-elements-at-nuclear-talks.html
The U.S. and its partners are urging
 Iran  to curb its nuclear activities in exchange for an offer
that would ease banking, petrochemical and gold sanctions,
according to two officials close to negotiations aimed at
addressing international concerns about the Islamic Republic’s
atomic ambitions.  In exchange for limited sanctions relief, Iran must agree
to cease its output of 20 percent enriched uranium at
negotiations that started today in Almaty,  Kazakhstan . Iran
considers an offer along these lines to be unbalanced and is
preparing its own updated counterproposal, according to the
officials.  After a hiatus in talks that stalled last June, Iran
resumed negotiations with six world powers -- the U.S., Britain,
 France ,  Germany ,  China  and  Russia . The group is seeking an
eventual long-term agreement that will lead to the lifting of
sanctions imposed on the Persian Gulf state if it abandons
illicit nuclear activities. Iran’s counteroffer resembles a
proposal made at the last round of talks in Moscow, though it
responds to some concerns from the group of powers, the
officials said.  “We have come here with a revised offer and we have come
to engage with Iran in a meaningful way,”  Catherine Ashton , the
European Union’s foreign-policy chief who serves as lead
negotiator for the six partners, said before the start of talks
today. The six powers want to see a “good and detailed
conversation, with the ambition that we see progress by the end
of the meeting.”  Listening Mode  Iranian officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to comment publicly, said they
had returned to talks in a listening mode. Iran will reject any
offer that doesn’t recognize what they state is their nation’s
right under international treaty to enrich uranium for peaceful
civilian use, the officials said.  One wild card that might signal an opening is the
possibility of a direct meeting between the U.S. and Iran on the
sidelines of the group gathering. The last time that happened
was in October 2009 in a Geneva round of negotiations.  “For several years before 2009, Iranian officials
frequently claimed that the nuclear impasse could be quickly
resolved if only the U.S. and Iran could hold bilateral talks,”
said Patrick Clawson, a Mideast scholar and director of research
at the  Washington  Institute for Near East Policy. “Then when
the U.S. agreed to such talks, Iran lost interest.”  Credible, Rational  The pre-talks jockeying gave no indication whether
differences had narrowed heading into this round. The Iran
negotiating team is expecting a “credible and rational
response,” and any agreement should be “step by step,”
Iranian state television reported today.  Ashton’s spokesman,  Michael Mann , said the six partners
have prepared “a good and updated offer” that is a “balanced
and a fair basis for constructive talks.” It addresses
international concerns that Iran may be seeking a covert
nuclear-weapons capability, while also being “responsive to
Iranian ideas” presented at three rounds of talks from April to
June last year that failed to achieve a deal, he said.  Both sides will need time to consider the other’s offers
and, while talks may extend into a second day, no major
breakthrough is expected this week, nor are bilateral talks very
likely, diplomats from three countries said.  Path Forward  The message to Iran before today’s talks is that there’s a
path forward to lift sanctions that have reduced the Persian
Gulf nation’s average monthly  oil  exports by half since last
July and sent its currency plunging, according to U.S. officials
who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the
issue.  In  London , U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said
yesterday that a “window for a diplomatic solution is open,”
and urged Iran to “negotiate in good faith.” At a news
conference, Kerry and U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
expressed determination to prevent Iran getting nuclear weapons,
a potential development that Kerry called “simply
unacceptable.”  West Texas Intermediate oil slipped following Kerry’s
comments and as the euro reversed gains against the dollar. WTI
for April delivery was down 90 cents, or 1 percent, at $92.21 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange decreased as much as $1.14, or 1
percent, to $113.30 a barrel. Iran was tied with the  United Arab
Emirates  last month as the No. 5 producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  20% Uranium  To start earning relief from sanctions, the officials
involved in the talks said, Iran must be prepared to abandon its
enrichment of uranium to 20 percent purity, which puts it closer
to producing bomb-grade fuel if it chooses to do so. Iran says
its nuclear program is for civilian energy and medical research.
The U.S. and its allies suspect it is also a cover for a covert
atomic-weapons program.  The six powers won’t consider a full lifting of sanctions
as proposed by the Iranian side, and instead would like to see
step-by-step equivalent actions taken by both sides, U.S. and
Western diplomats said. If Iran refuses to take the first step
toward an eventual deal, more sanctions will be imposed,
officials said.  U.S. Offer  Vice President  Joe Biden  reiterated recently that the U.S.
is willing to talk directly with Iran about both sides’
concerns. Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  publicly
appeared to brush off the offer, saying Iran wouldn’t negotiate
with a gun to its head, a reference to dozens of sanctions on
Iranian oil, banking, shipping and trade imposed by the U.S. and
the EU since late 2011.  U.S. officials said yesterday the offer to meet directly
remains on the table, though it was unclear if Iranian
negotiators would choose to do so.  The perennial challenge in dealing with Tehran “is that
the Iranian officials who want to talk to America can’t deliver,
and those who can deliver don’t want to talk,”  Karim Sadjadpour , a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Washington, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Almaty, Kazakhstan at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  