-- U.S. February Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-02-25T15:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/u-s-february-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Texas manufacturing activity from the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Dallas .  Texas factory activity expanded in February, according to
business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing
Outlook Survey. The production index, a key measure of state
manufacturing conditions, fell from 12.9 to 6.2, suggesting
growth continued but at a slower pace.  Other measures of current manufacturing activity also
indicated slower growth in February. The new orders index was
positive for the second month in a row, although it fell from
12.2 to 2.8. The capacity utilization index declined from 14.0
to 5.4, suggesting utilization rates increased less than last
month. The shipments index plunged almost 20 points but stayed
in positive territory, indicating slightly higher shipments in
February.  Perceptions of broader economic conditions improved a bit
in February. The general business activity index was positive
for the third month in a row, although it dipped from 5.5 to
2.2. The company outlook index was also positive for a third
consecutive month, but it fell from 12.6 to 6.3.  Labor market indicators were mixed in February. Hiring
slowed with the employment index moving down to 2.0, and about
17 percent of employers reporting hiring and 15 percent noting
layoffs. The average workweek index dipped into negative
territory with a reading of -3.0, suggesting hours worked
declined.  Price and wage pressures diminished in February. The raw
materials price index came in at 15.8, down from 27.8 in
January. The finished goods price index dropped from 10.2 to
4.6. The wages and benefits index fell to 12.9, indicating wages
rose at a slower pace. Still, the great majority of
manufacturers continued to note no change in compensation costs.
Looking ahead, 42 percent of respondents anticipate further
increases in raw materials prices over the next six months,
while 23 percent expect higher finished goods prices.  Expectations regarding future business conditions continued
to reflect optimism. The index of future general business
activity edged up from 9.2 to 10.8. The index of future company
outlook remained unchanged at 20.1. Indexes for future
manufacturing activity fell, but remained in solid positive
territory this month.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook
Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state’s
factory activity. Data were collected Feb. 12-20, and 95 Texas
manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether
output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators
increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous
month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each
indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the
percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the
percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms
reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease,
the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator
has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase,
the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has
decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the
number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of
firms reporting a decrease. Data have been seasonally adjusted
as necessary.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
 