-- Ukraine Faces EU Reform Deadline as Key to Association Pact
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-02-25T17:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/ukraine-faces-eu-reform-deadline-as-key-to-association-pact-1-.html
The European Union set a three-month
deadline for Ukraine to carry out changes to its justice and
electoral systems in order to qualify for a free-trade
agreement.  The 27-nation EU renewed its commitment to provide Ukraine
with 610 million euros ($805 million) of aid, contingent on the
former Soviet republic reaching an assistance agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund , according to a  statement  issued in
Brussels today after an EU-Ukraine summit.  Ukraine, which resumes talks with the IMF next month on a
third bailout since 2008, faces a shrinking economy and $10
billion of debt payments scheduled this year. The economy is in
a recession after contracting 0.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  The EU “is very much committed to Ukraine’s economic
growth and modernization, and we are aware of the economic
challenges facing the country,” European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  said after talks with President  Viktor Yanukovych .
The promised EU aid is the largest such package ever “and
represents a clear demonstration of our support to Ukraine’s
prosperity,” Barroso  said .  The EU postponed a so-called association agreement,
including a free-trade area, with Ukraine after former Prime
Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  was jailed in a case many in the bloc
see as politically motivated. Yanukovych has pledged to resolve
the issue, though prosecutors threatened last month to imprison
her for life for alleged murder.  ‘Concrete Progress’  “We raised our continued concern over the cases of
selective justice,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said after
talks with Yanukovych. “Systemic reform of the judicial system
is also crucial to ensure that there will be no recurrence of
selective justice.”  The EU seeks “concrete progress” from Ukraine by early
May on selective justice as well as electoral and political
changes, according to a  joint statement  issued after the summit.  “Some steps have been taken, but we still need to see more
and concrete progress,”  Van Rompuy  said. “I have underlined
the European Union’s call for determined action and tangible
progress in these areas at the latest by May. Progress in these
areas is realistic and feasible but the time is very short.”  Yanukovych said Ukraine will “do its best” to satisfy the
EU’s requirements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  