-- Hungary Cuts Main Rate to Record Low to Fight Recession
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-26T16:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/hungary-to-cut-main-rate-to-record-low-to-fight-recession.html
Hungary’s central bank cut its main
 interest rate  for a seventh month to a record low as policy
makers vowed further monetary easing to fight a recession at
President Andras Simor’s final meeting on borrowing costs.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the two-week deposit rate
by a quarter-point to 5.25 percent, matching the level from
April to October 2010 and in line with the forecast of all 26
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The bank voted in a “tight”
decision over a proposal for unchanged rates, said Simor, whose
six-year term ends March 3.  Hungary slipped deeper into recession in the fourth quarter
as the fading effect of higher taxes slowed price increases,
boosting the case to continue cutting the European Union’s
highest benchmark rate. Simor and his two deputies have opposed
the easing, citing the need to fight inflation that’s faster
than the central bank’s 3 percent target. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has said he’ll name Simor’s successor March 1.  “The impending change at the helm of Hungary’s central
bank will lead to further cuts in interest rates over the coming
months,”  Neil Shearing  and  William Jackson , London-based
economists at Capital Economics Inc., said in an e-mailed note
today. “The scope for easing will be determined in large part
by whether global risk appetite holds up.”  Currency Weakens  The forint dropped to a three-week low of 295.26 per euro
at 4:55 p.m. in Budapest, down 0.6 percent from yesterday. The
yield on the government bond maturing in 2023 rose four basis
points to 6.26 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Eastern European central banks are easing policy to boost
their economies, weakened by their biggest trading partner, the
debt-stricken euro area.  Poland lowered its  main rate  by a quarter-point to 3.75
percent on Feb. 6, the fourth straight cut. The Ceska Narodni
Banka has left the  two-week repurchase rate  at 0.05 percent
since November, keeping it almost three-quarters of a percentage
point below the euro-area benchmark.  Hungary ’s main rate matches
 Romania ’s for the EU’s highest.  In Hungary, weak domestic demand is exerting “strong
disinflationary” pressure, while a “favorable” global market
environment may lead to a “sustained” drop in local asset
prices, the Monetary Council said in a statement after the rate
decision. The  inflation rate  fell to 3.7 percent in January, the
lowest since September 2011.  ‘Looser Conditions’  “The inflation target can be met even with looser monetary
conditions,” the Monetary Council said. “The Council will
consider a further reduction in the policy rate if the medium-
term outlook for inflation remains consistent with the bank’s 3
percent target and the improvement in financial  market sentiment 
is sustained.”  The market “appears to have priced in” that Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  will take over as central bank
president next week, K&H Alapkezelo, the Budapest-based fund
management unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , which manages $3.5 billion,
said in an e-mail yesterday. That, coupled with further rate
cuts, may keep the forint near 300 per euro in the first half of
the year, K&H said.  Matolcsy will succeed Simor as MNB president, Nepszabadsag
newspaper reported today, citing unidentified government
sources. Orban yesterday told HirTV that he won’t shuffle his
Cabinet, without saying whether that rules out Matolcsy for the
central bank position.  ‘Weaken Substantially’  Investors expect the main rate to fall to 4.25 percent,
Zsolt Kondrat, a Budapest-based economist at Bayerische
Landeskbank’s MKB unit, said an e-mail today, adding that “no
tangible effect” may be exerted on lending and growth.  “Risks are that the easing cycle will continue until the
 exchange rate  starts to weaken substantially,” Kondrat said.  Matolcsy spearheaded Hungary’s self-described unorthodox
policies, such as the effective nationalization of privately
managed pension-fund assets and the use of retroactive industry
taxes, to keep the  budget deficit  within 3 percent of economic
output and to lower government debt.  The measures contributed to a drop in lending and
investment as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed export demand. GDP 
shrank 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter, the deepest slump in
three years, while the economy contracted 1.7 percent in 2012,
the statistics office said Feb. 14.  Conflicting Forecasts  Hungary’s economy may contract 0.1 percent this year, the
European Commission said last week. The government forecasts
growth of 0.9 percent.  “There are excessive expectations on what central banks
can achieve for the economy,” Simor said today. “The central
bank has been cutting interest rates for more than six months
and there is no trend-like change in lending.”  Matolcsy called in December for the “brave” use of
unorthodox policies at the central bank to kickstart growth,
before saying a month later that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank should
follow a “conservative” policy course and avoid “surprises.”  The new central bank leadership may try to boost lending by
offering funds at preferential rates to banks or limiting the
amount commercial banks can hold in two-week deposits at the
MNB, London-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  economist Pasquale Diana said
yesterday in a report after meeting officials in Budapest.  Lenders may also receive tax breaks from Europe’s highest
bank levy to boost credit, Diana said. A weaker forint by itself
is unlikely to stop rate cuts as policy makers are also
considering credit-default swap levels and  bond market 
developments in their risk metrics, he said.  The central bank may need to act as a “domestic buyer of
last resort” in case of dislocations in the local bond market
should Orban return to “unorthodox” policies before the run-up
to 2014 elections, damaging investor confidence, Diana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  