-- Hungary Yields Drop to Six-Week Low Before Central Bank Meeting
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-25T14:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/hungary-yields-drop-to-six-week-low-before-central-bank-meeting.html
Hungary’s 10-year bond yields
dropped to the lowest in more six weeks on speculation central
bank policy makers meeting tomorrow will extend half a year of
consecutive interest rate cuts.  Borrowing costs have fallen as traders increased bets the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank will carry on its monetary easing cycle.
Central bank President Andras Simor, whose term ends this week,
has opposed lowering rates and has been outvoted each month
since August by four Monetary Council members appointed by the
ruling Fidesz party. Simor’s two deputies are also set to leave
office in March and July respectively.  “This dovish dynamic is only set to intensify as the
remaining ‘internal’ members are replaced by government
appointed sympathisers,” Christian Lawrence, a London-based
strategist at Rabobank International, wrote in an e-mailed
report today.  Ten-year yields declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.234 percent by 3:19 p.m. in Budapest, the
lowest since Jan. 10. The forint was steady at 293.7 per euro
after weakening 0.8 percent so far this year.  Policy makers will cut rates by 25 basis points to 5.25
percent tomorrow, according to all 26 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  Forward-rate agreements fixing interest in one month fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage points, to 5.21 percent.
The FRA contracts traded 20 basis points below the Budapest
Interbank Offered Rate. Twelve-month FRA contracts fell two
basis points to 4.31 percent.  “A 4 percent rate is probably the lowest the NBH would go
to, even under an ideal scenario,” Pasquale Diana, a London-
based economist at Morgan Stanley, wrote in an e-mailed report
today after meeting central bank officials in Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  