-- Vietnam’s Trade Surplus Widens in February Buoyed by Exports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-25T09:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/vietnam-s-trade-surplus-widens-in-february-buoyed-by-exports.html
Vietnam ’s  trade surplus  widened in
February, as exports increased in the first two months of the
year.  Exports exceeded imports in February by $900 million, based
on preliminary figures released today by the General Statistics
Office in Hanoi. January’s  trade balance  was revised to a
surplus of $776 million, the report showed.  Vietnam posted an annual trade surplus in 2012 for the
first time in two decades after three years of narrowing
deficits, as the slowest  economic growth  in 13 years curbed
import demand. At the same time, shipments of items from
electronics to apparel improved, helping build foreign-exchange
reserves and providing “a larger buffer to cope with any
further capital flight,”  Fitch Ratings  said last month.  “The improving trend reflects structural changes in the
economy, as all of the foreign companies’ imports in recent
years are now boosting export capacity,” Matt Hildebrandt, a
Singapore-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said before
the data. “Part of the improvement also reflects softer import
demand, due to subpar growth.”  Concerns about the rising level of bad debt have made the
nation’s banks reluctant to lend, curbing corporate expansion
and damping import demand. Export growth last year was driven by
foreign companies, as local firms struggled to increase
shipments, according to Nguyen Xuan Thanh, a Ho Chi Minh City-
based lecturer with the Harvard Kennedy School’s Vietnam program.  Exports fell to $7.5 billion in February from a revised
$11.47 billion in January, the Statistics Office said today. The
week-long Tet Lunar New Year celebration, during which most
factories are closed, was in February this year and in January
in 2012. For the first two months of the year, shipments rose
23.9 percent to $18.97 billion.  Imports fell to $6.6 billion from a revised $10.7 billion
in January. For the first two months of 2013, they climbed 10.2
percent to $17.3 billion, the data showed.  Last year’s trade surplus also allowed the central bank to
maintain the stability of the dong, which traded at 20,835 per
dollar as of 2:38 p.m. in Hanoi, compared with 20,885 on Feb. 22.
The  Ho Chi Minh City  Stock Exchange’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rose 1.3 percent.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. With assistance from
Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Rina Chandran, Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  