-- Vietnam Stocks Rise Most in 3 Weeks on Bank Support Report, CPI
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-25T09:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/vietnam-stocks-rise-most-in-3-weeks-on-bank-support-report-cpi.html
Vietnam’s  stocks  rose the most in
almost three weeks after a report showed inflation slowed and on
speculation the central bank is accelerating measures to resolve
bad debt among lenders.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  climbed 1.3 percent to 483.69 at the close,
the biggest gain since Feb. 6. Joint-Stock Bank for Foreign
Trade of Vietnam, or Vietcombank, surged 2.5 percent. HAGL
Joint-Stock Co. added 1.7 percent.  The nation’s consumer prices climbed 7.02 percent in
February from a year earlier after rising 7.07 percent in
January, the General Statistics Office in Hanoi said Feb. 23.
The central bank will have to pump money into the banking system
this year in order to help manage bad debt and “rescue” the
real-estate market, Governor Nguyen Van Binh said in an
interview in the Saigon Times on Feb. 21.  “Investor sentiment has gotten better with a positive
macroeconomic outlook,” said Le Duc Khanh, head of market
strategy at  Maritime Bank Securities .  Vietnam ’s benchmark index has risen 17 percent this year on
speculation the economy will recover from the slowest expansion
in 13 years. Growth may exceed the government’s target of 5.5
percent this year, the Saigon Times also cited Binh as saying.  Concern over the level of bad debts at the nation’s banks
has eased credit growth, damping consumer demand and squeezing
companies’ ability to raise capital and spur expansion. The
government plans to establish a company “to resolve bad debt
and help spur businesses,” Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said
on Dec. 26. About 100 trillion dong ($4.8 billion) of bad debt
may be dealt with, according to a posting on the government
website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  