-- Virgin Profit Misses Estimates on Qantas, Carbon Tax
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-26T05:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/virgin-earnings-drop-on-qantas-competition-carbon-tax.html
Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , the
nation’s second-largest carrier, posted first-half profit that
missed analyst estimates amid a fight with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) 
and the impact of a carbon tax. The shares slumped.  Net income  dropped 56 percent to A$23 million ($24 million)
in the six months through December, the Brisbane-based company
said in a statement today. That missed the A$50 million median
of six analyst estimates compiled by  Bloomberg News .  The profit decline puts pressure on Chief Executive Officer
John Borghetti’s plans to challenge Qantas’s 65 percent share of
Australia’s domestic market by winning corporate travel
accounts. Virgin, which sold a stake to  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) 
last year, is seeking to buy  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) ’s
Australian unit and regional carrier  Skywest Airlines Ltd. (SKYW)  as
part of a strategy to build on alliances.  “The shine that Virgin’s had over the last 18 months or so
is starting to wear off,” Evan Lucas, a strategist at IG
Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne , said by phone. “It’s stuck in the
middle and is buying a competitor that’s basically going to mean
competing with itself.”  Virgin Australia fell 5.8 percent to 41 Australian cents at
the close in Sydney, its biggest fall since Aug. 31. The stock
has dropped 2.4 percent over the past year, compared with the
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index’s 17 percent gain.  The introduction of a carbon tax in Australia cost the
airline A$24.4 million in the half year which it couldn’t
recover from airfares because of “aggressive competition,” the
company said. The airline also said it had costs of A$36 million
to train staff on a new booking system and to write down assets.  Upgraded Lounges  Borghetti has added business-class seats, increased flight
numbers, upgraded lounges and interiors, set up a  loyalty
program , and struck code-share alliances with overseas carriers
as he takes on Qantas’s leading position in domestic travel.  Virgin, which didn’t provide a specific outlook, expects to
make a profit before tax, excluding one-time items, in the
second half of the year.  “That’s the first in quite a few years,” Chief Financial
Officer Sankar Narayan told a media briefing in Sydney. The
company last made a second-half pretax profit in 2007, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Virgin plans to buy 60 percent of budget carrier Tiger’s
Australian unit and pay about A$96 million in cash and shares
for Skywest Airlines. Acquiring control of Tiger will give
Virgin a budget brand to compete with Qantas’ Jetstar and
bolster its operation on Australian east coast routes.  Antitrust Review  The deal with Tiger risks “muted competition” if
 Australia ’s second-largest carrier is allowed to buy third-
ranked Tiger, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
said this month. The regulator cleared the Skywest takeover in
January.  The regulator will examine whether the merger with Tiger
will result in the smaller carrier increasing capacity to 35
aircraft from 11 aircraft ahead of a March 14 final decision on
the deal. Virgin said it is preparing a response and “strongly
believes” the deal will increase competition.  “Aggressive capacity plans are likely to curb meaningful
yield growth,” Julia Weng, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
Sydney, wrote in a Feb. 8 note to clients. “We suspect concerns
around excess capacity and Virgin’s ability to implement a
successful turnaround will linger.”  First-half revenue climbed 5.4 percent to A$2.1 billion, as
passenger numbers rose 2 percent to 10.1 million.  Falling Yield  Yield, a measure of the money the carrier earns to fly a
passenger one kilometer, fell 1 percent to 12.16 Australian
cents at Virgin during the period, compared with 10.46 cents at
Qantas.  The decline in yield was steeper for Virgin’s domestic
services compared with international operations, Narayan said,
without giving more specific figures.  An index of domestic business class airfares hit a 12-year
low in December as Virgin’s attempt to break into corporate
travel ended an effective monopoly Qantas had enjoyed on the
trade since the collapse of Ansett Holdings Ltd. following the
Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.  Pretax earnings before items were A$61 million in the half
year, compared with the A$72 million median of six analyst
estimates.  Capacity growth will slow to a halt over the coming months,
Narayan said.  “We’re not looking to significantly expand schedule” in
the second half, he said.  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Group, Air New Zealand Ltd.,
Singapore Air and Etihad Airways PJSC own about  61 percent  of
Virgin Australia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  