-- Visa Teams Up With Samsung on Contactless Mobile Payments
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-25T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/visa-teams-up-with-samsung-on-contactless-mobile-payments.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s largest
electronic payments network, is teaming up with phonemaker
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to provide a financial program to enable
mobile handsets to be used like a credit or debit card.  Visa’s PayWave application will be a standard feature on
Samsung devices equipped with near-field-communication
technology, which allows customers to pay for goods or services
by tapping their phones on a reader, the companies said in a
statement today at the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona. The
partners will also cooperate on technology for banks to download
account information securely to Samsung phones for the payments.  Phone companies and financial institutions such as  Foster
City , California-based Visa and Purchase, New York-based
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  are promoting NFC applications for use in so-
called mobile wallets by encouraging the more than 70,000 people
attending the industry congress this week to pay for coffee and
badge into events with handsets carrying the feature.  “The Visa-Samsung global alliance is a first of its kind
between a leading NFC handset manufacturer and payment network
that is paving the way for the implementation of large-scale
mobile payment programs,” the companies said.  Companies are looking for partnerships to propel growth in
the nascent NFC market, which requires cooperation among
retailers, banks, credit card companies, handset makers, mobile
phone service providers and manufacturers of point-of-sale
devices. ABI Research  estimated  in November that the number of
NFC-enabled devices shipped will jump to 1.95 billion in 2017
from as many 102 million predicted for 2012.  Samsung and Visa worked together to offer NFC-based
payments at the London Olympics last year, giving athletes
phones equipped with the feature and installing more than
140,000 payment terminals across the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  