-- VIX Surges 34%, Biggest Gain in 18 Months on Italian Vote
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-02-25T22:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/vix-surges-34-biggest-gain-in-18-months-on-italian-elections.html
The  benchmark gauge  for American
 stock options  rose the most in 18 months as partial election
results in  Italy  and the lack of a political deal to avoid
automatic spending cuts in the U.S. sent stocks tumbling.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , or
VIX, climbed 34 percent to 18.99 for the biggest advance since
August 2011. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.8 percent to
1,487.85. The VIX, which measures the cost of using options as
insurance against losses in the  S&P 500 , closed at the lowest
level since April 2007 a week ago.  “Volatility often behaves this way in front of events,”
Peter Cecchini, global head of institutional equity derivatives
at New York-based Cantor Fitzgerald LP, said in an interview.
“It’s as if people who have been sleeping at the wheel suddenly
wake up to see the back of a tractor trailer way too close for
comfort, and then they jam on the brakes.”  This week’s March 1 deadline to avoid automatic U.S. budget
cuts marks another fiscal showdown between President  Barack
Obama  and congressional Republicans. If Congress doesn’t act,
federal spending will be reduced by $85 billion in the final
seven months of this fiscal year and by $1.2 trillion over the
next nine years.  Italy may require another vote after partial election
results suggested the four-way race may end in a divided
parliament, an aide to Democratic Party candidate Pier Luigi
Bersani said. Bersani, who led in opinion polls throughout the
two-month race, campaigned to maintain the budget rigor of
outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Italian Election  The results suggest  Silvio Berlusconi  may have built a
blocking minority in the Senate to deny outright victory to
Bersani.  “I’d say it’s Italy,”  Philip Orlando , chief equity
strategist at Federated Investors, which has about $380 billion
in assets under management, said in a phone interview. “The
concern here is that Berlusconi is still in the mix, that
there’s going to be a runoff or some sort of additional
election. You’re looking at split government and this is not as
clean as the market was looking for.”  The VIX has risen 5.4 percent this year, reversing a 23
percent drop in 2012. The gauge had its highest close of 2013
today. VIX futures  expiring  next month rose 19 percent to 17.65.
April futures increased 11 percent to 17.50.  Volume in futures on the volatility benchmark rose to an
estimated all-time high of 302,278 contracts today, erasing the
record set on Jan. 2, according to the CBOE Futures Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  