-- Vodafone Plans for Bundles of Mobile, TV and Web Across Europe
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-25T13:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/vodafone-plans-for-bundles-of-mobile-tv-and-web-across-europe.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the second-
largest mobile-phone company, plans to offer bundles of
wireless, Web, television and phone service across Europe as it
steps up competition with cable rivals.  “I’d like to provide pan-European unified services” to
consumers and businesses, Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao 
said in a meeting with reporters at Mobile World Congress in
Barcelona today.  Some of those agreements will be through partnerships with
other network providers, he said. Vodafone has also considered
making an offer for German cable television company  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , people familiar with the matter said
this month. Colao declined to comment on specific discussions.  Billionaire John Malone’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  this month
entered Newbury, England-based Vodafone’s home market with a $16
billion agreement to acquire Virgin Media Inc. Liberty Global
also owns two major cable operators in Germany.  Europe’s telecommunications companies are preparing to ask
the European Commission to allow more mergers within individual
countries in exchange for their backing for the regulator’s push
to develop a regional market, according to people familiar with
the matter. Colao said he will speak to the commission’s digital
agenda head, Neelie Kroes, in a meeting tomorrow.  More combinations will make Europe’s telecommunications
companies more competitive and improve revenue, which has
declined for several carriers on the continent, Colao said. He
said he plans to speak with Kroes about consolidation, the rules
around spectrum allocation and the economics of rolling out
faster, fourth-generation networks.  “It’s obvious to any chief executive who works in the
telecom business, Europe has a fantastic opportunity,” Colao
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  