-- Weidmann Urges France to Be Example for Europe on Fiscal Reforms
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-02-25T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/weidmann-urges-france-to-be-example-for-europe-on-fiscal-reforms.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said the French government should
step up efforts to fix its public finances to fulfill its
leadership role in restoring confidence in the region.  “Only together can France and  Germany  solve the current
crisis,” Weidmann, who heads Germany’s Bundesbank, said in a
speech in Paris today. “Stabilizing the monetary union requires
both countries to be economically and politically strong.”  French President  Francois Hollande  is struggling to cut the
 budget deficit  and revive an economy that shrank in the fourth
quarter of 2012. The shortfall is forecast to violate European
Union limits through 2014, and Weidmann said it’s “particularly
important for the heavyweights” in the euro area to give
“clear signals” to boost the credibility of fiscal rules.  The French government “has laid the foundation for some
very promising reforms,” he said, adding that agreed labor-
market changes “could be an important step.”  “However, regarding fiscal consolidation, more challenges
lie ahead,” he said.  While fixing public finances in debt-strapped euro-area
countries is likely to damp growth in the short term, “my
appeal for consolidation does not stem from a desire to punish
past sins,” Weidmann said. “If we adhere to our fiscal rules
there is no need to set up the ECB as lender of last resort, let
alone to call for inflation as a solution for resolving the debt
problem.”  The Bundesbank chief also said that  monetary policy  should
focus on securing  price stability  and mustn’t become “too
closely intertwined” with fiscal policy.  “The ECB is certainly not able to solve the crisis in a
sustainable manner,” he said. “Monetary policy, or for that
matter, exchange-rate policy cannot be the solution. These are
structural problems that require structural solutions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  