-- Wells Fargo Credit Profile Hurt by Heinz Deal, Moody’s Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-25T22:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/wells-fargo-role-in-heinz-deal-is-credit-negative-moody-s-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s role in helping
to finance the $23 billion purchase of  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ)  hurts its
credit profile because it shows the risk of the lender’s push
into  investment banking , Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said.  The Heinz deal may indicate that Wells Fargo, seeking to
expand its securities unit, is willing to offer larger loans to
win more profitable advisory fees, Moody’s analysts led by Allen Tischler wrote in the report. Clients often demand debt
financing before signing banks up as advisers, Moody’s said.  “It is often this desire to win the coveted advisory
business that leads to underwriting commitments larger than
those in which a bank might ordinarily engage,” Moody’s said.
There’s a risk the bank can’t unload the debt after taking it
onto the balance sheet, the ratings firm said, adding that it
doesn’t expect that to be the case.  Wells Fargo Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 59, is
bolstering the San Francisco-based bank’s securities business as
he looks to boost revenue beyond traditional lending. In
December, the lender moved the first of 900 traders and
salespeople into a newly built trading floor in Charlotte,  North
Carolina , as it expands bond trading. The bank ranked fourth
last year in U.S. syndicated loans, and places the same this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Risk Management  Wells Fargo, with JPMorgan Chase & Co., agreed to provide
$14.1 billion to help finance the buyout of Heinz by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G
Capital Inc., according to a Feb. 15 filing from the Pittsburgh-
based maker of ketchup and other food products. Both banks also
served as advisers. Berkshire is Wells Fargo’s  largest 
shareholder.  “We do not agree with Moody’s assertion that participation
in capital markets activities necessarily leads to a higher risk
profile,” Jessica Ong, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Wells Fargo has strong risk-management
practices and a strong credit underwriting discipline and this
transaction is fully in keeping with these disciplines and with
our customer-focused business model.”  Wells Fargo fell 2.9 percent to close at $34.79 in New
York, the most since November. The shares have gained 1.8
percent this year, lagging the 3.4 percent advance of the 24-
company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Retail Strength  Wells Fargo may also expand trading businesses to better
distribute the debt it underwrites, which would erode the
strength provided by the bank’s branch network, Moody’s said.
Clients look at a bank’s ability to distribute debt through
secondary-market trading when choosing among underwriters, the
ratings firm said.  “We expect that the incentive to better serve its clients
will remain an enticement for Wells Fargo to grow its secondary-
trading capabilities, which would dilute the credit strengths of
its very large retail operations,” Moody’s said.  The ratings firm also said it assumes Wells Fargo and
JPMorgan structured the Heinz transaction to guard against a
widening of credit spreads that would wipe out fees.  Moody’s assigns an A2  credit rating  to Wells Fargo’s long-
term debt, with a negative outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  