-- Seth MacFarlane’s Oscar Success [Spoiler Alert]
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-02-25T18:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/what-you-missed-at-the-oscars-spoiler-alert-.html
Did you watch the Academy Awards
last night? Excuse me, did you watch the Oscars -- apparently
we’re  not supposed  to call them the Academy Awards anymore.  Did you see Jennifer Lawrence trip  up  -- not down -- the
stairs to get her best actress award? What about the beautifully
turned out Helen Hunt on the red carpet,  popping  the haute
couture balloon with her dress from H&M? Did host Seth MacFarlane go over  his quota  of unfunny bits, leading with a
song about boobs and interjecting a crack about how “the actor
who really got inside Lincoln’s head was John Wilkes Booth”?  Maybe you had to be there, and fortunately several hundred
million of us were. The Oscars is one of the only shared
cultural experiences we have left, and for that reason alone
it’s worth celebrating. Or criticizing, as the case may be. The
important thing is that we do it together.  To  borrow a phrase  from Samuel Johnson, it’s not that the
Oscars are done well, it’s that they’re done at all -- and are
available for immediate commentary. We can all talk today about
all kinds of things without having to explain ourselves (who
else agrees that  William Shatner  is past his sell-by date?) or
worry about being a spoiler (who else was impressed by Daniel Day-Lewis’s acceptance speech?).  Spoiling Conversations  Think back to those spoiler-free and free-flowing
conversations about the last episode of “MASH” or what happened
to J.R. I don’t remember what my colleagues thought of the dream
sequence in “ Dallas ,” but I do remember what they thought of the
show’s depiction of conspicuous consumption and corruption, and
what that depiction said about American culture.  Contrast that with last week, when American viewers risked
being ostracized for bringing up the finale of the third season
of “Downton Abbey.” I am not blameless in this regard: I’m in
the middle of the second season, streaming on Amazon Prime, so I
had to walk around the office shunning anyone who’d watched the
night before. It was hard for me to get perspective on the
effect World War I had on British society, in particular the
aristocracy, without my friends’ take on it.  But no one records the Oscars to watch later. (If you do --
SPOILER AL ... -- on second thought, no. I will not alert you.)
So I feel comfortable asking if the Obama administration has
gone too Hollywood, with first lady Michelle Obama helping to
announce the Academy Award for best picture live from the White
House.  Yes, the award could have gone to the sexually violent
“Django Unchained” (“a date movie” for  Chris Brown  and Rihanna,
MacFarlane called it). Luckily for the White House aide who
pushed this idea, it went to “Argo” and the family-friendly  Ben Affleck , the guy with the heartwarming backstory. He’d had a dry
spell since 1997’s “Good Will Hunting,” and been snubbed in the
directing category (MacFarlane again: “Argo’s” plot, about a CIA
plan to rescue U.S. hostages in  Iran  several decades ago, “was
so top secret, the film’s director is unknown to the academy.”)  Did the White House press office get advance word from the
academy and its accounting firm that the best-picture winner
wouldn’t be the movie with a lot of violence and liberal use of
the N-word? If so, how far in advance? What did  Michelle Obama 
know, and when did she know it? I’m on it.  What all this joyful, carefree discussion of the Oscars
tells me is that the era of the spoiler alert has passed -- for
me and everyone else I know. Technology may make us richer by
allowing us to see more, but we are left poorer if we are unable
to talk about it.  Get over your TiVo and streaming video services and join in
the conversation. More valuable and enlightening than any movie
or TV series is what we say about it afterward. Consider the
water-cooler chat as a kind of book review. You should be
willing to tolerate some hints about what happens, or even a few
actual plot developments, in order to give and get reflections
on what it means.  Spoiled Academy  In the meantime: I keep coming back to MacFarlane. For me,
he balanced all the bad with his successful needling of the big-
studio public-relations campaign for “Lincoln,” which included
the detail that Day-Lewis was addressed as “Mr. President” by
the entire crew at all times. MacFarlane mused whether, if Lewis
had run into Don Cheadle on the studio lot, he would have tried
to free him.  Will MacFarlane come back, like the perennial Bob Hope, or
did the groan-o-meter banish him to Bad Host Land, along with
 David Letterman  and  James Franco ? Did MacFarlane make too many
cracks about Jews in Hollywood, Latino accents and post-Oscars
orgies? Or maybe the question is, is even one joke about these
subjects too much for the academy?  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 