-- Wife of Murdered Ex-Penn Basketball Player Waives Hearing
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-02-25T16:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/wife-of-murdered-ex-penn-basketball-player-waives-hearing.html
The wife of Matthew White, who
played basketball for the University of  Pennsylvania  on its 1979
Final Four team, waived a preliminary hearing in the case in
which she is charged with stabbing him to death as he slept.  Maria Garcia-Pellon, 52, appeared this morning wearing
shackles and a red jumpsuit in a county district court in Media,
Pennsylvania. Flanked by two attorneys and a prison guard, she
answered yes to a series of questions from the judge about the
waiver.  “I find the defendant’s waiver is knowing, intelligent and
voluntary,” Magisterial District Judge Stephanie Klein said
during the brief appearance.  Garcia-Pellon, was charged this month with first-degree
murder and criminal homicide after prosecutors said she stabbed
White in the neck after midnight on Feb. 11 in the home she
shared with him in Nether Providence Township, about 20 miles
southwest of Philadelphia. Garcia-Pellon told police she stabbed
White after she caught him looking at pornography.  White played center on the Penn team that made it to the
semifinals of the National Collegiate Athletic Association
basketball championship in 1979. He played at Penn from 1976 to
1979 and was selected by the Portland Trail Blazers in the fifth
round of the 1979 National Basketball Association draft. He
played professional basketball in Spain for 12 seasons. He later
worked as a technical writer for a software company.  Psychiatric Evaluation  Garcia-Pellon underwent a psychiatric evaluation before
today’s hearing and her attorneys were satisfied with the
results, Klein said.  “I’m satisfied that Maria understands the nature of the
charges against her,” Kathryn Labrum, an attorney for Garcia-
Pellon with the law firm Donaghue & Labrum LLP in Media, told
Klein.  About a dozen supporters, all women, turned out for today’s
hearing, many shouting “we’re praying for you,” to Garcia-
Pellon as she exited the courtroom. The women declined to
comment on the case or their relationship to Garcia-Pellon.  Prosecutors are scheduled to outline the case against
Garcia-Pellon at an arraignment on March 28, Labrum said after
the hearing. Garcia-Pellon is being held in Delaware County jail
without bail. A memorial service for White will be held March 4
in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Garcia-Pellon,
CP-23-MD-0000353-2013, Court of Common Pleas of Delaware County
(Media)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Media, Pennsylvania, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  