-- Republican Senators Encouraged by Meeting With Obama
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-02-26T23:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/two-republican-senators-to-meet-with-obama-on-immigration.html
Republican Senators  John McCain  and
 Lindsey Graham  said they are encouraged that President  Barack Obama  understands their insistence that better border security
precede a path to U.S. citizenship for undocumented immigrants.  “Senator McCain made a strong point about the border, and
the president understands the working components of it,” Graham
told reporters today after the senators met with Obama at the
White House.  “I was, quite frankly, encouraged,” said Graham of  South
Carolina . “I think we will have presidential leadership in a
very productive way on immigration reform, and, with that, we’ve
got a very good chance of doing it this year.”  Obama has called on Congress to pass immigration changes to
boost border security and create a citizenship path for some of
the 11 million undocumented immigrants already in the U.S.
Republican resistance to such a proposal has lessened since the
November election, in which Obama won 71 percent of the Hispanic
vote.  McCain told reporters the meeting made him  “more
confident” that Obama understood Republicans’ emphasis on
stronger border security. Still, McCain and Graham wouldn’t say
whether they think Obama would sign a bill that tied citizenship
to border security.  “I believe that the president is very committed to
comprehensive immigration reform,” said McCain of  Arizona .
“Does that mean he’s committed to anything we do? No, he has
his positions on the issue as well, but I believe he is
sincerely desirous of comprehensive immigration reform.”  Rubio, Flake  The lawmakers, along with Republicans Marco Rubio of
Florida and Jeff Flake of Arizona, are part of a bipartisan
group of eight senators working to craft a revision of
immigration policy.  Graham said before the meeting that he was “a little bit”
surprised that Rubio and Flake weren’t included.“But I don’t
make the invitations,” he added.  Rubio earlier this month criticized the president after  USA
Today  reported that the White House was drafting its version of
immigration legislation. Administration officials characterized
it as a backup plan.  A potential 2016 presidential candidate, Rubio gave the
Republican response to Obama’s Feb. 12  State of the Union 
address. His office didn’t respond to a request for comment.  For McCain and Graham, it was their first meeting with
Obama since the Senate group began working on its plan. The
group is seeking to turn principles it released last month into
legislation.  ‘Reasonable Time’  “I am confident that we will complete it in a reasonable
time frame,” McCain said today. He declined to offer details.  Obama met Feb. 13 with the Senate group’s four Democratic
members:  Charles Schumer  of New York,  Richard Durbin  of
Illinois,  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey  and Michael Bennet of
 Colorado .  Schumer, in an interview today, said the bipartisan group’s
negotiations were “going good” and “moving along” and
predicted the group will offer legislation in March. He said the
group was “making progress” on Republicans’ demand that a path
to citizenship come only after a measurable increase in border
security.  A top Rubio aide told a group of Latino elected officials
at a private briefing today that the senator welcomes the
meeting as a positive sign that Obama is committed to a
bipartisan approach to rewriting immigration law, according to
two people who attended the event.  Enrique Gonzalez III, who Rubio brought on board to work on
the immigration efforts, said it is almost impossible to sink
the effort, the people said. The comments were made at a
luncheon sponsored by the National Association of Elected and
Appointed Officials Educational Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  