-- Won Weakens on Yen Drop, Foreigners Selling Shares
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-02-25T06:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/won-weakens-on-yen-drop-foreigners-selling-shares-bonds-rise.html
The won dropped after the yen’s
decline sparked concern  South Korea  will act to weaken its
currency to protect exports. Government bonds were unchanged.  The yen fell to its lowest level versus the dollar since
May 2010 amid speculation Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is
preparing to nominate Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda as  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor. Kuroda said Feb. 11 the
central bank has “really substantial room” for monetary
easing, signaling he may embrace stronger stimulus that would
further weaken the currency.  “There are lingering concerns the authorities could take
steps for the won to help exporters,” said Jeon Seung Ji,
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Exporters may want
to sell dollars and may limit further declines.”  The won dropped 0.2 percent to 1,086.36 per dollar in
 Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
posted its first weekly decline in three in the five days ended
Feb. 22. One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
climbed 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 7.44
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Japanese policies that have weakened the yen by 13 percent
against the dollar in the past three months are threatening the
competitiveness of Korean companies such as Samsung Electronics
Co. and Hyundai Motor Co.  The Korean won advanced 1 percent against its Japanese
counterpart to 11.52 per yen today. South Korea’s new President
Park Geun Hye, who takes office today, said last week the nation
will “pre-emptively, effectively” respond to the foreign-
exchange risk.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent  government bonds 
due 2017 was unchanged at 2.8 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  