-- Yandex Challenges Google With Alternative Applications Store
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-25T08:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/yandex-challenges-google-with-alternative-applications-store.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s largest Internet
search engine, has developed its own applications store for
Android-based smartphones and tablets, challenging global
competitor  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The company started offering its store to phonemakers and
operators as an alternative to Google Play, the head of
Yandex.Store Alexander Zverev said in an interview in Moscow.
Russian mobile operator  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  and gadget producer Oppo
Electronics Corp. are among the first companies to adopt the
service, he said.  Almost 69 percent of the 722 million smartphones sold
worldwide last year were devices based on Google’s Android
operating system, according to the International Data
Corporation Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker.
Manufacturers of Android-based phones such as Samsung
Electronics Co. or  HTC Corp. (2498)  are using the Google Play
applications store as well as Google’s search and maps
functions.  “We have great search and maps with traffic jams, and by
adding Yandex.Store we can offer the entire ecosystem to a
phonemaker,” Zverev said. “We also offer operators using our
store under their own brand name, which is impossible with
Google Play.”  Yandex will be presenting the Yandex.Store to phonemakers
and operators at its stand at the  Mobile World Congress 
exhibition event in Barcelona this week, the company said.  Small Manufacturers  About 30 percent of Android-based smartphones are produced
by small manufacturers including Chinese ones and aren’t granted
the license to use Google Play. “This is the niche we are
targeting,” Zverev said.  Google started Android Market store, later renamed Google
Play, in 2009 following the success of  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)   App Store .
Customers have  downloaded  40 billion applications via App Store,
with nearly 20 billion in 2012 alone, Apple said last month.
Apple has paid more than $8 billion in royalties to developers
through the App Store, according to its  website.   Developers get 70 percent of revenue, while Apple gets 30
percent. Google Play uses the same revenue split. Yandex also
plans to pay 70 percent of proceeds to developers and will share
the remaining 30 percent with phonemakers or operators. It will
offer maps and other services for free, Zverev said.  While Yandex leads the Russian market with a 61 percent
share in Internet search versus Google’s 26 percent, it’s
lagging behind on Android devices where it has just 35 percent
versus Google’s 63 percent, according to analysts at Moscow-
based  Renaissance Capital .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  