-- Euro Rises From 7-Week Low on Easing Concern Over Italy Election
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-26T22:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/yen-drops-versus-majors-on-boj-easing-euro-near-six-week-low.html
The euro rose from a seven-week low
against the dollar as Italian and Spanish bond trimmed losses on
easing concern inconclusive elections in Italy may deepen
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  The euro fluctuated against the greenback as investors bet
the  European Central Bank  will step in to limit any losses in
so-called peripheral bonds. The yen weakened on speculation
 Japan ’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will select Haruhiko Kuroda,
who favors additional stimulus, as the next central bank
governor. The Dollar Index advanced to the highest in six months
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the
central bank’s asset-purchase program.  “It doesn’t really matter at the end of the day who the
prime minster of Italy is, it’s just the fact that the anti-
austerity, anti-European movement is getting a lot of
traction,” Alfonso Esparza, senior currency analyst in Toronto
at the online currency trading firm Oanda Corp., said in a
telephone interview. “There’s no clear winner, so that’s not
exactly the news they expected.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3061 at 5 p.m. in New
York after dropping to $1.3018, the weakest level since Jan. 7.
The single currency gained 0.2 percent to 120.14 yen. Japan’s
currency slid 0.2 percent to 91.98 per dollar.  The 17-nation currency may decline to its lowest level
since Nov. 23 if it breaks a key level of support, Cilline Bain,
a London-based technical analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote today
in a note to clients. The euro might fall to $1.2876 if it
declines past support at $1.2998, he said. Support is an area on
a chart where buy orders may be clustered.  Rand, Franc  The rand rose for a fourth day against the dollar as
Statistics  South Africa  said gross domestic product increased an
annualized 2.1 percent last quarter, compared with 1.2 percent
in the previous three months.  South Africa’s  currency  advanced 0.5 percent to 8.8183 per
dollar after climbing to 8.7801, the strongest since Feb. 15.  Switzerland ’s franc rose to a six-week high against the
euro amid speculation  Italy  will require a second vote following
the inconclusive elections, boosting demand for the relative
safety of the franc. The currency was little changed at 1.2177
per euro after earlier climbing as much as 0.5 percent.  The Russian ruble weakened as the government shelved an
auction of 15-year debt as bonds dropped and concern mounted
over the potential worsening of Europe’s debt crisis. The
Russian currency fell 0.8 percent to 30.6784 per dollar.  Bernanke’s View  The Dollar Index rose as Bernanke in his semi-annual
testimony on monetary policy to the Senate Banking Committee
today said so-called quantitative easing is supporting the
economic expansion with little risk of inflation or asset-price
bubbles.  “We do not see the potential costs of the increased risk-
taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of
promoting a stronger economic recovery,” Bernanke said today.  The chairman said automatic  federal budget  cuts set to
begin March 1 will put a “significant” burden on the economy
and urged lawmakers to put the budget on a “sustainable long-
run path.”  “One thing that Bernanke said, and financials lifted a
little bit on, is that U.S. banks are safe enough, regardless of
what happens to Italian banks,”  Fabian Eliasson , vice president
of corporate foreign-exchange sales at  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The
volatility is definitely back in play here.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, gained 0.2 percent to 81.848 after touching 81.948,
the highest since Aug. 22.  Italian Bonds  The 17-nation currency halted losses from yesterday as
Italian ex-Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  acknowledged rival Pier
Luigi Bersani’s victory in the lower house and said he’s open to
a broad alliance to avoid a second election. No formal steps can
be taken until a new parliament convenes March 15.  The yield on  Italian 10-year bonds  was 41 basis points, or
0.41 percentage point, higher at 4.89 percent after increasing
as much as 44 basis points. Similar-maturity Spanish yields
trimmed their increase to 20 basis points from as much as 43
basis points.  The euro has fallen 1.2 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen has gained 0.9 percent
and the dollar has added 2.2 percent to lead gainers.  Three-month implied volatility on the euro-dollar  exchange
rate  rose as high as 9.53 percent, the most since Sept. 7,
before being little changed today at 9.18 percent.  ‘Tail Risk’  “The elections say that the trend compression of the euro-
zone risk premium has a limit, and it’s probably not going to
continue, so it’s been priced out,” Dan Dorrow, the head of
research at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in
a telephone interview. “We probably won’t have any existential
tail risk as a result of this.”  The yen tumbled 4 percent this year, the second worst
performer after the pound among the currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 1.4
percent and the dollar added 2.5 percent, the most after the
Swedish krona’s 3.3 percent rise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  