-- Yum’s KFC to Tighten Supplier Reviews as China Sales Drop
-- B y   P e n n y   P e n g
-- 2013-02-25T21:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/yum-s-kfc-to-tighten-supplier-reviews-after-china-sales-d.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
food chain, pledged to ramp up safety and tighten requirements
for suppliers in China to win back consumers after a probe into
chicken providers dragged down local sales.  The company will work with suppliers to phase out smaller
chicken operators that aren’t sufficiently modernized, the
company said in a statement today. The supplier review process
will put a “more stringent emphasis on  food safety ,” it said.  KFC is trying to revive revive results in the Asian nation
after a former chicken supplier was found to have supplied meat
with too much antibiotics. Sales at locations open at least 12
months in the Asian nation fell 6 percent in the fourth quarter,
the first quarterly drop in three years.  Comparable-store sales in China may decline 25 percent in
the first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Grismer said
on a call earlier this month.  Yum fell 1.1 percent to $64.73 at the close in  New York .
The Louisville, Kentucky-based company has dropped 2.5 percent
this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index
gained 4.2 percent.  Yum got about 44 percent of 2011  revenue  from stores in
 China . The Chinese government said on Dec. 20 that tests
conducted by a third-party agency from 2010 to 2011 found eight
batches of chicken supplied to Yum by Liuhe Group had
antibiotics levels that didn’t meet prescribed standards. Yum
stopped buying from Liuhe in August, the restaurant chain said
in its microblog.  KFC has said it will eliminate more than one thousand
chicken coops that are smaller and not as well equipped.  The restaurant chain today also promised to improve its
communication to the government and the general public.  Regular
reports of its findings on poultry safety and test results will
now be filed with relevant authorities, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  