-- Zynga Gains After Nevada Clears Online Gambling
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-02-25T21:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-25/zynga-gains-after-nevada-clears-online-gambling.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest maker of
online social games, climbed 7.5 percent on optimism that other
U.S. states may follow Nevada in legalizing real-money gambling
over the Internet.  The shares rose to $3.43 at the close in  New York , after
Zynga announced plans to eliminate 1 percent of its workforce.
The stock has climbed 45 percent this year, compared with a 4.5
percent increase for the Russell 1000 Index.  Nevada  legalized  online gambling last week, creating a
possible new revenue opportunity for Zynga, which has struggled
to step up growth as gamers have shifted to mobile devices. Last
year the company signed a partnership with Gibraltar-based
 Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc (BPTY)  to offer real-money
gambling in the U.K.  “As states legalize some form of online gaming, you’re
likely going to see Zynga positively impacted,” Edward Williams, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in an
interview. Revenue from Web-based betting will probably measure
“in the billions,” he said.  The San Francisco-based company filed for a preliminary
finding of suitability for gaming in  Nevada , Chief Revenue
Officer Barry Cottle said in December. It could take the game
maker 12 to 18 months to become eligible for real-money wagering
in the state, he said at the time. Dani Dudeck, a Zynga
spokeswoman, declined to provide an update on the timing today.  Offices Closing  Zynga is consolidating office locations in New York and
closing one site in Baltimore and two in  Texas , Chief Operations
Officer David Ko said today in an e-mailed statement. Workers in
McKinney, Texas, will shift to a site in  Dallas  and employees at
one Austin location will move to another site in the same
metropolitan area, he said.  Currently, Zynga generates revenue by selling virtual goods
within its games -- for example, a gun in “Mafia Wars” or a
brick oven in “ChefVille.” Zynga’s titles are among the most
popular games played on Facebook Inc.’s social network.  Zynga sold 100 million shares at $10 apiece, the top of a
proposed range, in an initial public offering in December 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Baker in New York at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  