-- ‘Thor’ Sequel Tops Box Office With $85.7 Million for Disney
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-11-11T22:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/-thor-sequel-tops-box-office-with-86-1-million-for-disney.html
“Thor: The Dark World,” the
superhero sequel from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel studios, placed
first in U.S. and Canadian theaters this past weekend, taking in
$85.7 million.  “Thor,” part of Marvel’s potent constellation of box-office superheroes, faced little competition. “Jackass
Presents: Bad Grandpa,” the comedy from  Paramount Pictures (VIAB) , was
second in its third week, collecting $11.3 million,  Rentrak
Corp. (RENT)  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The new film outsold its 2011 predecessor, which had sales
of $65.7 million in its debut. The film’s performance
underscores the impact of last year’s “Marvel’s The Avengers,”
Disney’s highest grossing film ever. “Thor” was projected to
take $97 million by BoxOffice.com.  “A lot of people talk about the decline of superhero
movies, but that’s just not the reality of the audience,” said
Jeff Bock, an analyst at Exhibitor Relations Co. “Superhero
films are the standard by which all other potential blockbusters
are measured these days.”  One “Avengers” character has already returned for a solo
spin in theaters. “Iron Man 3,” released in May, is the top-grossing movie this year with $1.22 billion worldwide, with
almost double the sales of “Iron Man 2.”  “It’s a trickle-down effect,” said Phil Contrino, chief
analyst for researcher BoxOffice.com. “‘Iron Man 3’ came after
it and did extremely well and now ‘Thor’ is benefiting too. It’s
a textbook case of brand-building the right way.”  Superheroes Rule  The debut this weekend gives “Thor: The Dark World” the
fourth-highest domestic opening this year, behind “Iron Man
3,” “Man of Steel,” from Warner Bros, and “Fast & Furious
6,” from Universal Pictures, which took in $97.4 million in its
opening in May, according to Rentrak. The film is a record for a
Disney November opening and is the biggest non-summer release
for Marvel.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, acquired
Marvel, the comic book and movie company, in December 2009 for
$4.2 billion.  In July, Disney said it bought the rights to the first two
“Iron Man” movies, “Thor” and “Captain America: The First
Avenger,” from Viacom Inc.’s Paramount. The move gives Disney
more control over Marvel’s film library as it expands the
characters into its television shows and theme-park attractions.  Last week, Disney said it will produce four Marvel
superhero TV series for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online-streaming
service, in a multiyear deal. The Burbank, California-based
company also plans a sequel to “Captain America: The First
Avenger.”  Epic Battle  In “Thor,” Chris Hemsworth returns as the title
character. He battles to save Earth and the Nine Realms from the
Dark Elves, newly emerged from hibernation and armed with a
long-buried, universe-destroying substance. Thor’s challenge is
complicated when his love interest, played by Natalie Portman,
is infected with the substance. Thor must also contend with his
scheming brother Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston.  RottenTomatoes.com , a review aggregator site, gave it a 66
percent fresh rating.  “It’s a review-proof movie,” said Paul Dergarabedian,
senior media analyst at Rentrak. “Fans just want to have fun
watching it. Anytime a Marvel movie opens it’s like a
behemoth.”  Old Vegas  Among returning films, “Jackass,” from Paramount,
retained its second-place spot. Starring Johnny Knoxville, the
movie is the fourth since 2002 based on the “Jackass” MTV
reality series.  The animated “Free Birds” from Relativity Media placed
third, with sales of $11.1 million, up from fourth in its debut
the previous weekend.  “Last Vegas,” which follows three 60-something friends
who throw a bachelor party for their buddy, played by Michael Douglas, took fourth, down from third last weekend. It collected
$11 million for CBS films.  “Ender’s Game,” based on the science-fiction novel about
a child warrior, dropped to fifth from first, collecting $10.3
million for Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  “Catching Fire,” the next installment of Lions Gate’s
“The Hunger Games” franchise, is scheduled for release on Nov.
22.  Oscar Frontrunner  Two films in limited release, “12 Years a Slave” and
“About Time,” expanded to more cinemas this weekend.  “12 Years a Slave,” from Fox Searchlight and British
director Steve McQueen, is an adaptation of an 1853 memoir by
Solomon Northup. The movie, which has drawn rave reviews,
collected $6.7 million this weekend.  “About Time,” a romantic comedy about a time traveler,
stars Domhnall Gleeson and is directed by Richard Curtis. It
took $4.8 million for Universal Pictures.  “These films have been playing for a few weeks now and
they really are starting to catch some of the multiplex magic,”
said Bock of Exhibitor Relations. “‘12 Years a Slave’ is going
to be a frontrunner for best picture, so it’s going to be in the
top 10 for some time.”  Weekend revenue for the top 10 films fell 1 percent to
$157.9 million from the year-earlier period, Rentrak said.
Revenue this year is up 0.4 percent to $9.07 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Rentrak. The amounts are based on gross
ticket sales for Nov. 8-10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in San Francisco at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  