-- Macquarie Said Seeking to Trump Aberdeen's Bid for SWIP
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-11-11T19:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/macquarie-said-seeking-to-trump-aberdeen-s-bid-for-swip.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  is trying to
trump  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ’s offer for  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc’s (LLOY)  fund management business with an all-cash bid, two
people with knowledge of the talks said.  Macquarie, Australia’s largest investment bank, has offered
about 600 million pounds ($959 million) for  Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership , said the people, who asked not to be
identified because deliberations are private. The bid includes
additional cash payments linked to an eight-year partnership
with Lloyds, they said.  Aberdeen, based in the Scottish city of the same name, said
in a statement last month it was in talks to buy SWIP in shares,
followed by later payments in cash depending on how the
operation performed. It didn’t put a valuation on its offer. The
 money manager  said that it was also discussing a “strategic
partnership” with Lloyds, without giving further details. A
purchase by Aberdeen would make the Scottish firm  Europe ’s
largest publicly traded money manager.  Lloyds, which is 33 percent owned by the U.K. government
following its bailout, may choose its preferred bidder as early
as this week before announcing a winner by the end of the month,
two of the people said. No final decision has been made and the
two bidders may improve their offers, they said.  Officials at Lloyds, Aberdeen and Macquarie declined to
comment on the discussions. The Wall Street Journal last week
reported Macquarie was planning to make an offer of about 500
million pounds.  Macquarie Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Moore  is
shifting from deal-making and trading to less volatile
businesses such as lending and fund management.  Acquisition History  In July, Macquarie agreed to buy  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s South
Korean investment management business. In 2012, the firm
considered purchasing asset management businesses being sold by
Deutsche Bank AG and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , people familiar with the matter
said at the time. In August 2009, the Sydney-based company
acquired Philadelphia-based Delaware Investments from Lincoln
Financial Group.  Macquarie this month reported a 39 percent increase in
half-year net income, helped by the fund management business,
which oversees about A$385 billion ($360 billion).  Lloyds CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, has been seeking to
bolster the company’s balance sheet by selling assets, cutting
costs and eliminating jobs following the bank’s government
bailout in 2008. The London-based lender purchased  Scottish
Widows (SWIPRTA) , which runs both a life-insurance business and the SWIP
fund-management operation, for 7.3 billion pounds in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net  