-- Thai Baht, Bonds Decline as Amnesty Bill Protests Deter Funds
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-11T09:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/thai-baht-bonds-decline-amid-protests-before-amnesty-bill-vote.html
Thailand ’s baht fell to a seven-week
low and government bonds dropped as anti-government protests
sparked by a proposed amnesty bill prompted overseas investors
to pull funds from the nation’s assets.  The demonstrations against the bill granting amnesty for
political offenses are beginning to impact the economy, with
tourism and investor confidence the most affected, Bank of
Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said at a seminar in
Bangkok yesterday. The Senate started debate on the legislation
today. Most emerging-market currencies in the region declined as
improved U.S. jobs data renewed speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will cut stimulus this year.  “While external factors are dollar-positive, Thailand’s
growing political risk gives more reasons for foreigners to stay
away from Thai assets,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief executive
officer and currency strategist at FPG Securities Co. in  Tokyo .
“The impact on the economy is a major concern at this point.
Investors are cautious about the baht and other assets.”  The currency depreciated 0.5 percent, the biggest loss
since Sept. 23, to 31.645 per dollar as of 4:14 p.m. in Bangkok,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 31.705
earlier, the weakest level since Sept. 18. The baht fell 1.5
percent in the past two weeks.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, climbed 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 6 percent.  Global funds  pulled  a net $876 million from Thai bonds and
equities this month through Nov. 8, official data show.  Tighten Security  Thai police tightened security around parliament in Bangkok
on concern protesters will use today’s Senate vote as a pretext
to incite violence and destabilize the government. The Senate
started its debate at about 1 p.m., and a vote may not occur
until early tomorrow morning, spokesman Nikom Wairatpanij said.  “We will not use violence against protesters,” police
chief Adul Sangsingkeo said today at a media briefing. “We will
use standard tear gas and rubber bullets.”  The Senate vote also coincides with an  International Court
of Justice  ruling in a territorial dispute between Thailand and
 Cambodia  that has been used in the past to fan nationalist
sentiment in Thailand. The ICJ is to announce its ruling today.  “The Thai stock market will be volatile this week as
political tension remains very tense,” said Sasikorn
Charoensuwan, the head of research at Phillip Securities
(Thailand) Pcl in Bangkok.  Wells Fargo’s Advantage International Bond Fund has sold
its holdings of Thai sovereign bonds on concern uncertainty
surrounding the fate of the government’s amnesty bill will deter
inflows, Lauren van Biljon, a London-based analyst for the fund,
said in a Nov. 5 interview.  The yield on the government’s 3.625 percent bonds due June
2023 increased five basis points to 4.02 percent, the highest
level since Sept. 23, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  