-- Thai Police Brace for Violence in Bangkok as Amnesty Vote Looms
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-11T01:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/thai-police-brace-for-violence-in-bangkok-as-amnesty-vote-looms.html
Thai police said they will tighten
security around the nation’s parliament on concern protesters
will use today’s Senate vote on an amnesty bill as a pretext to
incite violence to try and destabilize the government.  “Groups will try to step up protests and create chaos,”
police spokesman Piya Uthayo said yesterday, adding that
authorities wouldn’t use force to disperse rallies unless
demonstrators threatened to enter restricted areas. The Senate
is scheduled to begin voting at 10 a.m. in Bangkok.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra last week called for an
end to street protests after agreeing to abide by the outcome of
a Senate vote even if it scraps legislation that critics argue
would exonerate her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, who was deposed
in a 2006 coup, as well as leaders who oversaw a deadly
crackdown on demonstrators in 2010.  The Senate’s failure to muster the numbers for a vote on
Nov. 8 caused Thai stocks that day to drop the most in Asia and
the baht to fall to its weakest in more than a month on concern
tensions may escalate in a country where political clashes
between Thaksin’s supporters and opponents since the coup have
led to an airport seizure and arson attacks. The opposition
Democrat party has pledged to continue demonstrations even after
the Senate vote.  “The patience of the Thai people has reached an end,”
Suthep Thaugsuban, a Democrat member of parliament and a leader
of the protests, told supporters in a speech late yesterday.
“The world will recognize this historic fight.”  Stocks Slide  Thailand’s latest political impasse is already harming
tourism and investor confidence in an economy that’s growing at
the slowest pace in Southeast Asia, Bank of Thailand Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said yesterday, adding that the central
bank has tools to maintain liquidity in the financial markets.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  of stocks fell 1.4 percent on Nov.
8 and the baht slumped 0.5 percent against the U.S. dollar to
its weakest level since Sept. 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency slipped a further 0.5 percent to 31.590
per dollar at 8:28 a.m.  The amnesty bill has angered Thaksin’s opponents, who said
it could whitewash crimes he allegedly committed in power, while
some of his own supporters criticized the law for protecting
opposition leaders who allowed the army to use live ammunition
to disperse protesters in 2010 when their Democrat party held
power.  Thaksin fled abuse of power charges that stemmed from a
military-appointed panel for helping his wife buy land from the
government. He’s lived in self-imposed exile overseas, and has
helped guide policy from abroad since Yingluck led the Pheu Thai
party to victory in a 2011 election.  Lese-Majeste  Parties linked to Thaksin have won the past five elections,
and Pheu Thai commands a majority in parliament. About 10,000
members of the pro-Thaksin Red Shirt movement gathered on
Bangkok’s outskirts yesterday to counter protests against the
government, the Bangkok Post reported today.  Absent from the draft reconciliation laws discussed in
recent weeks was protection for people charged for lese-majeste,
which mandates jail sentences as long as 15 years for defaming,
insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir apparent or
regent.  Administrations representing both sides of Thailand’s
political divide have resisted public calls to review the law,
which is designed to shield the royal family from criticism. The
U.S. State Department  said  in April that as many as 18 people
were detained at the end of last year for insulting members of
the royal family. King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 85, has served as
head of state since taking the throne in 1946.  Thousands of people joined separate rallies last week that
paralyzed traffic outside Citigroup Inc.’s Thai headquarters and
the Ratchaprasong shopping district. Several anti-government
groups are planning demonstrations today.  Temple Dispute  Today’s Senate vote also coincides with an International
Court of Justice ruling in a territorial dispute between
Thailand and Cambodia that has been used in the past to fan
nationalist sentiment in Thailand.  “We have arranged to facilitate protesters in case they
want to move, especially to the Cambodian embassy or the homes
of key people,” said Piya, the police spokesman. “We want to
warn people to be careful of sending any messages on social
media that may incite violence.”  In 1962, the  International Court of Justice  ruled in a 9-3
vote that Cambodia had sovereignty over the Preah Vihear border
temple, a World Heritage site. It didn’t rule on the land
surrounding the temple, and the two countries also have yet to
demarcate their 803-kilometer (499-mile) land border and 26,993
square kilometers (10,422 square miles) in the Gulf of Thailand
that may contain oil and gas reserves.  The ICJ is scheduled to announce its  ruling  in The Hague at
10 a.m. local time, or 4 p.m. in Bangkok.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  