-- Angola Names Deloitte to Audit $5 Billion Sovereign Wealth Fund
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-11-11T11:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/angola-names-deloitte-to-audit-5-billion-sovereign-wealth-fund.html
Angola , the largest crude oil
producer in  Africa  after Nigeria, appointed Deloitte LLP as the
independent auditor of its $5 billion sovereign wealth fund to
ensure transparency.  The fund, headed by Jose Filomeno dos Santos, the eldest
son of President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos, also appointed Artur
Carlos Andrade Fortunato to the board of directors to oversee
risk management, according to a statement from the fund today.  Half the initial endowment of The Fundo Soberano de Angola,
as the fund is known, will be invested in agriculture, mining,
infrastructure and real estate in Angola and other African
markets. The remainder will be allocated to cash and fixed
income instruments issued by sovereign agencies, global and
emerging-market equities as well as other alternative
investments around the globe, the fund said. As much as 7.5
percent may also be spent on education, income generation,
access to clean water, health care and energy, it said.  The Luanda-based fund will help diversify the economy from
oil, build commercial infrastructure and support socio-economic
growth, Armando Manuel, finance minister and former head of the
fund, said in the statement. Deloitte’s appointment “ensures
accountability to the Angolan state and citizens,” he said.  The OPEC member is ranked 157th of 176 countries on
Transparency International’s 2012 Corruption Perceptions Index.
Angolan offshore wells operated by companies such as  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM)  and  Total SA (FP)  pumped 1.71 million barrels
a day of crude in October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dale Crofts in Dubai at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  