-- Angola Sees Trans-Atlantic Cable Quickening Links to Asia
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-11-12T14:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/angola-sees-trans-atlantic-cable-quickening-links-to-asia.html
Angola ’s planned undersea cable to
South America will cut data transmission times between stock
markets in  Brazil  and Hong Kong and open a new route between
 Africa  and the U.S., the head of state-owned Angola Cables said.  France’s  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , Japan’s  NEC Corp. (6701) , and  TE
Connectivity Ltd. (TEL)  are bidding for an estimated $170 million
contract to lay the 6,000-kilometer (3,730-mile) cable between
Africa’s second-biggest oil producer and Brazil, Angola Cables
Chief Executive Officer Antonio Nunes said in a Nov. 5 interview
in Luanda, the capital. Construction will start early next year
and be completed in about 18 months, Nunes said.  The cable, which will be able to carry almost as much data
as West Africa’s existing link to  Europe , will quicken South
American telecommunications access to Asia by cutting out North
America and Europe and running via Africa instead, Nunes said.
After crossing the Atlantic, the route will initially run south
from Angola to  South Africa , then to Africa’s east coast and
existing lines to Asia.  The sub-sea route will create “the shortest distance
between the Sao Paulo and Hong Kong stock markets, which will be
appealing to banks,” Nunes said. “Even saving 100-160
millionths of a second adds up to a lot over time.”  U.S. Link  Angola wants to further reduce transmission times from
South America to Asia by linking to networks with eastern
neighbors Zambia and Tanzania within two years to avoid having
to send data to South Africa, Nunes said. The cables are part of
Angola’s plans to become a regional telecommunications hub and
ease its dependence on oil, which accounts for 97 percent of
exports and 75 percent of government tax revenue.  “We’re in a good geographic location, quite lucky being
between  Nigeria  and South Africa, and at the other end of the
Brazil line,” Nunes said. “The point is we’re in the middle so
we can distribute traffic.”  Angola has about 1 million  Internet users  out of a
population of 21 million people and has the potential for a fast
rate of further growth in the coming years, Nunes said.  “Africa will have the same number of Internet users as the
U.S. by 2015 and demand, while less at first, will be enormous
as Africans, the world’s youngest population, are raised on
technology,” he said. “This cable is the same thing as
building roads.”  Potential Competition  The trans-Atlantic connection will help speed up African
transmissions to the U.S. by sending data through Brazil instead
of Europe. Angola Cables is also involved in a cable project
from Brazil to the U.S. at Miami, Nunes said, declining to give
further details  Angola is already linked to the West African Cable System
that connects South Africa to  Portugal , from which it gained
independence in 1975. It has a capacity of 5.12 terabytes per
second compared with 4 terabytes per second on the line being
built to Brazil. Angola’s local partner in South America’s
largest country is Brasilia-based  Telecomunicacoes Brasileiras
SA (TELB4) , known as Telebras.  Angola Cables , a group of the country’s telecommunications
operators and 51 percent controlled by state-owned Angola
Telecom, may be competing with three other projects that aim to
link the two continents as the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Summer
Olympics approaches, according to  IHS Global Insight . These
include WASACE Cable Co., which plans to connect Nigeria and
Brazil, while i3 Africa Ltd. and Imphandze Investment Holdings
Co. of South Africa want to link Cape Town and Brazil as part of
a new global network.  Project Financing  eFive, a Johannesburg-based company, has signed deals with
Alcatel-Lucent and TE Subcom, a division of TE Connectivity
Ltd., to build a line from South Africa to Brazil, according to
Kelvin Cottle, a spokesman for Alcatel based in Paris. Ros
Thomas, the chief executive officer of eFive, said she couldn’t
answer questions when reached by telephone because negotiations
weren’t concluded.  Embratel Participacoes SA’s Atlantis 2, the first cable to
link the two continents, began operating in 2000. The Brazilian
company connects  Argentina , Brazil,  Senegal , Cape Verde, the
Canary Islands and Portugal.  Angola Cables is arranging a  project financing  syndicate
for the Brazil cable with Angola’s largest banks and some
foreign lenders, which Nunes declined to name because the talks
haven’t been concluded.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , based in
Johannesburg, has branches in the country. The government will
guarantee a return on the investment in the cable, he said.  Angola Cables is also applying to the  Southern Africa
Development Community  to establish the country as a regional
Internet exchange point, which would offer operators a place to
load content to the web without having to transmit to London.  “It will increase the quality and decrease the price,” he
said. “We would lose one type of business as an operator
selling access, but gain in selling capacity to link to the
Internet exchange point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  