-- Manulife to Expand Third-Party Asset Management
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-11-11T21:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/manulife-to-expand-third-party-asset-management.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Canada’s
largest insurer, is expanding its asset-management business for
institutional investors as it seeks to increase fee income.  The insurer, which manages C$575 billion ($549 billion) in
funds, is focusing on real estate, commercial mortgages and
private-placement debt for its new Manulife Asset Management
Private Markets unit, the Toronto-based company said today in a
statement. Manulife currently oversees C$14 billion of private-market funds for third parties and will look for additional
investments from Canadian and U.S. insurers, pension funds and
institutions, the firm said.  “It’s a win-win all around for Manulife and for
investors,” said Kevin Adolphe, who oversees private assets at
Manulife and will be chief executive officer of the new unit.
“Fee-based revenue is less capital intensive and has a higher
return. There’s tremendous value there,” he said in a phone
interview.  Insurers including MetLife Inc. in the U.S. have added
third-party management as they scale back from capital-intensive
products such as variable annuities. Manulife CEO Donald Guloien, 56, has said he wants to raise the insurer’s core
earnings to C$4 billion by 2016 from C$2.88 billion  in 2012 , and
Adolphe said fees from expanded asset-management will contribute
to that goal.  Manulife will add employees in sales, origination and
client support as it expands the business, Adolphe said, while
declining to provide figures. The company plans to
“meaningfully” increase the amount of private-party assets the
unit manages within the next three to five years, Adolphe said.  Global Clients  Brookfield Asset Management Inc.,  Canada ’s largest
alternative-investment manager that raised $7 billion for the
world’s second-biggest infrastructure fund, would be a model for
the new unit to emulate, Adolphe said. Toronto-based
Brookfield’s asset-management arm generated $4.5 billion, or 24
percent, of  revenue  in 2012.  “Brookfield would be a competitor for us and we would like
to get to that level,” Adolphe said. “It wasn’t so long ago
that they started in this business and they’ve progressed quite
well. If we get to the level of Brookfield, that would certainly
be success.”  Adolphe said the unit could eventually expand to seek money
globally or from high-net-worth investors.  “We’ve got a broad international distribution network with
our Asian platform,” he said.  Manulife slipped 0.5 percent to C$19.62 at 4:00 p.m. in
Toronto. The shares have gained 45 percent this year, outpacing
the 17 percent  advance  of the 46-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Financials Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  