-- Apollo’s Monier Gets $935 Million Loan Extension Break
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-11-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/apollo-s-monier-gets-loan-extension-lifeline-corporate-finance.html
Monier Group Services GmbH, the
German tilemaker seized by lenders including  Apollo (APO)  Global
Management LLC in 2009, won three years to restructure its
business after a U.K. court allowed it to extend about $935
million of debt.  London’s High Court granted an application to increase the
maturity on the equivalent of about 700 million euros ($935
million) of loans to 2018, after the Oberursel-based company
failed to garner enough support from lenders, according to a
company filing. Getting the Nov. 7 court ruling was the “only
realistic alternative to a formal insolvency,” Monier said.  It’s the third time a European borrower has used the
British legal system in the past year to get an amendment and
extension to its debt without the backing of all its lenders.
The U.K. process is proving attractive to borrowers based
outside of the country that want to make changes to their debt
in the face of opposition from some creditors.  “This allows us to focus on driving operational
improvements to avoid another financial restructuring,” said
Pepyn Dinandt, Monier’s chief executive officer. The court deal
is “ultimately to the benefit of our lenders,” he said.  Monier went to the court after an extension request got
backing from lenders holding about 80 percent of its loans,
short of a 90 percent target, according to the filing. Under the
U.K. legal process, known as a scheme of arrangement, only 75
percent support is needed.  High Court  Companies from outside the U.K. can use the High Court to
make changes to their debt if the borrowing is governed by
English law and there’s evidence the plan would be recognized in
the borrower’s home country, the documents say. Monier’s debt
extension request included businesses in France, Germany, Italy,
the Netherlands, the U.S. and the U.K.  “The multi-jurisdictional reach of the Monier schemes are
the largest to date,” said Elaine Nolan, restructuring partner
at Kirkland & Ellis LLP, who advised Monier.  The company made a net loss of 180 million euros in 2012,
the documents show, as Europe’s construction markets were hurt
by the region’s longest-ever recession. Sales in 2012 totaled
1.3 billion euros, down from 1.4 billion the previous year and
about 1.6 billion in 2008, according to statements on Monier’s
 website .  The tilemaker spent 73 million euros trying to restructure
its business last year, pushing the ratio of debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to more
than 30 times, according to a May 16 report by Moody’s Investors
Service.  Depressed Market  The cost-cutting program is “the only viable option to
address depressed market conditions across most European
markets, which are not expected to improve materially over the
next two to three years at least,” the ratings firm said.  Monier was a unit of Lafarge SA until it was sold to PAI
Partners in 2007. The private-equity company then lost control
of the business in 2009 to lenders led by New York-based Apollo,
TowerBrook Capital Partners LP and York Capital Management LP.
Under that restructuring, the company reduced its 2.1 billion
euros of debt by about 50 percent.  Fran McGill, a spokesman for Apollo employed by Rubenstein
Associates Inc., declined to comment on Monier’s debt extension.
Simon Maine, a spokesman for TowerBrook employed by Brunswick
Group, also declined to comment. Officials at York Capital
didn’t respond to a telephone call and an e-mailed request for
comment.  Balance Sheet  “Maybe the first restructuring didn’t take quite enough
debt off the company’s balance sheet,” said Karl Clowry, a
London-based attorney at Paul Hastings LLP, who advised
Schefenacker AG when it moved its headquarters to London to
restructure its debt. “At the time there was still hope to
increase the group’s value but the recent economic environment
has not been favorable so now it’s easier to extend debt
maturities.”  Holcim Ltd. and Lafarge SA, Europe’s two biggest cement
makers, said last week they are pushing ahead with cost-cutting
measures to boost profitability amid lackluster demand and
higher energy costs.  Moody’s downgraded Monier’s grade to Caa1 from B3 last year
and stopped awarding ratings to the company in May. Standard &
Poor’s graded the company B- until it also stopped providing
ratings in May.  “I do expect we will see more schemes for amend and
extends,” said Anthony Ward, a London-based restructuring
attorney at Shearman & Sterling LLP, which advised Danish
roofing company Icopal A/S on its debt extension. “It’s a way
of dealing with a fundamental problem in documentations: certain
matters require all lender consent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  