-- APRA Unveils Australia Asset Bond Reforms as Note Sales Rebound
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-11-11T06:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/apra-unveils-australia-asset-bond-reforms-as-note-sales-rebound.html
Australia ’s banking regulator today
flagged reforms for asset-backed note sales after the busiest
year for mortgage bonds since the financial crisis.  The reforms are designed to create a simplified
securitization market that clearly assigns and capitalizes
credit risks, Charles Littrell, an executive general manager at
the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, said in a speech
in Sydney today. The regulator plans to release a discussion
paper on the reforms “shortly,” he said.  The nation’s lenders raised more than A$24 billion ($22.5
billion) from mortgage bonds this year as demand for higher
yielding assets cut costs to the least since 2007. APRA, which
oversees all deposit-taking institutions, wants to simplify
these notes after securitized debt products backed by non-performing U.S. home loans triggered the global credit crisis.  “We seek to avoid any build-up of toxic structured credit
assets on the Australian banking system’s balance sheet,”
Littrell told the Australian Securitisation Forum’s annual
conference. “Australia largely dodged this bullet during the
global financial crisis and we need to ensure that the lessons
learned are captured in Australia’s prudential framework.”  Sales of mortgage-backed bonds slowed from mid-2007,
cutting home-loan providers’ funding and  prompting  the
government to purchase notes in an effort to boost competition
in the mortgage market. The Australian Office of Financial
Management bought A$15.5 billion of securities from November
2008, before  ending  its program in April this year.  Healthy, Competitive  “We always said the program would have a finite life,”
Wayne Swan, then Treasurer, said at the time. “What we want to
see is a healthy, competitive, securely operating market. That’s
what we’ve got.”  APRA had planned to publish a discussion paper on rule
changes to discourage lax lending and promote simpler bond
structures earlier this year, Littrell said last October. The
paper will be issued “soon,” he said today, giving no exact
timeline due to administrative reorganization associated with
the nation’s new government.  The regulator’s plans were for a simpler two-part
securitization, comprising a senior, top-rated ‘A’ portion and a
junior ‘B’ portion. Under the proposal, lenders would retain the
‘B’ class of notes on securitizations for funding purposes,
while those seeking capital relief would keep at least 20
percent of the securities to meet so-called skin-in-the-game
requirements, Littrell  said  last year.  Littrell today reiterated that a two-class structure
“makes the most sense” on securitizations for funding
purposes, clarifying that the ‘A’ portion may contain a number
of equally-ranked tranches while the ‘B’ class should be one
instrument held by the originator.  Still, lenders seeking capital relief would be able to
structure several subordinated notes after industry
representatives argued a single ‘B’ class would be too
restrictive, Littrell said.  Market participants will be consulted in 2014, and the
proposed rules refined, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  