-- Tarena Said to Plan IPO After Hiring Former NQ Mobile CFO Ji
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-11-11T04:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/tarena-said-to-plan-ipo-after-hiring-former-nq-mobile-cfo-ji-1-.html
Tarena International , a Chinese
education company backed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is
preparing an initial public offering after hiring NQ Mobile
Inc.’s former chief financial officer, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  Tarena, which provides training for software engineers,
plans to go public as early as next year, said two of the
people, who asked not to be named as the plans are private. The
company may sell shares in the U.S., one person said.  Suhai Ji  said he joined Tarena as CFO after his September
departure from NQ, the Chinese maker of mobile security software
that plunged in U.S. trading last month following a critical
report by Muddy Waters LLC.  Five Chinese firms have completed U.S. IPOs this year,
rallying an average 51 percent weighted by deal size from their
offer prices, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the
past two weeks, travel-booking service  Qunar Cayman Islands Ltd. 
and online marketplace 58.Com Inc. jumped on their trading
debuts after selling shares above marketed price ranges.  NQ’s share price has plummeted by more than half since
research firm Muddy Waters on Oct. 24 published an 81-page
report labeling the Beijing-based company a “massive fraud.”  Ji declined to comment on details of Tarena’s IPO plans,
saying the company is in a “quiet period.” Responding to
questions in an e-mail last week, Ji said his departure from NQ
had “nothing do to” with the Muddy Waters report.  Conference Call  Beijing-based Tarena hired Ji in part because of his
involvement in NQ’s listing on the New York Stock Exchange,
according to two of the people.  Shares  of NQ, which raised $89.1
million in its 2011 IPO, more than doubled to as high as $24.92
last month before the Muddy Waters report was released.  NQ responded to Muddy Waters’ allegations by releasing data
on its bank deposits and holding a two-hour conference call with
investors. The company said on Nov. 1 that an independent
special committee hired lawyers to review the short seller’s
allegations. NQ’s co-Chief Executive Officer  Omar Khan  called
Muddy Waters’ claim that NQ will delist within a year
“absurd.”  Ji joined NQ Mobile in November 2010, ahead of its U.S.
listing in May 2011, according to the company’s IPO prospectus.
He was previously a director in NYSE Euronext’s Beijing
representative office and an investment banker at  Deutsche Bank
AG  in Hong Kong, the prospectus shows.  Goldman Sachs  invested $20 million in Tarena, according to
the training company’s website. IDG Capital Partners, a China-focused venture capital firm, also invested in the company,
according to IDG’s website.  Training Centers  Tarena, founded in 2001, provides training in Java
programming, game development, data mining and other IT skills,
according to its website. It runs about 100 training centers in
more than 30 Chinese cities including Beijing and Shanghai.  The company’s home page boasts recruitment of its graduates
by the biggest Chinese Internet companies, including  Tencent
Holdings Ltd.  and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce operator, is planning
an IPO for next year, people familiar with the matter said last
month. The company has been valued at as much as $190 billion by
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  