-- Armajaro Trading Sold to Ecom After Loss of $7.6 Million
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-11-11T17:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/armajaro-trading-agrees-to-merge-into-ecom-agroindustrial.html
Armajaro Holdings Ltd., founded by
 Anthony Ward  and Richard Gower, agreed to sell its soft
commodities trading unit to Ecom Agroindustrial Corp., the
world’s second-biggest coffee and third-largest cocoa trader.  Armajaro won’t disclose the price, Brian Buckley, a
spokesman at the company’s public relations representative
Brunswick Group LLP, said by phone from  London  today. The
company’s trading arm, Armajaro Trading Ltd., reported a loss of
$7.6 million in the year ended September 2012.  “Our stakeholders in both companies will benefit greatly
from the combined service offerings and strengths of the
companies,” Andrew Halle, Ecom’s chief executive officer, said
in a statement e-mailed today. “It moves us further down the
path of being the leading integrated soft-commodity company.”  Alain Poncelet, deputy CEO of coffee and cocoa at Pully,
Switzerland-based Ecom, will become CEO of Armajaro Trading,
according to the statement. Mark Dendle, Ecom’s chief financial
officer, will have the same role at the newly purchased unit.  Armajaro Trading posted the loss after a profit of $17.3
million in 2011, a filing with U.K.’s  Companies House  showed.
The company received $30 million from Armajaro Trading Group
Ltd. in 2012, according to the filing. Andrew Stone, former CEO
at the London-based company, left in August, the second CEO to
resign in less than a year. Richard Ryan departed in 2012.  Gower and David Tregar, the trading unit’s current CEO and
CFO, will remain as advisers to the company “for an extended
period,” according to the statement. They will “provide
support during the transitional period.”  Armajaro Trading had 1,184 employees in the 2012 fiscal
year, according to Companies House. Ecom handled 11 million bags
of coffee and 250,000 metric tons of cocoa in 2011, according to
information on the company’s website. It also traded 2 million
bales of cotton that year.  Armajaro Holdings will continue to operate its  hedge funds 
under Armajaro Asset Management LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net  