-- Braves Say They’ll Build New Baseball Stadium for 2017
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-11-11T21:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/atlanta-braves-say-they-ll-build-new-baseball-stadium-for-2017.html
The  Atlanta Braves  said they’ll
build a new stadium in a suburban area northwest of downtown
Atlanta, with the opening set for the 2017 Major League Baseball
season.  With the Braves’ lease at 17-year-old Turner Field expiring
in 2016, the team estimated that its new ballpark will cost $672
million, executives said today at a news briefing in Atlanta.
The Braves will be a significant investor along with Cobb
County,  Georgia , and the club will cover any cost overruns, the
team said.  The new venue will have a capacity of about 42,000 people,
compared with 50,000 at Turner Field, according to the team. The
Braves are attempting to sell naming rights for the new stadium.  “We did not take this decision lightly,” Braves President
John Schuerholz said. “We’ve played in our current facility for
quite some time and it was with mixed emotions that we made this
decision because we have many great Braves baseball memories
that have occurred for all of us in that facility, but we are
quite enthused about where our new facility will be.”  Turner Field, which was built for the 1996 Olympics and
became the Braves’ home the following year, has cost the team
about $125 million in improvements, and it needs about $150
million more, as well as an additional 5,000 parking spots,
Schuerholz said.  Spectator Access  The primary reason for moving from Turner Field in downtown
Atlanta is improved spectator access, Schuerholz said. While
there will be additional highways and access roads leading to
the proposed stadium and increased parking, the new location
won’t have access to MARTA, the city’s only mass rail transit
system.  “Working with Cobb County, we will have a transportation
plan that enhances the accessibility of that site,” said Derek Schiller, the team’s vice president of sales and marketing.
“Most fans arrive to our games by car.”  Sixty acres of land on the northwest intersection of
Interstates 75 and 285 will be developed, with 15 acres used for
the stadium and the rest for parking and a multi-use and retail
facility, the team said.  Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed said the city was unwilling to use
public money for a new stadium and wished the Braves well in
their future home.  Taxpayer Money  “There was simply no way the team was going to stay in
downtown Atlanta without city taxpayers spending hundreds of
millions of dollars to make that happen,” Reed said in a
statement. “Given the needs facing our city and the impact of
Turner Field stadium on surrounding neighborhoods, that was
something I and many others were unwilling to do.”  Turner Field would be redeveloped for residential and
downtown businesses, Reed said.  Cobb County will commit $450 million in public funds to the
project, Reed said. Brooks Mathis, vice president of economic
development for the Cobb County Chamber of Commerce, said a
final total on public funding has yet to be determined.  The new baseball stadium would open the same year as a new
$1 billion stadium for the  National Football League ’s Atlanta
Falcons is scheduled to open in downtown Atlanta.  Attendance Figures  The Braves averaged 31,465 fans at home games this season,
13th out of 30 major-league teams. The MLB average was 30,514,
according to figures released by baseball last month. Atlanta
has reached the playoffs in 12 of the 17 years it’s played in
Turner Field. The Braves went 96-66 last season to win the
 National League East  before falling to the  Los Angeles Dodgers 
in the NL division series.  Turner Field was known as Olympic Stadium  for the 1996
Games, after which it was turned into a baseball-only venue. Its
main entrance was built after 35,000 seats and part of the
track-and-field complex were removed. The team’s prior stadium,
Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, was imploded in August 1997 to
make room for a parking lot next door to Turner Field.  The new stadium would also be in the same county as  East
Cobb Baseball , one of the U.S.’s top youth developmental
programs. Current Braves players Brian McCann and Jason Heyward
played with East Cobb as did former Braves outfielder Jeff Francoeur, who spent last season with the  San Francisco Giants .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  