-- Babylon Surges as Yahoo Maintains Partnership: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-11-11T15:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/babylon-surges-as-yahoo-maintains-partnership-tel-aviv-mover.html
Babylon Ltd. (BBYL)  advanced the most in
more than a year after Yahoo! Inc. decided to retain a
advertising revenue-sharing agreement with the Israeli
translation software provider.  Shares surged as much as 34 percent today on the Yahoo
decision and closed 13 percent higher, the most since August
2012, at 10.45 shekels in Tel Aviv. The stock pared gains after
the company announced a drop in third-quarter sales and profit,
and said merger talks with ironSource Ltd. were called off.  Shares of Babylon, which is based in Or Yehuda,  Israel ,
slumped 74 percent last month after Google Inc. ended a revenue-sharing agreement with the software maker and Yahoo indicated
that Babylon may be in breach of a four-year contract due to
deficiencies in its user policy. Talks with ironSource, an
Israeli online software distributor, were halted but that there
still is “dialogue” between the two companies, Babylon said in
a statement.  “Yahoo’s decision is very good news for the company
because it shows a source of revenue after it lost Google,”
Beni Dekel, an analyst at Tel Aviv-based  Union Bank of Israel 
Ltd. said today by phone. “The announcement on ironSource was
expected and the results are in line with expectations.”  Babylon said today third-quarter profit dropped 29 percent
to 22 million shekels as revenue declined 23 percent to 152
million shekels. The Yahoo pact generated 38 percent of
Babylon’s revenue in the period, compared with 37 percent from
Google, the company said in a statement today.  The company, whose controlling shareholders include online
gaming entrepreneur Noam Lanir, put on hold in April plans for a
$115 million U.S. public offering of shares as it entered
acquisition talks with an Israeli Internet search company it
didn’t name.  Babylon also said today Chief Financial Officer Shanit Peer Tsfoni was appointed as its new chief executive, according to a
company statement. Alon Carmeli, who led the company for five
years, announced in April he would step down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  