-- Baucus Plans Release of Code Revision Drafts in Two Weeks: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r   a n d   A a r o n   E .   L o r e n z o
-- 2013-11-11T05:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/baucus-plans-release-of-code-revision-drafts-in-two-weeks-taxes.html
Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus  said he intends to release his first draft for a
comprehensive  tax-code  revision within the next two weeks.  The Montana Democrat declined to say which parts of the tax
code he will focus on. He said in an interview with Bloomberg
BNA that he will consult with other  finance panel  members before
releasing details.  “It will be in legislative language,” Baucus later told
reporters, an indication that the document will be formatted
like a bill, even though the senator said it won’t be an actual
piece of legislation.  Tax lobbyists in touch with congressional staff members
have said they expect the committee to begin with tax
administration, international tax rules and possibly education-related  tax policy .  Baucus and Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican
who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, for months have
been working together to promote the first sweeping revamp of
the tax code since 1986. They started a joint Twitter handle --
 @simplertaxes  -- and this past summer traveled together on a
national “tax reform tour.”  In an interview last month on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” Baucus gauged prospects for
significant code changes as “quite good,” and said: “Frankly,
the failure to do reform is hurting the economy.”  Private Meeting  The Finance Committee is scheduled to meet behind closed
doors to discuss the drafts as the Senate returns to business
this week.  The discussion drafts will be the first tax overhaul
documents produced by the committee since a series of 10 option
papers that outlined dozens of tax policy areas that could be
changed. Those papers, prepared by the Democratic and Republican
staffs from March to June, made no recommendations and laid out
competing ideas proposed in various bills and by deficit
reduction panels.  By framing the discussion drafts in legislative language,
Baucus is following an approach taken by Camp. Although he has
yet to introduce a bill, Camp has released drafts in legislative
language dealing with international taxes, financial products
and small businesses.  International Policy  International tax rules, which help determine the extent to
which U.S. corporations with foreign operations direct profits
back to the U.S. for reinvestment and hiring, are a promising
area for bipartisan agreement, Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat, told reporters last week. Wyden, a finance committee
member, said that’s the policy area he wants to focus on
initially.  Baucus, in his Bloomberg Television interview, said his
plan would provide a “permanent solution” to U.S.
international tax rules that encourage companies to leave
profits outside the country.  Partisan differences surfaced after Baucus announced Oct.
31 that he would release discussion drafts on a code revision
within as little as two weeks at that point. The committee’s
ranking Republican member, Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , called
that goal optimistic, and said “wide gaps” remained on tax
policy.  The biggest difference between the parties’ approaches
remains over raising additional revenue and how to use it -- for
deficit reduction, government programs or solely for reducing
tax rates. Republican lawmakers have said they are firmly
opposed to raising tax rates, but some have said they are open
to new revenues generated by other means.  Camp’s Plan  Camp has proposed lowering the top corporate rate to 25
percent from 35 percent, and reducing the top individual rate to
25 percent from 39.6 percent. He wants do that without shifting
the tax burden across income groups and without losing or
gaining federal revenue.  Baucus has said he’d like to get the top corporate  tax rate 
into the “high 20s.” President  Barack Obama  has called for a
28 percent rate for most companies and 25 percent for
manufacturers.  Wyden and three other Democrats on the finance committee --
 Debbie Stabenow  of Michigan,  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and  Bob Casey 
of Pennsylvania -- last week urged that any revision proposal
take into account the effect on manufacturers.  The four lawmakers wrote to the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation to ask that it get ready to conduct such
an analysis.  “We believe that domestic investment is critical to
creating good jobs in the  United States  and enabling broad-based
economic growth, and we will want to gauge the impact of any tax
reform proposal on capital-intensive sectors such as
manufacturing and other key sectors of the  economy ,” the
senators said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Heller in Washington at  mheller@bna.com ;
Aaron E. Lorenzo in Washington at  aaron@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com  