-- Bayer to Lanxess Plastic Creations Fail to Revive Demand
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-12T11:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/bayer-to-lanxess-s-plastic-creations-fail-to-rescue-industry.html
Plastics makers such as  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and
 Lanxess AG (LXS)  have created everything from a plastic saxophone that
can be played in live concerts to Harley Davidson engine parts
made entirely of the synthetic material.  The push to introduce new plastic offerings -- as new
manufacturing techniques allow the replacement of metal, fibers
and wood in many products -- can’t mask the fact that a drop in
demand, coupled with over-optimistic spending on new plants, is
prompting  Europe ’s biggest producers Bayer, Lanxess and  Evonik
Industries AG (EVK) , to cull at least 3,700 jobs.  European sales haven’t recovered from pre-crisis levels in
2008 and fell more than 2 percent to 86.7 billion euros ($116
billion) last year, according to lobby group PlasticsEurope.
Even with new applications, producers can’t make up for the woes
at the commodity business where rising competition from low-cost
Asian manufacturers is hurting profitability, Union Investment
fund manager Christopher Schaefer said.  “The companies are trying to stay ahead of the game and
they are trying to add new innovative materials at the top,
where you can make good money,” said Schaefer, who helps manage
an 800 million-euro fund that includes  BASF SE (BAS) , Bayer, Lanxess
and Evonik stock. “But now we’re facing a slower growth
environment and competition in general is picking up
dramatically.”  Traditional plastics still account for about 85 percent of
the total market. Europe accounts for 20.4 percent of the
world’s production and  China  is the biggest producer with 23.9
percent, according to PlasticsEurope.  Getting It Right  Roberto Gualdoni, chief executive officer of Styrolution
Group GmbH, says commodity offerings -- such as polystyrene for
electronic devices and refrigeration liners -- still represent
most of his industry’s business.  “You shouldn’t fool yourself into saying that you have
some huge innovation,” Gualdoni said in an interview. If it’s
not a large technological advance, then you have to rely on
“normal operational excellence,” he said.  Styrolution, a joint venture of BASF and Ineos Group
Holdings Ltd., has cut costs at its commodity units and is
investing in the specialties business. In the last seven years,
the industry lowered its capacity for styrenic materials, used
in household appliances and transparent packaging for compact
discs, by about 25 percent, the CEO said.  Price Pressure  “The commodity business of styrenics is a hard, hard
business,” Gualdoni said. “It was our sweetheart when we
started and it looked so nice. Now she has put on some extra
pounds. But we still love her. You really have to love this
industry to be in it because it is extremely hard.”  The suffering is being exacerbated by the companies
themselves as they build new plants, adding capacity before
demand catches up, Union Investment’s Schaefer said.  “I would like to see capital discipline,” he said. “Some
of these companies have announced capacity expansions that are
enormous.”  Evonik, which listed shares in April, is seeking annual
savings of as much as 700 million euros. It may cut headcount by
about 1,000 through voluntary departures and retirement,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the plan isn’t public. A spokeswoman at
Essen, Germany-based Evonik said final job-cut numbers haven’t
been decided yet.  Big Investments  Lanxess, whose products include synthetic rubber for tires
with low rolling resistance to save fuel, is spending 910
million euros on three Asian synthetic-rubber plants and a
European polymer factory. The Cologne, Germany-based company
plans 1,000 job cuts to help save 100 million euros a year from
2015. Headcount may be reduced by a further 1,000 as units are
sold or put into joint ventures, Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann said in September.  The company lowered the top end of its 2013 profit goal
today, saying the business environment will remain difficult,
especially in the tire and automotive industries.  “The question is, what percentage of our products are
innovation driven and what percentage are more mature?”
Heitmann said today on a conference call. “We work on that
continuously and watch that number intensively.”  New Factories  Bayer and BASF are both building new factories in  Germany 
to make toluene diisocyanate, or TDI, increasing production
capacity for the component used in seating cushions and
mattresses by a combined 600,000 tons, an increase of 30 percent
from what was consumed in 2012.  The new capacities will start production in a period of
muted growth. Last month, the  International Monetary Fund  cut
its 2013 and 2014 forecasts for the global economy, citing
weakness in  emerging markets .  “At the beginning of the year, most companies were
expecting a more dynamic upswing and now they see that not much
is coming in terms of recovery,” said Ulle Woerner, an analyst
at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg. “Now they have to do
something on the cost side.”  Bayer, which is based in Leverkusen, Germany, is talking to
worker representatives about cutting as many as  700 jobs  at
MaterialScience after reducing its full-year profit forecast for
the unit in July. While BASF hasn’t announced firings at its
plastics operation, it is seeking savings from dissolving the
unit and absorbing pieces into other parts of its business.  “The cuts are an attempt to bring profitability up to a
level where future investments will be worth it,” LBBW’s
Woerner said. “If you continually fail to earn your cost of
capital then you have to ask yourself the question: does it
still make sense?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  