-- Bear Stearns Fund Liquidator Suit Assails Ratings Firms
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-11-11T16:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/bear-stearns-fund-liquidator-suit-assails-ratings-firms.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc.’s
 Standard & Poor’s  unit, Moody’s Corp. and Fitch Group Inc. were
sued by the liquidators of two Bear Stearns  hedge funds , who
accused them of issuing ratings they knew were bogus.  Geoffrey Varga and Mark Longbottom, the liquidators of the
two defunct funds, filed a summons and notice in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan  in July indicating their intention to
sue the companies over their ratings. The liquidators filed a
complaint today giving details of their claims.  In their lawsuit, which seeks damages in connection with
more than $1 billion in losses, the liquidators include
communications that they say show the companies knew their
ratings were faulty.  In one text message cited in the filing, an S&P employee
purportedly told a co-worker that investments could be
“structured by cows” and still get rated. An internal document
from a Moody’s worker said the firm sold its soul “to the devil
for revenue,” according to the complaint.  “These quotes are not the punch line to a bad joke,” the
liquidators said in the complaint. They are “evidence that, at
the same time these  ratings agencies  were issuing their top,
virtually risk-free ratings on numerous complex securities, each
of these very same rating agencies (but not the investing
public) knew the ratings were false.”  No Merit  The allegations are without merit and Standard & Poor’s
will fight them,  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for the New York-based
company, said in an e-mail.  Daniel Noonan , a spokesman for New York-based Fitch Group,
also said the claims lacked merit and the company would defend
itself. New York-based Moody’s didn’t immediately return a phone
message left with its media relations office seeking comment.  The funds, the Bear Stearns High-Grade Structured Credit
Strategies Fund and the Bear Stearns Enhanced Leverage Fund,
part of Bear Stearns Asset Management, collapsed in 2007, a year
before their parent company, which was eventually bought by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The collapse of the two funds marked the beginning of the
crisis in subprime home loans in mid-2007 and helped drive the
firm out of business. The two hedge funds, holding about
$1.6 billion, began liquidating in July 2007.  Settlement Agreements  Within months, Bear Stearns sought settlement agreements
with investors based on how long they had been with the funds.  The funds were run by portfolio manager  Ralph Cioffi  and
chief operating officer  Matthew Tannin , who were acquitted of
conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York, in November 2009 in the first criminal trial
stemming from a federal probe of the collapse of the subprime
mortgage-market. A federal judge in September dismissed a
lawsuit by Bank of America Corp. over the funds’ collapse.  The  Justice Department  accused S&P of fraud in a lawsuit
filed in February, 18 months after the McGraw Hill unit
downgraded U.S. sovereign debt, in the first federal case
against a ratings firm for grades related to the credit crisis.  The case is Varga v. McGraw Hill Financial Inc.,
652410/2013, New York state  Supreme Court , New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  