-- BMW Selling Bonds in Pounds as Borrowing Costs Increase
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-11-11T12:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/bmw-selling-bonds-in-pounds-as-borrowing-costs-increase.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is
selling bonds in pounds after borrowing costs in the currency
climbed by the most in two months amid speculation U.K. interest
rates will increase sooner than expected.  The world’s biggest maker of premium cars is selling 300
million pounds ($480 million) of four-year notes to yield 85
basis points more than U.K. government debt, according to a
person familiar with the matter. The average yield on sterling-denominated investment-grade bonds rose 8 basis points to 3.6
percent, the biggest jump since Sept. 5, Bloomberg bond index
 data  show.  With U.K. unemployment  forecast  to fall to a four-year low
of 7.6 percent in the third quarter, companies are speculating
the  Bank of England  will increase rates earlier than 2016.
That’s when the central bank projected the jobless rate to reach
7 percent, its threshold for tightening policy.  “The U.K. is one of the markets that’s been growing the
most,” said Mondher Bettaieb-Loriot, who manages the equivalent
of about $1 billion at Vontobel Asset Management Ltd. in Zurich.
“BMW may have decided they need the funds in place to offer the
financing to meet demand from buyers and they want to get it
done before yields go up.”  Elsewhere in European credit markets, Granvia AS, a
Slovakian building services company, hired banks to arrange
investor meetings starting Nov. 13, according to a person
familiar with the plans. A bond sale would be the first for the
Bratislava-based company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The average yield on euro-denominated securities rose 5
basis points to 1.9 percent, the biggest increase since Oct. 1,
according to Bloomberg bond index  data . The cost of insuring the
debt against losses held at the lowest in 3 1/2 years, with the
Markit iTraxx Europe index of default-swaps on 125 investment-grade companies little changed at 82 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  