-- Brazil’s Vale Plans to Sell Up to 22% of Norsk Hydro
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-11-11T21:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/brazil-s-vale-plans-to-sell-11-stake-in-norsk-hydro.html
Vale SA (VALE) , the Brazilian iron-ore
producer seeking asset divestments to cut costs and boost
profit, plans to sell as much as a 22 percent stake in aluminum-maker  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY)  valued at about $1.8 billion.  Vale will sell as many as 407 million shares in Oslo-based
Hydro in an offering, and as many as 40.7 million additional
shares via an over-allotment option, it said in a regulatory
filing today. The Rio de Janeiro-based company increased the
offer from a total of 224 million shares after a book-building
process announced earlier today.  The Brazilian miner is selling assets, putting projects on
hold and focusing on its more profitable iron-ore business in a
bid to recover profit margins after commodity prices fell. In
September, it sold stakes in a cargo unit for about 2.7 billion
reais ($1.2 billion) to  Japan ’s Mitsui & Co. and a Brazilian
government fund after $1.47 billion of asset sales last year,
including a coal mine in Colombia and 10 large vessels.  “This is positive because it’s part of the divestment plan
that Vale has been talking about,” Mariana Bertone, an equity
analyst at GBM Grupo Bursatil Mexicano SA, said in an interview
in Rio. “It’s a step forward.”  Offer Price  Vale acquired a 22 percent stake in Hydro, and a seat on
the board, after selling its bauxite and alumina assets in
Brazil to the aluminum producer for $5.27 billion in 2011. If
all shares are sold in the offering and the option is fully
exercised, Vale will no longer hold Hydro shares, it said.  Hydro rose 0.4 percent to close at 26.96 kroner in Oslo
today. The shares will be priced at 25 kroner each, according to
terms of the offering obtained by Bloomberg, which would value
the entire stake at $1.82 billion.  DNB Markets and Morgan Stanley are acting as joint global
coordinators and book runners for the offering, Vale said.  The world’s largest maker of the steel-making ingredient is
also considering the sale of its 40 percent stake in Brazilian
bauxite producer Mineracao Rio do Norte SA and oil and gas
assets, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said Sept. 24.  “We also have a surprise that I won’t mention so you
remain curious,” Ferreira told reporters in Belo Horizonte,
 Brazil , at the time. The company is “very focused” on its
divestment plan and was working to make new announcements, he
subsequently said Nov. 7 during an earnings conference call.  As part as its cost-reduction efforts, Vale is also working
to combine some of its nickel operations in  Canada ’s Sudbury
basin with Glencore Xstrata Plc.  Short Sellers  Vale officials have been saying they may consider selling
the Hydro holding since at least December. CEO Ferreira said in
April that the company won’t “discard” its stake and that
short sellers of the Norwegian stock may “get tired” of
waiting for a divestment.  The Brazilian miner wrote down $975 million on the value of
the Hydro investment as part of $5.66 billion in charges and
impairments taken during the fourth-quarter of 2012, it said
Feb. 27. Vale last week posted its first quarterly profit
increase in more than two years.  “The offering of Hydro shares is consistent with Vale’s
strategy of reducing its exposure to non-core assets, and a
result of its focus on discipline in capital allocation and
value maximization for shareholders,” it said in the statement.  Vale shares  rose  1.2 percent to 33.25 reais in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  