-- Crude Climbs as Meeting Ends Without Iran Nuclear Accord
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-11-11T21:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/brent-oil-gains-as-iran-world-powers-fail-to-reach-deal.html
Crude advanced after  Iran  and six
world powers concluded a meeting in Geneva without coming to an
agreement on the nation’s nuclear program, tempering projections
of a resolution to the dispute that has cut Iranian oil exports.  Brent futures rose 1.2 percent in  London  while West Texas
Intermediate oil in New York gained 0.6 percent. Iran’s talks
with the five permanent members of the  United Nations Security
Council  and  Germany  will resume Nov. 20 in Geneva. The
 International Atomic Energy Agency  signed the first accord in
six years with Iran today, giving the monitors broader access to
nuclear facilities in the Persian Gulf country.  “Crude is up because we’ve gotten over the fear of an
Iranian nuclear deal,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at
Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “Prices came off over the
last few weeks on the prospect of an agreement and the lifting
of some sanctions in the near term.”  Brent for December settlement climbed $1.28 to end the
session at $106.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. It was the highest close since Oct. 31. The
volume of all futures traded was 12 percent more than the 100-day average at 4:27 p.m. in New York. The contract touched
$102.98 on Nov. 8, the least since July 2.  WTI for December delivery rose 54 cents to $95.14 a barrel
in New York, also the highest settlement since Oct. 31. Volume
was 31 percent lower than the 100-day average. Futures slipped
to $93.07 on Nov. 5, the lowest intraday price since June 24.  Widening Spread  The European benchmark crude traded at an $11.26 premium to
WTI, up from $10.52 on Nov. 8. Brent is more sensitive to
potential changes in Middle East output than WTI because Europe
depends more on the region’s production.  “The failure to get an agreement about  Iran’s nuclear
program  signed is sending Brent higher,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “WTI is lagging, which is widening the spread
between Brent and WTI.”  Brent gained 1.6 percent on Nov. 8, the most since Oct. 28,
after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  downplayed the chances
of an accord. Iran’s oil output has decreased 16 percent since
the U.S. and the European Union tightened sanctions in July 2012
to curb its nuclear program.  Iran says its atomic development is for civilian energy and
medical use and that it has a right to enrich uranium for
peaceful purposes. The U.S. and its allies say Iran is covertly
seeking nuclear-weapons capability. The talks in Geneva included
envoys from  Russia , China, U.K. and  France .  Preparing Counterattacks  “One concern I have about the failure to reach an accord
over the weekend is that it might give opponents of an agreement
both in Iran and the West time to prepare a counterattack,”
said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.  The UN atomic agency and Iran agreed today “to implement
practical measures” aiding inspections, and implementation will
start within three months, agency director Yukiya Amano said at
a televised briefing in Tehran. That includes access to Iran’s
largest uranium mine, said  Ali Akbar Salehi , who heads the
Islamic republic’s atomic program.  Prices will probably fall if an agreement is reached, Iraqi
Oil Minister Abdul Kareem Al-Luaibi said in an interview
yesterday in  Abu Dhabi . Brent will drop below $100 a barrel if
the curbs on Iranian oil are loosened, according to the mean of
19 estimates from traders and analysts compiled by Bloomberg on
Oct. 14.  Total SA (TOT) , Europe’s biggest oil refiner, will resume
business with Iran if diplomatic talks lead to the removal of
sanctions, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said
at a conference yesterday in Abu Dhabi.  Falling Output  Iran was the sixth-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries last month with 2.6 million
barrels a day of  output , a Bloomberg survey of analysts and
companies shows. That’s down 565,000 barrels from June 2012,
when it ranked second. The oil embargo has cost Iran about  $100
billion  in foreign investment and oil revenue, a report by the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace estimated in April.  Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, who took office in
August, campaigned on a pledge to improve his country’s economy,
and his government has set a one-year goal to address concerns
about its nuclear program and win relief from sanctions.  Bijan Namdar-Zanganeh, who was appointed by Rouhani as oil
minister in August and held the post from 1997 to 2005, said he
plans to restore output to pre-2005 levels, according to
comments published by his ministry Aug. 11. Iran pumped an 3.91
million barrels a day in 2005, Bloomberg data show.  Global Supplies  Libya  pumped 250,000 barrels a day of crude yesterday,
Mohamed Elharari, a spokesman for the state-run National Oil
Corp., said by phone today from Tripoli. That’s down from 1.4
million produced in March, according to Bloomberg data.  WTI has dropped the last five weeks as U.S. crude supplies
have gained. Stockpiles increased 1.58 million barrels to 385.4
million in the week ended Nov. 1, the most since June 21, an
Energy Information Administration report showed on Nov. 6. The
refinery utilization  rate  fell 0.5 percentage point to 86.8
percent in the week ended Nov. 1. Refineries usually bolster
operating rates in December to meet heating fuel demand.  “We’re reaching a period where some of this excess crude
supply should be absorbed as refineries boost fuel output,”
O’Grady said. “WTI is probably going to get to $100 again just
on the increase in refinery demand.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
January was 18.2 percent, up from 17.8 percent Nov. 8, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 379,015
contracts as of 4:27 p.m. It totaled 480,972 contracts Nov. 8,
17 percent above the three-month average. Open interest was 1.73
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  