-- Broncos’ Manning Probably Will Play After Ankle Scan, Coach Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-11T21:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/broncos-manning-probably-will-play-after-ankle-scan-coach-says.html
Denver Broncos quarterback  Peyton Manning  probably will play this weekend against the undefeated
 Kansas City Chiefs  after aggravating a previous ankle injury
during yesterday’s victory, interim coach Jack Del Rio said.  Magnetic resonance imaging tests on Manning’s lower leg
revealed no new structural damage, Del Rio said today in a news
conference. Manning, the  National Football League ’s leader in
passing yards and touchdowns, was assisted by trainers after
being hit late in yesterday’s 28-20 victory over the  San Diego
Chargers .  “He’ll definitely play this week, he’s ready to roll, and
that was great news,” said Del Rio, Denver’s defensive
coordinator, who has assumed head coaching duties while John Fox
recovers from heart surgery.  Manning was hit below the knees by Chargers defensive end
Corey Liuget with less than two minutes remaining in yesterday’s
game. He was limping in the locker room after the win, according
to ESPN, and wouldn’t specify to reporters which part of his leg
was injured.  Manning, 37, suffered a right high-ankle sprain on Oct. 13
against the  Jacksonville Jaguars , according to ESPN. He is
expected to practice in some capacity this week, Del Rio said.  A 12-time Pro Bowl selection, Manning has thrown for at
least 300 yards and three scores in seven of the team’s first
nine games. He’s totaled 3,249 passing yards and 33 touchdowns,
and is on pace to break NFL single-season records in both
categories.  The Broncos have scored an NFL-record 371 points through
their first nine games, breaking the record of 358 set by the
Los Angeles Rams in 1950, according to ESPN.  Denver (8-1) hosts the Chiefs (9-0) at 8:30 p.m. New York
time Nov. 17. Originally slated for the afternoon, the game was
moved into prime time as part of the league’s flexible
scheduling arrangement.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Larry Siddons  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  