-- BT Bid Trumps BSkyB in Sports Rights ‘Armageddon Scenario’
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-11T17:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/bt-trumps-bskyb-to-win-sports-rights-in-armageddon-scenario-.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , by taking control of
the rights to two of the biggest contests in European soccer,
ended  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s dominance in sports
that helped the Rupert Murdoch-owned company become the biggest
pay-TV provider in the U.K.  After signing up more than 2 million customers to its
three-month-old BT Sport channels, the phone company said Nov. 9
it agreed to  pay  $1.4 billion for exclusive live broadcast
rights to the  UEFA ’s Champions League and Europa League soccer
games. BSkyB, whose Sky Sports channels have aired top U.K.
soccer games since the Premier League’s inception in 1992,
slumped the most in five years in  London  trading.  It’s an “Armageddon scenario in sports rights,” said
Claire Enders, chief executive officer of researcher Enders
Analysis, while also calling it a “case of more money than
sense.”  BT, the London-based company that started three sports
channels in August, is trying to attract Internet customers by
making those channels free for its broadband subscribers. Prices
for broadcast rights have escalated, with a four-year deal
reached in 2012 by BSkyB’s German affiliate to show the
Bundesliga soccer matches boosting average annual income from
the German rights to a record 628 million euros ($840 million).  BSkyB fell 11 percent to 829 pence in London for its
biggest decline since October 2008.  ITV Plc (ITV) , a commercial
broadcaster, dropped 1.6 percent to 187.4 pence. BT added 0.5
percent to 374.10 pence, taking its gains this year to 62
percent.  ‘Commercial Sense’  BT said it will be able to absorb additional costs -- on
top of the 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) it’s previously said
it will spend over three years on the efforts -- without
changing its financial forecasts.  “We think we can do this and it will make commercial sense
for us,” Chief Financial Officer Tony Chanmugam said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “It’s not going to change
our financial guidance for this year or next year or the year
after.”  Chanmugam said BT will make up the license costs by
decreasing customer turnover and increasing subscription
revenues and market share. “If you come to BT, you will pay
materially less,” he said.  BT’s win marks the first time a U.K. broadcaster has won
exclusive rights to all matches of both the Champions League and
Europa League soccer tournaments.  BT Coup?  The three-year agreement starts from the 2015-16 season.
The UEFA Champions League Final was watched by  360 million 
viewers last season.  “This is definitely a negative for Sky and ITV and a bit
of a coup for BT,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at
Panmure Gordon in London.  Television rights deals in  Germany  and  England  have boosted
the revenues of Europe’s top five soccer leagues by 25 percent
to a combined 5 billion euros a season, according to a report
from TV Sports Markets, which provides information for
broadcasters and sports organizations. Sales of rights through
2016 in England,  France , Germany, Italy and Spain added 1
billion euros a season from the previous three-year period.  BT began encroaching on Sky’s dominance in sports rights in
June 2012, when the former phone monopoly won the franchise to
broadcast some English Premier League soccer matches. BSkyB
shares fell the most in almost two years on May 9 after BT
unveiled the new sports channels.  ‘Marketing Gimmick’  BSkyB had dismissed BT’s push into broadcasting as “a
marketing gimmick” and said its own Sky Sports is in a
different league.  BSkyB said it bid for the rights to air the tournaments
“with a clear view” of what they were worth and that BT chose
to pay far in excess of their valuation.  “ITV is lucky to be out of this, and Sky is lucky not to
have won this auction,” Enders said.  BT last month reported a smaller-than-anticipated decline
in second-quarter profit, despite the added expense of the
broadcast rights and getting the channels running.  The company has said it expects revenue, excluding payments
for carrying other companies’ calls on its network, to improve
this fiscal year. Adjusted Ebitda will be 6 billion pounds to
6.1 billion pounds this year and as much as 6.3 billion pounds
next year.  BT has the rights to 38 British Premier League soccer
games, soccer matches in  Italy , France and  Brazil , rugby
competitions, and tennis tournaments.  BSkyB has been diversifying away from sports rights as it
increases production of original programs. The company will
spend 600 million pounds a year on original commissions by 2014,
compared with 380 million pounds in 2011. It spends more than 2
billion pounds a year on content, including sports rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  