-- Canada Dollar Advances Amid Speculation on North American Growth
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-11T22:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/canada-dollar-gains-on-reports-of-north-american-economic-growth.html
The Canadian dollar rose against
most major counterparts after reports from the U.S. and  Canada 
fueled speculation the North American economy will grow faster
than the rest of the world.  The currency was little changed against its U.S. peer, with
bond markets in Canada and the U.S. closed for a holiday. Data
on U.S. gross domestic product, Canadian housing starts and jobs
in both countries beat economists’ forecasts last week in the
latest signs the continent’s economy is accelerating.  “We’d like to think, and hold onto that thought, that
things may be turning in the U.S.,” said  Dean Popplewell , head
analyst at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., by
phone from Toronto. “You’ve got to assume that’s going to drag
Canada with it, and our currency. Yes, you’ll end up with a buy- North America  mandate.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, was little changed at C$1.0476
per U.S. dollar at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie purchases
95.46 U.S. cents.  Canada’s dollar rose versus 9 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, including sterling and the
Australian dollar.  “The Canadian dollar looks better on the crosses,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, said by phone from  London , referring to transactions
involving currencies other than the U.S. dollar. “That’s
consistent with growth looking a little better in North America
as a whole, and the byproduct of that is that Canada will
probably do a little better than those in the global
environment.”  Loonie Strengthens  The pound fell 0.2 percent to C$1.6749 before the  Bank of
England  publishes new forecasts in its quarterly inflation
report this week.  Australia ’s dollar was the biggest loser
against the greenback among Group of 10 currencies, weakening
0.3 percent amid bets an improving U.S. economy will move the
 Federal Reserve  to advance a reduction in the stimulus that has
buoyed riskier assets globally. The Australian currency declined
0.4 percent to 98 Canadian cents.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian
currency versus its U.S. peer was at almost a three-week high.
The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate traded at
1.33 percent after touching 1.34 percent on Nov. 8, the most
since Oct. 17. Risk reversals measure the premium on options
contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts
that do the opposite.  Currency Performance  The loonie has declined 2.2 percent this year against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has fallen 7.5
percent, while the  U.S. dollar  has appreciated 4 percent and the
euro has gained 5.8 percent.  The Canadian economy expanded 0.3 percent in August, the
government reported Oct. 31, while the U.S. said Nov. 7 its
annualized gross domestic product gained 2.8 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months. U.S. employers
added 204,000 jobs in October, data showed Nov. 8, versus a
Bloomberg survey’s forecast of 120,000.  Canadian housing starts totaled 198,282 in October at a
seasonally adjusted annual pace, Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage &
Housing Corp. said Nov. 8. That was up from 195,929 units in
September. A Bloomberg survey forecast 190,800.  “You’ll probably see Canada outperform a little bit
against the other G-10 currencies and probably lag against the
U.S. dollar,” said Matthew Perrier, director of foreign
exchange at Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto.  ECB Cut  Euro-area economic data this week may show the 17-nation
region’s growth slowing, supporting European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi ’s decision last week to cut the bank’s
key  interest rate  to a record 0.25 percent.  Gross domestic product in the region rose 0.1 percent in
the third quarter, according to the median forecast of 41
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey , after a 0.3 percent gain
in from April through June.  The euro fell against the loonie to a six-week low of
C$1.3887 on Nov. 7. The shared currency gained 0.3 percent today
to C$1.4049.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  