-- Canada Consumer Confidence Extends Drop on Job Security
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-11-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/canada-consumer-confidence-extends-drop-on-job-security.html
Canadian  consumer confidence  fell
for the fifth time in six weeks as the nation’s economy
struggles to build momentum, according to the Bloomberg Nanos
Canadian Confidence Index.  The weekly measure of the economic mood of Canadians fell
to 58.2 in the period ended Nov. 8, from 58.5 the previous week.
The index has declined since touching 59.8, a two-year high, at
the end of September.  Sentiment has yet to fully recover from effects of U.S.
political gridlock last month. Concern that the global economy
will take longer to recover is reducing feelings of job security
among Canadians and offsetting news of an agreement in principle
on a free trade pact with the European Union.  “As Canadians shift their economic attention away from
news on a European trade deal and news related to the U.S. debt
ceiling debate towards the  holiday shopping season , it will be
critical to monitor sentiment over the next few weeks,” said
 Nik Nanos , head of Ottawa-based Nanos Research Group.  The share of Canadians who say their jobs are secure fell
to 64.7 percent last week, from 65.3 the previous week, a drop
of more than five percentage points since Sept. 20. Those who
say their jobs are not secure increased to 13.1 percent, from as
low as 10.6 percent Sept. 27.  The employment picture has been mixed in  Canada .  Statistics
Canada  reported Nov. 8 the economy created 13,200 jobs in
October, the third straight monthly gain, and the jobless rate
held steady at 6.9 percent, the lowest since 2008.      On the
other hand, the average pace of monthly job gains this year, at
12,600, is half last year’s pace.  Wage growth  has also slowed.
Average hourly wages of permanent employees rose 1.7 percent in
October from a year earlier, compared with an average 3 percent
over the past decade.  Factory Sales  “There is no sign whatsoever of wage pressures,” said
 Mark Chandler , head of fixed income research in Toronto at  RBC
Capital Markets .  One of the biggest areas of weakness has been
manufacturing. Factory producers have cut 74,000 jobs this year,
as manufacturing output and sales have been stagnant.  Statistics Canada will release manufacturing sales  data  for
September on Nov. 15. Sales are down 2.1 percent since the end
of 2011.  The housing market has been one of the strongest parts of
the economy after years of support from low  interest rates .
Canadian housing starts in October rose to their highest level
in five months, Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage & housing Corp.
said on Nov. 8.  Real Estate  The total value of purchases in six major Canadian real
estate markets that have reported so far this month rose 29.7
percent to C$8.6 billion ($8.2 billion) in October compared with
the same month a year earlier, according to data compiled by
 Bloomberg News  from regional real estate boards last week.  The  Canadian Real Estate Association  will release
aggregated national data on Nov. 15.  The share of people who said they expect real estate values
in their area to rise has averaged 37.9 percent over the past
four weeks, more than two percentage points above the average
for all of 2013. The measure fell to 37.4 percent last week from
38.6 percent the previous week.  The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index has two sub-indexes: the Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Pocketbook Index on
personal finances, and the Bloomberg Nanos Expectations Index on
future views. The data in the indexes date to 2008 and are based
on phone interviews with 1,000 people, using a four-week rolling
average of 250 respondents. The results are accurate to within
3.1 percentage points.  The Expectations Index, based on surveys about the outlook
for the economy and real estate prices, fell to 57.3 from 57.5,
according to the Nanos report.  The Pocketbook Index, based on survey responses to
questions about personal finances and  job security , fell to 59.1
from 59.5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  