-- Capital Group Questions MSCI’s Country-Base Index Model
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-11-11T18:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/capital-group-questions-msci-s-country-base-index-model.html
Capital Group Cos., the investment
firm that created the forerunner to MSCI indexes used as a
benchmark for $7.5 trillion in assets, said the regional indexes
should be revised to reflect the growing globalization of
companies.  The benchmarks for international investing should take into
account where companies receive their revenue because country of
domicile no longer is an accurate reflection of a company’s
geographic exposure, Rob Lovelace, a  money manager  for Capital
Group, said today at a conference in Washington held by  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  Los Angeles-based Capital Group is in talks with
 MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  about a revision, he said.  “We think you should be focusing on revenue as a new proxy
for where a company does business,” Lovelace said. “The
country where a company is incorporated in, where it’s listed,
is no longer as accurate.”  Capital Group pioneered the Capital International indexes,
which later became the MSCI brand, as it began investing outside
the U.S. in the 1960s. The company’s  American Funds  have about
$1.1 trillion in assets. Vanguard Group Inc., the largest U.S.
mutual-fund firm, last year dropped MSCI Inc. as the benchmark
provider for 22 of its  index funds  to cut costs.  “Global is now the new norm for mid- and large-sized
companies,” said Lovelace, the grandson of Capital Group
founder Jonathan Bell Lovelace.  In a European index fund, the component companies derive
much of their revenue from outside the continent, Lovelace said.
He cited  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the London-based luxury retailer,
as an example. Seventy percent of the company’s sales last year
came from outside Europe, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The benchmarks for international funds need to be updated
and revenue is the best option as a new proxy because it’s the
most widely disclosed metric, Lovelace said.  Capital Group, which runs the American Funds, hasn’t
created a suite of products that solve all the challenges of
increasingly global companies in portfolios, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  