-- Carlyle Seeking $7 Billion for Energy Investments by 2015
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-11-11T21:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/carlyle-seeking-7-billion-for-energy-investments-by-2015.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-biggest manager of alternative investments to stocks and
bonds, plans to raise $7 billion for energy funds in the next
two years.  The firm is seeking $4 billion for a North American energy
fund and $1.5 billion each for international energy and North
American power, Washington-based Carlyle said today in New York
at its first investor day. The large fund will seek to invest as
much as $500 million in individual deals, and the smaller
vehicles will target equity investments as high as $150 million,
Ken Hersh, an operating executive, said in a presentation.  Carlyle this year identified energy as the most attractive
investment area globally as demand rises and new sources of
power are discovered through processes such as hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking. U.S. power markets will require $1
trillion in new investment by 2020 to meet demand, Hersh said in
the presentation.  Fracking “has transformed the paradigm around natural
resources from one of of scarcity to a world of abundance,”
Hersh said. “The challenge is now about capital discipline and
investing, because the industry needs to invest more than its
free  cash flow .”  Carlyle expanded its energy business in December by buying
a stake in NGP Energy Capital Management LLC, which Hersh leads
as chief executive officer. The firm added again to its energy
team in May with the hire of six executives led by Marcel van Poecke, who will invest the international energy fund.  Expansion ‘Game’  That pool and the power fund will focus on mid-size
companies, according to today’s presentation. Carlyle plans to
invest about 80 percent of the North American energy fund in
companies that focus on the exploration and production of oil
and gas.  Carlyle manages $185 billion across 122 funds and 81 funds-of-funds. The firm was founded by Bill Conway, Dan D’Aniello and
 David Rubenstein  in 1987 as a leveraged buyout investor and has
since added businesses to invest in real estate, energy, credit
assets and  hedge funds .  The firm plans to continue expanding because it’s “part of
the game” as peers do the same, Glenn Youngkin, Carlyle’s chief
operating officer, said at today’s event. The company seeks to
start three new investment strategies a year on average, he
said.  In addition to Carlyle’s international investment team and
its NGP partnership, which it’s expanding as NGP starts an 11th
fund, the firm invests in energy through Vermillion Asset
Management LLC, a commodities-focused hedge-fund firm, and
Cogentrix Energy LLC, which manages coal and solar-power
projects. It acquired both businesses last year.  Carlyle also manages an energy mezzanine fund, which
provides subordinated debt and other loans for power companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  