-- Carney Seen Yielding on Rates as Joblessness Falls: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-11-11T10:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/carney-seen-yielding-on-rates-as-jobless-falls-u-k-credit.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
is set to signal that interest rates could rise sooner than
previously anticipated as unemployment edges closer to the key
threshold.  The  jobless rate  fell to 7.6 percent in the third quarter,
the lowest since 2009, from 7.7 percent, according to the median
of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Office for
National Statistics  is due to release the data at 9:30 a.m. on
Nov. 13. An hour later, Carney publishes new economic and
 inflation (UKRPCJYR)  forecasts at a quarterly press conference in London.  Since the last projections in August, when the BOE said
unemployment is unlikely to hit the 7 percent jobless threshold
for considering interest-rate increases until late 2016, the
recovery has strengthened and the economy added more jobs than
expected. That’s driven market yields higher as investors bet
officials will start tightening policy as early as 2015.  “It looks like we’ll see another fall in unemployment,”
said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
London. “This may bolster markets’ view that  interest rates 
will rise in a couple of years time.”  Short-sterling futures contracts declined in the past week
after stronger-than-forecast services, construction and
industrial production data, a sign that traders are adding to
bets for higher borrowing costs. The implied yield on the
contract expiring in September 2015 is at 1.28 percent, up from
1.12 percent on Nov. 1.  Rising Yields  The benchmark 10-year  gilt yield  has risen since Carney
took over on July 1, taking the  spread  over equivalent German
debt to 1.04 percentage points, the highest since October 2005.  The Monetary Policy Committee held its benchmark rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent on Nov. 7 and kept its bond-purchase
program at 375 billion pounds ($601 billion). The nine-member
panel made the decisions with the new economic projections.  Fifteen of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey say the MPC
will raise its economic growth forecasts for this year when it
publishes its Inflation Report. All 16 predict an upward
revision for 2014.  An upgrade would follow similar revisions in the past 10
days from the European Commission, the  Confederation of British
Industry  and the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research.  Contrasting Fortunes  According to  Markit Economics , services firms added
payrolls at the fastest pace since 1997 last month. Together,
its purchasing-manager surveys of services, manufacturing and
construction indicate private industry is adding more than
100,000 jobs a quarter, about four times the number being axed
in the  public sector .  The brighter outlook for the U.K. contrasts with the euro
area, which had its forecast cut by the commission on Nov. 5.
The  European Central Bank  reduced its  key interest rate  two days
later, citing the risk of a prolonged period of low inflation.
Figures this week are forecast to show growth in the 17-nation
euro region slowing to a crawl.  While Britain’s recovery is strengthening, risks remain and
Carney may avoid overselling the economy’s strength. Inflation
is outpacing wage growth, which may limit  consumer spending .
Official figures last week showed net trade acted as a drag on
growth in third quarter, and sterling’s appreciation may further
dampen the prospects of pickup in exports.  ‘Cautious Rhetoric’  The pound gained 3.9 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. It rose 3.4 percent against the
dollar and 2.9 percent against the euro, the currency of
Britain’s largest trading partner.  “The BOE will presumably want to guard against any overly
hawkish market reaction, so we would expect these revised
forecasts to be accompanied by some dovish, cautious rhetoric,”
said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London.  Walker forecasts that  unemployment  will reach the 7 percent
threshold in the first quarter of 2015. He expects the BOE to
bring forward its projection to the first quarter of 2016. The
rate has fallen from 7.8 percent since the last BOE forecasts.  The central bank has argued it will take time for
unemployment to reach 7 percent because companies will boost the
productivity of existing workers before they hire new ones, and
because a growing workforce means demand for jobs will stay
high. It estimated the creation of at least 750,000 jobs in
total will be required.  This week’s labor report will also include data on  claims 
for jobless benefit in October, a narrower measure of
unemployment They are forecast to show a drop of 30,000, a 12th
straight monthly decline, a Bloomberg survey shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net  