-- CFR May Seek Other Deals If Can’t Get Adcock Bid Support
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-11-11T15:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/cfr-may-seek-other-deals-if-can-t-get-adcock-bid-support.html
CFR Pharmaceuticals SA (CFR) , Chile’s
largest drug developer, may look at other opportunities in
emerging markets if it can’t win support for a $1.2 billion
approach for South African drugmaker  Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP)   Public Investment Corp., Adcock’s largest shareholder with
an 18.6 percent stake, said last week it wouldn’t support the
cash and shares proposal because it wasn’t in the investor’s
best interests. Adcock needs 75 percent of its shareholder base
to back the deal for it to go ahead, its chairman Khotso Mokhele
said in September. The company has received support from 45
percent of investors, it said Oct. 30.  “Before getting into this one we were looking at a big
opportunity in  Mexico  that we put in the freezer,” CFR Chief
Executive Officer Alejandro Weinstein said on a conference call
with reporters in Johannesburg today. “We may review what’s
left in the freezer.”  CFR can’t yet say it will walk away from the deal if the
PIC doesn’t change its position, Weinstein said. He flew into
Johannesburg today to meet with South Africa’s biggest money
manager and try to understand why it doesn’t support the offer,
he said. A date for a meeting hasn’t been set.  CFR said in July it would pay 12.6 billion rand ($1.2
billion) in cash and shares for Adcock as it seeks to expand in
other  emerging markets . The company said it would settle as much
as 51 percent to 64.3 percent of the purchase through cash and
the balance with new CFR shares.  Foreign Ownership  PIC, which oversees the pension funds of South African
government workers, would prefer an all-cash offer and doesn’t
want CFR shares as part of the takeover package, a person
familiar with the fund manager’s decision said today, declining
to be named because its discussions about the proposal haven’t
been made public. The possibility of Adcock falling under
foreign ownership as a result of a takeover by Santiago-based
CFR isn’t an issue, the person said. PIC declined to comment.  CFR, which won’t revise its offer, has had support from
some members of  South Africa ’s government, Weinstein said,
without naming the government officials.  “The deal has been priced and structured to perfection,
trying to satisfy the needs of all the shareholders,” he said.  Adcock  declined  0.9 percent to 67.50 rand by close of
trading in Johannesburg. The CFR offer values the drugmaker at
73.51 rand per Adcock share, according to both companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  