-- China Stocks Climb as Railway Companies Gain With Liquor Makers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-11T07:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-after-inflation-economic-data.html
China ’s  stocks  rose for the first
time in four days as railway companies rallied on prospects for
increased investment, overshadowing concern the government will
step up measures to rein in rising  home prices .  Train makers  China CNR Corp. (601299)  and CSR Corp. advanced at
least 7 percent after National Business Daily reported state-owned China Railway Corp. will increase investment in new
projects this year. Kweichow Moutai Co., the biggest maker of
baijiu liquor, climbed the most in almost a month. Poly Real
Estate Group Co. slid 2.1 percent, dragging down a measure of
property companies to the lowest level in two months.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.2 percent to 2,109.47
at the close, erasing a loss of as much as 0.6 percent.
Industrial output rose 10.3 percent in October, while the
inflation rate was 3.2 percent, weekend reports showed. Beijing
banned the presale of new homes of a certain size, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, while  Shanghai  raised the
minimum down payment required for buyers of a second home.  “The economic data were almost in line and the market has
no catalysts or excitement now,” said Wang Weijun, a strategist
at Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai. “There’s no news from
the Communist Party’s meeting so far and investors have pretty
high expectations for reform measures. The policy risk is the
biggest one facing the real estate industry now.”  The CSI 300 Index rose 0.3 percent to 2,315.89. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 1.5 percent. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index added 1.1 percent in  New York  on Nov. 8.  The Shanghai index has dropped 13 percent from this year’s
high set on Feb. 6 on concern economic growth will slow in the
fourth quarter. The measure trades at 8.4 times projected profit
for the next 12 months, compared with the seven-year average of
15.3, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Outlook  CSR, the nation’s biggest train maker, gained 7.2 percent
to 5.08  yuan . China CNR, the second largest, jumped 8.4 percent
to 5.56 yuan. China Railway will boost investment in new
projects this year to 471.3 billion yuan ($77.4 billion) from a
previously planned 416 billion yuan, National Business Daily
reported, citing the company. Nine projects will be added, it
said.  Kweichow Moutai, China’s biggest liquor maker by market
value, rose 2.5 percent to 139.55 yuan.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858) , the
second largest, added 1.5 percent to 16.51 yuan.  Data released Nov. 9 by the  National Bureau of Statistics 
showed industrial production last month exceeded the 10 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and the
previous month’s 10.2 percent. The increase in October’s
consumer price index, which compared with the median estimate of
3.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey, was the fastest since
February. Producer prices fell 1.5 percent, sliding for 20
straight months, the longest stretch since 2002.  Plenum Reforms  October’s retail sales growth of 13.3 percent compared with
the median projection for a 13.4 percent advance.  Fixed-asset
investment (CNFAYOY)  excluding rural households in the first 10 months of
the year gained 20.1 percent. The People’s Bank of China will
report October money supply, new loans and aggregate financing,
its broadest measure of credit, this week.  President  Xi Jinping  and top Communist leaders tomorrow
conclude a four-day gathering to map out an economic blueprint
for changes that the State Council’s research institute says
should include curbing the government’s role in the economy,
adjusting the fiscal system and spurring foreign investment. A
communique will be released after the meeting ends.  Easing the one-child policy, changing rural land rights and
allowing local governments to issue bonds may be among the
reforms, according to Bank of America Corp., while Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. expects policies to bolster urbanization
such as changes to the household registration, or hukou, system,
and a rebalancing of fiscal responsibilities between central and
local governments.  Property Tightening  An index of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite
dropped 2.5 percent, the most among five industry groups.
Beijing will ban the presale of new homes over 40,000 yuan per
square meter by the end of this year, Xinhua reported, citing a
meeting held by the city’s commission of housing and urban-rural
development. Shanghai raised the minimum down payment after home
prices surged 17 percent last month, the biggest gain in the 70
cities the government tracks after Shenzhen and Guangzhou.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, lost 1.8 percent to 8.71 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the
second largest, slid 2.1 percent to 8.95 yuan. Shanghai
Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone Development Co. slumped 9.4 percent
to 36.05 yuan, trimming its gain to 275 percent this year.  Options traders are paying the least in two months to
protect against drops in  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of China’s Twitter-like Weibo service, on speculation the social media platform
will become profitable this year.  Puts protecting against a 10 percent decline in Sina’s
shares cost 1.5 points less than calls betting on a rally of the
same magnitude last week, one-month data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. The price relationship known as skew was the lowest
since Sept. 13.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  