-- Chinese Developers Decline on Tightening Fears: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-11T04:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/chinese-developers-decline-on-tightening-fears-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese developer  shares fell the
most in two weeks amid concerns that Beijing and Shanghai will
implement new measures to curb demand and rising property
prices, prompting other cities to follow suit.  An  index  tracking property companies listed in Shanghai
fell as much as 3.1 percent and was 2.5 percent lower at the
11:30 a.m. local-time break, heading for its biggest decline
since Oct. 25.  China ’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost
0.2 percent.  Shanghai last week raised the minimum down payment required
for buyers of a second home to 70 percent from 60 percent as
 house prices  in China’s financial hub surged. Beijing will ban
developers from marketing homes that are still under
construction and priced over 40,000 yuan ($6,566) per square
meter (10.76 square feet) by the end of this year, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing a meeting of the
city’s commission of housing and urban-rural development with
developers.  “The market is concerned that the government will take
more measures to rein in the real estate sector amid fast rising
prices,” said Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “The policy risk is the biggest one facing the
industry now.”  Poly Real Estate Group Co., China’s second-largest
developer, was down 2.8 percent at 8.88  yuan  and Gemdale Corp.
declined 1.8 percent at 5.87 yuan in Shanghai trading. Shenzhen-listed China Vanke Co., the biggest developer listed on mainland
exchanges, was down 2.5 percent at 8.65 yuan.  ‘Old Policies’  Counties and municipal departments should take measures to
ensure Shanghai’s annual price-control target is met, according
to a statement on the local housing bureau’s website on Nov. 8.
The city also tightened the qualifications required for non-local home buyers and will increase residential land supplies,
according to the statement.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index has fallen 9.7
percent this year even as hopes ran high last month after
President Xi Jinping’s comments that the government will focus
more on boosting supplies to contain housing prices. Guangzhou,
the only first-tier city that hasn’t raised down payment for
second homes to 70 percent, and some second-tier cities with
excessive price gains, may be the next to move, according to
Kris Li, a Shanghai-based analyst at SWS Research Co., said.  “There were expectations that the government would relax
on the curbs and do more on increasing supplies, but there’s a
gap between what was said and what you see in reality,” Li
said. “They’re still having to use some of the old policies. So
the expectations have fallen through.”  Rising Prices  Home prices  in China’s four major cities jumped the most in
September since January 2011, heightening concerns a bubble is
forming as the national government refrains from introducing
more property curbs that would hinder economic growth. Prices
surged 17 percent in Shanghai from a year earlier, the biggest
gain in the 70 cities the government tracks, only behind the 20
percent jump in the southern business hubs of Shenzhen and
Guangzhou.  New home prices excluding government-sponsored social
housing jumped 21 percent in Beijing in September from a year
earlier, defying the strictest property curbs among all cities,
according to the latest data from the National Bureau of
Statistics. The Chinese capital raised down payment for second
homes to 70 percent in March.  Shanghai  will crack down on price collusion and violations
of home-purchase restrictions and will take measures to ensure
the stability of the land market, according to the housing
bureau’s statement last week.  “Local governments of core cities, under pressure from
high property prices, will take measures to curb demand but the
probability of tightening spreading to other cities is
relatively low,” Zhou Yating, analyst at Ping An Securities
Ltd. in Shenzhen, wrote in a note today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  