-- China Reins In Shadow Banking as Leaders Meet to Set Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-12T08:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/china-credit-trails-estimates-as-officials-check-debt-risks-2-.html
China ’s broadest measure of  new
credit  fell by more than estimated in October, suggesting
authorities are trying to keep shadow-finance risks in check as
leaders map out a blueprint to sustain growth.  Aggregate financing was 856.4 billion yuan ($140.6 billion),
the People’s Bank of China said yesterday in Beijing, below all
nine projections in a Bloomberg News survey. New local-currency
loans of 506.1 billion yuan compared with the 580 billion yuan
median estimate of analysts. M2, the broadest measure of  money
supply , rose 14.3 percent from a year earlier.  Slower credit would constrain growth while limiting risks
of a financial crisis as China seeks a way to replace the debt-fueled investment and construction that have sustained expansion
since the global financial crisis in 2008. President  Xi Jinping 
and top Communist leaders today conclude a four-day gathering to
set the direction of economic reforms.  “This confirms our view that monetary policy has tightened
and growth will slow going forward,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief
China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . With GDP
expansion on track to achieve the 2013 goal of 7.5 percent, new
bank loans and aggregate financing will decline this quarter
from the previous period’s “high levels,” Zhang said.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  closed 0.8 percent
higher today, the biggest gain this month.  Factory Production  Even as credit growth slows, a revival in the real-estate
market has seen developers’ sales of dollar bonds more than
double this year, according to a report by Moody’s Investors
Service. Such companies sold $17.88 billion of the notes as of
Oct. 20, up from about $8 billion for the whole of 2012.  The below-forecast loans and credit contrast with gains in
housing prices, industrial production and exports.  Aggregate-financing projections ranged from 1 trillion  yuan 
to 1.35 trillion yuan, with a median of 1.115 trillion yuan,
following 1.4 trillion yuan the previous month and 1.29 trillion
yuan in October 2012. Estimates for new yuan loans ranged from
420 billion yuan to 870 billion yuan, after lending totaled 787
billion yuan in September.  Money supply  rose 14.2 percent in September from a year
earlier and was projected to advance 14.2 percent in October,
according to the median estimate of economists.  There are signals that authorities want to limit debt. The
central bank said in a report last week that the economy “may
see a decline in leverage” over a relatively long period, a
suggestion that UBS AG said hadn’t been previously mentioned by
a government economic agency.  Money Pool  Premier  Li Keqiang  said in remarks published last week that
“there’s a lot of money in the ‘pool’ and issuing more money
may lead to inflation,” citing the nation’s outstanding M2
money supply of more than 100 trillion yuan ($16 trillion) as of
March, about double GDP.  The credit data indicate that initiatives by the China
Banking Regulatory Commission and PBOC “to contain rampant
shadow banking growth appear to have worked,” said Liu Li-Gang,
chief  Greater China  economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Hong Kong.  “The PBOC also faces a dilemma, that is, if it tightens
domestic credit conditions, the money market rates will rise
further, leading to higher funding costs for firms,” Liu said.  Liquidity Crunch  October’s numbers reflect in part a liquidity crunch during
the month, Haitong International Securities Group said. Amid
signs of potential tightening, the benchmark seven-day
repurchase  rate  climbed 85 basis points to 5.05 percent in
October, helping derail a stock market rally and driving the
one-year government bond yield to a record high.  In June, the Shanghai share index sank 7.7 percent after
the repo rate touched an all-time high of 10.77 percent.  The October aggregate-financing figure was the second-lowest this year, after July’s 818.9 billion yuan. New local-currency loans from banks accounted for 59 percent of the total,
the highest proportion in three months.  Trust loans , one of the
categories associated with shadow banking, totaled 40.4 billion
yuan, the lowest since July 2012.  “We have for a while expected the government to pursue a
firmer overall monetary stance in order to rein in overall
credit growth,”  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong, said in a note. While
August and September figures “seemed to call into question the
government’s resolve” in implementing such a policy, the
October credit numbers “point quite clearly to a firmer
stance,” Kuijs said.  Bad Loans  China’s top four banks posted their biggest increase in
soured loans since at least 2010 in the third quarter as a five-year credit spree left companies with excess manufacturing
capacity and slower profit growth amid a cooling economy.  Bad debts at Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
China Construction Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
and Bank of China Ltd. rose 3.5 percent in the third quarter to
a combined 329.4 billion yuan, data compiled from earnings
reports showed.  The State Council in July ordered the most comprehensive
audit of government debt in two years. Standard Chartered Plc
estimates regional borrowing has increased since 2010 to as much
as 24.4 trillion yuan.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. says China today and  Japan  in the
1980s, ahead of its lost decades, share a buildup in broad
measures of credit to almost double the economy’s size. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., in a July report, drew a comparison to what
preceded the Asian financial crisis of 1997-98.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  