-- China May Loosen Energy Price Controls After Planning Meeting
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-11-11T22:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/china-may-loosen-energy-price-controls-after-planning-meeting.html
China  may announce looser energy
price controls and the break up of the domestic duopoly of
PetroChina Co. and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  after a
four-day Communist Party meeting ends today.  “We expect an announcement on liberalizing of resource
price and an opening up of the  energy industry  to more private
investment,” Simon Powell, head of oil and gas research at CLSA
Ltd., said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Any fuel price
reforms would be mildly positive for Sinopec and natural gas
price liberalization would help PetroChina.” China Petroleum is
known as Sinopec.  Chinese Politburo member Yu Zhengsheng said last month
reforms to be discussed at the meeting of the party’s Central
Committee meeting will be unprecedented “and will promote
profound changes in every area of the economy and society.” Yu
is ranked fourth in the seven-strong Politburo Standing
Committee headed by party chief and President Xi Jinping.  China uses its big three  oil companies , of which PetroChina
is the largest, to control domestic fuel prices and secure
energy supplies from overseas to meet the burgeoning needs of
the world’s second-biggest economy.  Energy price liberalization was mentioned last month when
the Development Research Center of the State Council, a
government affiliated think tank, published  recommendations  for
reform known as the ‘383 plan.’ The report suggested China
should develop new price-setting mechanisms to better reflect
international markets, relax barriers to oil and gas exploration
and speed up development of shale gas resources.  Shale Subsidies  “China will triple subsidies toward higher cost shale gas
projects and increase all natural gas selling prices by 15
percent in 2014,”  Gordon Kwan , an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in an e-mail yesterday. “This will encourage the
accelerated development of domestic gas supplies.”  Environmental policies such as improving fuel standards may
also be on the agenda, said Kwan. Price reform will help
PetroChina and China Petroleum to invest in upgrading fuel
standards to improve  air quality , he said.  The government shortened its fuel price adjustment window
to 10 days in March from 22 days to allow retail rates to
reflect movements in global crude markets more closely.  Spin Off  The plenum may also accelerate the break up of China’s
largest energy companies, said CLSA’s Powell. Sinopec sold
shares in its engineering and construction unit in May. The
company may also spin off its oilfield services unit, he said.
PetroChina may follow a similar path.  “Spinning out part of PetroChina’s pipeline assets into a
separate public company could be beneficial” for investors,
Powell said. A sale of as much as 75 percent in the business
will leave the company with control and create value for
shareholders, he said.  Analysts such as JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Scott Darling said
any reform won’t be dramatic.  “What you’ll get will be a broad comment on increasing
efficiencies and maybe introducing more competition into the
energy sector,” Hong Kong-based Darling said. “But that does
not mean wholesale breakup of state-owned companies.”  Reforms will take place over years and not weeks, said
Powell. Many state-owned company chiefs are part of the  Central
Committee .  “Any reform of the state-owned enterprises will be slow,”
Powell said. “Especially given how powerful they are and how
many of their heads sit on the central committee.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  