-- Christie Stops Short of Pledge to Finish Second N.J. Term
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-11-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/christie-stops-short-of-pledge-to-finish-second-n-j-term.html
Chris Christie stopped short of
promising to finish his second term as New Jersey governor,
argued that President  Barack Obama  lied to Americans about
health care insurance and said fat jokes don’t bother him.  Those were among the highlights from Christie’s interviews
yesterday on four television news shows following his
overwhelming Nov. 5 re-election, a victory he’s said should be a
model for the Republican Party nationally.  Christie yesterday declined to promise to finish all four
years of his second term, something he wouldn’t be able to do if
he were to run for president in 2016 and win.  “Who knows?” he said when asked the question on ABC’s
“This Week” program. “I don’t know.”  Christie also pledged to “continue to do my job and finish
the job,” while adding that “nobody can make those
predictions.”  The governor said he’s only focused on the next 12 months,
when asked about his presidential ambitions on the “Fox News
Sunday” program.  “I know everybody is going to be speculating about what
may come in my future and lots of other people’s future in our
party,” he said. “But the fact is, I am focused on being the
governor of New Jersey and being the chairman of the Republican
Governors Association, and I think those two jobs will keep me
pretty busy over the next year.”  Christie, 51, won a second term with a margin of 22
percentage points after securing the majority of women and
Hispanic voters, both segments his party is trying to more
aggressively court.  Economic Record  Should Christie pursue a 2016 White House bid, his economic
record will be among the areas scrutinized.  As governor, unemployment in New Jersey  fell  to 8.5 percent
in August, from 9.7 percent in February 2010. That’s still 1.2
percentage points higher than the  U.S. average  for August, and
tied for the seventh-highest among the states.  In “Double Down,” a new book about the 2012 campaign, it
was written that Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  decided against
picking Christie as his running mate because there were too many
“red flags” tied to his previous career as a lawyer whose work
included lobbying for the securities industry.  “All of these issues have been vetted,” Christie said
yesterday on ABC. “If I ever run for anything again, they’ll be
vetted again.”  Christie pointed to Romney’s defense of him following
reports about the book.  Fat Jokes  “I’ll take Mitt Romney’s interpretation of all of this,
rather than some paid political consultant who was, you know,
trying to make himself famous, obviously, in the book,” he
said.  Asked on ABC about a reference to an  elephant  on a cover of
Time magazine, Christie said he ignores jokes about his weight.  “If I’m bothered by jokes about my weight, it’s time for
me to curl up into the fetal position and go home,” he said.  During his interviews, Christie was mostly subdued in his
criticism of the Democratic president, except on the issue of
health care.  “The fact of the matter is the president didn’t tell folks
the truth about what was going to happen with their own private
insurance policies,” he said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program. “And what I urged them to do for the last two weeks,
when I’ve been on the campaign trail, is tell people the truth.
That’s the thing they expect. And I think that’s why we’ve
gotten the support we’ve gotten in New Jersey.”  Foreign Policy  Christie declined to weigh in on foreign policy, including
his thoughts on how the Obama administration and Secretary of
State John Kerry should proceed on a potential Iran nuclear deal
amid reports that talks have broken down. He said he wouldn’t
comment until he has more information.  “The people who are involved in this on a day-to-day basis
should be making these opinions known publicly,” Christie said
on CBS’ “Face the Nation” program. “I’m the governor of New
Jersey.”  All the media attention Christie has won in recent weeks
hasn’t gone unnoticed by his potential 2016 Republican rivals.  Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  last week called Christie a
“moderate,” a term not typically embraced by the conservative
wing of the Republican Party that tends to dominate the
nomination process.  On “Fox News Sunday,” Christie said he plans to stay
above the “garbage” coming from  Washington , such as another
recent spat with Paul in which the senator said Christie had a
conflict of interest in appearing in a $25 million federally
funded “Stronger Than The Storm” ad campaign.  Gun Control  The governor said he’s open to some gun control. In his
first term, he approved tougher penalties for illegal gun
possession and barred those on federal terrorism watch lists
from purchasing firearms. He also vetoed a ban on the sale of
.50-caliber rifles and rewrote a Democratic measure that would
expand instant background checks, saying the state didn’t have
the technology to implement it.  “Every time we see one of these incidents happen across
the country, it is almost always exclusively with a deeply
disturbed person at the helm,” he said yesterday on Fox. “What
we need to do is be much more aggressive about how we deal with
mental health issues in this country.”  Even before his re-election, Christie had sparked some ill-will within his party stemming from his willingness to appear
with and praise high-profile Democrats.  He joined Bill Clinton in June at the former president’s
 Global Initiative  conference in  Chicago , where the two had an
onstage discussion about natural-disaster policy.  Sandy’s Aftermath  Republicans were especially critical of Christie for
accompanying Obama on a tour of the New Jersey shore last year
to inspect damage caused by  Hurricane Sandy . The governor lauded
the initial federal response -- words some said gave the
president a pre-election boost against Romney.  Some party colleagues also were aggrieved when Christie
criticized Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio  and other Republicans in
the U.S. House of Representatives for delays in approving
federal assistance in Sandy’s aftermath.  Christie will also face a challenging governing environment
in New Jersey, as he contemplates a potential White House bid.
His political reach didn’t extend to the Democratic Legislature,
where Republicans picked up just one Assembly seat.  During his first term, state lawmakers blocked Christie’s
efforts to reshape the state Supreme Court and cut taxes, and
sidestepped his opposition to same-sex marriage and a minimum-wage increase. Among his second-term priorities, Christie has
said he’ll push for more charter schools and vouchers.  Property Taxes  While Christie is popular in his state, residents are less
approving of his handling of taxes, polls have shown.  During his campaign, Christie touted his ability to balance
four budgets without raising levies. He also promoted his
ability to slow the growth in the state’s property taxes by
capping annual increases at 2 percent. Even so, he cut rebates,
which are aimed at softening the blow of the bills.  New Jersey’s average residential property-tax bill reached
a record $7,885 in 2012, up from $7,281 in 2009. In the decade
before Christie took office, the taxes rose more than 70
percent.  Christie has said during his first term he’s worked to make
the state more business-friendly, partly by approving $2.1
billion in tax breaks to businesses, including electronics maker
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and casino operator Revel Entertainment Group
LLC, in an effort to create jobs.  Panasonic Headquarters  In September he signed a measure overhauling the system of
tax breaks and consolidating five incentive programs into two.
More than 250 companies have used New Jersey’s incentive
programs to attract $11 billion in investments that created or
retained 70,700 jobs.  Panasonic got $102.4 million from New Jersey to move its
headquarters and 1,000 jobs to  Newark  from Secaucus after the
company had threatened to move out of state. Christie attended a
ribbon cutting for the facility in September.  Christie also reduced business taxes in a series of cuts
that lowered the levies by $500 million in the current budget
that ends June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  