-- Christine Keeler Strips, Dark ‘Magic Flute’: U.K. Theater
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-11-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/christine-keeler-strips-dark-magic-flute-u-k-theater.html
Andrew Lloyd Webber ’s musical
“ Stephen Ward ,” about a notorious sex-and-politics scandal
known as the Profumo Affair, opens in December.  Playwright Gill Adams has cannily stolen a march by
presenting “Keeler,” based on memoirs of Christine Keeler, one
of the main participants in the 1963 case.  Webber needn’t worry. Adams’s play is a mix of expositional
dialogue, hilarious partiality, and wild variations of tone.  The call girl Keeler is played by Sarah Armstrong, whose
physical charms are well displayed in a naked swimming pool
scene. Still, her acting is lackluster.  Paul Nicholas (who also directs) plays Stephen Ward, a
fashionable osteopath who introduces young women such as Keeler
to important political figures.  He’s good at being suave and sinister. His production also
starts well: Sequined showgirls create dance routines which
comment ironically on the action.  Then he forgets about the irony and the showgirls, and
nothing much is left except tedium.  Rating: **.  Magic Flute  The magic in a new “ Magic Flute ” is of the dark variety.  The Queen of the Night is an elderly grump who is stuck in
a wheelchair. The Three Boys are wizened old men who look like
Yoda from “ Star Wars .”  It is all part of the “oldie” theme of Simon McBurney’s
production at  English National Opera . Even Papageno, who is 28
in the libretto, becomes an ageing laborer with gray hair.  An artist chalks mountains and comets onto a blackboard,
and they’re projected onto screens to create locations. Another
performer makes amplified sound effects of flapping birds and
raindrops using paper, water and wobbling metal sheets.  At first it all creates a playful world for a battle
between innocence and experience.  Then things get incoherent. The Queen of the Night’s
crabbiness vanishes. She even joins in the final chorus of
rejoicing. The black-box set (designs by  Michael Levine ) and the
drab suits for the chorus are dull.  In an opera about magical transformations and a mystical
sun, a splash of color might have been a good idea.  Roland Wood’s Papageno is an amusing Everyman, and he
proves the star turn of the show.  Cornelia Gotz flunks her top F’s as the Queen of the Night
and wobbles out of tune. Ben Johnson (Tamino) and Devon Guthrie
(Pamina) are blandly pleasant as the lovers, and James Creswell
makes a sepulchral Sarastro.  Gergely Madaras  sounds as if he’s
trying to beat the record for fastest opera, which doesn’t help
the score much. Rating: ***.  “Keeler” is at Charing Cross Theatre. Information:
 http://www.charingdrosstheatre.co.uk  or +44-8444-930-650  “The Magic Flute” is at English National Opera. It is co-produced by ENO, Netherlands Opera and the Aix Festival.
Information:  http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on European art,
 John Mariani  on wine,  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater,  Lance
Esplund  on U.S. art and  Craig Seligman  on books.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 