-- Chrysler Names New Head of Namesake Brand
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-11-11T19:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/chrysler-names-new-head-of-namesake-brand.html
Chrysler Group LLC named Al Gardner
to run its Chrysler brand, succeeding Saad Chehab, who becomes
chief marketing officer for Maserati SpA.  Gardner, who joined the company in 1986, was director of
Chrysler Group’s southeast business center. Chrysler, which is
majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , also named Steve Beahm as senior
vice president of supply chain management. Beahm, who started
with Chrysler in 1987, was vice president of U.S. sales.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, has led Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler to 43
straight monthly U.S. sales gains. Profits at Chrysler have
helped Turin, Italy-based Fiat navigate Europe’s prolonged
economic slump. Fiat also owns the Maserati and Ferrari supercar
brands.  Chehab will no longer be a member of Fiat’s Group Executive
Council, which is second to the company’s board in decision-making authority,  Shawn Morgan , a Chrysler spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. The role of marketing chief at Maserati is a new one,
the luxury-auto maker said in an e-mailed statement. Chehab will
report to Maserati CEO Harald Wester.  Chrysler also said Tim Kuniskis, head of the Dodge brand,
will add responsibility for Chrysler Group’s fleet operations,
succeeding  Peter Grady , who was named head of Maserati  North
America . Grady will remain vice president of dealer network
development, according to a company statement today.  The appointments “represent important recognition of the
positive contribution that each individual has brought to the
organization,” Marchionne said in the Chrysler statement.   Gardner’s promotion was reported earlier by Automotive
News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  