-- Clayton Should Give Mortgage Data to U.S., Judge Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-11-11T19:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/clayton-should-give-mortgage-data-to-u-s-judge-says.html
E-mail and other data held by Wall
Street’s largest due-diligence firm that may determine how many
cases the government brings against banks for actions leading to
the financial crisis should be turned over to the  Justice
Department , a U.S. magistrate judge said.  Clayton Holdings LLC failed to show that the government’s
request for three years’ worth of client work and communications
was overly broad and burdensome, Magistrate Judge Donna Martinez
in Hartford, Connecticut, said today in a recommended ruling.
The U.S. is seeking the information as part of its probe into
the packaging and sale of mortgage bonds before the 2008
financial meltdown.  “The government’s investigation into abuses in the
residential mortgage-backed  securities market  is broad and
extensive,” Martinez wrote. “The government maintains that
Clayton’s due diligence reports, which provided its clients with
qualitative information regarding the loans it reviewed, are
relevant and within the scope of the government’s
investigation.”  The fight over the subpoena underscores the Justice
Department’s push to file civil claims against the largest U.S.
banks in connection with mortgage-backed securities. The
department sued  Bank of America Corp.  in August as New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reached a tentative $13 billion
agreement with the U.S. to settle multiple mortgage bond probes.  Marc Rothenberg, a lawyer for Clayton at Blank Rome LLP,
declined to comment on the judge’s recommendation.  Targeted Banks  Rothenberg said during an Oct. 3 hearing that 16 banks were
on a list of targets the government gave his client in June. The
department is focusing on about half of them, a person familiar
with the matter has said. Rothenberg and the government refused
to publicly identify the banks.  Adora Andy Jenkins, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
ruling. Today is Veterans Day, a U.S. national holiday.  Martinez’s ruling can be challenged before a U.S. district
judge who referred the case to Martinez for pretrial matters.  Clayton, based in Shelton,  Connecticut , was a “major
provider of third-party due diligence services” to the Wall
Street firms that packaged mortgages into bonds for sale to
investors, according to the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission’s 2011 report.  The subpoena was issued under the 1989 Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, or FIRREA,
which the government is using to pursue RMBS cases against Wall
Street banks.  It seeks due diligence reviews, all communications between
its employees and clients for whom it performed the reviews from
2005 to 2007, and Clayton’s database that was used to prepare
the due diligence reports.  The case is U.S. v. Clayton Holdings LLC, 13-mc-00116, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut ( New Haven ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 