-- Co-Op Bank to Sell $800 Million of Renewables Debt Under Revival
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-11T16:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/co-op-bank-to-sell-800-million-of-renewables-debt-under-revival.html
Co-Operative Bank Ltd. will sell a
500 million-pound ($800 million) green-energy debt portfolio
after its parent company was forced to cede control of the
lender to bondholders to plug a gap in the unit’s capital.  The business, mainly loans to wind farms, combined heat-and-power plants and hydro projects, will be a “standalone
renewable business” using a fund structure the bank has been
preparing, according to a prospectus on the lender’s  website .  “A portfolio sale is deemed to be the optimum exit
strategy,” according to the document. The 531.2 million pounds
of gross loans as of June 30 have low yields, with about a third
of the projects still in the development stage, it said Nov. 4.  The deal is part of 15 billion pounds of “non-core” asset
disposals after Co-Operative Group Ltd. last month ceded control
of the unit to help plug a 1.5 billion-pound capital hole at the
division. The transfer to bondholders contrasts with the so-called ethical stance on investing taken by the bank, which
became the first U.K. retail bank with such a policy in 1992.  The bank plans to “run-down and exit” assets such as non-prime home mortgages under a four-to-five year recovery strategy
focused on retail and small and medium-sized enterprises. Co-Operative Group, a Manchester-based mutual with business from
supermarkets to funeral parlors, retains 30 percent of the bank.  Regulators pushed the group to end the deficit after the
bank failed to acquire more than 600  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
branches, which would have more than doubled its outlets.  A Co-Operative Bank spokeswoman declined to add to the
prospectus, which showed the portfolio had 115.3 million pounds
of undrawn commitments and non-performing loans at 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  