-- Diageo Kenya’s CEO Mulls East African Expansion as Growth Jumps
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-11-11T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/diageo-kenya-s-ceo-mulls-east-african-expansion-as-growth-jumps.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s Kenyan unit plans to
expand operations in South  Sudan  and other nations in East
Africa to capitalize on accelerating economic growth in the
region, Chief Executive Officer Charles Ireland said.  East African Breweries Ltd., the region’s biggest beer
maker, is considering growing its distribution infrastructure in
South Sudan, Ireland said in a Nov. 7 interview in the Kenyan
capital, Nairobi, where the company is based. Last month the
company commissioned a depot in South Sudan’s capital, Juba,
with the capacity to store 100,000 crates of beer.  “We are looking to migrate from trading to fully
operational business units” in South Sudan,  Rwanda  and eastern
Democratic Republic of Congo, he said.  EABL, as the company is known, controls 95 percent of the
Kenyan beer market and half of the country’s spirits business,
according to Ireland. The company has manufacturing plants in
Kenya, Uganda and  Tanzania  and exports its products to Rwanda,
the Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ,
the world’s second-largest brewer, operates the only brewery
currently in South Sudan.  Growth in Kenya, the region’s largest economy, will
accelerate to 5.8 percent this year from 4.7 percent last year,
according to the International Monetary Fund. South Sudan, the
world’s newest nation that gained independence from Sudan in
2011, is expected to expand 32.1 percent after contracting 53
percent last year, the IMF said on its website.  South Sudan’s economy shrank when it shut down crude oil
output in a dispute with neighboring Sudan over pipeline fees.
Output resumed earlier this year.  EABL has embarked on a campaign to boost the share of
revenue from its spirits business, where growth is already
outpacing the increase in beer sales, Ireland said.  ‘Growth Spurt’  “Over the last few years the beer business has been
healthy and growing,” Ireland said. “Our spirits business,
particularly the premiums and international side, has been
growing more rapidly and we expect that will continue whilst the
country is going through a growth spurt.”  Revenue at EABL increased 6.5 percent to 59.1 billion
shillings ($689 million) in the fiscal year through June.
Spirits contributed at least 16 percent of sales.  “As economies develop consumers become aware of
international brands, they become aware of mainstream and
premiums offerings,” he said. “Alcoholic beverages in  Kenya 
are coming through a similar development cycle.”  Johnnie Walker  The biggest selling spirits in Kenya by sales volumes are
derived from sugar cane and include Kenya Cane, while premium
brands such as Johnnie Walker whisky are recording the fastest
growth, according to Ireland. The company’s biggest beer brand,
Tusker, accounts for a fifth of sales volumes, he said.  Annual growth in sales of premium spirits is expected to be
in “low triple digits” over the next three to five years,
while beer will grow in the range of “single digits,” Ireland
said.  EABL’s shares have gained 22 percent this year following a
54 percent advance in 2012, giving the company a market value of
255 billion shillings, the second-biggest in Kenya. The FTSE-NSE
25 Index has surged 37 percent in 2013, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Diageo, the world’s largest distiller, owns 50.03 percent
of EABL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  