-- Disney Names Pitaro Sole Interactive Head, Pleasants Out
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-11T21:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/disney-names-pitaro-sole-interactive-head-pleasants-out.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  named Jimmy Pitaro
sole president of its interactive business, assuming duties held
by John Pleasants in a shake-up less than a week after the unit
reported its second-ever quarterly profit.  Disney is merging the games and media operations within
interactive as part of the change, the Burbank, California-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. Pleasants, who was
co-president with Pitaro, becomes a consultant.  The company is consolidating the interactive business under
a single leader after the successful introduction of the Disney
Infinity game system that Pleasants oversaw. The moves comes as
Infinity, combining collectibles with video games, gears up to
challenge the “Skylanders” products from Activision Blizzard
Inc. during the holiday season.  “Disney’s stated goal is to improve the profitability of
that division, and I would expect that to continue to be the
primary focus,” said  Laura Martin , an analyst with Needham &
Co. in  Los Angeles  who has a hold rating on the stock.  The change isn’t likely to have a meaningful impact on
Disney’s earnings over the next 12 months, Martin said.  Disney fell 0.4 percent to $68.34 at the close in  New York .
The stock has gained 37 percent this year, compared with 20
percent for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Interactive Profit  The interactive division posted a profit of $16 million in
the fourth quarter ended Sept. 28, as sales more than doubled to
$396 million with the release of the Infinity system, Disney
said on Nov. 7. The unit lost $76 million in the same quarter a
year earlier.  “This successful launch drove Disney Interactive’s swing
to profitability in Q4 and all indications suggest the strong
demand for Disney Infinity will continue,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Iger  said on a conference call last
week.  Disney named the two men co-presidents of interactive in
October 2010. Pitaro hailed from Yahoo! Inc.’s media unit, while
Pleasants led Playdom, a games company that was purchased by
Disney in 2010 for as much as $563 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  