-- Disney, Piggy Pushers, Dunlop: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-11T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/disney-piggy-pushers-dunlop-intellectual-property.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and other movie and
TV studios have asked a federal court to dismiss their
copyright-infringement case against the file-sharing website
 Lime Wire  LLC and its founder, Mark Gorton, according to a Nov.
7 court filing.  The studios, including  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , News Corp.’s Twentieth
Century Fox Film and Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.
Entertainment, filed the suit in federal court in  New York  in
February 2012. They claimed a “staggering” amount of
infringement took place through the site, and that “millions of
users copied billions of files using Lime Wire” without paying
anything to copyright owners.  Lime Wire developed peer-to-peer software that let people
share digital entertainment files on their computers with other
people over the Internet. TV shows such as “ South Park ” and
“ Desperate Housewives ” and movies including “Avatar” and the
“Harry Potter” films were among the material allegedly
infringed, according to the filing.  Gorton operates  Tower Capital Research LLC,  a New York-based hedge fund that trades securities based on mathematical
algorithms it developed. “Gorton directed and benefited from
Lime Wire’s inducement of infringement,” the entertainment
companies said in one of their filings.  U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in May 2010 found Lime Wire
and Gorton liable for inducing infringement of copyrights for
recorded music. The site was shut down by an October 2010 court
order. Lime Wire settled with the recording industry for $105
million in May 2011 during a trial in  Manhattan  to determine
damages.  No terms for the settlement of the case brought by the
studios were disclosed.  The case is Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. v. Lime Wire
LLC, 12-cv-00818, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  The earlier case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC,
06-cv-05936, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Piggy Pushers’ Sock Patent Not Infringed, Appeals Court Rules  A federal appeals court affirmed a lower-court ruling that
a patent wasn’t infringed based on its understanding of the
difference between a sock and a shoe.  The case, filed in a  Michigan  federal court in July 2010,
was between two makers of footwear for infants. Piggy Pushers of
Holland, Michigan, claimed that products made by  Skidders
Footwear Inc.  infringed patent 6,385,779.  The patent covers a sock for a crawling infant. According
to the patent, which was issued in May 2002, the sock has a
gripper element in both the upper and lower surface that
increases friction and makes it possible for a baby to crawl on
slippery surfaces.  The product made by New York-based Skidders has a foot-surrounding sock bonded to a rubber outsole. In May 2012 the
lower court said there was nothing in the language of the patent
that could suggest the inventor meant “sock” to mean anything
other than the ordinary definition.  The lower court said the Skidders products had a number of
differences from socks, including having a durable outsole, and
left- and right-foot designations.  In its Nov. 8 ruling, the Washington-based  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said the lower court was
correct. Piggy Pushers, the court said, failed to present
evidence refuting Skidders’ claim that its product didn’t fit
the definition of a sock.  The appeal is Piggy Pushers LLC v. Skidders Footwear LLC,
2013-1107, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ).  The lower court case is Piggy Pushers LLC v. Skidders
Footwear Inc., 1:10-cv-00644, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Michigan (Grand Rapids).  Furuno Complaint Against Garmin, Navico to Be Investigated  The U.S. International Trade Commission  said  Nov. 8 that it
will investigate a complaint filed in September by  Furuno
Electric Co. (6814)   Hygo, Japan-based  Furuno said that GPS, navigation and
radar devices made by Garmin Ltd., Navico Holdings A/S and Flir
Systems Inc.’s Raymarine unit infringe four patents. Furuno is
seeking an import ban against all three companies’ devices.  The devices are used in cars, airplanes and ships. The
patents cover systems, devices and methods for improving
navigation, radar and map displays, according to the complaint.  The Washington-based ITC has the power to exclude the
importation of items that infringe U.S. patents. Last week the
commission also said that it would investigate a complaint
Navico made against Flir fish-finding devices.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dunlop’s Cleveland Golf Unit Sues Callaway Over Golf Club Name  Dunlop Sports Co. (7825) ’s Roger Cleveland Golf unit sued  Callaway
Golf Co. (ELY)  for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed in federal court in Santa Ana,  California ,
is related to the use of the phrase “Designed by Roger
Cleveland” on some of Callaway’s golf clubs.  According to the complaint,  Roger Cleveland  founded the
Roger Cleveland Golf Co. in 1979. The company owns a number of
trademark registrations for “Cleveland” and “Cleveland
Golf.”  Cleveland left the company in 1995 and, according to court
papers, departed with no rights in or to the Cleveland
trademarks. He went to work for rival Callaway, where he is now
chief of golf club design.  In July 2013, Callaway began marketing a club bearing Roger
Cleveland’s name, the Roger Cleveland Mac Daddy 2. Roger
Cleveland Golf said consumers have been confused by Callaway’s
use of the name, and that, to no avail, it has sent cease-and-desist notices to Carlsbad, California-based Callaway.  It asked the court to bar Callaway’s use of the Cleveland
name, and for awards of money damages, including profits
attributable to the alleged infringement, together with attorney
fees and litigation costs.  Callaway didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Roger Cleveland Golf Co. v. Callaway Golf Co.,
8:13-cv-01642, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  ‘Famous Jameis’ Trademark Filing Is Made by  Alabama  Football Fan  An Alabama football fan has applied to register the phrase
“Famous Jameis” as a trademark. The phrase has been used to
describe Florida State University quarterback Jameis Winston,
the Heisman Trophy favorite.  Mukul Mehra, 40, filed the trademark request on Oct. 24,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office .  Mehra said in a telephone interview he has no connection to
Winston, a redshirt freshman from Bessemer, Alabama, a suburb of
Birmingham.  “It’s not necessarily geared toward him,” said Mehra, who
has a medical degree from the  University of Alabama  School of
Medicine in Birmingham. “I don’t know what our intent
completely is. We haven’t worked all of that out.”  Pamela Deese, a partner at the Washington law firm Arent
Fox, said in a telephone interview that Winston probably would
be awarded the trademark if he moved to register it.  “We would hope the examiner is savvy enough to recognize
that Famous Jameis refers to the potential Heisman Trophy
winner,” said Deese, whose clients include Houston Rockets
guard Jeremy Lin. “You can’t register a trademark for somebody
else’s name without their permission, which is what happened
with Jeremy.”  Mehra said he has contacted a local sports marketing
company about producing “Famous Jameis” T-shirts. He also said
he’s open to a partnership with Winston or Florida State. “If
it’s something they’re interested in using we could potentially
market it together,” Mehra said.  The 6-foot-4, 228-pound Winston, at -500, is the favorite
at sportsbook.com to win the Heisman Trophy, which is given
annually to college football’s best player. A $50 bet would win
$10.  Winston has completed 149 of 212 passes for 2,502 yards and
24 touchdowns, fifth in college football’s top level. He’s also
thrown six interceptions and run for three touchdowns.  Deese said it would behoove Winston to move quickly on the
trademark.  “The longer you wait, the more costly it gets,” she said.  Second AIDS Group Vies for Defunct Charity’s Mark, Blade Says  A second AIDS-related charity has made an offer to buy the
trademark of the now-defunct National Association of People with
AIDS, the Washington Blade  reported .  The Washington-based Community Education Group made an
offer to the bankruptcy court buy to buy the trademark rights to
six different names, the Blade reported.  The marks include “National HIV Testing Day,” “National
Gay Men’s Awareness Day,” “National Gay Men’s HIV/AIDS
Awareness Day, ‘‘Healthy Living Summit’’ and ‘‘AIDS Watch,’’
according to the Blade.  Earlier  Health HIV , also based in Washington, offered
$3,000 for the rights to just one of the marks, ‘‘National Gay
Men’s HIV/AIDS Awareness Day,’’ according to the newspaper.  New Yorkers Charged Over Fake Polo, Lacoste Clothes, WABC Says  Six New York residents have been charged with trademark
counterfeiting and conspiracy, WABC-TV  reported .  They were accused of selling versions of  Ralph Loren
Corp. (RL) ’s Polo, Lacoste SA,  VF Inc. (VFC) ’s North Face, and True
Religion Apparel Inc.’s clothing with a suggested retail price
of more than $13.4 million to smaller distributors, according to
the New York-based television station.  The charges followed the seizure of more than 2,000 boxes
of counterfeit trademarked clothing from a storage facility in
Queens, New York, in July, WABC-TV reported.  New York Police Department Commissioner Ray Kelly told
WABC-TV that this counterfeit-clothing operation was of
particular importance because of indications that the proceeds
went to areas in southern Lebanon that were ‘‘of concern” to
the intelligence bureau.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  