-- Djokovic Tops Nadal in Straight Sets to Win Tennis Season Finale
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-12T01:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/djokovic-beats-nadal-for-third-title-at-atp-men-s-tennis-event.html
Novak Djokovic won his 22nd straight
match and retained his title at the season-ending ATP World Tour
Finals by defeating Rafael Nadal, who last month jumped past
Djokovic to take the top ranking in men’s tennis.  Djokovic won 6-3, 6-4 in 1 hour, 36 minutes last night at
London’s O2 arena. It’s the 26-year-old Serb’s seventh title of
the year, second only to the 10 he won in 2011, and the $1.9
million prize takes his 2013 winnings to $11.2 million and his
career total to more than $56.8 million.  The Australian Open champion is unbeaten since losing the
U.S. Open final to Spain’s Nadal in September. Since then he’s
won titles in Beijing,  Shanghai , Paris and now London. His third
Tour Finals title, following his victory last year and in 2008,
ties him with Boris Becker and John McEnroe. Roger Federer has
taken the title a record six times.  “After the U.S. Open final, I needed to take things slowly
and see and analyze what I did wrong,” Djokovic told reporters.
“Especially in the matches against him, to understand what I
need to do in order to win against him. He’s one of the fittest
and physically most prepared players in the world.”  Nadal is guaranteed to end the year as the top-ranked
player for the third time in his career. He rejoined the tour in
February following a seven-month layoff due to tendinitis and a
partial tear of the patella tendon. Nadal’s 10 titles in 2013
include defeats of Djokovic in the French and U.S. opens. Nadal
has 13 major titles, four behind Federer’s career record.  75-7 Record  “I didn’t play a bad match, in my opinion, but did not
have enough consistency,” Nadal said. “I was playing well
enough to be a little bit closer than the score.”  Last week, he described his return to the top of the
rankings after seven months out as the toughest achievement of
his career. He ends the season with 75 wins and seven losses.  “I’ve been in no doubt the most emotional season of my
career,” Nadal said to the crowd in the trophy presentation.
“It’s probably one of the best seasons of my career.”  The final was the sixth encounter between the world’s top
two players this year, and the 39th in total. Nadal now leads
the head-to-head series 22-17.  “I think it’s amazing playing 39 times,” Nadal said.
“It’s just amazing that the same players have been competing
for every tournament. We are in a special moment of the history
of tennis.”  Djokovic said he and Nadal bring out the best in each
other.  “We push each other to the limit,” he said. “We make
each other, you know, work harder on our games, especially when
we play against each other. It’s always a huge challenge.”  Nadal, who also reached the final in 2010 against Roger
Federer, has never won the ATP Tour Finals. Last week, he
complained that holding the tournament on indoor hard courts for
eight straight years was unfair to players who prefer outdoor
conditions and surfaces such as clay.  $62.1 Million  He picked up a runner-up check for $1 million, taking his
2013 prize winnings to more than $12 million, a career best. His
career winnings now stand at $62.1 million.  Nadal’s next Grand Slam goal is to tie retired American
Pete Sampras’s tally of 14 major titles. Federer, 32, who failed
to reach the final at any of the four majors this year, holds
the men’s record of 17 Grand Slam singles titles.  Djokovic ended the season with his 41st career title.  “This can serve as a great platform for 2014 season,”
Djokovic said. “I’m extra motivated and inspired to work and
get myself, first of all, rested and recovered in the offseason,
and then work on my game and get ready for the Australian
Open.”  David Marrero and Fernando Verdasco upset top-seeded
Americans Bob and Mike Bryan for the doubles title. The Spanish
pair won 7-5, 6-7 (3-7), 10-7 against the Bryan brothers, who
are three-time champions of the ATP event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in  London  at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  