-- Dollar Holds Gain Versus Yen Before Fed Officials Speak Tomorrow
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-11-11T05:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/dollar-holds-gain-versus-yen-before-fed-officials-speak-tomorrow.html
The dollar held a two-week gain
versus the yen before Federal Reserve officials speak amid signs
the  U.S. economy  may be strong enough for the central bank to
taper monetary stimulus.  The greenback remained higher after jobs data last week
topped economist forecasts, boosting Treasury yields. Fed Bank
of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  and Atlanta peer
 Dennis Lockhart  will speak tomorrow. The euro was near a 10-month low against the pound ahead of data this week that may
show factory output declined in the currency bloc and after an
unexpected rate reduction by the  European Central Bank .  “We expect the dollar to strengthen gradually as U.S.
monetary policy is normalized,” said  Daisaku Ueno , the chief
currency strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co. in  Tokyo ., a unit of Japan’s biggest financial group by
market value. “The ECB still retains a policy guidance that’s
inclined toward a further rate cut.”  The dollar was at 99 yen as of 2:11 p.m. in Tokyo after
climbing 1 percent to 99.05 on Nov. 8. It gained 1.7 percent
over the past two weeks. The U.S. currency was little changed at
$1.3363 per euro.  Europe ’s 17-nation currency fell 0.1 percent
to 132.29 yen.  Kocherlakota is scheduled to speak tomorrow on monetary
policy and will take questions following his address. He said
Oct. 17 that officials must do “whatever it takes” to push for
a faster return to full employment while keeping inflation near
2 percent, including possibly providing more stimulus.  Lockhart said Nov. 8 that the Fed will consider reducing
its bond-buying program at next month’s policy meeting.  U.S. employers added 204,000 workers in October, compared
with a Bloomberg News survey median for a 120,000 gain, a report
last week showed.  Europe’s Economy  Euro-area industrial output probably fell 0.3 percent in
September from a month earlier when it rose 1 percent, a
separate Bloomberg News poll of economists shows. The report is
due for release on Nov. 13.  The ECB halved its main refinancing rate on Nov. 7 to 0.25
percent with ECB President  Mario Draghi  saying the 17-nation
currency bloc risks a “prolonged period” of low inflation.  The euro has weakened 0.4 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar has strengthened 1.1
percent, while the yen advanced 0.6 percent.  Trade Deficit  Japan recorded a seasonally-adjusted  current account
deficit  of 125.2 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in September, the
most in data going back to 1985, a Ministry of Finance report
today showed.  The ministry report also showed that Japanese investors
increased holdings of U.K. sovereign debt by 184 billion yen in
September, the most in two years. They offloaded a net 173.7
billion yen of Netherlands’ bonds, the biggest drop in a year.  Their holdings of Treasuries rose for a third month, the
longest run since the four months ended March 2012, climbing by
a net 1.26 trillion yen in  U.S. debt , according to the figures.  Demand for the pound may be sustained with some strategists
predicting that Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  will signal
 interest rates  could rise sooner than previously anticipated as
unemployment edges closer to policy makers’ key threshold.  Pound Gains  The U.K.  jobless rate  fell to 7.6 percent in the third
quarter, the lowest since 2009, from 7.7 percent, according to
the median of estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before data
due Nov. 13. Soon after, Carney publishes new economic and
inflation forecasts at a quarterly press conference in  London .  Since the last projections in August, when the BOE said
unemployment is unlikely to hit the 7 percent threshold for
considering rate increases until late 2016, the recovery has
strengthened and the economy added more jobs than expected.  “Faced with mounting evidence of firming growth, the BOE
will likely have to revise its assumptions upwards,”  Mitul Kotecha , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , wrote in a research report today.
“This bodes well for the pound and while gains against the  U.S.
dollar  are likely to be limited, euro-pound is set for a further
downward correction.”  The pound traded little changed at 83.44 pence per euro
after touching 83.01 pence on Nov. 7, the most since January. It
will likely break through the 83 pence level, Kotecha said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  