-- Draghi to Bernanke Inflation Slump Dims BOJ Target
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-11-11T07:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/draghi-to-bernanke-inflation-slump-dims-boj-target.html
Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda’s bid to end 15 years of persistent deflation is
endangered by the failure of counterparts in the U.S. and Europe
to meet their own price goals.  Citigroup Inc.’s Inflation Surprise Index for Group of 10
economies dropped to negative 21.80 in October, the lowest since
April 1998 and signaling data fell short of analyst estimates. A
BOJ board member was monitoring whether domestic consumer prices
could keep rising with disinflation overseas, minutes of the
Oct. 3-4 policy meeting released last week show.  Japan’s 10-year yield fell to a six-month low on Nov. 8
even after the BOJ restated its view that inflation will quicken
toward its 2 percent target. Data this week may show the cost of
goods traded among companies fell for the first time in almost a
year in October. The European Central Bank unexpectedly cut
rates last week as it failed to meet price goals.  “Goods are made and moved worldwide, so their prices are
more likely to go up and down in sync,” said Maiko Noguchi, a
former BOJ official and a Tokyo-based senior economist at Daiwa
Securities Co., Japan’s second-biggest brokerage. “If market
participants believed the BOJ was on track to achieve its price
target, the current yields would be too low.”  ECB, Fed  The ECB lowered the benchmark rate on Nov. 7 to a record
0.25 percent, with ECB President Mario Draghi saying the
currency bloc may “ experience  a prolonged period of low
inflation.” The Federal Open Market Committee, headed by
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, refrained from reducing monthly bond
purchases on Sept. 18, as policy makers recognized inflation
below its 2 percent target could  pose risks  to the economy.  Growth in consumer prices has fallen short of policy
targets in the U.S., the euro bloc, Switzerland and  Sweden ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The euro zone’s annual
 inflation rate  dropped to 0.7 percent in October, the lowest
since November 2009. The Inflation Surprise Index for the G-10
rich countries has been below zero since May 2012.  A BOJ member “was closely monitoring whether factors
specific to Japan could lead” to faster inflation “in a
situation where signs of improvement in the global
 disinflationary trend  could not yet be observed,” the minutes
said.  A  price index  for corporate goods, an indicator that the
BOJ refers to when making policy decisions, probably fell 0.2
percent last month from September, economists forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. The central bank report is scheduled for
release on Nov. 13.  Inflation Outlook  That would follow a slowdown in annual inflation excluding
fresh food to 0.7 percent in September, compared with August’s
0.8 percent, which was the most since November 2008. The central
bank  forecast  on Nov. 1 that the core rate will quicken to 1.9
percent in the year starting April 2015 after stripping out the
effect of a planned sales-tax increase.  “The BOJ may be forced to implement additional stimulus as
early as January,” after the ECB cut interest rates and as U.S.
growth slows,  Hiromichi Shirakawa , the Tokyo-based chief
economist for Japan at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
research note on Nov. 8.  The 10-year Japanese government bond  yield  fell as much as
one basis point to 0.58 percent at the end of last week, the
lowest since May 7, as the BOJ bought 310 billion yen ($3.1
billion) of government bonds. That’s part of the central bank’s
more than 7 trillion yen a month of purchases that have helped
weaken the yen by more than 19 percent in the past 12 months,
the biggest decline among the dollar’s 16 major counterparts.  Foreigner Selling  The 10-year yield rose half a basis point, or 0.005
percentage point, to 0.59 percent today. Foreign investors sold
a net 2.13 trillion yen in JGBs in September, the most since
March, according to Ministry of Finance data released today.  The currency depreciation spurred more than a 10 percent
year-on-year increase in the cost of  imported goods  every month
since May. The yen may drop to 110 per dollar by the end of next
year, a separate Bloomberg poll of analysts shows, from 98.95 as
of 4:05 p.m. in  Tokyo  today.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe unveiled 5 trillion yen in
stimulus steps last month to soften the economic blow of the
sales-tax increase in April 2014 to 8 percent from 5 percent.
He’s called on companies to boost wages to jump-start consumer
spending and end deflation.  “I think inflationary pressure will persist because of the
currency factor,” said Kazuhiko Ogata, the chief Japan
economist in Tokyo at Credit Agricole SA. “It may be too early
to draw a rosy picture, but if increased fiscal outlays continue
to tighten the demand-supply balance in the economy, there’s a
good chance companies will start to raise wages.”  Falling Wages  Wages in Japan after adjusting for inflation slid 1.4
percent in September from a year earlier, marking a 10th drop in
the past 12 months, according to labor ministry  statistics .  Toyota Motor Corp. President  Akio Toyoda  told reporters on
Nov. 7 that it’s reasonable for corporate managers to raise
salaries when profit gains, Kyodo News agency reported.
Companies listed on the Topix index of Japanese shares are
forecast to post double-digit growth in earnings per share in
the next two years, according to analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The economic slowdown overseas has reduced interest rates
relative to Japan’s, a factor that may discourage Japanese money
managers from investing abroad. The extra yield that investors
can get by holding global government bonds over Japanese debt
fell to 1.32 percentage points from about a two-year high of
1.49 on Sept. 10, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  “We’ve seen a confirmation of the prolonged period of
disinflation in Europe and the U.S., just like in Japan,” said
Kenji Sakaguchi, the chief investment officer at Prudential
Investment Management Japan Co., which manages the equivalent of
$140 billion. “The era of low rates will continue in developed
countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  