-- Teens Flee Abercrombie for Upstarts as Phones Top Malls
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-11T14:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/teens-flee-abercrombie-for-upstarts-as-phones-top-malls.html
Teens don’t shop the way they used
to.  Where young consumers with spare cash once thronged the
likes of  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  American Eagle Outfitters
Inc. (AEO)  for clothing that telegraphed their identities, the new
generation is poorer, shuns logos and socializes more on the
Internet than at the mall. They’re also increasingly global
fashion citizens, mixing garments from brands across the world
that are now accessible from their smartphones.  The changing shopping patterns in what Piper Jaffray Cos.
estimates is a $30 billion market are providing fertile ground
for upstarts such as Brandy Melville USA, which relies more on
Instagram followers than television ads. They’re also causing a
drain from the established chains that have been slow to turn
away from their expansive stores and uniform, all-American style
that worked so well for so long.  “Everything gets old,” Allen Adamson, a managing director
at Landor Associates, a San Francisco-based brand consulting
firm, said in an interview. “They stayed on their game, but the
market shifted.”  Abercrombie, American Eagle and  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  all are
projected to have sales declines in the year ending in January
after gains in the previous year. The chains’ shares also are
lagging other retailers in 2013, with Abercrombie, American
Eagle and Aeropostale all down more than 20 percent through Nov.
8, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index gained 36
percent.  Less Money  Abercrombie rose 0.7 percent to $34.61 at 9:31 a.m. in New
York, while American Eagle shares climbed 0.7 percent to $16.32.
Aeropostale slipped 0.6 percent to $8.70.  One reason is that teens have less money. The  unemployment
rate  among 16- to 19-year-olds was 22.2 percent in October, the
most recent month for which U.S. Labor Department data is
available. The rate has stayed above 20 percent since May 2009.
Parents aren’t as able to help out, and shoppers of all income
levels are pulling back on unnecessary items.  “Parents are being more value-oriented,” Jahnia Sandford,
a Columbus, Ohio-based apparel analyst at Kantar Retail, said in
a phone interview. “If you have limited income, you’re not
going to Abercrombie and Hollister and spending $40 on a pair of
denim.”  The teens who do have money are spending it differently.
About 60 percent of millennial shoppers use smartphones,
according to Pew Research Center. That means they can compare
prices without entering or leaving a mall, where the traditional
teen chains have most of their stores.  Pickier Shoppers  Those phones, loaded with Facebook Inc.’s social network
and its Instagram photo-blogging app, provide them a gateway to
a world of fashion trends. The Internet allows shoppers to be
pickier, comparing prices and customizing the size, color and
design of much of what they purchase.  Teens and young adults now post photos with the tag
“outfit of the day,” or OOTD, or send pictures of potential
purchases to friends for immediate feedback. Others post
“haul” videos on  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  YouTube site to highlight the
items they’ve just purchased. About 60 percent of millennials
post videos, images and blog entries online, compared to 29
percent for people of other age groups, according to Boston
Consulting Group data.  Nadine Arabi, a 21-year-old senior at  State University of
New York  at New Paltz, sees outfits and styles she likes on
websites and social media, then shops for individual pieces to
create her own look.  ‘More Pressure’  “Fashion is so accessible to everyone because stores like
H&M and Forever 21 are more accessible,” she said while
browsing the racks at an  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  store in New York.
“More people are wearing trendy clothes, so there’s more
pressure to be fashionable.”  One retailer that’s taking advantage of those trends is
JackThreads, an online merchant that offers deals on more than
500 “street and contemporary” brands with products ranging
from apparel and accessories to gadgets.  For young women, Los Angeles-based Brandy Melville provides
a similar, boutique draw. The retailer, which has 16 U.S.
locations compared with more than 900 for  New Albany , Ohio-based
Abercrombie, has more followers on Instagram than all of
Abercrombie’s brands combined.  Brandy Melville also is noteworthy for how its approach to
fashion differs from the big teen chains. The company, via its
stores and website, sells fast-fashion inspired crop tops,
flowing skirts and high-waisted shorts, in contrast to the denim
and tight-fitting button-down shirts that are staples at the
major chains. The clothing displays no brand name, and the only
text to be found is on T-shirts with movie and song quotes that
often include profanity.  “I don’t like wearing brands that advertise their logo on
me,” Jennifer Kurtz, a 25-year-old health-care consultant, said
while browsing a Brandy Melville store in  New York ’s SoHo
neighborhood. “It’s better for people to be like, ‘I wonder
what you’re wearing.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  