-- EFG-Hermes Says Tapping Abu Dhabi Demand for Gulf Banking Deals
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-11-11T06:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/efg-hermes-says-tapping-abu-dhabi-demand-for-gulf-banking-deals.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest
publicly-traded Arab investment bank, said it’s working on an
“extensive pipeline” of deals in the oil-rich Gulf Cooperation
Council as financial markets recover.  Mandates include helping Abu Dhabi-based companies seeking
to raise funds or offer exits to investors through private
placements, Seif Fikry, chief executive office for the lower
GCC, which excludes  Saudi Arabia , said in an interview. Other
potential deals include mergers in the region, he said from
Dubai, declining to provide the names of companies.  “We have quite an extensive pipeline,” he said. “People
started realizing that valuations are not as bad as they used to
be, and people who have bought assets at much higher levels are
happy to feel that things are picking up. This is the primary
phase of an economic recovery.”  Equity markets in the U.A.E. have jumped this year as
growth in the second-biggest Arab economy gathers momentum,
propelled by tourism and higher-than-anticipated oil production.
Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  has surged 79 percent, while
 Abu Dhabi ’s gauge climbed 46 percent.  Stock markets in  the
U.A.E. and Qatar were upgraded this year to emerging-market
status by index provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   Shares Declined  Shares of EFG-Hermes, whose planned merger with Qatar’s
QInvest LLC collapsed this year, fell 1.4 percent yesterday in
Cairo, valuing the company at 4.77 billion Egyptian pound ($692
million.)  EFG-Hermes, founded in Egypt in 1984, advised government-controlled Dubai Group LLC on the $164 million sale of unit
Dubai First to Abu Dhabi-based  First Gulf Bank (FGB) , a transaction
that was completed last week. The investment bank also worked on
the listing of  BLME Holdings PLC (BLME)  on  Nasdaq Dubai (DPW)  and is advising
Al-Futtaim Group, a U.A.E. family-owned business, on a $90
million acquisition of CMC in  Kenya .  Potential equity private placements involve Abu Dhabi-based
companies in industries such as oil and gas, property,
construction and agribusiness, Fikry said. The investment bank
said in May it was picked by private equity firm Abraaj Group to
advise on the sale of its controlling stake in supermarket chain
Spinneys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  