-- Legg Mason’s Miller Says New Income Fund Bought J.C. Penney Debt
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-11-11T22:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/legg-mason-s-miller-says-new-income-fund-bought-j-c-penney-debt.html
Bill Miller , the stock picker who
rose to fame after beating the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index for a
record 15 years, bought  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  debt for a new  Legg
Mason Inc. (LM)  fund that can invest in a mix of equities and bonds.  Miller and other executives at Legg Mason have put in some
of their own money to start an unconstrained high-income fund,
he said today at a conference in Washington held by  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  The fund, which will be managed by Miller, may
become available to other investors in the first quarter of
2014, Mary Athridge, a spokeswoman for the Baltimore-based
company, said in a telephone interview.  “We bought some J.C. Penney bonds with 12 percent yield,”
Miller said at the conference. “J.C. Penney has a lot of levers
they can pull to get the customers back.”  Some of the largest buyers of distressed debt have been
buying J.C. Penney debt in recent months while others are
selling, highlighting disagreement on whether the struggling
retailer can stage a turnaround. Avenue Capital Group LLC, the
$12 billion fund manager, bought unsecured bonds of J.C. Penney,
while Third Avenue Management LLC sold most of its bond holdings
in the retailer, people with knowledge of the moves said this
month.  Miller, best known as the former manager of the  Legg Mason
Capital Management Value Trust (LMVTX)  fund, beat the U.S. benchmark for
the longest stretch in the industry before the streak ended in
2006.  Sam Peters  took over management of Miller’s value fund in
May 2012. Miller continues to manage the $1.7 billion Legg Mason
Opportunity Trust, which returned 21 percent annually over the
past five years to beat 96 percent of rivals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This year, the fund is up 53 percent to
beat 98 percent of rivals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  