-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline for 8th Day as Rupee Sinks
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-11-11T21:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/emerging-stocks-head-for-longest-losing-streak-in-seven-years.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated for
an eighth day, capping the longest slide since 2006, as a
decline in  India ’s rupee to an eight-week low sank the nation’s
shares and spurred concern capital inflows will slow.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 0.2 percent to
992.99. The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  fell for a fifth day on speculation
the rupee’s slump will deter the central bank from easing
liquidity curbs. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index dropped
to the lowest level in two months as Akbank TAS paced losses in
Turkish lenders. Philippine shares slid the most since Sept. 30
after the nation was battered by Super Typhoon Haiyan.  India’s rupee dropped after the U.S. jobs report released
on Nov. 8 bolstered the case for the Federal Reserve to trim
economic stimulus. Fed policy makers will pare the monthly pace
of bond-buying to $70 billion at their March meeting, according
to the median estimate of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey Nov. 8. Super Typhoon Haiyan headed for  Vietnam  after
killing as many as 10,000 people in the  Philippines .  “The tapering debate is causing uncertainty in the
financial markets,” Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park, New
Jersey-based fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $150 billion of assets, said by phone. “The U.S.
economic activity and when the Fed will pivot on monetary policy
have been and will be the key drivers for the financial markets
in the next several weeks.”  Eight of  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
dropped today, led by industrial shares. The broad measure
trades at 10.4 times projected earnings, compared with the
 valuation  of 14.4 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund declined 0.5 percent to $40.95. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 1.5 percent to 23.48.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa climbed for the first time in five
sessions as oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA led gains in
commodities producers. Trading in  Eike Batista ’s  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) 
was suspended by the exchange. The shipbuilder submited
bankruptcy protection documents in a Rio state court today,
Eduardo Munhoz, a partner at law firm Mattos Filho, Veiga Filho,
Marrey Jr. & Quiroga Advogados that is an adviser to Batista,
said in a text message.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  declined for a second day in Moscow as OAO
Gazprom slumped to a one-month low. OAO Moscow Exchange, the
nation’s main bourse, jumped 1.7 percent after being added to
the MSCI Inc.’s Russia Index last week, effective Nov. 27.  Turkey, Hungary  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index sank 2.4 percent as
Akbank dropped to the lowest level in two months. The Budapest
Stock Exchange Index fell 1.1 percent. Mol Nyrt. fell to a two-year low after  Hungary ’s largest refiner warned it may sell its
INA Industrija Nafte d.d. unit as talks with the Croatian
government over management rights in the company stalled.  The S&P BSE Sensex fell for a fifth day as  State Bank of
India , the nation’s biggest lender, slid to a two-week low.
Engineering company  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  dropped the most in
three weeks. Drugmaker  Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  advanced the
most on the benchmark gauge. The rupee sank to as low as 63.4450
per dollar, the weakest level since Sept. 18.  The rupiah slid 1.3 percent to 11,560 per dollar, the
biggest drop since Aug. 20, as of 4:33 p.m. in Jakarta, prices
from local banks show. It reached 11,565 earlier, the weakest
level since Oct. 4.  Bank of the Philippine Islands  paced a 1.4
percent drop in the nation’s equity gauge after the storm killed
as many as 10,000 people.  Emaar Properties  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  dropped 2.8 percent, the most
since Sept. 4, trimming gains for the year to 74 percent. Emaar
Properties PJSC, the developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, fell the most since Sept. 3.  China’s  stocks  rose for the first time in four days as
train makers  China CNR Corp. (601299)  and CSR Corp. advanced at least 7
percent after National Business Daily reported state-owned China
Railway Corp. will increase investment in new projects this
year. October Industrial output beat estimates and manufacturing
investment strengthened, according to data released Nov. 9 by
the National Bureau of Statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  