-- Emulex Says Chairman to Leave Board in Deal With Shareholders
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-11T22:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/emulex-says-chairman-to-leave-board-in-deal-with-shareholders.html
Emulex Corp. (ELX) , facing pressure from
activist shareholders over its board makeup and financial
discipline, said it will buy back about 30 percent of its stock
and Executive Chairman James McCluney will step down.  McCluney, a former Emulex chief executive, will remain with
the company through Feb. 6 and won’t seek re-election to the
board, the company said today in a statement. Emulex is also
interviewing candidates to fill three independent seats on the
board, which will be reduced to 11 from 12 members. The company
didn’t say which current directors would be replaced.  A $200 million share buyback will begin immediately, and
Emulex said it’s planning to cut $30 million in annual expenses
by fiscal 2015 by reducing its number of products and
eliminating “lower return on investment programs,” without
providing details. Separately, the company announced plans to
offer as much as $125 million in convertible senior notes.  Emulex, based in  Costa Mesa , California, sells chips that
help computer servers and storage networks transfer data. It
hasn’t reported an  annual profit  since 2010. Activist investment
companies Starboard Value LP and Elliott Management Corp. have
taken stakes in Emulex and criticized its management in recent
months, lobbying for changes to the board and a new strategy.  “The meaningful cost reduction initiatives, the plan to
return significant capital to shareholders and the board
transformation at Emulex are all positive steps,” Jesse Cohn, a
 fund manager  at Elliott Management, said in today’s statement.
Elliott reviewed the plans announced today before they were made
public, he said.  Emulex shares  rose  less than 1 percent to $7.54 at the
close in  New York . The stock has gained 3.3 percent this year.  In September, the company said Chief Financial Officer
Michael J. Rockenbach would leave at year’s end. In 2009, Emulex
rejected an $11-a-share bid from  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , saying the
offer undervalued the company.  Ian King in  San Francisco  at +1-415-617-7171 or
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  