-- Leonardo’s Young Woman; Ironic Junk Crams Guggenheim
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/leonardo-s-young-woman-ironic-junk-crams-guggenheim.html
Serenely, she looks over her
shoulder at us with an assured gaze, a passageway built of
faith and true devotion.  Leonardo created the “Head of a Young Woman” (1480s) as a
study for the angel in the “Virgin of the Rocks,” and the
celebrated drawing is on view in New York for the first time.  It’s been 10 years since the  Metropolitan Museum of Art ’s
magnificent survey of Leonardo’s drawings. The Morgan Library &
Museum is now showing “ Leonardo da Vinci : Treasures from the
Biblioteca Reale, Turin.”  The boutique show of about a dozen drawings and codices by
the Renaissance master and some 20 by his followers -- the
Leonardeschi -- reminds us that it’s worth making an effort to
see even one Leonardo.  “Three Views of a Bearded Man” quivers, a perfect balance
of wisdom and skepticism. There are his studies of horses,
insects and weapons, and “Codex on the Flight of Birds” (c.
1505-06), his melding of ornithology, science, art and fantasy,
also making its first appearance in this city.  Christopher Wool  The Christopher Wool retrospective at the Guggenheim Museum
is among the most fraudulent and depressing shows I have seen.
It’s an affront, an absolute bummer for anyone who cares about
painting.  In a less-exalted venue -- and at another time -- Wool’s
stenciled black-and-white word pictures, bleached-out downtown
 New York  street photography and blase abstract messes might mean
very little.  Overflowing the rotunda, the show is the latest example of
museum exhibition as market-driven browbeating.  There is almost nothing in this bleak and padded show with
any real merit, though I did like the collaboration with Robert Gober, an untitled gelatin silver print of a forest tree clothed
in a sundress.  Mostly, Wool’s slick process is one of appropriation and
irreverence. Large stacked broken-word paintings read:
“FO/OL”; “SEX/LUV”; “SELLTHE/HOUSE S/ELLTHEC/AR
SELL/THEKIDS.”  Smudged Patterns  Big abstractions consist of scribbled lines or floral
patterns that have been smudged, wiped out and covered.  He can’t paint. He can’t draw, but Wool, 58, knows which
buttons to push.  He works with self-consciously satirical, anti-art tools
such as rollers, stencils, enamel and rubber stamps, employing
silkscreens and copy machines.  These are not paintings but shrewd art-historical signs.
Wool borrows  Gerhard Richter ’s smear, Abstract Expressionists’
angst, Lawrence Weiner’s conceptual nihilism and Banksy and
company’s graffiti.  So why, exactly, is this ironic junk at the Guggenheim?
Recently, Wool has become a must-have artist for contemporary
blue-chip collections. His increasingly hot pictures bring
millions.  And since “What sells, sells,” the public must suck it up
and accept that in today’s market, museum exhibitions of
contemporary art frequently indicate little more than where
fashion-conscious investors (often museum trustees themselves)
are currently parking their cash.  “Leonardo da Vinci: Treasures from the Biblioteca Reale,
Turin” runs through Feb. 2 at the Morgan Library & Museum, 225
Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-685-0008;
 http://www.themorgan.org.   “Christopher Wool” runs through Jan. 22 at the Solomon R.
Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-423-3500;
 http://www.guggenheim.org.   (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lance Esplund in New York at 
 lesplund@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  