-- Mercedes Gains Ground on BMW as CLA Coupe Propels Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-11-11T10:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/mercedes-gains-ground-on-bmw-as-cla-coupe-propels-sales.html
Mercedes-Benz gained ground for a
fourth consecutive month against larger luxury-car competitors
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Audi as the CLA coupe fueled
demand for the German company’s compact models.  Sales at Stuttgart-based  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes brand rose
15 percent from a year earlier in October to 126,421 cars and
sport-utility vehicles. That beat 5.4 percent growth at BMW and
a 6.7 percent gain at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi marque.  BMW, Audi and Mercedes are all targeting record global
deliveries in 2013, seeking to attract buyers with new vehicles
such as the CLA, BMW’s 4-Series coupe and a new version of
Audi’s A3 compact. Audi and Mercedes are both striving to
overtake Munich-based BMW as the world’s biggest luxury-car
seller by the end of the decade.  “Mercedes is finally building up some momentum with the
roll-out of new models,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the
Center of Automotive Management at the University of Applied
Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach ,  Germany . “But they’ve got still
some way to go and will have to maintain the dynamic to really
catch up. The others aren’t standing still.”  Ten-month sales by Mercedes rose 11 percent to 1.19 million
cars and SUVs, the company said on Nov. 6. BMW said today that
its namesake brand’s deliveries in October totaled 140,057,
pushing the 10-month figure up 8.6 percent to 1.35 million.
Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi sold 131,950 vehicles in October,
with deliveries in the first 10 months of the year rising 7.5
percent to 1.31 million.  Compact Range  Mercedes’s A-, B- and CLA-Class compact cars amounted to
36,132 sales in October, a 73 percent surge from the year-earlier month.  Along with its growing compact-vehicle lineup, Mercedes
started deliveries in April of a revamped E-Class, an up-market
sedan that competes with BMW’s 5-Series and  Audi (NSU) ’s A6. Sales of
E- and CLS-Class models jumped 21 percent to 29,294 cars last
month, Mercedes said.  A new version of the S-Class, the most expensive Mercedes
sedan, came to market in July. The automaker has more than
30,000 orders for the revamped flagship model, Chief Financial
Officer Bodo Uebber said on Oct. 24.  “Our record sales in October have provided us with a
strong start to the fourth quarter, and we have further
increased our market share,” Ola Kaellenius, Mercedes sales
chief, said in the company’s Nov. 6 statement. “We will
continue to rigorously pursue our path of growth.”  Beyond Europe  The three German luxury-car makers are focusing on adding
sales in growing auto markets outside  Europe  to make up for a
sixth straight drop in annual industrywide sales their home
region. In addition to expanding production in  China , the
world’s biggest automotive market, they’re also taking steps to
begin vehicle assembly in  Brazil  to tap into an increasing
number of affluent consumers in  South America ’s biggest economy.  Mercedes will start assembling the mid-sized C-Class and
the GLA at a new plant in Iracemapolis, Brazil, in 2016. The
move will follow BMW’s production start next year in Brazil’s
southern state of Santa Catarina at a plant with capacity to
build least 30,000 vehicles annually.  4-Series Introduction  BMW began selling the 4-Series, which shares underpinnings
with its best-selling 3-Series sedan, in September. A new
generation of the X5 SUV, built at BMW’s plant Spartanburg,
 South Carolina , is entering dealerships this month. Delivery
growth in the 10 months through October was buoyed by the X1
SUV, the 3-Series and the 6-Series luxury coupe, the company
said today.  “We remain on track with a new all-time high in sales in
October and in the first 10 months, despite the continued
headwinds in some European markets,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s head
of sales and marketing, said in the statement. “We are
confident that sales will continue to develop positively until
the end of the year and we will continue to strive for
profitable growth.”  Audi plans on further gains after the A3 sedan reached the
European market in September. The division, the largest
contributor to group earnings at Volkswagen, will begin selling
the model in China in the second quarter of 2014. Audi predicts
that the car will be the most popular variant of the A3 line,
which also includes hatchback and convertible models. A3 sales
jumped 33 percent last month, Audi said on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  