-- Merkel Gets Energy Deal as Self-Imposed Coalition Deadline Nears
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-11-11T12:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/merkel-gets-energy-deal-as-self-imposed-coalition-deadline-nears.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
bloc and the  Social Democrats  stitched together an agreement on
renewable energy as the parties close in on a self-imposed
deadline to draft a coalition accord by the end of the month.  The weekend deal on one of Merkel’s third-term priorities
gives fresh impetus to a meeting at 3 p.m. in Berlin today of 75
negotiators from her  Christian Democratic Union , its CSU
Bavarian sister party and the Social Democrats. The talks are
the first “open-ended” round, without a fixed finishing time,
as negotiators forge a common platform for government.  “A little bit of speed now on agreeing on coalition policy
would be helpful,” Mark Kayser, a professor of politics at
Berlin’s  Hertie School of Governance , said in an interview.
“Merkel’s European partners all know she’s at the helm but
don’t know the potential clamps the new coalition may put on
policy.”  Seven weeks after Merkel’s record election victory, she is
still more than a month away from being sworn in at the head of
a “grand coalition.” As Merkel prepares for a trip to Paris
tomorrow, negotiators at home still need to find common ground
on a minimum wage, pensions, finances and the detail of  Europe ’s
banking union before a draft coalition accord is put to a vote
of the SPD’s 470,000 members in December.  “Confidence is growing only slowly” among the SPD
negotiators, Thomas Oppermann, the party’s whip in parliament,
said in an interview with the Tagesspiegel newspaper published
yesterday and carried on the  SPD website . “We’re still far away
from a result that we can put to SPD members.”  Offshore Wind  To tackle one of the most hot-button issues during the
campaign,  Germany ’s rising electricity prices, negotiators in a
sub-group agreed over the weekend to slow the expansion of land
and sea-based wind power to cut the cost of the country’s
unprecedented switch from nuclear energy to renewable sources.  The plan would cut the target for offshore  wind turbines  to
6.5 gigawatts by the end of this decade, and to 15 gigawatts by
2030, from 10 gigawatts and 25 gigawatts respectively.  Merkel has said one of the chief priorities of her new
government will be to overhaul Germany’s 13-year-old EEG clean-energy subsidy law that has helped land Germans with the second-highest power prices in the European Union. Merkel reiterated
that message in her weekly  podcast  released Nov. 9, saying the
EEG has led to a “cost explosion” that must be tamed.  Paris Meeting  Merkel, who has been largely absent from public view as she
steers the coalition talks, will meet with French President
 Francois Hollande  for talks on tackling youth unemployment that
is above 50 percent in some European countries. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  is then due to attend a two-day meeting of
fellow European finance ministers in Brussels from Nov. 14.  Also that day, Social Democratic members assemble in the
eastern German city of Leipzig for a three-day national party
convention that will re-elect the SPD leadership in a test of
backing for the direction of coalition negotiations so far.  Merkel and SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  have reached initial
agreement on how cabinet posts will be divided up, with Gabriel
set to become vice chancellor,  Der Spiegel  reported in this
week’s magazine, citing senior party sources it didn’t name.  Today’s meeting of the top 75 negotiators is due to
consider accords reached earlier by working groups on energy,
rent controls and on measures to counter lower rates of pay for
women, Bild newspaper reported.  “Of course the negotiations will last a certain amount of
time,”  Volker Kauder , the parliamentary caucus leader of
Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc, was cited as saying in an interview with
Bild. A coalition contract will not be ready before the final
week of November, since “we need to put together a common
program for four years,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  