-- Estonian Economy Grows Least Since 2010 as Forecasts Missed
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-11-11T12:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/estonian-gdp-grows-least-since-2010-as-building-to-exports-slump.html
Estonia ’s economy slowed more than
economists estimated for a third straight quarter to the weakest
pace in three years as construction and exports slumped.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.4 percent from a year
earlier, the smallest increase since the Baltic economy exited a
recession in 2010 and down from 1 percent growth in the second
quarter, the statistics office in the capital, Tallinn,  said 
today on its website. That fell short of all four estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, which had a median forecast of 1.4 percent.  The economy of the newest euro member is set to expand 1.3
percent this year, slowing from 3.9 percent in 2012 when it
posted the European Union’s second-fastest growth rate behind
neighboring  Latvia , the European Commission forecast last week.
While economic growth remains lackluster, Estonia exited a
recession as GDP increased a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent
from the second quarter, following contractions of 0.2 percent
and 0.1 percent in the first two quarters.  “The main concern is the recent slump in exports,” Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail. “If demand for Estonia’s
exports does not recover over the coming months, growth could be
much weaker than most expect.”  Estonia’s Creditworthiness  With no outstanding bonds, investors speculate on Estonia’s
creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps. The cost to
insure Estonian debt against nonpayment for five years was
little changed at 64 basis points at 1 p.m. in Tallinn, 13 basis
points below this year’s high of 77 basis points on June 24,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Construction has declined this year as public projects
financed by the  United Nations ’ carbon quota sales since 2010
were brought to an end, while weaker-than-expected demand from
neighboring Finland and  Russia  has curbed shipments.  An economic recovery in the U.S. and the euro area “should
help Estonia’s external demand and economic growth to accelerate
gradually,” the central bank said today in an e-mailed comment.  Full-year growth will probably trail the  Finance Ministry ’s
September forecast of 1.5 percent, the ministry said in an e-mailed statement, citing weak exports and declining value-added
tax collection.  Exports of goods, adjusted for inflation, declined 3
percent from a year earlier in the first drop since 2009, the
statistics office said. Foreign sales of goods, which make up
two thirds of GDP, fell in September for a fourth month, mainly
due to lower demand for fuel and electronics from the U.S. and
 Sweden , the office said in a  separate statement  today.  “Economic growth, quarter on quarter, should presumably
continue in the fourth quarter, and we will probably also see an
improvement in growth year on year,” Ruta Arumae, a Tallinn-based economist with SEB AB, said by e-mail. She reiterated her
forecast of 1.3 percent GDP growth in 2013.  Economic growth may accelerate to 3 percent next year,
according to the European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  