-- EU Carbon Permits Rise From Two-Month Low as SocGen Says Buy
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-11-11T18:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/eu-carbon-permits-rise-from-two-month-low-as-socgen-says-buy.html
European Union carbon permits
advanced from a two-month low amid optimism that agreement will
be reached on temporarily curbing an oversupply and  Societe
Generale  SA recommended buying the contracts.  December carbon rose 2.7 percent, or 12 cents, to close at
4.61 euros ($6.18) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. The contract earlier dropped to 4.42 euros,
matching its lowest since Sept. 4. It fell 51 percent this year.  The European Parliament may decide on a draft law to reduce
the surplus of permits through a process called backloading and
help boost carbon prices in a single vote next month, according
to a letter sent from the head of the assembly’s environment
committee, Matthias Groote, to parliament president  Martin Schulz  that was obtained by Bloomberg on Nov. 9.  “The decision was good news for the EU emissions-trading
system since it essentially supports the backloading solution
and sets up the possibility of an accelerated resolution,”
Paolo Coghe, an analyst at Societe Generale in Paris, said today
in an e-mailed report. “We believe this to be an opportunity to
buy.”  The Nov. 8 accord by governments speeds up the process to
withhold permits by eliminating the need to reconcile the final
wording in negotiations, Groote said in the letter.  The proposal to temporarily withhold 900 million metric
tons of carbon permits looks like a done deal, said  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst for Energy Aspects Ltd. in  London . The EU
may withhold about 400 million tons next year, and the rest will
come out of 2015 supply, he said.  “There will be pretty much no auctions in the second
half” of 2014, Sikorski said today by phone. “Prices will
gradually begin to drift upwards.”  The draft measure, which needs approval from EU governments
and the Parliament to become law, was proposed last year as a
temporary fix to alleviate an oversupply of emission permits,
aggravated by the region’s economic crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  