-- Euro Strengthens Versus Major Peers as Emerging Currencies Drop
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-11-11T22:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/euro-strengthens-versus-major-peers-as-declines-seen-excessive.html
The euro rose against the dollar for
the first time in three days amid speculation last week’s drop
to the lowest level in almost two months was excessive.  Emerging-market currencies fell after a typhoon swept
across the  Philippines  and as traders weigh the likelihood of
reduced Federal Reserve stimulus. The 17-nation shared currency
pared a decline from last week, when a report showed the  U.S.
economy  added more jobs in October than analysts forecast and
the  European Central Bank  unexpectedly trimmed its key  interest
rate . Brazil’s real declined to a two-month low on concern the
nation’s budget deficit will lead to a credit-rating downgrade.  “There’s now very finite downside to the euro,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York, said in a phone interview. “The likelihood of a fresh
ECB reduction is pretty low, and I think that’s probably support
for the euro when risk appetite is generally perceived to be
on.”  The euro climbed 0.3 percent to $1.3407 at 5 p.m. New York
time after dropping to $1.3296 on Nov. 7, the lowest level since
Sept. 16. The 17-nation currency added 0.4 percent to 132.94
yen. The dollar gained 0.1 percent to 99.16 yen.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar  Index (PCOMP) , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, was little changed at 1,020.88
after rising to 1,024.31 on Nov. 8, the highest since Sept. 13.  Killer Storm  The  Philippine peso  tumbled the most in a month versus the
dollar after the year’s most powerful typhoon flattened
buildings and unleashed storm surges that may have killed as
many as 10,000 people, and as a new storm approaches.  The peso fell 0.9 percent to 43.585 per dollar, the lowest
close since Sept. 17. The Philippine Stock Exchange  Index (ADXY)  fell
for a seventh day, declining 1.4 percent, the steepest plunge
since Sept. 30.  The  Thai baht  dropped 0.6 percent to 31.650 per dollar.
South Korea’s won weakened 0.7 percent to close at 1072.46 per
dollar in  Seoul .  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 major currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.3 percent
to 115.71 after touching 115.69, the lowest level since Oct. 1.  Brazil’s currency has fallen 4.1 percent since Oct. 31,
the most among major currencies, when the government reported
that the deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product was
the largest in almost four years.  Standard & Poor’s  may lower
Brazil’s BBB credit rating if fiscal accounts worsen, Regina Nunes, a managing director at the company, said in an interview
last week.  The real slid 0.8 percent to 2.3318 per dollar after
touching 2.3425, the weakest level on a closing basis since
Sept. 4.  ‘A Steal’  “Now we’ve got to deal with the onset of tapering and
whether it has further any material impact on  emerging-markets 
currencies, and ultimately it probably won’t,” said Wilkinson
of  Miller Tabak . “Markets have to find that out for themselves
first. These emerging markets are probably a steal after the
sell off, but as ever that’s a dangerous game.”  An equally weighted basket of the so-called BRICS emerging-market currencies fell against the dollar to 115.98, the lowest
level since Sept. 10. BRICS refers to Brazil, Russia, India,
China and  South Africa .  Economists still forecast the Fed will delay tapering asset
purchases until March even after a report last week showed
employers added more jobs than forecast in October.  Policy makers will pare the monthly pace of bond buying to
$70 billion at their March 18-19 meeting from the current pace
of $85 billion, according to the median of 32 economist
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey on Nov. 8. The median
forecast in an Oct. 17-18 survey of 40 economists also called
for a reduction to $70 billion in March.  ‘Uncomfortably High’  The euro declined last week after ECB President  Mario
Draghi  cut its main  refinancing rate  to a record-low 0.25
percent on Nov. 7.  The move came amid signs global currency wars may be
heating up again. The day of the ECB cut Czech policy makers
said they were intervening in the  currency market  for the first
time in 11 years to weaken the koruna. New Zealand has said it
may delay rate increases to temper its dollar, and Australia
warned the Aussie is “uncomfortably high.”  “Despite the U.S. jobs data on Friday, despite the ECB
rate cut, the technical factors make it seem like the euro
should go higher first,”  Marc Chandler , the New York-based
chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said
in a phone interview. “Basically what we’re telling our clients
is don’t chase the euro lower, look for a bounce to sell into.”  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $45 billion, down from $57 billion on Nov. 8, according
to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $20 billion, the largest share of
trades at 45 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled $5
billion, or 12 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 175 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
2 percent less than average.  The euro gained 5.8 percent so far this year, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, amid optimism the region
is bringing its sovereign-debt crisis under control. The yen
weakened 10 percent, while the dollar advanced 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  