-- Teva to Pay Israel $565 Million in ‘Trapped Profits’ Tax Accord
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-11-11T18:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/teva-to-pay-israel-565-million-in-trapped-profits-tax-accord.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
agreed to pay  Israel  2 billion shekels ($565 million) in taxes,
joining fertilizer maker Israel Chemicals Ltd. in releasing
profits accumulated since 2005 under a law designed to encourage
investments.  Teva, Israel’s largest publicly-traded company, said the
amount would be paid within the framework of the amendment 69 to
the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, according
to a Business Wire statement. That includes another 336 million
shekels paid in May, it said. In addition, Teva will pay about
840 million shekels for taxes during the years 2005 to 2011, it
said.  “We have reached a beneficial agreement for Teva and the
Israel Tax Authority concerning the release of trapped profits
and the closure of pending tax assessments,” Eyal Desheh,
Teva’s acting chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“The agreement generates sources for dividends to our
shareholders for years to come and settles tax assessments which
had been in dispute for a long time.”  Teva’s decision settles a controversial practice in Israel
that allowed multinational companies to refrain from paying
taxes as long as they didn’t release the profits under a law
enacted by the state to encourage investments. Under an
amendment approved by parliament last year, companies such as
Teva and Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. could release
those so-called trapped profits by paying a reduced  tax rate .  The amendment was designed at the time under Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz as Israel struggled with a widening
budget deficit that was more than double the government target
in 2012. The government then projected tax revenues of some 3
billion shekels as companies would seek to take advantage of the
opportunity to release profits.  Israel Chemicals  Israel Chemicals said yesterday it would release all
trapped profits of units DSW and Rotem Amfert Negev. ICL will
pay tax in the amount of 380 million shekels, it said yesterday.  “I’m happy that Teva did the right thing,” Finance
Minister Yair Lapid said in an e-mailed statement today. “Teva
is an important element in Israeli industry. It is important to
remember Teva’s contribution to the Israeli economy and to
employment over the years. The public should be aware that a
strong Teva is in the interest of the State of Israel.”  Teva, which employs more than 7,000 people in Israel, has
been criticized after announcing plans to cut as much as 10
percent of its workforce. The world’s largest maker of generic
drugs was assailed for seeking to dismiss local workers even as
it has taken advantage of tax benefits. Today was the last day
for companies to pay taxes and release accumulated profits.  Teva said it expects to incur a charge of approximately
$235 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  