-- Ex-Deutsche Banker Javid Channels Thatcher to Rise in Ranks
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-11-11T09:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/ex-deutsche-banker-javid-channels-thatcher-to-rise-in-tory-ranks.html
U.K. Treasury minister Sajid Javid
knew how to personalize his new office after he was promoted
last month.  “I put up my own portrait of  Margaret Thatcher ,” Javid,
43, said in an interview in Parliament in  London  last week.
“She’s an inspiration.” Later he described her as “the
greatest Conservative prime minister ever.”  The ascent through the government ranks of Javid, who ran
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s trading operations in  Asia  before entering
Parliament as a  Conservative Party  lawmaker three years ago, has
sparked questions about how much higher he might go.  At Deutsche Bank, Javid “rose very quickly amidst a very
talented peer group,” according to co-Chief Executive Officer
Anshu Jain. What helped Javid succeed, Jain said in an
interview, was “his sense of balance, being able to see the
small picture and then to grasp the big picture as well.”  A teenage Thatcherite, Javid is one of the champions of
“white-van Conservatism,” trying to reconnect the party with
the working-class voters who helped Thatcher to power in 1979,
exemplified by the plumbers and electricians who drive their
white vans around Britain’s streets.  Ladbrokes Plc  offers odds  of 33 to 1 against Javid becoming
the next leader of the Tories, making him one of the highest
ranked of the 2010 intake of lawmakers. A second-generation
immigrant and the son of a bus driver, he has a more voter-friendly back story than  David Cameron , a stockbroker’s son. He
doesn’t see his Muslim faith as an obstacle for anyone in
Britain.  ‘No Barrier’  “Britain had the first female prime minister in  Europe ,”
Javid said in the Nov. 5 interview, when asked if the country
could elect a Muslim premier. “Britain is one of the most open,
tolerant societies in the world and I don’t think whether it’s
the color of your skin, your sexuality, your race, your religion
-- I don’t think it’s a major barrier to achieving whatever you
want. Not in the U.K.”  Javid had long planned to quit Deutsche Bank to pursue a
career in politics. Still, after life as a senior executive,
becoming an anonymous backbench member of Parliament was “a
shock to the system.”  At Deutsche Bank, his earnings would have been about 3
million pounds ($5 million) a year, according to a finance-industry headhunter who asked not to be named. As a lawmaker in
2010, his salary was 65,738 pounds -- a 98 percent pay cut.
Instead of discussing bond deals over sushi, he was doing the
work familiar to every British MP: answering letters from
constituents about their drains and welfare payments, trying to
make a mark in the chamber of the House of Commons.  ‘So Different’  “In the first few months I was in Parliament, I actually
was thinking: ‘have I done the right thing?’” he said. “It’s
just so different from anything else.”  Javid’s career switch was a surprise for former colleagues,
according to Jain.  “He had never talked about this, ever,” the Deutsche Bank
co-CEO said Nov. 7. “It took me a while to get my mind around
that, but I was excited and happy for him.”  When he reached Parliament, the Tory was able to repeat his
trick at the bank of moving rapidly upward. The year after he
arrived, he was appointed as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s parliamentary aide. A year after that, he got his
first ministerial post. In October, he was appointed financial
secretary, making him the most senior Conservative in the
Treasury after Osborne and leaving him one step away from a
Cabinet post.  From Pakistan  Javid’s father, who died last year, moved from  Pakistan  to
Rochdale in northwest  England  and then Bristol in the southwest,
and raised five sons.  Javid’s family were “lovely, decent, kind people,” Robert
Halfon, a fellow Tory lawmaker who has known him since they ran
Exeter University’s Conservative Club in the late 1980s, said in
a telephone interview. The minister’s success hasn’t surprised
his friend.  “I always saw it coming,” said Halfon. “He’s an
outstanding individual, with an incredible work ethic, and
unusually for people like that, a fundamentally decent person as
well -- very kind-hearted.”  Javid was a student Tory when it wasn’t fashionable, as
Thatcher approached the end of her time in office. The Jewish
Halfon and Muslim Javid made an odd couple. “We did a right-wing version of what people on the left did, campus
demonstrations and so on,” Halfon said. “At the Tory
conference in 1990, we handed out leaflets to say it was wrong
to join the Exchange-Rate Mechanism,” a precursor to the euro.  Government Line  As a Treasury minister, Javid is less outspoken. In the
course of a 45-minute interview, he stuck to the government
line, refusing to accept criticisms of policy. Twice, on the
issue of Cameron’s planned referendum on European Union
membership and on housing policy, he offered long silent pauses
in response to questions before repeating an earlier answer.  That cautious approach may also reflect the fact that Javid
is still finding his way in politics.  “In the business world, it’s pretty black and white:
you’ve got to make a profit, you’ve got to hit a sales target,”
he said. “In politics, it’s not that black-and-white. A lot of
it is based on public opinion, it’s based on your performance in
Parliament as well as with the public. There’s lots of different
variables -- that takes a bit of getting used to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  