-- Five Bad Arguments From the Coal Industry
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-11T15:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/five-bad-arguments-from-the-coal-industry.html
The logic is pretty straightforward.
Carbon dioxide emissions are threatening the planet. In the
U.S., coal plants are the  second-largest  source of those
emissions, after transportation. Therefore, the Environmental
Protection Agency should impose emissions limits on coal-fired
plants.  The EPA is trying to do just that; it plans to issue rules
by next June that would limit carbon dioxide emissions from
existing power plants. As part of that process, it has just
finished an  11-city  “listening tour,” seeking public comment
for how best to approach its task.  If the Washington leg of that tour was any indication, the
undertaking also became a platform for the EPA’s opponents to
challenge the idea that rules should be issued at all. Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  descended on the panel last
week, complete with nine-member entourage, to ask the agency to
end its “ war on coal .”  It’s worth considering the various incarnations of that
argument. If the EPA is to achieve its mission -- the greatest
possible emissions reduction at the least possible cost -- it
will have to lay them to rest:  -- Carbon emissions should be addressed through
legislation, not regulations issued under the  Clean Air Act .  There’s no disputing that a 40-year-old law that wasn’t
written with carbon dioxide in mind is an imperfect vehicle for
addressing  greenhouse gases . But public policy, like politics,
is the art of the possible, and Republicans have made it clear
that they have no interest in passing  climate-change 
legislation. For the moment, it’s regulation or nothing.  -- Regulations are unnecessary because market forces are
already reducing the share of power produced by coal.  Again, no disputing that the share of U.S. power generated
by coal has fallen, to 37 percent last year from  45 percent  in
2000, thanks largely to the falling price of natural gas. That’s
not a reason to curtail efforts to make coal plants less
polluting. Besides, energy prices can change quickly, and they
will almost certainly shift again.  -- The technology doesn’t exist yet to dramatically reduce
emissions from existing coal plants.  The EPA’s critics are right to argue against imposing the
same tough standards on existing plants that it has proposed for
new plants. But that doesn’t mean states can’t find a way to
rebalance their power systems in a way that reduces total  carbon
emissions . That could entail a combination of upgrading some
coal plants, changing the mix of fuel for others, and replacing
some with natural gas plants, renewable energy sources and
greater efficiency measures.  -- The industry needs more time to address climate change.  The EPA can deal with this concern by phasing in these
regulations over time. It’s not a reason to refrain from issuing
regulations altogether.  -- Imposing carbon limits on U.S. coal plants will cost
people their jobs.  There’s no getting around this, and the EPA would have done
itself some good by holding listening sessions in  Wyoming ,
 Kentucky  or  West Virginia  -- the three biggest coal-producing
states. Coal mining employed about  87,000 people  in the U.S.
last year, supporting entire communities in some places. As the
demand for coal dries up, so will those jobs.  But protecting those jobs must be balanced against putting
the planet, and ourselves, at risk. Arguing over whether the EPA
should cap emissions from existing plants is counterproductive.
The focus should be on how best to make those caps work.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 