-- Fix the Iran Nuclear Deal, Don’t Kill It
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-11T21:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/fix-the-iran-nuclear-deal-don-t-kill-it.html
The adjournment of talks on a
preliminary deal to end  Iran ’s suspected nuclear weapons program
is neither triumph nor tragedy. Now, at least, the text can be
improved.  Most details of the proposed agreement (and it is all about
the details) remain hazy, but French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius has made one thing clear: It would not have required Iran
to halt work on the heavy water reactor it is building at Arak.
Stopping construction is essential and should be taken up again
when the negotiators return to the table Nov. 20.  In other respects, the talks are said to have “momentum,”
as U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  put it, and that was in
evidence today as Iran agreed  to accept  more International
Atomic Energy  Agency  inspections. Hague appealed to all
concerned not to let the chance of a settlement “slip away in
the next few weeks.”  The chief danger now is that members of Congress will go
through with threats to force U.S. negotiators to hold an
unrealistically hard line. Senate Foreign Relations Committee
Chairman  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey , for one, has said he
wants to  bring forward  a set of new sanctions, which would be
lifted only if Iran comes to an “acceptable” deal. Senator  Bob
Corker  is  championing  a bill that would prevent the U.S. from
suspending any existing sanctions until Iran completely stops
its enrichment program.  Critics in Congress complain that the U.S. seems ready to
lift sanctions before Iran makes permanent concessions. Yet no
one has suggested that the interim deal would remove the core
restrictions on Iran’s oil exports and financial system. The
agreement  as reported  would suspend bans on trade in gold, some
petrochemicals and cars, and it would release frozen Iranian
assets in stages. If Secretary of State  John Kerry  couldn’t lift
any meaningful sanctions, it’s hard to see how the two sides
could reach any deal at all, good or bad.  A further complaint is that the agreement won’t stop all of
Iran’s uranium enrichment activities, as a United Nations
Security Council  resolution  demanded in 2006. Yet the current
talks are making progress, after 10 years of false starts, only
because everyone involved now understands a final agreement will
have to allow Iran to continue enriching to the 3.5 percent
level that’s needed to fuel  power plants .  The short-term deal in Geneva should be strong enough to
halt Iran’s progress toward building a bomb while the talks on a
final settlement begin. That means, at a minimum, stopping
production of 20 percent enriched uranium, which is too close to
weapons grade for comfort; stopping construction of new
centrifuges and the Arak reactor; and ensuring sufficient access
for IAEA inspectors to verify the deal.  Fabius was right to focus on Arak, which is about a year
from completion and could eventually be used to produce
plutonium for nuclear weapons. Although that would take some
years, once the reactor is loaded with fuel it would be
unimaginable to destroy, because of the radioactive fallout that
would follow. At the same time, choking off the diplomatic path
with a hard line on sanctions would leave coercion and
airstrikes alone to rein in  Iran’s nuclear program  -- both paths
fraught with risk.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 