-- Flug Shekel Sales Sapped by Best Flows Since ’06: Israel Markets
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-11-11T10:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/flug-shekel-sales-sapped-by-best-flows-since-06-israel-markets.html
Israeli companies are on course to
attract more foreign inflows this year than at any time since
2006, undermining central bank efforts to curb the shekel’s
gains and help the export-driven economy.  Direct investment from abroad increased to more than $9
billion in the first nine months of 2013, matching the total for
all of last year, according to data from the Bank of  Israel .
 Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) , the country’s second-largest lender,
expects flows to reach $13.5 billion by year-end, the largest
amount since 2006.  With the most startup firms per capita of any country in
the world, cash is pouring into Israel as investors from  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  buy local companies, helping the
shekel beat every major currency versus the dollar. While that
underlines how the economy is growing at twice the pace of the
U.S., it’s likely to sap the impact of central bank Governor
Karnit Flug’s $5.6 billion of foreign currency purchases.  “A risk to an economy driven by foreign trade is the
appreciation of the shekel, which is fueled by large inflows,”
Gil Bufman, the chief economist at Bank Leumi Le-Israel, said by
phone from  Tel Aviv  on Oct. 15. “The  Bank of Israel ’s recent
efforts to stem currency gains won’t be enough to change the
trend of direction.”  Exports Drop  Exports, which make up 34 percent of gross domestic product
and have been Israel’s growth engine for the past decade, will
drop 1.1 percent this year as the rising currency makes the
nation’s goods more expensive abroad, according to the Bank of
Israel. The shekel has appreciated 5.6 percent versus the dollar
this year, the most among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. It weakened less than 0.1 percent to 3.5360 a dollar
at 11:59 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  The central bank plans to use shekels to buy $2.1 billion
this year and $3.5 billion in 2014 in foreign currency to offset
the impact on the currency from the start of natural gas
production in March. The bank has also this year made
discretionary foreign currency purchases to moderate shekel
gains. The purchases compare with more than $19 billion in 2009
and $12 billion in 2008 spent under former Governor  Stanley Fischer , according to Bank of Israel data.  Flug, who was nominated as Fischer’s successor on Oct. 20
after more than three months as caretaker governor, purchased
currency worth $835 million in September to help stem the
shekel’s appreciation. The currency still advanced 2.7 percent
that month.  “The amount of $3.5 billion a year is very small,” Bufman
said. “More will be needed and the new governor will need to
reassess the bank’s foreign currency policy and the cost of
intervention.”  Least Bearish  Tel Aviv-based  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  said
on Oct. 21 the impact of currency fluctuations, mainly the
shekel’s gains versus the dollar, trimmed third-quarter results
by about $3 million. Drug exports from companies including from
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  fell 50 percent in the most
recent quarter from the same three months a year ago, the Israel
Export & International Cooperation Institute said Oct. 16.  Traders are the least bearish on the shekel in more than
two months. They paid a 1.16 percentage-point premium today for
contracts granting them the right to sell the shekel over
options to buy the currency, three-month 25-delta risk reversal
rates show. That was the least since Aug. 26.  Israeli high-tech companies raised $660 million from local
and foreign investors in the three months through September, the
highest quarterly amount since 2000, according to a survey by
the IVC Research Center & KPMG Somekh Chaikin on Oct. 15. That
brought the total for the first nine months of the year to $1.6
billion, up 12 percent from 2012. Google, the world’s largest
search engine, purchased map-software provider Waze Inc. in June
for about $1.1 billion. Cisco bought Intucell Ltd., another
software maker, in January for about $475 million.  ‘Amazing Year’  “This year has been an absolutely amazing year in terms of
the big size of deals, which we are not likely to see on the
same scale in 2014,” Oren Bar-On, a senior partner at Ernst &
Young in Tel Aviv, said by phone on Oct. 23. “I am not sure how
much impact these deals have on the shekel as most of the money
is going to U.S. or other foreign investors.”  Mergers and acquisitions among venture-backed Israeli
companies are headed for the highest level in 10 years,
increasing 43 percent to $4 billion this year, according to
Ernst & Young Israel. In the U.S., the value of such deals in
the first nine months of this year dropped 58 percent to $9.2
billion, according to the  National Venture Capital Association .  Facebook  Facebook Inc. (FB)  is ready to make its third and largest
acquisition in Israel by purchasing Onavo Ltd., a mobile-analytics startup firm, the two companies said last month.
Adap.tv, Israel’s video advertising platform, was bought by  AOL
Inc. (AOL)  in August for $405 million.  “As part of these deals, money will be converted into
shekels to pay taxes and other items and thus the inflows are
impacting the foreign exchange,” Bufman said. “Foreign
investment isn’t limited to the high-tech industry as we are
also expecting deals in other industries” such as insurance and
energy, he said.  Israel’s current account surplus increased five-fold to
$1.79 billion in the second quarter from a year earlier, the
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said in September.
Gas production will add as much as $3 billion to the surplus
this year, according to the central bank.  “The huge amount of investment at a time of a positive
current-account and foreign-portfolio inflows is clearly a
challenge for the Bank of Israel,”  Murat Toprak , head of
European, Middle East and African currency strategy at HSBC Bank
Plc, said by phone from  London  on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  