-- ICBC Faces Surcharge as Citigroup’s Drops With Deutsche B
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-12T02:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/fsb-updates-list-of-banks-in-line-for-capital-surcharges.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. (601398)  was added to the list of too-big-to-fail banks as
global regulators revised the roster of lenders that must hold
extra capital to prevent another financial crisis.  ICBC,  China ’s largest bank by assets, was the only firm
joining the updated  list  of systemically important firms
released yesterday by the Financial Stability Board. Lenders
whose capital buffers were cut from last year included  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., while
 Credit Agricole  Group was told to add more.  Regulators are ranking financial firms by their potential
to cause a global meltdown and demanding bigger financial
cushions from them to avert any repeat of the 2008 credit
freeze. While  ICBC (1398)  is the world’s most profitable lender, bad
loans are rising at China’s top banks after a five-year credit
spree. As for Western companies, Pri de Silva, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc., said he’s surprised by some of the cuts.  Are these institutions “less interconnected than they were
a year ago? That doesn’t seem likely,” said the New York-based
de Silva. Some lenders may have gone “to the powers that be and
made the case that they should be viewed from a different
lens,” he said.  The revised list leaves only New York-based  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, and London-based  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest by market value, in line to face
the top 2.5 percent surcharge. Citigroup and Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank must meet a 2 percent target after previously
being in the top category. Beijing-based ICBC’s surcharge is 1
percent, the same as  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , which was already
included last year.  Sole Increase  BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custody bank and based in
New York, also dropped into the 1 percent cohort. Only Paris-based Credit Agricole was saddled with an increase, with the
surcharge level rising to 1.5 percent from 1 percent.  Officials at lenders declined to comment on the changes or
didn’t respond to inquiries.  The surcharge represents the amount of capital a bank must
have beyond the minimums already set by international regulators
to fortify banks against their own losses or an external
economic shock. Officials decided in 2010 to more than triple
thresholds for the core capital that banks should keep to absorb
losses. The FSB produces the list in preparation for capital
rules scheduled to be phased in starting in 2016.  Alterations to the FSB list were driven by “data quality
improvements, changes in the methodology and changes in
underlying systemic importance,” the FSB said.  Higher Ratios  ICBC won’t need to raise more capital because its ratios
exceeded minimum regulatory requirements, the bank said in an e-mailed statement today. As a global systemically important bank,
ICBC said it needs to meet a minimum core tier 1 capital ratio
of 8 percent.  The lender had a ratio of 10.48 percent as of June 30,
while  Bank of China ’s was 9.27 percent, stock-exchange filings
in August show. Those levels were higher than the 8.5 percent
the  China Banking Regulatory Commission  requires the nation’s
systemically important banks to hold by the end of 2018.  “ICBC is not facing a huge issue in maintaining its
capital level, but it does face pressure,” Chen Xingyu, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip Securities Group, said by
phone today. “It needs capital to support loan growth.”  ICBC said its growing international business was a “key
factor” behind its addition to the FSB’s list. The bank’s
overseas assets amounted to $182.2 billion at the end of June,
representing 6 percent of its total assets.  Largest Purchase  The Chinese lender started expanding overseas with its 2006
purchase of a 90 percent stake in PT Bank Halim  Indonesia . In
March 2008, ICBC bought 20 percent of  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,
 Africa ’s largest, for $5.4 billion, in the biggest overseas
acquisition by a Chinese bank.  ICBC shares in  Hong Kong  lost 0.4 percent to HK$5.34 as of
10:55 a.m. local time. Bank of China dropped 0.6 percent, while
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  sank 0.6 percent.  The FSB didn’t provide an explanation for its changed view
on Citigroup and Deutsche Bank.  Citigroup, run by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat ,
reached an agreement last September to sell a remaining stake in
its Smith Barney retail brokerage to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  by 2015. The
New York-based bank also trimmed a portfolio of unwanted assets
by 29 percent to $122 billion in the 12 months through
September.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, announced a plan
at the end of July to shrink its balance sheet 16 percent by
2015 to meet stricter leverage standards.  Capital Plans  The reduction in Citigroup’s requirement may free up as
much as $6 billion in capital and allow the lender to pay more
of its earnings to shareholders, Matthew Burnell, a bank analyst
at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , wrote in a note to clients. Still, “U.S.
bank regulators will remain cautious relative to international
regulators for the near-term,” Burnell wrote yesterday.  U.S. banks must submit capital plans to the  Federal Reserve 
and have them approved each year before they can increase
shareholder payouts.  The capital surcharges are significant given the “overall
burden” of new rules proposed by global regulators, including
the FSB and the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , said
said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based
research firm Federal Financial Analytics Inc., in an e-mail.  “The list is still very relevant to the fingered few,”
Petrou said in an e-mail.  Basel Regulations  The FSB brings together central bankers, regulators and
government officials from the Group of 20 nations to coordinate
financial rulemaking. This year’s statement included methods for
calculating the surcharges that were developed by the Basel
committee, a group composed of regulators from 27 nations
including the U.S., China and the U.K. to coordinate rulemaking.  The Basel group published details on how the surcharges are
calculated, enabling banks to  measure  their systemic importance.
Even with the added information, this year’s process and the
shift in the rankings appear less transparent, said  Barbara Matthews , managing director of BCM International Regulatory
Analytics LLC, a Washington-based consulting firm.  “A kitchen-sink approach to transparency does not always
provide clarity,” Matthews said in a phone interview. “It
would have been much easier for everyone if clearer explanations
had been provided.”  To see the revised FSB list of global systemically important
banks,  click here .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  