-- German Stocks Little Changed as China Output Accelerates
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-11T08:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/german-stocks-little-changed-as-china-output-accelerates.html
German stocks  were little changed
near a record as a report showed China’s industrial output
growth unexpectedly accelerated last month.  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D)  rose 3.1 percent after
UBS AG added the shares to its most preferred list.  Daimler AG (DAI) 
fell 0.9 percent after Bank of America Corp. put the stock on
its list of least preferred auto shares.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
lost 2.2 percent after agreeing to buy GTS Central Europe for
546 million euros ($730 million) and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
separately downgraded the German telephone-service provider.  The  DAX (DAX)  slipped 0.1 percent to 9,069.97 at 9:48 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The index gained 0.8 percent last week after the
 European Central Bank  unexpectedly cut its main  refinancing rate 
by 25 basis points to 0.25 percent and a report showed U.S.
payrolls rose in October more than expected. The broader HDAX
Index was little changed today.  “Indexes are moving to the downside on buyers’ fatigue
after a rally to new highs last week,” Ion-Marc Valahu, a co-founder and fund manager at Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an
e-mail. “The strong U.S. data on Friday is worrying markets on
how soon the taper will start.”  In China,  industrial production  jumped 10.3 percent in
October from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said Nov. 9. That was higher than September’s 10.2 percent and
exceeded the 10 percent median projection of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Inflation was a less-than-forecast 3.2 percent and
producer prices fell 1.5 percent.  President  Xi Jinping  and top Communist Party leaders have
gathered in Beijing for a meeting known as the third plenum to
outline a blueprint to sustain growth and drive urbanization in
the world’s second-biggest economy. The meeting of about 370
officials will conclude tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  