-- German Wind Industry Says Too Early to Panic on Subsidy Cuts
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-11-11T14:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/german-wind-power-industry-says-too-early-to-panic-on-aid-cuts.html
A German agreement to cut support
for  wind energy  isn’t a reason for the industry to panic as the
extent of the changes is undecided, a lobby group said.  “There is no reason to cheer nor to panic,” Wolfram
Axthelm, a spokesman for the BWE lobby, said today by phone.  Wind-power shares slumped today, with  Nordex SE (NDX1)  falling by
as much as 25 percent in  Frankfurt , the most in more than eight
years, and  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  down by as much as 6 percent
in Copenhagen trade. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democratic bloc and the  Social Democrats , or SPD, agreed to curb
aid for new onshore projects to cut the cost of the country’s
unprecedented switch from nuclear energy to renewables.  They also agreed on the weekend to cut a goal for sea-based
wind farms to 6.5 gigawatts by 2020 and 15 gigawatts by 2030,
from 10 gigawatts and 25 gigawatts, respectively. Merkel today
resumes talks with the SPD to form a coalition by year-end.  Negotiators are seen backing a goal of raising green power
to 40 percent of the nation’s total by 2020, from a target now
of at least 35 percent, SPD lawmaker Heiko Maas said by phone.  Germany  plans to reduce the cost of renewable power after
deciding to close down its nuclear plants by 2022. German
consumers and companies finance clean-energy subsidies by paying
a surcharge on their power bills. The levy will jump 18 percent
on Jan. 1 and has surged more than fivefold since 2009.  Central Project  Changes in the subsidy law, or EEG, “will be the central
project of the grand Merkel coalition,” Environment Minister
Peter Altmaier said Nov. 9 in Berlin after a deal was reached.
Policy will be “more predictable and lastingly affordable.”  While new offshore wind targets don’t come as a surprise,
8.5 gigawatts would be possible by 2020, said Andreas Wagner of
the Stiftung Offshore-Windenergie, a wind industry lobby.  “We need to know quickly how the new EEG will look in
detail because offshore wind investors are currently holding
back investments until there’s clarity,” Wagner said by phone.  Wind units above 5 megawatts will need to sell power to the
market as quickly as possible, as will all clean-energy plants
by 2018 apart from the smallest solar units, Altmaier said.  Onshore and offshore wind support will be reduced depending
on the level of new installations, similar to current solar
subsidies, Maas said. There’s “no final agreement yet” on the
exact level of subsidy cuts for onshore and offshore, he said.  The parties, which also agreed to slow biomass expansion
and temporarily ban hydraulic fracturing for natural gas, won’t
make retroactive cuts to aid, the SPD’s Hannelore Kraft told
reporters on Nov. 9. They will seek to draft new EEG legislation
by Easter to bring it into law by Jan. 1, 2015, Maas said.  The BDI industry lobby representing about 100,000 companies
says energy costs threaten jobs and investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  