-- German Coalition Negotiations Halfway Done as ‘Marathon’ Remains
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-11T18:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/german-coalition-negotiations-halfway-done-as-marathon-remains.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
bloc and the Social Democrats are more than halfway through
talks to form a coalition government, though a “marathon” of
negotiations remains, a top party official said today.  SPD General Secretary Andrea Nahles said that at least a
dozen working groups sifting through technical details of policy
were “more than 50 percent” of the way through their work. She
spoke after a group of 75 negotiators from Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union, its CSU Bavarian sister party and the SPD met
in Berlin, ahead of a self-imposed deadline to draft a coalition
accord by the end of the month.  “We still very clearly have a marathon of meetings in
front of us,” Nahles told reporters alongside her CDU and CSU
counterparts, Hermann Groehe and Alexander Dobrindt. “Things
will probably all become very tight.”  Seven weeks after Merkel’s record election victory, she is
still more than a month away from being sworn in at the head of
a “grand coalition.” As the chancellor prepares for a trip to
Paris tomorrow, negotiators at home still need to find common
ground on a minimum wage, pensions and the detail of Europe’s
banking union before a draft coalition accord is put to a vote
of the SPD’s 470,000 members in December.  The main group meets again in two days, then again on Nov.
18 before they plan to wrap up negotiations by Nov. 27.  “A little bit of speed now on agreeing on coalition policy
would be helpful,” Mark Kayser, a professor of politics at
Berlin’s  Hertie School of Governance , said in an interview.
“Merkel’s European partners all know she’s at the helm but
don’t know the potential clamps the new coalition may put on
policy.”  Power Prices  Negotiators today forged common ground on a blueprint for
 Germany ’s shift to renewable energy, as the country plans to
shut its nine remaining nuclear reactors by 2022. The CSU’s
Dobrindt called the project the “mega issue” of a grand
coalition.  To tackle Germany’s rising electricity prices, one of the
most hot-button issues during the campaign, negotiators in a
sub-group agreed over the weekend to slow the expansion of land
and sea-based wind power to cut the cost of the country’s
unprecedented switch from nuclear energy to renewable sources.  “Confidence is growing only slowly” among the SPD
negotiators, Thomas Oppermann, the party’s whip in parliament,
said in an interview with the Tagesspiegel newspaper published
yesterday and carried on the  SPD website . “We’re still far away
from a result that we can put to SPD members.”  Merkel, who has been largely absent from public view as she
steers the coalition talks, will meet with French President
Francois Hollande for talks on tackling youth unemployment that
is above 50 percent in some European countries. Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble is then due to attend a two-day meeting of
fellow European finance ministers in Brussels from Nov. 14.  Also that day, Social Democratic members assemble in the
eastern German city of Leipzig for a three-day national party
convention that will re-elect the SPD leadership in a test of
backing for the direction of coalition negotiations so far.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  