-- Germany Under Renewed EU Pressure to Lift Domestic Demand
-- B y   I a n   W i s h a r t
-- 2013-11-11T18:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/germany-under-renewed-eu-pressure-to-lift-domestic-demand.html
Germany came under renewed pressure
from the European Union to boost domestic spending as the EU’s
top economy official said higher German demand would help temper
the euro’s strength and reiterated a threat to open an in-depth
probe of the nation’s  trade surplus .  Germany’s current-account balance, at 7 percent of gross
domestic product, is the second-highest in the euro area, and
EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said an
increase in the country’s domestic demand would bring the
surplus down and help struggling EU nations boost their exports.  “Crucially, a rise in domestic demand in Germany should
help to reduce upward pressure on the euro exchange rate, easing
access to global markets for exporters in the periphery,” Rehn
said in a  blog post  today. “Removing the bottlenecks to
domestic demand would contribute to a reduction in Germany’s
external trade surplus.”  As the euro area struggles out of the worst recession in
its history, attention has turned to whether Germany’s trade
surplus is hampering economic recovery in countries like Greece
and  France . In recent weeks, both the U.S. Treasury Department
and the  International Monetary Fund  have said a smaller current-account surplus in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, would help
its neighbors cut their deficits.  The  European Central Bank  last week halved its key  interest
rate  to a record-low 0.25 percent in a move that some investors
say was intended in part to curb the euro after it soared to the
strongest since 2011 against the  U.S. dollar . ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said the euro’s strength “didn’t play any role”
in the central bank’s decision.  Recent Peak  The euro traded at $1.3411 at 6:40 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.3
percent on the day and down from a recent peak above $1.38 in
late October.  The European Commission, the EU executive in Brussels, said
last week that Germany has exceeded the EU guideline of a 6
percent surplus since 2007 and forecast the nation to remain
above that threshold for at least the next two years. Of euro-area countries, only the Netherlands has a larger trade surplus,
according to EU figures.  “True, the increase in domestic demand has doubled in the
past two years when compared to the  euro zone  as a whole, but it
is still modest,” Rehn said in today’s blog post. “Because
these important issues deserve further analysis, the European
Commission will this week need to consider whether to launch an
in-depth review of the German economy in the framework of the
EU’s Macroeconomic Imbalances Procedure.”  Trade Surplus  Any investigation into Germany’s trade surplus, which would
be announced on Nov. 13, would be the EU’s latest move under
part of its stricter economic-governance rules introduced two
years ago and aimed at identifying the emergence of harmful
macroeconomic imbalances. The Brussels-based commission will on
Nov. 15 issue opinions on the draft budgets of euro-area nations
for the first time in a bid to introduce greater fiscal
discipline throughout the bloc.  Last week, Rehn called on  Germany  to take action to boost
consumption and foster higher wages. He recommended tax cuts,
reductions in social contributions and infrastructure spending
to help encourage domestic spending.  The EU can open a review if a country’s current account
breaches the 6 percent threshold over three consecutive years.  The commission will not carry out a “simple mechanical
reading of these indicators” that would automatically open a
review into Germany and will take other economic indicators into
account, Simon O’Connor, Rehn’s spokesman, told reporters today
in Brussels.  Starting Point  “We use these indicators as a starting point for any
economic reading, an economic analysis if you will, of the
situation, and on the basis of that analysis we draw conclusions
as to whether in-depth reviews are merited.”  He said that if an investigation was opened, it would
report back in the first half of 2014.  Germany’s Economy Ministry said on Oct. 31 that surpluses
“are a sign of the competitiveness of the German economy and
global demand for quality products from Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Wishart in Brussels at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  