-- Greek Premier Samaras Survives Parliament No-Confidence Vote
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2013-11-11T12:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/greek-premier-samaras-survives-no-confidence-vote-in-parliament.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
survived a vote of no confidence brought by the main opposition
party as his government remained locked in talks with the
country’s creditors.  Greece ’s 300-seat parliament rejected the measure with 153
votes against and 124 votes for, according to results read out
by Parliament speaker Evangelos Meimarakis today. The Pasok
party, part of Samaras’s coalition, expelled a lawmaker who
voted for the motion, reducing the party’s caucus to 27 seats.
That reduced the government’s majority to just four seats.  Alexis Tsipras, the leader of the Syriza opposition party,
called for the motion after Greek police early on Nov. 7 evicted
protesters occupying the headquarters of former public
broadcaster ERT after job cuts there. Samaras shut down ERT in
June to meet public sector job cut targets demanded by the euro
area and the  International Monetary Fund  to qualify for further
bailout loans.  “Mr. Tsipras is playing dangerous games with the moment
that he picked for the no-confidence motion,” Samaras said in a
speech to lawmakers before the vote. “It’s a moment when the
government is in critical negotiations with our creditors, but
it’s also a moment when for the first time the government is in
a strong position because it’s achieving the goals it set.”  Greek leaders are in talks with officials representing the
European Commission,  European Central Bank  and the IMF,
collectively known as the troika, who are inspecting the
country’s progress in meeting the terms of its 240 billion-euro
($321 billion) bailout.  Troika Talks  The yield on 10-year Greek  government bonds  fell 6 basis
points to 8.14 percent at 1:38 p.m. in Athens today. The
benchmark Athens Stock Exchange was little changed at 1169.49.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said Nov. 5 that he’s confident Greece can meet its
fiscal targets as the country resumed talks with the troika
after a five-week hiatus.  Samaras’s government presented a draft budget last month
forecasting a surplus before interest costs of 344 million euros
this year and of 2.8 billion euros in 2014, or 1.6 percent of
gross domestic product. That would qualify Greece for additional
debt relief. The government and Greece’s creditors disagree with
the extent of fiscal measures needed for the country to achieve
these projections.  Greece “is following a fiscal adjustment program that aims
to make the country’s public finances sustainable on a permanent
basis,” Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told lawmakers
during the debate yesterday, after holding talks with the troika
earlier in the day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  