-- Libya Expects Tanker to Load Crude at Hariga Oil Port Tomorrow
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-11-11T16:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/libya-expects-tanker-to-load-crude-at-hariga-oil-port-tomorrow.html
A tanker is expected to dock and
load crude from a Libyan oil export terminal that has been shut
for much of the past two months, according to a state company
official and ship tracking data.  The vessel will pick up at least 600,000 barrels of crude
from the country’s eastern port of Hariga tomorrow, for shipment
to a European destination, Mohamed Elharari, a spokesman for the
state-run National Oil Corp. said today by phone from Tripoli,
without elaborating on the tanker’s name or its charterer.
Shiptracking data on Bloomberg show that the British Falcon is
headed to Hariga, after being moored at another Libyan port,
Zawiya, from Oct. 27 to Nov. 9.  Libyan oil output was 250,000 barrels a day yesterday
Elharari said. That’s a fraction of the 1.6 million produced
prior to the country’s civil war. The nation, holder of  Africa ’s
biggest oil reserves, is losing $130 million a day because of
the halts, according to the  finance ministry .  The tanker scheduled to dock tomorrow is different to
another domestic carrier that was turned away from Hariga on
Nov. 8, Elhariri said. In that incident, a vessel scheduled to
carry crude from Hariga to a refinery at Zawiya, was refused
entry by Hariga port authorities due to concerns for its safety,
state-owned  Libya  News Agency reported yesterday. LANA didn’t
elaborate on the nature of the security concern.  NOC lifted a force majeure on Hariga Oct. 31 after about
four months of closure by former members of the Petroleum
Facilities Guard who are protesting alleged corruption at the
oil ministry and the government’s refusal to raise their salary
and improve equipment.  Force majeure is a legal clause that excuses a supplier
from meeting its delivery commitments because of events beyond
its control. Libya’s largest terminal,  Es Sider , remains shut
alongside Ras Lanuf and Zuetina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Sami in Tripoli at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  