-- Argentina Making Progress After IMF Censure, Lagarde Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-11-11T14:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/imf-making-progress-with-argentina-after-censure-lagarde-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  is
making progress and has received cooperation from Argentina 
since the government was accused by the lender of
misreporting data on inflation and economic growth, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  Private economists have questioned economic data and
estimated inflation at more than double the rate reported by the
government since 2007 when former President  Nestor Kirchner 
replaced senior officials at the statistics agency. Economy
Minister Hernan Lorenzino met with the IMF in  Washington  Sept.
16 after the government said it would unveil a new nationwide
 consumer price index  by year-end.  “We are making positive progress but it’s a matter that
will be reviewed by the board in a few days’ time, and I would
not want to prejudge what the outcome will be,” Lagarde said in
an interview with  CNN  en Espanol. “I very much hope that the
country continues to make progress, delivers on its commitment
and comes clear on the inflation number.”  Consumer prices  rose 10.5 percent in September from a year
ago, according to statistics agency data. That compares to the
25 percent inflation rate estimated by private economists in a
report issued by opposition lawmakers. The IMF executive board
in February censured Argentina, calling on it to “address the
inaccuracy” of its inflation index and gross domestic product
data under a procedure that can end in expulsion from the fund.  ‘Serious Reforms’  Argentina’s economy will expand 2.8 percent next year,
trailing the  Latin America  average of 3.1 percent, the
Washington-based lender said in last month’s  Regional Economic
Update . Brazil, which the IMF forecast in the report will climb
2.5 percent this year and next, is growing below potential,
Lagarde said last night.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine debt
instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 24 basis points, or 0.24
percentage point, to 814 basis points at 10:54 a.m. in Buenos
Aires, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified index.  Brazil requires “serious reforms,” she said without
providing further details.  The real declined more than any other major currency since
Brazil last month posted its widest  budget deficit  in almost
four years, renewing investors’ concern the nation’s credit
rating may be downgraded.  Standard & Poor’s  in June placed
Brazil’s rating on negative outlook, and Moody’s Investors
Service last month reduced its outlook to stable from positive.  Lagarde said U.S. officials need to ensure fiscal
negotiations aimed at resolving budget disagreements are
successful and don’t disrupt financial markets in Latin America
and elsewhere.  ‘Repeated Shutdowns’  “Repeated shutdowns or repeated uncertainties would
certainly not help global growth because the U.S. is a major
part of the global economy and has ramification and connections
throughout the world, particularly in Latin America,” she said,
according to a transcript of the interview. “So we certainly
hope that the message has registered and that another threat of
a shutdown, threat of a debt-ceiling debate up until the
eleventh hour is not going to happen again in January.”  Lagarde said she was most optimistic about countries in
Latin America that are keeping a close eye on their fiscal
situation and have already restructured their economies, such as
 Mexico ,  Chile ,  Colombia  and  Peru .  Mexico’s economy also will improve next year, Lagarde said.  “There are very strong reforms under way at the moment
which have had a slowing effect in 2013 but we see the forecast
for 2014 as a significant pickup,” she said.  Mexico’s GDP will climb 3 percent next year after
increasing 1.2 percent in 2013, according to IMF forecasts.
President Enrique Pena Nieto has pledged to end the state oil
producer’s 75-year monopoly on drilling as he increases spending
to stimulate growth.  Venezuela’s economy is not doing well as the government
drains reserves, Lagarde said. The annual inflation rate hit
54.3 percent in October, the fastest pace in 16 years as a
shortage of dollars crimps imports and causes shortages of
essential goods.  “It’s an economy that will really have to face difficult
policy issues probably shortly,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in  Buenos Aires  at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  