-- Independent Scotland May Lose Science Research Funds, U.K. Says
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-11-11T13:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/independent-scotland-may-lose-science-research-funds-u-k-says.html
Scotland ’s share of British science
research funding may be at risk should the country, which cloned
Dolly the Sheep, vote for independence, according to the U.K.
minister for universities.  Scotland got 13 percent of research council funding last
year compared with its share of the U.K. population of 8.4
percent as a result of the current integrated system of
allocating spending and the quality of Scotland’s universities,
David Willetts said on a visit to Edinburgh.  “The U.K. has got world-class science second only to the
U.S.,” said Willetts, who was speaking at the  Royal Observatory 
on publication of the latest British government  paper  on the
implications of independence. “That is basically a cause for
celebration and why we are better together.”  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  and his  Scottish
National Party , which runs the semi-autonomous government in
Edinburgh, have scheduled a referendum for Sept. 18, 2014, to
determine whether or not Scotland quits the U.K. A poll
published last week showed support for independence trailing the
status quo by 18 percentage points.  Scotland has five of the world’s top 200 universities, the
U.K. document said. Dolly the Sheep, the world’s first cloned
animal, was created at the Roslin Institute outside Edinburgh.
Peter Higgs, who won the  Nobel Prize  in Physics last month for
his work on the Higgs boson, a theoretical particle that may
explain where mass comes from, was working at Edinburgh
University when he first published his theory in 1964.  While co-operation on research between an independent
Scotland and the rest of the U.K. would continue, over time
their interests would diverge, Willetts said.  Scotland received 257 million pounds ($411 million) of
funding from the U.K.’s various research councils last year,
compared with 434 million pounds from the European Union over
the past six years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  