-- India’s Sensex Drops to 3-Week Low as Rupee Weakens; Banks Fall
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-11-11T12:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/india-s-nifty-stock-index-futures-decline-after-weekly-slump.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks fell for a fifth day
as the drop in the rupee to an eight-week low spurred concerns
capital inflows will slow and deter the central bank from easing
liquidity curbs.  State Bank of India , the nation’s biggest lender, fell to a
two-week low, leading a gauge of lenders lower for the sixth
day. Engineering company  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  dropped the most
in three weeks. Drugmaker  Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  advanced
the most on the benchmark gauge. The rupee slid to as low as
63.4450 per dollar, the weakest level since Sept. 18.  The S&P BSE Sensex retreated 0.9 percent to 20,490.96 at
the close in Mumbai. The gauge tumbled 2.7 percent last week as
the currency completed its largest weekly loss in more than two
months on concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will cut stimulus
earlier than anticipated. American payrolls added almost twice
as many workers projected in October, data showed on Nov. 8. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell for an eighth straight day.  “The concern over tapering and its impact on countries
with current-account deficits is gradually creeping back into
the market,” Tai Hui, chief  Asia  market strategist at JPMorgan
Asset Management in  Hong Kong , told Bloomberg TV  India  today.  State Bank  declined 2.3 percent. Yes Bank Ltd. tumbled 5.9
percent, the most since Sept. 23. The S&P BSE Bankex lost 1.4
percent to close at its lowest level since Oct. 18.  Larsen & Toubro decreased 3.2 percent, the most since Oct.
17.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner of Jaguar Land Rover, dropped 1.8
percent, after CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets cut its recommendation
on the stock to outperform from buy.  Dr Reddy’s jumped 2.9 percent, the biggest advance since
Oct. 30, after the company received approval from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration for generic versions of aciphex tablets
to treat astroesophageal reflux disease.  ‘Tactical Play’  The Sensex rallied 19 percent from this year’s low on Aug.
21 to a record in a special Diwali trading on Nov. 3. The gauge
has dropped every day since. Its 5.5 percent climb this year is
still the most among the four largest emerging markets, as more
companies reported profits that beat estimates and as stimulus
helped spur $2.9 billion of net inflows into shares last month.  “Investors were using tapering, or the lack of it, as a
tactical play to get into  emerging markets ,” JPMorgan’s Hui
said. “It wasn’t surprising to see the Sensex hit a record. I
question whether that rally is sustainable, with the tapering
discussion returning to the fore.”  Fed policy makers will cut the monthly pace of bond-buying
to $70 billion at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median estimate of 32 economists in a Bloomberg survey Nov. 8.
An Oct. 17-18 survey of 40 economists also forecast a reduction
to $70 billion in March.  Economic Data  The Sensex was also pressured before a report tomorrow
forecast to show consumer-price  inflation  quickened last month.  Consumer prices rose 9.9 percent in October from a year
earlier, compared with 9.84 percent in September, according to
the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Factory output
rose 3.5 percent in September, after a 0.6 percent gain the
previous month, a separate Bloomberg  survey  shows.  “We don’t see buying emerging unless data this week show
the economy is getting back on track,” Surya Narayan Nayak, an
analyst at Networth Stock Broking Ltd., said by phone today.  The Sensex is  valued  at 13.6 times projected 12-month
profits, compared with 10.4 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Global investors bought a net $57 million of equities on
Nov. 8, a 25th day of net purchases, data from the regulator
show. That took this year’s inflows to $16.6 billion, the most
in Asia after  Japan .  The CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index decreased 1 percent to 6,078.80. The
India VIX rose 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  