-- Iron Ore Rallying as Cargoes to China Reach Record: Commodities
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-11-12T21:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/iron-ore-rallying-as-cargoes-to-china-reach-record-commodities.html
Iron ore is extending a  bull market 
on record sales to  China  that are spurring forecasters from
Morgan Stanley to the World Bank to increase price predictions.  Shipments from  Australia ’s  Port Hedland , the biggest iron-ore export terminal, to China jumped 43 percent to a record last
month, port data show. The Asian nation already imported the
 most ore ever  in September, according to customs data.  Standard
Bank  Group Ltd. and the Bureau of Resources and Energy
Economics, Australia’s state forecaster, also increased price
estimates in the past several weeks.  Prices reached a two-month high in China last week after
data showed  Asia ’s largest economy accelerated. While supply
expansions led by Australian producers will push the seaborne
market into surplus next year for the first time since 2010, it
won’t happen until the second half, said Joel Crane, an analyst
at Morgan Stanley.  Iron ore  is the biggest source of revenue for
Rio Tinto Group, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Vale SA and the largest
seaborne commodity cargo after crude oil.  “It’s coming, just not yet,” said Melbourne-based Crane.
“There’s more demand than supply and there will continue to be
more demand than supply into next year. Then, as Rio and BHP
ramp up and Vale gets its first net expansion in a year, then
you should start to see supply growth maintain the pace of
demand growth.”  China’s Economy  Ore at China’s Tianjin port reached $137.10 a metric ton on
Nov. 6, the most since Sept. 5, after rallying from a seven-month low in May. The commodity used to make steel entered a
 bull market  in July as  China’s economy  snapped a two-quarter
slowdown, paring the ore’s drop this year to 6.2 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials, which doesn’t
include iron ore, declined 5.8 percent.  Supply in the seaborne market will fall 25 million tons
short of demand in the first half of 2014, before a 49 million-ton surplus emerges in the final six months, Morgan Stanley
estimates. Prices will average $130 in the first quarter and
$120 in the second, from earlier estimates of $125 and $117, the
bank said in a report last month.  Trade in iron ore will expand 7.1 percent to a record 1.27
billion tons next year, according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s
biggest shipbroker. China’s imports will advance 9.5 percent to
865 million tons, the fastest growth in three years, the London-based company estimates.  Economist Forecasts  China’s economy expanded more than fivefold in the past
decade, adding almost $7 trillion to  gross domestic product .
While the expansion may slow to 7.4 percent in 2014 from 7.6
percent this year, that’s almost three times the expected pace
of U.S. growth, economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects the global glut to emerge
in the second quarter and reiterated last month its forecast for
a 2014 average of $108, or 21 percent less than now. HSBC
Holdings Plc predicts an average of $115 in 2014 and Ric Deverell, the head of commodities research at Credit Suisse
Group AG, told a conference in  London  on Oct. 8 that he
recommended betting on a decline.  Prices may average $115 next year, the least since 2009,
according to the median of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Surging output in Australia, the biggest exporter,
will swell the global surplus to 154 million tons, from 24
million tons in 2013, according to UBS AG. HSBC forecasts a glut
of 45 million tons and Deutsche Bank AG 75 million tons.  Western Australia  China imported 67.83 million tons of ore in October,
customs data show. While that’s less than the all-time high of
74.58 million tons reached in September, it was 20 percent more
than a year earlier. Shipments this month and next are likely to
be “very high,” Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic
Securities ASA in Oslo, wrote in a report Nov. 8.  Rio, based in London, plans to expand output in Australia’s
Pilbara region to 360 million tons from 290 million tons.
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , based in Perth, is tripling its
capacity in the Pilbara to 155 million tons. The first ore from
Melbourne-based BHP’s Jimblebar expansion in  Western Australia 
arrived six months early.  Australian shipments may rise 17 percent to a record 669
million tons next year, the Canberra-based Bureau of Resources
and Energy Economics says.  “At least in Australia, things are going according to
expectations, if not a bit better,” said Christian Lelong, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs in Sydney. “The oversupply should
start to become evident from the second quarter onwards. We
expect the structural decline in prices to start next year but
to really get going from the second quarter.”  Industrial Metals  Vale (VALE5) , the largest producer, said last month it’s getting
ready to start the $3.5 billion Carajas expansion project,
adding 40 million tons of capacity. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company plans to increase overall production capacity by 50
percent to 450 million tons by 2018.  Chinese buyers will take greater control of pricing over
the next two years as global supply increases, according to
former Noble Group Ltd. Vice Chairman Harry Banga, who’s traded
the ore for almost 20 years. Prices will decline to $95 to $110
a ton, said Banga, who in May started The Caravel Group Ltd.,
which aims to trade 15 million tons in its first year.  Any slump in prices may spur higher-cost Chinese mines to
reduce supply, curbing the decline, said Justin Smirk, a senior
economist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney and the second-most-accurate industrial metals forecaster tracked by Bloomberg
over the past eight quarters. More than half of Chinese output
costs $95 to $100 a ton to produce, Deutsche Bank estimates.  China Stockpiles  Stockpiles in China were 74.4 million tons on Nov. 8, from
85.1 million tons a year earlier, according to Beijing Antaike
Development Co., a state-backed research company. Steel futures
in  Shanghai  advanced 8.5 percent from a nine-month low in June.  Steel production in China rose 13 percent in September from
a year earlier, the Brussels-based World Steel Association says.
Global demand for the alloy will probably expand 3.3 percent to
1.523 billion tons in 2014, from 3.1 percent this year, the
association forecast last month.  Australia’s Bureau of Resources raised its 2014 price
forecast to $119 last month, up from $112 in June, citing
Chinese demand. The Washington-based  World Bank  said in a report
last month that ore will average $135 next year, up from a July
prediction of $125. Standard Bank expects prices to average $122
next year, 14 percent more than previously forecast.  Australian shipments of iron ore and associated products
were valued at $56.7 billion last year, more than twice as much
as in 2009 and 22 percent of total goods exported, according to
ITC TradeMap, a venture between the  World Trade Organization  and
the  United Nations . Brazilian cargoes were valued at $31
billion, or 13 percent of the country’s total, the data show.  “This wall of iron ore may not produce the collapse in
prices that people expect,” said Westpac’s Smirk. “The
combination of cheap ore on the global market, continuing growth
in supply and the more recent lift in Chinese ore supply is
about to create a correction. But when prices fall, the Chinese
miners who are marginal will respond and cut production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  