-- J Trust Poised to Fall as Consumer Lender Withdraws Profit Goal
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-11-11T03:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/j-trust-poised-to-fall-as-consumer-lender-withdraws-profit-goal.html
J Trust Co. (8508) , the Japanese consumer
lender whose shares have tumbled more than 50 percent since May,
is poised to fall by the daily limit in Tokyo trading after it
withdrew its profit forecast.  The  shares  were untraded as of 12:57 p.m. in Tokyo, with
offers to buy at 1,210 yen, 25 percent lower than the previous
closing price of 1,610 yen. There were more than five sell
offers for every bid, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  J Trust last week pulled its forecast for net income of 15
billion yen ($151 million) for the year ending March, saying
takeovers that it’s seeking after raising funds in a share sale
may “significantly” affect earnings. The company completed
 Japan ’s biggest-ever rights offer in July, raising 97.7 billion
yen to fund acquisitions.  Shares of J Trust have lost 55 percent since May 14, when
it released plans for the equity offering. That’s the  worst
performance  among the 561 companies on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange’s second section.  J Trust, which bought bankrupt Japanese consumer lender
Takefuji Corp. last year, didn’t specify acquisition targets in
the Nov. 8 statement on its profit projection. The company is
interested in Southeast Asian banks and domestic credit card
companies, Chief Executive Officer Nobuyoshi Fujisawa said in an
interview in August.  Net income fell about 85 percent to 1.1 billion yen in the
six months ended Sept. 30, J Trust said in the statement. It’s
scheduled to report first-half earnings on Nov. 13.  The consumer lender made an unsuccessful preliminary offer
for failed Japanese game maker Index Corp. earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  