-- Jackson Lewis Has White-Collar Practice: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/jackson-lewis-has-white-collar-practice-business-of-law.html
Workplace law firm Jackson Lewis LLP
is forming a white-collar and government enforcement practice
group and is hiring a former assistant U.S. attorney in Denver
to bolster the practice.  James M. Lord joined the firm’s Denver office as a partner.
He will help start the new practice, which will be led by
Jackson Lewis partner and former Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul Kelly in the  Boston  office.  The white-collar and government enforcement practice will
assist clients in strengthening compliance programs, responding
to government inquiries and investigations and defending
subsequent legal actions where necessary, the firm said.  The attorneys in the practice, which draws on former
federal and state prosecutors and enforcement lawyers, also
includes Kevin Lashus in Austin, John Commisso and Sarah Walsh,
in Boston, Larry Shulman in  Detroit  and Stacey Bastone in Long
Island.  “In today’s highly regulated environment, employers are
facing increased scrutiny resulting in government
investigations, enforcement actions and criminal proceedings,”
Jackson Lewis Chairman Vincent A. Cino said in a statement. “We
have an outstanding group of litigators across the country with
prosecutorial experience and are extremely pleased that Jim
Lord, a successful federal prosecutor, will be joining this team
and helping launch our white-collar and government enforcement
practice group.”  Cino said in an interview that the firm has been working on
forming the group for the last year, but that Lord’s hire
prompted it to formalize the practice. “I think within a few
years there will be 25 attorneys handling this work,” he said.  Kelly, hired last May, was formerly executive director of
the National Hockey League Players’ Association. In addition to
his white-collar leadership, he is also co-chairman of the
firm’s collegiate and professional sports industry practice
group. He said he began handling white-collar work on day two of
his hire.  “The landscape out there for employers is getting more
difficult to navigate given the volume of federal and state
regulations and the increasing number of enforcement actions,”
he said in an interview.  The attorneys in the new practice have experience in
criminal and enforcement matters related to workplace law, like
corporate compliance and governance, immigration and worksite
enforcement actions, health care fraud investigations, and tax
matters. They also advise clients on antitrust matters, fraud
charges, professional license and disciplinary proceedings,
securities violations, money laundering and environmental
enforcement.  Lord was an assistant U.S. attorney in  Seattle  for more
than 20 years. During his tenure as a federal prosecutor, he was
chief of the Organized Crime Strike Force, coordinator of the
Corporate Fraud Task Force, a member of the Financial
Investigations Review Team, an asset forfeiture and money
laundering attorney and a computer-hacking and intellectual-property attorney for the Western District of Washington.  After leaving the Justice Department in 2011, Lord was a
senior director at the consulting firm Alvarez & Marsal. There
his practice focused on conducting risk assessments and
compliance reviews, internal investigations, regulatory training
for multinational companies and foreign sovereigns, and managing
international due-diligence investigations.  Lord’s practice at Jackson Lewis will concentrate on white-collar criminal defense, False Claims Act defense, Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act matters, internal investigations,
corporate governance and compliance issues, among other matters.  Jackson Lewis has 765 attorneys in 54 locations in the U.S.
and Puerto Rico.  News  Secrets Said to Stall Swaps Probe as EU Readies Libor Fines  The European Union’s antitrust probe into credit
derivatives trading by 13 of the world’s biggest banks stalled
after the lenders’ lawyers won the right to see confidential
information compiled by investigators.  The banks asked to see business secrets about their rivals
in EU files to help them fight a formal antitrust complaint sent
in  July , according to five people familiar with the probe who
asked not to be identified because the process isn’t public.
Meeting the requests may add about four months to the
investigation, after the EU extended its deadline for responses
to the statement of objections, two people said.  “A decision before the end of Competition Commissioner
Joaquin Almunia’s term would be possible, but in reality pretty
difficult,” said Jacquelyn MacLennan, a lawyer at White & Case
LLP in Brussels who’s not involved in the case. “This is not a
settlement case but a full procedure,” so wrapping it up before
Oct. 31 next year “is a challenge.”  The credit-default swaps probe, which includes HSBC
Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc., is one of two  priority  EU investigations into
financial institutions. Almunia is poised to fine many of the
same banks for rigging benchmarks including the  London  interbank
offered rate in a scandal that’s tarnished the reputation of
lenders seeking to recover from the biggest financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  Antoine Colombani, Almunia’s spokesman at the European
Commission in Brussels, declined to comment.  The commission was required to grant access to potentially
confidential data after lawyers in the CDS probe argued the
information was vital given the complexity of the case, the
people said. Such data would be evidence in the commission’s
file, such as e-mails and other messages for which business
secrecy was claimed, one person said.  After lengthy discussions, the EU agreed to distribute DVDs
to lawyers with the sensitive data in exchange for pledges to
protect the information. This process, known as a virtual data-room, is used only in exceptional circumstances, according to EU
guidelines.  Once lawyers have finished reviewing the information they
would go back to the commission and seek further permission for
parts of it to be shared with their clients, said the person.
It’s then up to the commission to allow this or not.  In the underlying probe, the EU accused the 13 banks as
well as Markit and ISDA of working together to prevent  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange from entering the
credit-derivatives business from 2006 to 2009.  For more, click here.  London’s Second Female Lord Mayor Says Banks Must Regain Trust  Fiona Woolf, the second woman to head the City of London in
800 years, said bankers in her district must keep working to
regain the public’s trust and backed the Bank of  England ’s
latest move to support lenders.  “If you are in a role that is promoting London and the
whole of the U.K. services sector, it makes it much more
difficult to promote it when there are these reputational issues
hanging over us,” Woolf said in an interview at London’s
Guildhall. “I’m hoping to be able to say that we are well
regulated. You can only earn trust. You can’t buy it.”  Woolf, 65, who started as the 686th lord mayor Nov. 8, was
law firm CMS Cameron McKenna’s first female partner in 1981. She
has advised more than 28 governments and the World Bank on
privatization and energy reforms. She will oversee about 3,500
staff that manage the British capital’s historic core and
promote the financial-services companies based in the Square
Mile. The City is also home to the Bank of England, whose
governor, Mark Carney, last month unveiled an overhaul giving
banks cheaper liquidity insurance and letting them use a broader
range of collateral to access money.  “It’s a very open and pragmatic way for the BOE to provide
finance,” Woolf said. “It sounds like a nicely balanced
approach. The banks have to be able to do business, and
liquidity in the market is important.”  Woolf, who qualified as a solicitor in 1973, follows in the
footsteps of Mary Donaldson, who became the first female lord
mayor in 1983.  As lord mayor, Woolf assumes a yearlong ambassadorial role
representing financial and business-services firms after serving
as an alderman and City sheriff. She replaced Roger Gifford, a
former chairman of the Association of Foreign Banks in London.
The post is separate from that of London Mayor Boris Johnson,
who represents 8 million people and is directly elected by
voters in all of the city’s boroughs.  London is home to about 251 foreign banks and sees about
$1.9 trillion in foreign exchange turnover each day, or more
than a third of global market share, according to the City of
London’s website. The U.K. is also the second largest fund-management center, providing employment to about 60,000 people.  Woolf said one of her priorities is to encourage firms in
the City to hire more women and people from minority
backgrounds. The U.K. Office for National Statistics published
figures last week showing that for every 158 males entering the
City for work daily, only 100 females do the same.  For more, click here.  Moves  Former Bingham Life Sciences Co-Chairman Joins Brown Rudnick  Brown Rudnick LLP announced that Robert C. Funsten has
joined the firm’s Orange County,  California , office as a partner
and co-chairman of the global life sciences group. Funsten was
previously a partner and co-chairman of Bingham McCutchen LLP’s
life sciences practice.  Funsten has experience in licensing and development deals,
strategic alliances and collaborations, mergers and
acquisitions, private and public securities and debt offerings,
and other business transactions. He also counsels companies on
intellectual-property and litigation strategies, the firm said.
He previously worked as the senior vice president, general
counsel and secretary of Watson Pharmaceuticals, now Actavis
Group.  “While our Orange County office, formally Rus, Miliband &
Smith, has long been recognized for its excellence in complex
commercial litigation, our  strategic plan for that office
includes developing a strong corporate and life sciences
presence as well,” Joseph F. Ryan, chairman and chief executive
officer of Brown Rudnick, said in a statement. “An experienced
industry adviser with sophisticated expertise, Rob will enhance
greatly our life-sciences practice in Orange County and
firmwide.”  Funsten is the second recent lateral addition to the Orange
County office. Numan J. Siddiqi joined the firm as a partner in
the global Corporate Practice.  Brown Rudnick has 200 lawyers in the U.S. and Europe.  Former U.S. Attorney Paul Charlton Joins Steptoe & Johnson  Steptoe & Johnson LLP announced that Paul Charlton, the
former U.S. attorney for the District of  Arizona , has joined the
firm as a partner from Gallagher & Kennedy.  He will be based in
the Phoenix office and will practice in Steptoe’s commercial
litigation and white-collar criminal defense groups.  Charlton concentrates his practice on complex litigation,
internal investigations and white-collar criminal defense. He
has also represented American Indian governments and tribal
leaders.  A former federal prosecutor, Charlton was nominated by
President Bush as U.S. attorney for Arizona in 2001 after
serving as an assistant U.S. attorney for 10 years. During his
six years as the U.S. attorney, Charlton established the Anti-Terrorism Advisory Council, the firm said.  He also established
a national security division within the U.S. Attorney’s Office
to work with law enforcement agencies on terrorism related
criminal cases.  “Paul’s arrival represents an important addition to our
Phoenix office, by continuing the growth of practices in Phoenix
that have local, national and global reach,” Bruce Converse,
managing partner of Steptoe’s Phoenix office, said in a
statement. “Paul joins two recent exciting additions to our
office, former Congressman John Shadegg and former FERC
Commissioner Marc Spitzer.”  Steptoe & Johnson has more than 500 lawyers and other
professionals in Beijing, Brussels, Century City,  Chicago ,
London, Los Angeles, New York, Phoenix and Washington.  Venture Capital Attorney Mirkin Joins Rimon in Palm Beach Office  Rimon PC added early-stage venture capital partner Mark H.
Mirkin as a partner in its new Palm Beach County,  Florida ,
office. Mirkin joins Rimon from the firm of Hicks, Motto &
Ehrlich, where he also worked as a partner.  The Palm Beach County location is Rimon’s 13th office and
the first opened in the Southeast.  Mirkin focuses his practice on early-stage financing
transactions, representing entrepreneurs and emerging growth
companies in private placements and public offerings of equity,
debt and convertible securities, venture-capital financings,
mergers, acquisitions and divestitures.  In addition to his financing work, Mirkin handles work in
the startup world, advising companies on how to structure and
organize and helping them in forward-thinking business planning,
the firm said.  “Mark is a great choice to head our expansion into the
Southeast.” Michael Moradzadeh, CEO of Rimon, said in a
statement. “He has assisted countless early stage companies to
get the financing they need to move up to the next level. He
will fit right into our team of attorneys who know how to help
entrepreneurs take flight.”  Rimon has offices in the U.S. and  Israel .  Nelson Mullins Hires Health-Care Partner Ruggio in Washington  Mike Ruggio joined Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP
as a partner in its  Washington  office. He joins from LeClairRyan
along with another attorney.  Ruggio has represented clients in health-care antitrust
matters, anti-kickback, Stark and HIPAA matters. He has been
involved in pharmaceutical, e-health technology and bio-health
cases concerning average wholesale pricing issues, reimbursement
fraud, medical necessity, and other related matters, the firm
said.  Nelson Mullins has more than 500 attorneys and other
professionals at offices in Washington, Florida,  Georgia ,
 Massachusetts , North Carolina, South Carolina,  Tennessee  and
West Virginia.  Video  Why Milbank Sends 4th-Years to Harvard  David Wolfson, partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy
and chairman of the firm’s professional development committee,
talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about the Milbank@Harvard
program.  The weeklong course at Harvard Law School and Harvard
Business School takes midlevel Milbank associates through a wide
range of professional development courses.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  