-- Japan’s Biggest Land Developer in Tie-Up on Entertainment Resort
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-11-11T07:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/japan-s-biggest-land-developer-in-tie-up-on-entertainment-resort.html
Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) ,  Japan ’s largest
property developer, is seeking approval for an entertainment
complex and resort in Tokyo with construction firm  Kajima Corp. (1812) 
and Fuji Media Holdings Inc., a government website shows.  The companies have applied to set up an entertainment
complex in Tokyo’s Odaiba area, according to the website of the
country’s cabinet secretariat.  They have teamed up for a possible casino resort, Reuters
reported Nov. 8. Tokyo’s selection to host the 2020 Olympics has
boosted speculation the government will open up the market to
casinos, and companies including  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and Wynn
Resorts Ltd. have said they plan to invest in Japan.  A lawmakers’ group plans to submit a bill to parliament as
soon as this year to legalize casinos in Asia’s second-largest
economy, where gambling such as pachinko and betting on horse,
boat and bicycle races is allowed.  Mitsui has put in a plan for a commercial area that
includes a hotel, convention centers and shopping area,
according to Mitsutoshi Tenda, a company spokesman, who declined
to say if it included a proposal for a casino. A Kajima
spokesman, who asked not to be named due to company policy, said
the company had submitted a plan to develop the Odaiba area.  “We are not the source of information,” a spokeswoman for
Fuji Media said by phone in response to questions on the Reuters
article, declining to give her name due to company policy.  The Nippon Foundation, a non-profit organization, was also
named as part of the group on the government website. It said
via e-mail that it was part of the proposal, while declining to
say if the details of the plan include casinos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  