-- Juventus Closes Gap on Roma in Italian Soccer; Barca Goes Clear
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-11-11T00:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/juventus-closes-gap-on-roma-in-italian-soccer-barca-goes-clear.html
Juventus beat Napoli 3-0 to close
within a point of Italian soccer league leader Roma, which was
held to a 1-1 home draw by Sassuolo. Barcelona won 4-1 at Real
Betis to open up a three-point lead in Spain.  Fernando Llorente, Andrea Pirlo and Paul Pogba scored for
Juventus in Turin last night as the defending champion moved to
31 points. Roma drew its second straight game after starting
with a record 10 straight wins as Domenico Berardi’s stoppage-time goal earned Serie A newcomer Sassuolo the draw.  Spanish champion Barcelona also took advantage of a draw by
nearest rival Atletico  Madrid  as two goals by Cesc Fabregas and
one each from Neymar and Pedro Rodriguez secured the win against
Real Betis in Seville.  Four-time World Player of the Year Lionel Messi left last
night’s game in the 21st minute with a leg muscle injury and
will have further tests today, Barcelona said on its website.  Atletico earlier drew 1-1 at Villarreal as the teams traded
own goals. Barca leads with 37 points ahead of Atletico with 34.
Real Madrid is another three points back after Cristiano Ronaldo
scored three goals in a 5-1 win against Real Sociedad.  Bayern Munich beat Augsburg 3-0 two days ago to set a
record of 37 games unbeaten in  Germany ’s Bundesliga and move
four points clear of Borussia Dortmund, which lost 2-1 at
Wolfsburg. Third-place Bayer Leverkusen beat Hamburg 5-3.  Defending champion Bayern has 32 points after 12 games,
with Dortmund and Leverkusen both on 28.  Paris Saint-Germain also took a four-point lead in  France ’s
Ligue 1 as Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored all three goals in a 3-1
victory against Nice two days ago. Lille drew 0-0 at Guingamp
and Monaco tied 1-1 with Evian on Nov. 8.  PSG has 31 points ahead of Lille with 27 and Monaco on 26.  In the Netherlands, Vitesse Arnhem displaced AZ Alkmaaar
atop the standings after it beat Utrecht 3-1 and AZ drew 2-2 at
Feyenoord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  