-- Koruna Weakens as Slowing Inflation Boosts Case for Intervention
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-11-11T16:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/koruna-weakens-as-slowing-inflation-boosts-case-for-intervention.html
The koruna weakened to the lowest
level in more than four years as slowing Czech inflation boosted
the central bank’s case to continue currency interventions.  The koruna lost as much as 0.3 percent to 27.052 per euro
after the Czech Statistics Office said annual inflation fell to
0.9 percent in October, the slowest pace since 2010 and below
the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range. The
currency traded 0.1 percent weaker at 26.998, the lowest since
June 2009 on a closing basis, by 5:10 p.m. in Prague.  After cutting  interest rates  to 0.05 percent last year, the
Czech National Bank began its first intervention to weaken the
local currency in 11 years on Nov. 7 and set a desired level of
27 per euro to fight off the risk of deflation and spur economic
growth. The koruna slumped a record 4.4 percent that day and has
traded between 26.959 and 27.052 in the past two days.  “The low October inflation reading supports the decision
of the CNB to take action,”  Daniel Hewitt , an economist at
Barclays Plc in  London , wrote in a report to clients today. “If
inflation surprises to the downside, the CNB could increase its
exchange-rate target again.”  Czech bonds rallied after the data were published, sending
the yield on the government’s five-year koruna notes down 14
basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 1.02 percent, the
biggest drop in six months, generic indexes compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth stripped off the impact of changes in indirect tax,
slowed to 0.1 percent in October from 0.2 percent a month
earlier, the central bank said today.  ‘Very Long’  The central bank will keep koruna near the desired level
“for very long” until “strong” inflationary pressures appear
in the economy, Vice Governor  Vladimir Tomsik  said in an
interview on Czech public television yesterday.  The currency’s three-month implied volatility against the
euro fell to record 3.60 percent today from 4.97 percent on Nov.
7. That makes the koruna the least-volatile among 34 peers for
which Bloomberg tracks the data, along with the Swiss franc.  The CNB bought around 2.5 billion euros ($3.35 billion) in
the market on Nov. 7 and as much as 1.5 billion euros the next
day, according to estimates of Nomura Holdings Inc. in a
research note today.  “We expect the CNB to remain active in the market on a
day-to-day basis, but that size will be smaller,” Peter Attard Montalto, the Japanese bank’s London-based emerging-markets
economist, said in the report. “Markets should be cautious as
the CNB can sell unlimited” amounts of koruna, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  