-- KPN Foundation Retreats After Blocking Slim’s Takeover Bid
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-11-11T10:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/kpn-foundation-to-retreat-after-blocking-slim-s-9-6-billion-bid.html
An independent foundation that
sought to thwart a 7.2 billion-euro ($9.6 billion) bid by
billionaire  Carlos Slim  for control of  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  is now
standing down after Slim’s company walked away.  The group, which exercised an option in August to acquire
KPN preferred stock to stall America Movil SAB’s 2.40 euro-a-share offer for the Dutch phone company, requested a shareholder
meeting to vote on the redemption of 4.26 billion preference
shares. Those shares aren’t publicly traded.  America Movil last month withdrew its offer, which the
foundation had called hostile, after failing to reach an
agreement with KPN over price. The Mexico City-based carrier is
left with a stake of about 30 percent and must wait for six
months before making another bid. The shareholder meeting could
happen in January or February, Pieter Bouw, a member of the
board at the foundation, said today.  “Our main goal was that the main parties would get to the
table to negotiate and get an agreement on all aspects that have
to do with such a takeover,” Bouw said on a conference call.  In a statement, KPN said it will hold the investor meeting
“in due course.” Frank Jansen, a spokesman at Citigate in
Amsterdam, which represents America Movil, wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  Telekom Austria  KPN rose 0.4 percent to 2.48 euros at 10:55 a.m. in
Amsterdam. The shares are up 10 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 10.6 billion euros.  Europe has attracted Slim’s attention after the region’s
debt crisis, intensifying competition and tight regulation
battered telecommunications stocks. KPN shares dropped 66
percent in the four years through Nov. 8, while  Telekom Austria
AG (TKA)  fell 48 percent. America Movil also owns a holding in Telekom
Austria.  Slim could spend America Movil’s cash elsewhere in Europe.
With cash flow amounting to at least $2.83 billion in each of
the past eight quarters, Slim’s coffers give him flexibility to
pursue other investments in Europe, such as potentially
increasing his stake in Telekom Austria.  The KPN foundation is in charge of defending the interests
of KPN’s shareholders, employees and customers, as well as Dutch
society. It has existed since the Dutch government first sold
shares in KPN in 1994. On its board are Chairman Jacques Schraven, Vice ChairmanBouw, Hans Zwarts, Jan Klaassen and
Peter Wakkie.  “This isn’t aimed specifically at one party,” Wakkie said
on the call. “This is just a reflection of the rights that the
foundation has based on the agreement it has with KPN.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  