-- New Female Lord Mayor of London Makes ‘Business Case’ for Women
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-11-11T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/new-female-lord-mayor-of-london-makes-business-case-for-women.html
The new  Lord Mayor  of  London , Fiona Woolf, the second woman to hold the honorary post in 800 years,
warned the U.K. capital’s financial district it will lose out if
more talented women don’t reach the tops of companies.  In a speech to the Mansion House banquet of business people
tonight, Woolf argued it makes “good business sense” to
question whether there’s enough diversity in the City, as the
financial district is known. She said just 6 percent of women
hold executive-committee and board positions and businesses risk
being left behind “if talent does not get to the top.”  “It makes good business sense to ask the City: Is our
talent pool wide enough and deep enough?” Woolf told 700
businessmen and women in an audience that also included Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby. “There has always been a moral case for diversity and
inclusion, but there is also a business case -- and now it is a
business imperative.”  Women account for 19 percent of directors of the 100
largest U.K. companies, up from 17.3 percent in April, a survey
by Cranfield University School of Management found Nov. 7. In
the past six months, 27 percent of appointments to the boards of
companies in the FTSE 100 index have gone to women and 30
percent of those in the FTSE 250, according to the report, which
has charted women’s progress in boardrooms since 1999.  A government-commissioned report in 2011 set a target of 25
percent women on boards by 2015 after the panel that compiled
it, led by  Mervyn Davies , ex-chairman of  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
ruled out setting quotas for companies.  As the Lord Mayor, Woolf is head of the  City of London 
authority, which covers the financial district. The position,
which is held for one year, is unpaid and apolitical. She
represents City businesses and helps advise the government on
financial services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  