-- Crude Sinks as Stocks Drop With Treasuries on Fed Outlook
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-11-12T21:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/nikkei-futures-rise-amid-weaker-yen-as-baht-extends-drop.html
Crude oil slid to a five-month low
and stocks fell, with emerging-market shares extending the
longest slump in seven years, as an improving U.S. economy
fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus
sooner than estimated. The dollar gained against most major
peers and Treasury yields rose while industrial metals declined.  Crude in New York dropped 2.2 percent to $93.04 a barrel,
the lowest settlement since May 31. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX) , which closed within a point of a record yesterday,
slipped 0.2 percent, while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid
for a ninth day. The dollar approached 100 yen for the first
time in two months, rising against 11 of 16 major peers. Yields
on 10-year Treasuries climbed as much as four basis points to
2.79 percent. Silver sank 2.9 percent while natural gas surged.  Treasury  yields (USGG10YR)  have jumped and the dollar has gained since
last week’s better-than-forecast U.S. jobs data fueled
speculation policy makers will trim stimulus earlier than
expected. Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  told
 Bloomberg Radio  that a reduction in bond purchases “could very
well take place” next month. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , who has said he wouldn’t rule out backing a reduction in
asset buying by March, said in a speech in Melbourne that
monetary accommodation “becomes riskier by the day.”  “The jobs report Friday, that’s really what changed the
idea that we could have a December taper and ever since then
you’ve had more and more comments coming out of the Fed that
perhaps it is on the table,”  James Paulsen , the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management,
which oversees about $340 billion, said in a phone interview.
“Last night it was Fisher and now Lockhart. What he came out
and said today isn’t earth-shattering but it does add to the
momentum to the idea.”  Inflation Target  Lockhart said he wants to see inflation accelerate toward
the Fed’s 2 percent goal before the central bank reduces $85
billion in monthly bond purchases.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will probably taper its
bond buying to $70 billion at its March 18-19 meeting, according
to the median of 32 economist estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey Nov. 8. The poll came after a government report that
showed employers last month increased payrolls by a more-than-expected 204,000 workers, and the economy grew at a faster-than-forecast rate of 2.8 percent last quarter.  The  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities slid 0.8 percent, led
by silver and crude, while coffee, natural gas and soybeans
jumped more than 1 percent. Natural gas futures climbed for a
sixth day in New York, adding 2.1 percent to cap the longest
rising streak in more than a year, as meteorologists predicted
colder-than-normal weather that would stoke heating-fuel demand.  IEA Report  The U.S. will surpass Russia and Saudi Arabia as the
world’s top oil producer by 2015, and be close to energy self-sufficiency in the next two decades, amid  booming output  from
shale formations, the  International Energy Agency  said.  Crude prices will advance to $128 a barrel by 2035 with a
16 percent increase in consumption supporting the development of
so-called tight oil in the U.S. and a tripling in output from
Brazil, the IEA said today in its annual World Energy Outlook.
The role of the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries 
will recover in the middle of the next decade as other nations
struggle to repeat North America’s success with exploiting shale
deposits, the agency predicted.  Six of the 10  main industry groups  in the  S&P 500  declined
today, led by utility, financial and energy companies. The index
advanced 0.1 percent yesterday to 1,771.89, near its Oct. 29
record of 1,771.95. The S&P 500 is up almost 24 percent in 2013,
poised for its best yearly gain in a decade, and is trading near
its highest price-to-earnings valuation in more than three
years.  U.S. Movers  Travelers Cos., Chevron Corp. and Johnson & Johnson lost at
least 0.8 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  lower
after it closed at a record yesterday.  News Corp. (NWS)  dropped 1.6 percent as the publisher of the Wall
Street Journal reported a decline in revenue. T-Mobile US Inc.
retreated 3.3 percent after offering almost $1.8 billion in new
stock. Dish Network Corp. rose 6 percent as the second-largest
U.S. satellite-television provider’s earnings exceeded
estimates.  Thirty-year Treasury bond yields rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 3.86 percent after earlier climbing as
much as four basis points.  U.S. government debt  is becoming
increasingly perilous to options traders who are pushing up the
cost to protect against sudden losses by the most in a year.  Market ‘Convinced’  The cost to lock in fixed- interest rates  that are a half-percentage point above  10-year yields  is now about 17 percent
higher than contracts tied to prevailing rates, according to
data compiled by Deutsche Bank AG. The premium for the three-month options has risen from this year’s low of 10 percent in
June, signaling growing demand for protection from the risk U.S.
borrowing costs will start rising before March. The increase was
the biggest since 2012.  “People in the market seem to be convinced that the Fed’s
tapering will happen sooner rather than later and that’s showing
in long-dated Treasury yields,” said Peter Osler, head of
interest-rates strategy at broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd. in
London. “Economic reports suggested that, unlike in Europe,
economic recovery in the U.S. is more solid.”  The dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to 99.67 yen after
reaching 99.80, the strongest level since Sept. 13. The
greenback slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3435 per euro, while the 17-nation shared currency advanced 0.7 percent versus the yen. The
Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against 10
major peers, pared gains to 0.1 percent after jumping as much as
0.4 percent to a two-month high.  Krona Sinks  The Swedish krona weakened against all of its 16 major
counterparts after the country unexpectedly returned to
deflation last month. The pound declined as much as 0.8 percent
to $1.5855, the lowest level since Sept. 13, after U.K.
inflation slowed more than forecast in October.  Germany’s 10-year bund  yield  rose 3.6 basis points to 1.79
percent, the highest since Oct. 23. Italy’s one-year borrowing
costs fell to a record of 0.688 percent at a sale of 6.5 billion
euros ($8.7 billion) of bills. The yield on 10-year Italian
bonds rose 2.5 basis points to 4.15 percent.  Basic-resource companies and financial-services shares
posted the biggest losses in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which
slipped 0.6 percent. The European benchmark has climbed 15
percent this year and closed yesterday at the highest since May
2008.  Emerging Markets  Norsk Hydro ASA slumped 5.5 percent, the most in almost two
years, after Vale SA sold a stake in the aluminum maker.
Infineon Technologies AG dropped 5.6 percent after Europe’s
second-largest semiconductor maker predicted a decline in
profitability.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  rallied 5.1 percent to a
five-year high as Switzerland’s biggest life insurer reported
increased sales and named a new chief executive officer.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.2 percent for a
ninth straight daily decline, its longest slump since 2006.
Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index dropped 1.4 percent after
the central bank unexpectedly raised interest rates. Benchmark
gauges in Argentina, Brazil and Colombia lost more than 1.5
percent to lead declines.  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.8 percent while the
 Hang Seng Index  in  Hong Kong  retreated 0.2 percent before the
conclusion of a four-day Communist Party meeting.  China elevated the role of markets in the nation’s economic
strategy after President Xi Jinping oversaw a gathering of
Communist Party leaders while stopping short for now of
unveiling detailed policy shifts.  The nation will make markets “decisive” in allocating
resources, according to the communique from the third full
meeting, or plenum, of the party’s 18th  Central Committee . At
the same time, state-owned enterprises will remain “dominant,”
indicating limits on rolling back government involvement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  