-- Nordex Drops Most Since 2008 on Wind Aid Cuts: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-11-11T17:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/nordex-drops-most-since-2008-on-wind-aid-cuts-frankfurt-mover.html
Nordex SE (NDX1) , a German maker of  wind
turbines , plunged the most in five years after  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government coalition negotiators agreed to cut aid for
new wind-power projects.  Nordex fell 16 percent to 11.49 euros, the steepest drop
since October 2008, after Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and
the Social Democrats agreed in talks over the weekend to reduce
aid for new onshore wind projects. The sides also backed cutting
the target for offshore wind turbines and forcing owners of most
new clean-energy plants to sell power on the market.  “Nordex will now have to, and is already, focusing on
 emerging markets  because German projects will slow down,” Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,  Germany ,
said in a phone interview. Today’s share-price reaction is
“excessive,” he said.  Merkel has said the priority of her new government will be
to overhaul the country’s 13-year-old EEG renewable energy law,
which contributed to Germany having the second-highest power
prices in the European Union.  The parties agreed to lower the offshore target to 6.5
gigawatts by the end of this decade, and to 15 gigawatts by
2030, from 10 gigawatts and 25 gigawatts, respectively.  On- and offshore wind aid will be reduced depending on the
speed of new installations, similar to how solar subsidies are
treated now, Heiko Maas, a lawmaker with the  Social Democrats ,
said today by phone. There’s “no final agreement yet” on the
exact level of subsidy cuts for on- and offshore wind, he said.  While the new offshore wind targets don’t come as a
surprise, 8.5 gigawatts would be possible by 2020, said Andreas
Wagner of the Stiftung Offshore-Windenergie, an offshore wind
industry group.  “We need to know quickly how the new EEG will look in
detail because offshore wind investors are currently holding
back investments until there’s clarity,” Wagner said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  