-- Norwegian Housing Bubble Seen by Shiller Deflating: Mortgages
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-11-12T17:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/norwegian-housing-bubble-seen-by-shiller-deflating-mortgages.html
Trine Dahl, a broker at  Norway ’s
second-largest realtor DNB Eiendom, says the number of potential
buyers at her viewings has fallen by 50 percent in the past year
and she now has to make as many as 15 calls to sell an Oslo
apartment. A year ago, Dahl says, selling was as easy as sitting
at a cash register.  “The change came in the summer and since August and
September, it has been really different,” Dahl said in an
interview at DNB Eiendom’s office on Oslo’s upscale west side.
“It’s very hard to say which property is a difficult house to
sell and which is easy. In a normal market, that’s easy to do.”  Norway’s housing market, which Nobel Laureate Robert J. Shiller described in 2012 as being in a bubble, is now deflating
faster than even the central bank had predicted after regulators
introduced a slate of measures to cool demand. After home prices
doubled over the past decade, fueled by low interest rates and
surging oil wealth, they’ve slid for two consecutive months
raising concern that real estate could be in for a  hard landing 
amid record household debt.  “Regulations have effected the housing market at an
earlier stage than we expected,” said Kjersti Haugland, an
analyst at  DNB ASA. (DNB)  The bank, Norway’s biggest lender, still
sees a “relatively soft landing,” she said.  ‘High Flyers’  When it comes to residential property, Norway is among
countries such as  Canada ,  Australia  and  Switzerland  considered
“high-flyers” in the past few years, according to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. These markets have benefited from robust
recoveries as well as a significant dose of “inadvertent”
monetary policies from the world’s largest central banks. Norway
has seen some of the most dramatic increases, with house price
gains of close to 30 percent since the first quarter of 2009,
compared with increases of more than 20 percent for  Switzerland (SZRES) 
and almost 40 percent for  Israel , according to an Oct. 23
Goldman Sachs report.  The average home price in Oslo was about 4.55 million
kroner ($740,000) last month, according to a report by real
estate brokers, versus the $806,000 in  New York  as of Sept. 30,
Real Estate Board of New York figures show, and 331,338 pounds
($529,743) in  London .  Surging Norwegian prices, driven by low borrowing costs,
have helped fuel consumer debt to twice disposable incomes,
prompting warnings from policy makers and economists that the
development is unsustainable.  Hard Landing  In response, regulators introduced measures to cool demand,
including capping loan sizes at 85 percent of a property’s value
as well as higher  capital requirements  and risk weights on
mortgages.  House prices  slid a seasonally adjusted 1.5 percent
in October from a month earlier, dropping for a second month,
according to data from the Norwegian Real Estate Agents
Association.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender, last week
forecast that house prices will fall 15 percent to 20 percent
over the next two years, forcing the central bank to cut  rates 
twice next year, from the current 1.5 percent.  Nordea’s predictions would mean a hard landing for the
housing market, dragging down residential investments and
private consumption, DNB’s Haugland said. It would take a series
of rate increases and a sharp downturn in house prices to spur a
crisis, which “is not in the cards,” Haugland said.  DNB shares slid 1.2 percent to 104.4 kroner in Oslo, paring
this year’s gain to 48 percent.  Psychology is overtaking the market, said Terje Halvorsen,
chief executive officer of DNB Eiendom, a subsidiary of DNB.
People have become cautious, setting off a domino effect that is
slowing activity in the market while they wait to see what will
happen, he said.  More Skilled  There were 3,138 more residential properties on the market
in October than a year earlier.  “Realtors have to be more skilled in finding the right
buyers,” he said. “Patience and creativity, along with the
ability to soothe both the sellers and buyers about the
uncertainty will come in handy.”  The average number of days houses spent on the market has
increased to 33 in October, 5 more than a year earlier,
according to the Real Estate Agents Association. During the
boom, that number was as low as 12, according to DNB Eiendom.  Norway’s capital saw properties spend 9 more days on the
market last month, compared to October 2012.  Central Bank GovernorOeystein Olsen has warned about
housing imbalances, even as low  interest rates  abroad have
forced him to keep rates at near a record low to avoid spurring
gains in the country’s currency. Olsen is now unconcerned about
the effects of a housing slump.  Growth Slowing  The economy can withstand house price declines “over a
longer period,” Olsen said in an interview at his office on
Oct. 29, indicating the bank will avoid policies that drive up
the  property market . The bank signaled in September it will move
toward higher rates as early as “summer” of next year.  Growth in Norway’s $500 billion economy is slowing as
household debt burdens curb private demand and after persistent
krone appreciation last year hurt exports. Mainland gross
domestic product, which excludes oil and gas production, will
expand 1.75 percent this year, the central bank forecast in
September. In 2012, GDP by that measure grew by 3.4 percent.  Meanwhile, banks including DNB, Norway’s largest lender,
have raised  mortgage rates  this year, increasing revenue and
helping cool housing.  Norway, like  Sweden , plans to impose core capital
requirements on banks that exceed those set by European and
international regulators. These include targeting core capital
requirements for its banks of 10 percent of risk-weighted assets
by July next year, up from 9 percent. For eight systemically
important banks, the target will rise to 11 percent in 2015 and
12 percent in 2016.  Evaluating Effects  While Norway’s central bank and financial regulator work to
fight imbalances in real estate, newly appointed Finance
Minister Siv Jensen has asked the Financial Supervisory
Authority to evaluate the effects on banks and homeowners of
guidelines in place since 2011 that cap mortgages at 85 percent.  The ministry wants an assessment of whether an outright
rule would function better than a guideline in regulating the
loan limit.  Before the September election, the Conservative-led
coalition had promised to ease mortgage standards. The new
government has also proposed tax breaks to encourage households
to save more and help Scandinavia’s richest economy tackle its
record private debt load.  Bidding Wars  Charly Giertsen, a mother of five-year-old twins, recently
spent six months shopping for the right place in east Oslo.  After losing in a handful of bidding wars in June for
apartments that sold for as much as 400,000 kroner above the
asking price, she found a two-bedroom property for her family
for 3 million kroner in September.  When it came time to sell her one-bedroom apartment,
Giertsen’s property broker at iHus had advised her to plan for
one viewing, estimating that about 20 people would show.  “We had only three people that day and then had to hold
private viewings for four others before we started getting
offers worth considering,” said Giertsen, who works in the
travel industry. “The property broker had told us they had been
selling with just one viewing but later he said that we probably
should have planned for two or three.”  Brokers Recalibrate  Brokers have had to recalibrate after more than five years
of a booming market where homes sold for as much as 50 percent
above the asking price. During the peak, DNB Eiendom’s Dahl said
she sold a property outside of Oslo for 4 million kroner after
seven bidders drove up the 2.5 million kroner asking price.  Christoffer Askjer, a partner at broker Sem and Johnsen
Eiendomsmegling, used to get calls at 6 a.m. from frantic buyers
with bids. He’s no longer seeing the same froth.  “The motivation from buyers isn’t there,” he said. Sem
and Johnsen target the middle to upper price segment in the Oslo
housing market and has had property sales valued at 5 billion
kroner so far this year. “It’s hard to be optimistic because
we’re in a transition period where we have lower activity.”  Both Askjer and his counterparts at DNB Eiendom expect
business will pick up in January even as prices continue to
slump. More sellers, frustrated after holding several viewings
with no viable offers, are taking their properties off the
market with hopes that there will be more interest in the new
year, they said.  “If everyone puts their properties back on the market next
year, we could have a complete transition into a buyer’s
market,” Dahl said. “I don’t think that sellers are aware that
if you have just one buyer, you should take it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  