-- Novartis Sells Blood Unit to Grifols for $1.68 Billion
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-11-11T21:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/novartis-to-sell-blood-unit-to-grifols-for-1-68-billion-1-.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  agreed to sell a blood-transfusion diagnostics unit to Spanish health-care company
 Grifols SA (GRF)  for $1.68 billion as the Swiss drugmaker slims its
portfolio.  The transaction, Novartis’s largest asset sale since
divesting the Gerber baby food brand in 2007, will probably be
completed in the first half of next year, the Basel-based
drugmaker said in a statement today.  Novartis is conducting a strategic review to see which
market segments it wants to stay in, Chief Executive Officer Joe Jimenez said today. He said the company now has three with
global scale: pharmaceuticals, the eye-care business Alcon and
the generics arm Sandoz. Novartis has said it wants its
businesses to be among the industry leaders or will otherwise
consider divesting them.  “With the vaccines and diagnostics division also failing
to make any reasonable profits in recent times, falling into
loss in 2012, it seemed likely that this division would be the
first to be focused on,” Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at
Jefferies, said in a note to clients today.  The company has identified its animal-health business as a
top candidate for a sale, people familiar with the matter said
last week. Novartis is also considering selling its over-the-counter medicines unit and the vaccines operation, they said. No
final decision on those assets has been made, the people said.  Vaccine Speculation  The blood-transfusion operation is part of the drugmaker’s
struggling vaccines unit, which has been subject to speculation
it may be sold. The Swiss drugmaker acquired the business when
it bought vaccine maker Chiron Corp. in 2006. The Emeryville,
California-based division improves transfusion safety through
testing for infectious disease and had sales of about $565
million in 2012.  Today’s disposal may be a sign the rest of the unit will
eventually be sold, Jefferies’s Holford said, estimating a price
of more than $6 billion.  Eric Althoff , a Novartis spokesman,
declined to comment on whether the vaccine unit is for sale.  Novartis rose less than 1 percent to 71.55 Swiss francs in
Zurich. The stock has returned 25 percent this year. Grifols
shares gained 4.5 percent to 32.36 euros in  Madrid .  “This is a good deal for Novartis,” CEO Jimenez said in a
phone interview today. “It allows us to focus on our strategic
businesses. It also provides good value for us on what is a good
business but not a business we had decided to grow
aggressively.”  Detecting Infections  Grifols, Europe’s largest maker of blood-plasma products,
said it expects annual  revenue  from its diagnostics division to
approach $1 billion after the purchase, which should boost
earnings in the first year. The Barcelona-based company said it
has a $1.5 billion bridge loan that’s fully subscribed in equal
parts by Nomura,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)   The two companies reached a deal quickly thanks to their
relationship based on a 2011 agreement for Novartis to sell some
products in the U.S., according to Grifols Deputy Chief
Financial Officer Nuria Pascual.  “They had identified its blood diagnostics unit as non-core, while we wanted to grow our business and boost our
geographic footprint,” Pascual said in a phone interview.
“Grifols will continue to explore new smaller acquisitions in
an opportunistic way as our leverage ratio will remain under
control.”  The transaction doesn’t include a related diagnostics unit
that’s part of Novartis’s pharmaceutical business nor the
Genoptix division, the Swiss drugmaker said.  Novartis was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. while
Nomura advised Grifols.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  