-- Modi Faces First Test in Semifinal Before India National Polls
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-11-11T06:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/modi-faces-first-test-in-semifinal-before-india-national-polls.html
India kicked off monthlong voting as
five states go to polls that are considered a test for
opposition leader  Narendra Modi , as his party seeks to build
support before nationwide general elections next year.  The central province of Chhattisgarh, which has been
wracked by decades of Maoist insurgency, will hold voting today
and on Nov. 19, with results scheduled on Dec. 8. The Hindu
nationalist  Bharatiya Janata Party  is fielding Modi as its star
campaigner, while Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Congress is
deploying Rahul Gandhi as voters in Delhi,  Madhya Pradesh ,
Mizoram and Rajasthan also go to polls this month and next.  Modi, nominated as the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate in
September, has been holding political rallies across the five
states that account for almost a sixth of the nation’s
population. The BJP is forecast to win power in two of them and
retain two, including Chhattisgarh, according to an opinion poll
published by  India  Today and ORG last week.  “It’s a semifinal match and will set the tone and mood
before general elections,” said  Sandeep Shastri , pro-vice
chancellor of Jain University in Bangalore.  Modi, chief minister of Gujarat, is projecting his record
of governance and stronger-than-average economic growth in the
state he has ruled since 2001 in an attempt to propel his party
to national power. Singh’s Congress party has attacked him over
his handling of the 2002 riots in the state that killed about
1,000 people, mostly Muslims.  Maoist Ambush  The state polls will be the last lap for the parties in the
race for federal elections that must be held by May. Last month,
a Times Now and C-voter survey found that the BJP’s opposition
alliance would top Singh’s ruling coalition in next year’s
election, with neither winning a majority in the 545-member
lower house.  About 27 people, including the Congress party’s leader of
Chhattisgarh, were killed in an ambush by communist insurgents
in a May attack in the state. The rebels said they targeted
Congress leaders who had supported paramilitary police
offensives against the group.  Singh, besieged by graft allegations against his
administration, avoided alienating voters and a political ally
in  Tamil Nadu  by choosing to stay away from a summit in  Sri
Lanka  this week.  Regional parties in the southern Indian state, which share
cultural and religious links with Tamils in Sri Lanka, have
pressed Singh to take a tougher stance against the island-nation
over alleged  war crimes .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  