-- Oil Tankers Hired Before Cargo Confirmation, Driving Earnings Up
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-11-11T14:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/oil-tankers-hired-before-cargo-confirmation-driving-earnings-up.html
Oil companies  are hiring the biggest
tankers to carry crude even before confirming the ships will
have cargoes to carry, helping to drive owners’ earnings higher,
according to Global Hunter Securities.  Charterers hired five very large crude carriers last week
to load in December, Global Hunter analyst  Omar Nokta  said in an
e-mailed report today. Such bookings are normally organized
between the 10th and 15th of each month and the fact that ships
were hired earlier suggests a relative vessel shortage, he said.  A surplus of tankers available to load cargoes in the
 Persian Gulf  over a 30-day forward period was the lowest since
June 4 as of Oct. 29, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Charter
rates for VLCCs on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage
had a 10th straight weekly gain last week, the longest rising
run since 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Lots of ships are being taken,” said Nigel Prentis, the
head of consulting at Hartland Shipping Services Ltd., a London-based shipbroker. “This is resulting in a bit of a scramble and
a shortage of vessels, which is unusual.”  Charterers booked 40 VLCCs to load in the week ended Oct.
19, a jump of 60 percent from the average since the start of
June, Nokta said last month. Chinese oil refineries will
increase processing by 6.3 percent to 10.1 million barrels a day
this quarter, the biggest expansion of any country or region,
the  International Energy Agency  in Paris estimates.  Daily Return  Hire rates for VLCCs, each able to haul 2 million barrels
of oil, gained 2.8 percent to 59.03 Worldscale points on the
benchmark route on Nov. 8, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
London. The carriers are earning $44,707 a day on the voyage,
compared with a daily loss of $7,694 at this year’s low in
February, the shipping bourse’s data show.  “It’s encouraging for owners, but I doubt it’s sustainable
overall,” Prentis said.  The VLCC fleet’s carrying capacity will increase 0.9
percent this year, according to data from Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker. That’s less than its estimate for an
increase of 2.9 percent in demand for the carriers, which
transport almost half of the world’s oil cargoes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  