-- Mol Dives as Sale Plan Escalates INA Dispute: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-11T10:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/mol-dives-as-sale-plan-escalates-ina-dispute-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt. fell to a two-year low
after  Hungary ’s largest refiner warned it may sell its  INA
Industrija Nafte d.d.  unit as talks with the Croatian government
over management rights in the company stalled.  The shares slid 2 percent to 14,400 forint by 10:05 a.m. in
Budapest, the lowest level on a closing basis since September
2011 and extending the decline this year to 19 percent. The
benchmark BUX stock  index , in which Mol has a 29 percent
weighting, retreated 1 percent, paring its advance in 2013 to
3.3 percent.  Mol’s board of directors authorized management to start
preparations for the sale of Mol’s stake in INA, the Budapest-based company said in a statement after the close of trading on
Nov. 8. The statement signals a potential deterioration in the
dispute between Mol and  Croatia , which had complained that Mol
runs  INA  as a subsidiary rather than an independent company,
according to analysts at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt.  “The comments may be interpreted as Mol escalating the
pressure after a not-too-successful round of negotiations
recently,” Peter Fazekas and Gergely Palffy, Budapest-based
analysts at Buda-Cash, wrote in an e-mailed report today. “Mol
more or less admitted that the talks aren’t going too well,
which is negative for the stock.”  Mol’s board also authorized management to conclude an
agreement with Croatia “that can lead to value creation through
the execution of INA’s growth strategy,” Mol said in the
statement.  Ability to Buy  Talks over how to run INA should continue as Croatia’s
“bad” financial situation probably won’t allow the government
to buy Mol’s stake, Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak said in a
radio interview today.  Mol owns 49.1 percent of INA and has management rights in
the company. Croatia’s government holds 44.84 percent.  Selling INA would be “the worst possible scenario” for
Mol as the Croatian unit has been the group’s “growth story,”
 Akos Kuti , a Budapest-based analyst at broker Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed report today.  “It’s questionable what kind of acquisitions Mol would
spend the cash on” if it sold INA, Kuti wrote. “Hence we’re
expecting a decline in the stock in the short term,” he said.  Mol’s Chief Executive Officer  Zsolt Hernadi  is wanted by
Interpol and sheltered by his home country after Croatia issued
an arrest warrant as part of a bribery probe into the deal that
gave Mol INA’s management rights in 2009. Mol denied any
wrongdoing and said Oct. 3 that it would reconsider the
“nature” of its involvement in INA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  