-- Toll Delays Investment-Grade Boost With Debt for Acquisition
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-11-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/toll-delays-investment-grade-boost-with-debt-for-acquisition.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  is postponing a
boost to an investment-grade rating by offering $1.7 billion of
debt to make an acquisition and refinance bonds due next year.  The largest U.S. luxury-home builder will draw as much as
$800 million on a revolving line of credit and plans to borrow
the remainder in the bank-loan and public-debt markets, said
Chief Financial Officer  Martin Connor . Toll Brothers is rated
Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB+ by  Standard & Poor’s ,
one step below investment grade.  The developer agreed to buy  Beverly Hills , California-based
homebuilder Shapell Industries Inc. for about $1.6 billion,
funded in part with $200 million from a share offering, it said
in a statement. The Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company will
borrow $1.4 billion for the acquisition and may also sell about
$300 million in 10-year debt to refinance $268 million of 4.95
percent notes due March 2014, Connor said.  “We’re going to get temporarily leveraged for about a
year, then we’ll start coming back down,” Connor said in a Nov.
8 telephone interview. “We’re taking on a lot of debt to do it.
It makes the likelihood of us getting investment grade
delayed.”  Toll Brothers may reach high grade in 12 to 18 months,
Barclays Plc analysts Eric Gross and Alex Gennis wrote in a Nov.
8 note. Following the acquisition, the company is well
positioned to capitalize on a further housing recovery, the
analysts wrote.  The home builder’s $1.04 billion unsecured revolving line
of credit pays 150 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Toll
Brothers will borrow a second 364-day revolving line of credit
of $500 million to supplement the original revolver to maintain
liquidity, Connor said. Moody’s and S&P affirmed their ratings
Nov. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  