-- Money Managers Cut Bullish Cocoa Wagers as Coffee Bets Bearish
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-11-11T13:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/money-managers-cut-bullish-cocoa-wagers-as-coffee-bets-bearish.html
Money managers cut bullish cocoa
bets from a record while they added to bearish wagers on robusta
coffee, according to data from NYSE Liffe, the derivatives arm
of NYSE Euronext.  Cocoa investors were net-long, or betting on price gains,
by 64,649 futures and options as of Nov. 5, the Commitments of
Traders report on the exchange’s  website  showed today. That was
down from 67,131 contracts a week earlier. Cocoa fell 2.5
percent in the period, and gained 18 percent this year.  In robusta coffee, money managers were net-short by 10,593
futures and options, compared with 8,005 contracts a week
earlier, the data showed. The beans used to make instant coffee
and espresso fell 1.9 percent in the latest week in anticipation
of a record harvest in  Vietnam , the world’s largest producer of
the variety.  Investors’ bets on rising white-sugar prices fell to 11,137
contracts, the data showed. That compares with a net-long of
11,910 futures and options a week earlier. The sweetener dropped
1.4 percent in the most recent week.  In feed wheat, money managers were net-short by 159
contracts, unchanged from a week earlier. The grain declined 0.4
percent in the period.  Cocoa Shortage  Cocoa supplies will fall short of demand by 203,000 metric
tons in the 2013-14 season begun last month, according to data
from KnowledgeCharts, a unit of Commodities Risk Analysis in
Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania . That follows a 221,000-ton deficit in
the prior period. Global chocolate confectionery sales will rise
6.2 percent to a record $117 billion next year, estimates
Euromonitor International Ltd., a consumer research company.  “Cocoa has been riding two major bullish pillars in the
steady bull move since the summer time,”  Shawn Hackett , the
president of Hackett Financial Advisors in Boynton Beach,
 Florida , said in a report e-mailed yesterday. “One has been dry
weather in the Ivory Coast and the second is the view of
apparent strong demand in Europe and the U.S. Both bullish
pillars have been overplayed and have already been factored into
current high prices.”  Cocoa entered a bull market in September as processing data
indicated stronger demand. The so-called grind rose 4.7 percent
in the third quarter in Europe, accounting for 40 percent of
usage, and increased 12 percent in Asia and 8.2 percent in North
America, figures from industry groups showed.  “Demand at best is up marginally from last year and the
majority of the strong apparent demand has been from a cocoa
butter restocking effort and not a true indication of end user
demand,” Hackett said. “With seasonal demand ready to wane and
with cocoa butter stockpiling ending, the market will have to
rely on actual end user demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net  