-- Online Courses to Turn MBA Programs Into Dinosaurs, Panel Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-11-11T17:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/online-courses-to-turn-mba-programs-into-dinosaurs-panel-says.html
Business schools may be forced to
close or overhaul their offerings because of the rapid growth in
cheaper online alternatives for management training, according
to professors and deans.  “Half of U.S. business schools will be out of business in
five to seven years because of online disruption,” Roger Martin, a professor and former dean of the Rotman School of
Management at the University of Toronto, told a forum on
education in  London  hosted by management ranking organization
Thinkers 50.  Technology has widened access to business education through
the creation of massive open online courses, or MOOCs, enabling
students to cut costs and focus their learning by picking
modules and working from home.  “The advent of online learning, and the propensity of more
and more companies to bring teaching of management in-house,
versus outsourcing it, makes disruption a very big deal for
business schools,” said Clayton Christensen, a management
professor at Harvard Business School.  An MBA at Harvard Business School, ranked first in the
Financial Times MBA annual survey this year, will  cost  $56,175
in tuition for 2015 and an estimated $91,200 including housing,
health insurance, utility bills and other fees.  The  Georgia Institute of Technolog y will offer a master’s
degree in computer science as an MOOC for less than $7,000 in
tuition fees, which the school said is a “fraction” of what it
charges for a master’s program on campus.  European Mergers  The “tsunami” of change has already reached Europe, said
Santiago Iniguez, dean of IE Business School in  Madrid . The
pressure on costs and the need to compete globally has led
business schools in Europe to join forces, including the merger
of Reims Management School and Rouen Business School in  France 
this year.  Business schools also face a challenge convincing employers
that what they teach adds value, Martin said. The schools tend
to teach commoditized skills, such as finance, when they should
focus on teaching creative problem-solving, he said.  For many employers, the role of a business school is to
identify talent in the admissions process, Martin said.  “Business schools have to get past that we’re a fabulous
selection mechanism to actually teaching something, or we will
be disrupted,” Martin said.  Business education may evolve to a system in which business
people pick and choose the courses they need, instead of
following a single curriculum, Christensen said. While Harvard
is aware of the threat, it’s hard for established institutions
to remake themselves to meet the challenge, he said.  “I hope that we’re scared stiff,” Christensen said.
“What we have to do is quite clear. Whether we can do it is
another question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  