-- Top Soccer Leagues Get 25% Rise in TV Rights Sales, Report Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-11-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/top-soccer-leagues-get-25-rise-in-tv-rights-sales-report-says.html
Growth in television rights deals in
 Germany  and  England  lifted broadcast revenues of  Europe ’s top
five soccer leagues 25 percent to a combined 5 billion euros
($6.7 billion) a season, according to a report.  TV Sports Markets, an information provider for broadcasters
and sports organizations, said in its Football Media Money
League report that the latest cycle of rights sales through 2016
in England,  France , Germany,  Italy  and  Spain  added 1 billion
euros a season to the previous three-year period.  “League football remains the most sought-after media
content in the world and all the indications are that
broadcaster appetite for the sport at elite level shows no sign
of diminishing,” Frank Dunne, Editor of  TV Sports Markets , said
in an e-mailed statement.  Demand for soccer broadcasting was underlined two days ago
when  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  said it’s paying about 900 million pounds
($1.44 billion) for exclusive three-year U.K. live rights for
the Champions League and Europa League from 2015-18. The deal is
worth worth more than double the current arrangement with
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc and ITV Plc, the British
Broadcasting Corp said. Sky said BT’s bid was “far in excess”
of its own valuation.  England’s Premier League generates 2.2 billion euros a year
in domestic and international television rights sales, more than
double the 975 million euros earned by second-ranked Italy’s
Serie A, according to the TV Sports Markets report.  Bundesliga Rights  While the German Bundesliga’s rights sales of 541 million
euros per season is the lowest of the five leagues, the 54
percent rise in its domestic contract is bettered only by the
Premier League’s 63 percent jump. England’s elite competition is
in the first season of a three-year agreement with  BSkyB (BSY)  and BT
Group worth 3.02 billion pounds. The Bundesliga’s TV income will
grow to 674 million euros per season from 2015, the report said.  “The domestic rights in German football have historically
been low because of the lack of competition in the German pay-TV
market,” Dunne said. “Only in the most recent deal, when
Deutsche Telekom looked like being a genuine rival, was Sky
Deutschland forced to up its price.”  Spain’s Primera Division ranked third, generating 70
million euros more than the 710 million euros made by France’s
Ligue 1. The Spanish league is the only one of the five
competitions which doesn’t sell its rights collectively.  Real, Barca  As a result Real Madrid and Barcelona, its two biggest
teams, secure more money from television rights than rivals in
other countries. Real earned a combined 178.4 million euros,
about 3 million euros more than Barca, from the sale of TV
rights to league, domestic cup and European  Champions League 
matches, according to the report.  “The two Spanish clubs have benefited in recent years from
strong performances in the Champions League,” said Dunne. “But
their real advantage over clubs in the rest of Europe is down to
the system of individual selling of media rights by La Liga
clubs, which guarantees them the lion’s share of the earnings
from their domestic broadcast deals.”  The arrangement also gives them an advantage when it comes
to new regulations introduced by European soccer body UEFA that
seek to stop clubs from spending beyond their means. According
to accountant Deloitte LLP, the Spanish duo rank first and
second in total soccer income, with nine-time European champion
Real leading with 512.6 million euros during the 2011-12 season.  Turnover Equals Talent  “Financial fair play is predicated on the fact the teams
with highest turnover will be able to spend the most on labor,”
Sean Hamil, director of the University of  London ’s  Birkbeck
Sport Business Centre , said in a telephone interview. “If
you’re one of the most-popular clubs and you’re able to sell
your own broadcasting rights you’ll have higher turnover.”  Collective selling still has its benefits, according to
Hamil, as seen in the success of the Premier League, where
champion  Manchester United  got 20 million pounds more than the
40 million pounds paid to last-place Queens Park Rangers. More
equitable distribution means that “one club can beat another on
any given day,” Hamil said. Barca and Real’s TV income accounts
for about half of the Primera Division’s total.  Access to the Champions League helped Italy’s Juventus and
AC Milan, with 154 million euros and 124 million euros
respectively, secure the third and fourth highest TV incomes for
individual clubs, according to the Football Media Money League
report. The teams benefited from a performance-based pay
structure and a share of the TV rights payments made by
broadcasters in the clubs’ home markets.  Manchester United has the most TV income among English
clubs, getting 108 million euros last season, the report said.
That’s 1 million euros more than Europa League holders Chelsea
received.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  