-- Mozambique Seeks Bigger Stake in Anadarko, Eni Gas Fields
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-11-11T17:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/mozambique-seeks-bigger-stake-in-anadarko-eni-gas-fields.html
Mozambique’s national oil company
plans to increase its stake in fields operated by  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  as the country seeks a greater share
of profit from the largest natural-gas discovery in a decade.  “We are trying to see how we can increase our
participation in the projects,”  Empresa Nacional de
Hidrocarbonetos ’ Director of Engineering and Projects
Engineering Paulino Gregorio said in an interview in the
capital, Maputo. “Of course, we have financial constraints.”  Mozambique’s offshore fields may hold enough gas to meet
global demand for more than two years, according to ENH, which
holds 15 percent of the Rovuma-1 deposit operated by Anadarko
and 10 percent of four Eni fields. The fuel will feed liquefied
natural gas export plants for shipment to world markets.  Brian Cain, a spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-based
Anadarko, declined to comment, while Eni’s Filippo Cotalini in
Milan didn’t answer a call to his phone.  Mozambique plans to build four LNG units with a total
capacity of 20 million metric tons a year by 2018, making it the
world’s largest LNG export site after Ras Laffan in Qatar. The
development may cost $20 billion.  International Bidders  International Bechtel Co.;  Chicago Bridge & Iron Company NV (CBI) 
and  Chiyoda Corp. (6366) ; and a venture between  JGC Corp. (JGCCY)  and Fluor
Transworld Services Inc. are bidding to construct the LNG
plants, Gregorio said Nov. 6.  Technip SA (TEC) ;  McDermott International Inc. (MDR)  and Allseas Group
SA; and  Subsea 7 SA (SUBC)  and  Saipem SpA (SAPMY)  are bidding for the
underwater work to bring the gas to the plants, according to
Gregorio. The contracts will be awarded in the first half of
next year and construction will begin by early 2015, he said.  East Africa has attracted global oil producers seeking to
add reserves as traditional fields mature and go into decline.
As gas discoveries have been made, national energy companies
have sought a larger portion of future revenues as demand from
Asian markets continues to climb.  Banks have approached ENH to help arrange financing for its
stake in the offshore gas and LNG development, Gregorio said,
declining to identify any.  Mozambique  also plans an industrial
zone around the LNG plants and a 2,100-kilometer (1,300-mile)
north-south pipeline to help nurture local industries, he said.  The government will probably announce a bidding round for
new offshore exploration blocks once parliament approves a new
petroleum law, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  