-- Philippine Stocks Drop With Peso on Typhoon Haiyan Devastation
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-11-11T09:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/philippine-peso-falls-with-stocks-on-typhoon-haiyan-devastation.html
Philippine stocks retreated, with
the benchmark index falling the most in six weeks, amid concern
the devastation from Super Typhoon Haiyan will weigh on economic
growth. The peso declined to a five-week low.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  slid 1.4 percent to
6,265.23 at the close in  Manila , the steepest drop since Sept.
30. The peso weakened 0.9 percent to 43.580 per dollar, the
sharpest loss since Aug. 22. The yield on the 11.375 percent
local-currency government bonds due Oct. 2023 climbed 12 basis
points to 3.65 percent, according to noon fixing prices from the
Philippine Dealing Exchange Corp.  The year’s most powerful cyclone may have killed as many as
10,000 people as it flattened buildings and caused flooding. The
economic impact may reach $14 billion, about $2 billion of which
will be insured, Jonathan Adams, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries, wrote in a report citing Kinetic Analysis Corp.  “There are concerns economic momentum will slowdown as the
series of catastrophes could entail substantial reconstruction
costs,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , the chief market strategist at
Manila-based BDO Unibank, the nation’s largest lender. “This
will be a big expense for the government and the damage we have
seen from reports will impact growth.”  Rice and sugar-cane harvests were damaged by Super Typhoon
Haiyan. While Eastern Visayas, the hardest hit area, accounts
for only five percent of national rice output, shortages may
strain inventories, according to the International Rice Research
Institute. As many as 120,000 tons of sugar may have been lost,
the Sugar Regulatory Administration estimated.  Death Toll  While the official death toll posted by the National
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council was 229 as of 7
p.m. yesterday, the number was expected to rise as the
government received reports from provinces still out of reach,
Major Rey Balido, spokesman of the disaster-monitoring agency,
said in a text message. Almost 9.5 million Filipinos, or about 9
percent of the population, were affected, the agency said.  The difficulty in reaching the hardest-hit areas means the
number of dead has yet to be confirmed, according to the  Red
Cross  in Geneva, which cited Philippine authorities as saying
the toll may reach 10,000.  The prospect of reduced Federal Reserve stimulus is also
weighing on markets, said Jerome Gonzalez, the Manila-based head
of research at Philequity Management Inc., which oversees about
$230 million.  Fed Impact  Speculation that the Fed by pare back its bond-purchase
program increased after figures on Nov. 8 showed employers in
the U.S. added 204,000 workers last month, topping the median
forecast of 120,000 in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The
MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index declined 0.5 percent.  Robinsons Retail Holdings Inc. (RRHI) , the largest Philippine
initial public offering in dollar terms, retreated in its Manila
debut today. The operator of supermarkets and department stores
fell 2.6 percent to 56.50 pesos, after raising at least $621
million from investors.  “Negative sentiment is hanging over the market,” Bach Johann Sebastian, a senior vice president at Robinsons, said at
the bourse today. “We expect the share price to improve as the
company expands and delivers on its promise.”  Energy Development Corp. (EDC) , the nation’s largest geothermal
power producer, slumped 9.9 percent to 5.10 pesos, the sharpest
loss since March 1, as the company said cooling towers at three
of its plants sustained damage from the typhoon.  Bank of the Philippine Islands , the biggest listed lender
by market value, slid 3.6 percent to a ten-week low.  LT Group
Inc. (LTG) , owner of the nation’s largest cigarette manufacturer and
biggest rum-maker, fell to the lowest close since Jan. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  