-- Pretium Declining Amid Doubts on Gold Project
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-11-11T21:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/pretium-declining-amid-doubts-on-gold-project.html
Pretium Resources Inc. (PVG)  has plunged
more than 50 percent in Toronto in the past five weeks after a
dispute over how much gold is at a property in British Columbia
fuels speculation the deposit is less promising than previously
estimated.  Strathcona Mineral Services Ltd., a contractor hired by
Vancouver-based Pretium, resigned Oct. 8 after finding “no
valid” gold resources. Strathcona disagreed with Pretium about
how much data should be disclosed, said Henrik Thalenhorst, a
Strathcona geologist. Pretium says it has published all the
drilling results from the site.  “It’s not the role or domain of an engineering consultant
I think to decide what is material,” Pretium Chief Executive
Officer Robert Quartermain said in an Oct. 30 phone interview.
More evaluation is needed before conclusions can be drawn about
the viability of the deposit, he said.  While there’s no suggestion of any wrongdoing by Pretium,
John Stephenson, a fund manager with First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto said some people are wondering if
there are similarities with Bre-X Minerals Ltd. Calgary-based
gold explorer Bre-X’s shares slumped to zero in 1997, erasing
C$6.17 billion ($5.89 billion) of market value, after its
Indonesian project was shown to be a hoax. A Strathcona report,
on which Thalenhorst worked, proved the Bre-X deposit was
worthless.  Bre-X Comparison?  “Because Strathcona was on the right side of the Bre-X
scandal back in ’97, everybody thinks, well, if they’re pulling
out there must be something wrong,” said Adam Graf, a New York-based analyst with Cowen and Co LLC, in an Oct. 29 phone
interview. Graf has a buy rating on the stock, one of six buys
and four holds, according to ratings  compiled  by Bloomberg.
There are no sell recommendations, the data show.  “I think we’re actually past” any comparison to Bre-X,
Michelle Romero, a spokeswoman for Pretium said in a Nov. 7
phone interview from  Vancouver . “People have been able to see
from the results that we’ve published even subsequent to that,
as well as any number of other ways, that you can see that
frankly the gold is there.”  There’s “no real similarity between Bre-X and Pretium,”
Strathcona’s Thalenhorst said. Bre-X’s project “was a non-deposit” while Pretium’s “may very well turn out to be a
mineable deposit, just much different from what it has been made
to look like.”  Shorts Rise  Pretium slumped 28 percent on Oct. 22 after it said
Toronto-based Strathcona found “no valid gold mineral
resources” at the Valley of the Kings deposit.  The shares fell 2.8 percent to C$3.42 in Toronto today,
giving the company a market value of C$359.3 million. The
largest shareholder is U.S. miner  Silver Standard Resources Inc. (SSO) 
with an 18 percent stake, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Pretium has seen the biggest increase in short interest on
the Toronto Stock Exchange in the past month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold explorers are under pressure this year after a 23
percent decline in the price of the metal. A 63-member  index  of
such companies including Pretium that was compiled by Bloomberg
has declined 44 percent in 2013.  “The risk, given the complication of the geology, the
decision by Strathcona and the process that lies ahead of the
company, has been priced into” Pretium’s stock, Joseph Reagor,
a Newport Beach-based analyst with Roth Capital Partners LLC,
said in an Oct. 29 phone interview. “But it’s also in a
depressed sector.”  Ore Sampling  Valley of the Kings is part of Pretium’s Brucejack project,
located about 65 kilometers (40 miles) north of the town of
Stewart in British Columbia. Pretium said Jan. 9 it hired
Strathcona to vet a November 2012 resource estimate carried out
by Perth, Australia-based Snowden Mining Industry Consultants
Ltd.  Strathcona started digging a 10,000-metric ton ore sample.
It started checking some of the rock at the site using a sample
tower, a  machine  that mixes up batches of ore and separates a
small amount for testing on site. The entire sample was then
taken away for testing at a processing mill in Montana,
Strathcona’s Thalenhorst said.  Minerals can sometimes be distributed unevenly in a
geological formation. Explorers such as Pretium face the
challenge of drilling from the surface and taking samples of ore
to build a model of what a deposit below looks like.  Vertical Mineralization  The gold in Valley of the Kings is tricky to measure by
drilling down into the rock because the mineralization runs
almost vertically, said Thalenhorst, who worked at the site.  “Either you totally miss the damn thing or you drill right
through it,” he said. Pretium’s answer to the problem was for
Strathcona to cut horizontally into the deposit, Thalenhorst
said. After a while “it became fairly clear” that Strathcona’s
work wasn’t backing up the Snowden estimate, he said.  Snowden  estimated  Valley of the Kings had a so-called
indicated resource of 16.1 million tons of ore containing an
average of 16.4 grams of gold per ton. Thalenhorst said that
when Strathcona made the horizontal cuts, it saw the Snowden
estimate had been extrapolated from drill results that hit high-grade sections of the deposit.  Snowden doesn’t comment on its work without the client’s
permission, Ivor Jones, a Snowden spokesman, said in an Oct. 30
e-mail. Snowden maintains the November 2012 estimate is valid
and continues to support it, Pretium’s Quartermain said.  More data  Strathcona told Pretium three times over the summer that it
should disclose the tower-sample results, which it considered
material, according to Thalenhorst.  In response, Quartermain said in the Oct. 30 phone
interview that he questions the tower-sample methodology because
it “appears to significantly understate” the amount of gold
found in the ore tested at the  Montana  mill. The whole 10,000-ton ore sample needs to be run through a mill before it can be
concluded how much gold there is, he said. Snowden will issue a
final report on the milling when it’s complete, Pretium said
Nov. 7.  “All the drill results that we have to date have been
released totally to the market,” Quartermain said. Pretium rose
21 percent on Oct. 24 after it published a set of drill results
from the property, although it lost those gains in the following
two weeks.  “The stock’s going to be under pressure until there’s a
lot more data points, a lot more clarity on what they really
have,” said Stephenson at First Asset Investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  