-- Rajan Spurs Surge in India’s Reserves to Support Rupee: Economy
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-11-12T12:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/rajan-spurs-india-reserve-surge-to-support-rupee-as-taper-looms.html
India ’s biggest jump in foreign-exchange reserves in two years offers the nation greater
ammunition to support the rupee as U.S. policy makers debate
when to pare back monetary stimulus.  The  reserves  rose $6.7 billion in October to $283 billion,
the steepest monthly increase since 2011, after central bank
Governor Raghuram Rajan offered concessional dollar-swaps for
lenders to spur inflows. Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates
they will reach $305 billion by the end of March, the month the
U.S. Federal Reserve is forecast to pare bond purchases.  “Building reserves strengthens India’s balance sheet,”
said Vivek Rajpal, a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
 Singapore . “That should help prevent excessive volatility in
the rupee when the U.S. tapers, even as India still needs to
curb risks from budget and trade deficits.”  A stable  exchange rate  would help contain the cost of
imports as Rajan fights  Asia ’s fastest consumer-price inflation
to protect the more than 800 million Indians living on less than
$2 per day. The rupee has climbed about 8 percent since slumping
to a record low in August, when speculation of Fed tapering as
early as the following month led investors to pull billions of
dollars from  emerging markets .  The Fed will pare the monthly pace of bond buying to $70
billion at its March 18-19 meeting from the current $85 billion,
according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey on Nov. 8. Policy makers unexpectedly refrained from
tapering at their meeting in September.  Output, Inflation  The rupee, down 14 percent in the past 12 months, weakened
0.7 percent to 63.695 per dollar at the close in Mumbai. The S&P
BSE Sensex share index fell 1 percent, while the yield on the
7.16 percent government bond maturing in May 2023 rose to 9.05
percent from 8.95 percent yesterday.  The currency has fallen this week after U.S. jobs data
bolstered the case for the Fed to trim stimulus. U.S. payrolls
rose 204,000 in October, almost twice as much as economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted, a report showed Nov. 8. The
rupee has also been pressured after the  Reserve Bank  of India
cut direct dollar supplies to oil refiners.  Reports today signaled India’s expansion remains subdued
and that price pressures are intensifying.  Industrial output rose 2 percent in September from a year
earlier, less than the median estimate of 3.5 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 37 economists. Consumer-price  inflation 
accelerated to 10.09 percent last month, the fastest in a basket
of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  BRIC’s Smallest  Rajan has raised the benchmark  repurchase rate  twice since
becoming RBI governor in September, to 7.75 percent, as he seeks
to reduce price pressures.  The concessional swaps window he announced after taking
charge has garnered $17.5 billion so far, the RBI said
yesterday. The facility is due to close on Nov. 30.  India’s foreign-exchange reserves were at $281 billion as
of Nov. 1, according to the central bank. That’s the smallest in
the BRIC group, which also includes  Brazil ,  Russia  and  China .  China has  $3.66 trillion  of foreign reserves, Russia about
 $514 billion  and Brazil  $376 billion .  “Building ammunition gives a sense of comfort to the
markets,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at DBS Bank Ltd. in
Singapore. At the same time, a bigger stock of reserves only
buys time as Indian policy makers must achieve structural
improvements in the economy, she said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has pledged to
narrow the budget shortfall to a six-year low of 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ending March. The
administration estimates the gap in the current account, the
broadest measure of trade, may narrow to about $60 billion.  PepsiCo Investment  India has boosted levies on gold imports three times in
2013 to try and curb inward shipments. Those steps are part of a
wider push by Singh to revive an economy that HSBC Holdings Plc
estimates will  expand  4 percent this fiscal year, the weakest
pace since 2003.  The premier’s drive received a boost yesterday, when
PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest snack-food maker, said it will
invest more than $5 billion with its partners in India by 2020.  “The RBI has done well in building reserves,” said N. R. Bhanumurthy, an economist at the National Institute of Public
Finance and Policy in  New Delhi . “But there are challenges like
inflation and the deficits which still need sorting.”  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, China elevated
the role of markets in the nation’s economic strategy after
President Xi Jinping oversaw a gathering of Communist Party
leaders to chart a course for his decade in office.  In  Indonesia , the central bank unexpectedly raised the
benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to
7.50 percent, the highest level since 2009.  Meanwhile, Philippine Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said
areas in the nation affected by Typhoon Haiyan may see output
drop by 8 percent to 10 percent in 2014, while adding the
country has fiscal space for rebuilding and relief work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  