-- Transocean Reaches $1.1 Billion Dividend Accord With Icahn
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-11-11T21:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/transocean-reaches-accord-with-icahn-on-dividend-plan-and-board.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  will boost its
dividend and cut costs as part of an agreement with  Carl Icahn ,
months after the world’s largest offshore rig contractor won a
shareholder battle with the billionaire investor.  Transocean shareholders, who rejected Icahn’s proposed $4-a-share dividend in May, will have the chance to vote on a $3
payout next year, up from the current $2.24 level, according to
a statement from the Vernier, Switzerland-based company today.
If approved, the dividend payment would total $1.08 billion,
based on the 360.6 million Transocean shares now outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Icahn, Transocean’s  third-largest shareholder , began
pushing for changes at the company in January, saying it had
been involved in “ill-advised mergers, employed unsuccessful
development strategies and squandered the substantial  cash
flow .” Shareholders in May largely sided with the company,
rejecting the higher dividend and two of Icahn’s three board
nominees. As part of today’s agreement, another Icahn nominee,
Vincent Intrieri, will be part of the company’s proposed slate
for a smaller 11-member board next year.  “After fighting Icahn tooth and nail this spring and
largely winning, Transocean has now curiously yielded to
additional demands,”  Scott Gruber , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote today in a note to investors. “Clearly
the company feared another battle in 2014.”  Activist Shareholders  The proxy fight at Transocean was one of several instances
this year of activists pushing for changes as investors seek
more returns from booming natural gas output and higher  oil
prices . Icahn, who said last month he may seek board seats at
 Canada ’s Talisman Energy Inc., is ranked 29th on the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index of the world’s richest people, with a net
worth of $23.3 billion.  Transocean climbed 3.6 percent to $55.37 at the close in
 New York . The shares, which have gained 24 percent this year,
have 17 buy, 21 hold and five sell  ratings  from analysts.  The Icahn agreement includes a commitment to increase
margins by $800 million through cost cutting and increased
efficiency.  Transocean also said it will form a master-limited
partnership, which will provide “additional financial
flexibility.” An initial public offering of a minority interest
is anticipated by mid-2014, the company said.  ‘Great Potential’  Transocean has said before that it was studying the idea of
forming a so-called MLP. Chief Financial Officer Esa Ikaeheimonen told analysts and investors on a conference call
last week that more details would be released by the company’s
analyst day on Nov. 21. The company, which has said in the past
that rigs with long-term contracts and predictable cash flows
might go into an MLP, declined today to elaborate on what the
partnership may look like.  “Transocean is now on the road to realize its great
potential,” Icahn said in the statement.  Transocean’s stock had lost as much as half its value after
an explosion at the company’s Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in
the  Gulf of Mexico  led to the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history. The incident at the BP Plc-operated rig in April 2010
resulted in the deaths of 11 workers. Transocean said in January
it would pay $1.4 billion in penalties for its role in the
disaster.  ‘Greater Discipline’  The dividend that Transocean and Icahn will support at the
company’s 2014 annual general meeting will come from additional
paid-in capital, according to the statement. The company had
 halted  its dividend in 2012, saying it needed to defend its
 credit rating  and maintain a “strong, flexible balance sheet.”  The rig contractor will balance its spending by seeking to
save about $200 million from a “shore-based initiative” by the
end of 2014, while continuing to renew its fleet with high-return, premium drilling rigs, Transocean said.  The collaboration with Icahn may “imply greater financial
discipline going forward,” Matthew D. Conlan, a New York-based
analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co ., said in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  