-- Trash Piles Up in Madrid as Strike Enters Seventh Day
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2013-11-11T12:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/trash-piles-up-in-madrid-as-strike-enters-seventh-day.html
Trash piled up on the streets of
Madrid as cleaners struck for a seventh day over plans by
companies including  Fomento (FCC)  de Contrucciones & Contratas SA to
cut wages and jobs.  FCC, along with  Obrascon Huarte Lain (OHL)  SA and  Sacyr SA (SCYR) ’s
Valoriza unit, proposed cutting around 1,000 jobs in  Spain ’s
capital city, said a spokesman for the companies, who asked not
to be named. He declined to comment on the wage cuts, which
unions say amount to as much 40 percent.  “The strike is indefinite, we’re not going to sign an
agreement that pushes some of us into poverty and the rest into
unemployment,” Jesus Fernandez, head of private services at
Comisiones Obreras union, said in a telephone interview. “How
long will it last? Judging by the irresponsible attitude we’re
seeing, we may all die of disgust.”  Passers-by navigated piles of trash obstructing sidewalks,
with some holding hankerchiefs over their noses against the
stench.  Madrid  city hall said yesterday it would send more
police to shield workers fulfilling minimum-service agreements
from picketers. In the conflict, 260 bins have been set alight,
the city hall said.  Municipalities are reining in budgets after the end of a
decade-long construction boom that swelled their coffers. FCC
saw revenue from its Spanish environmental services unit fall 3
percent in the first nine months of the year, mainly due to
spending cuts by local governments.  The 2 billion-euro ($2.7 billion) road-cleaning and park
maintenance contract, which came into effect on Aug. 1, offered
the same services for 40 percent less than the previous
contract, the unions’ Fernandez said. The companies’
representative and a spokeswoman for Madrid declined to comment.  Fernandez, the union spokesman, said companies want to cut
wages by about 30 percent in cash terms or 40 percent taking
into account changes to working hours and holidays. The average
salary of those affected is about 900 euros to 1,300 euros, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  