-- Republicans Shouldn’t Let Obama Pack the Courts
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-11-11T18:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/republicans-shouldn-t-let-obama-pack-the-courts.html
(Corrects description of Democratic tactic in next-to-last
paragraph.)  The fifth and sixth years of a
presidency often end up being high noon for judicial politics.
This time the first confrontation concerns the powerful D.C.
Circuit Court of Appeals, the venue for many important
regulatory issues and a training ground for future Supreme Court
justices.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  says he intends to force
a vote this week on the nomination of Cornelia Pillard to the
court. Pillard’s is one of three nominations Republicans are
opposing. They say the Democrats are trying to pack the court.
The Democrats say they’re just trying to fill vacancies, and
argue that the Republicans’ behavior is so abusive they’ll
restrict the filibuster if it continues.  Republicans should remember what happened the last time we
had such a fight, and they shouldn’t give in.  Starting in 2003, the Democratic minority embarked on an
unprecedented series of filibusters to stop President  George W. Bush ’s appointments to appeals courts. Back then, Republicans
said there was a crisis of judicial vacancies needing to be
filled. Democrats replied that the courts, especially the D.C.
Circuit, were underworked and that the Republicans were trying
to pack the courts with like-minded judges. Now the sides are
reversed, and so are the talking points.  Little Secret  As it happens, the Republicans have the better of the
current argument. They aren’t conducting a “blockade” that
violates past norms. President  Barack Obama ’s nominees are
getting confirmed at a faster pace than Bush’s were at the same
point in his presidency. One of Obama’s nominees, Sri Srinivasan, was unanimously confirmed in May.  And the D.C. Circuit now has even less work than it did
when Democrats were blocking nominees. Merrick Garland, the
court’s chief judge and an appointee of President  Bill Clinton ,
 informed the Senate  that the number of oral arguments per active
judge has fallen over the past decade. So have the number of
written decisions issued and appeals taken. Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican,  says  that one judge on the circuit
wrote to him to argue that “there wouldn’t be enough work to go
around” if more were appointed. Grassley has introduced a bill
that would shrink the circuit by three seats, and urges the
administration to fill vacancies in other circuits.  I’ll let you in on a little secret: Nobody on either side
of this debate actually cares about how big the circuit’s
caseload is. What they care about is the court’s ideological
balance.  Liberals say the D.C. Circuit has been making too many
conservative rulings. It “has made decisions that have
frustrated the president’s agenda,”  complains  Democratic legal
activist Nan Aron. Jonathan Chait, of  New York  magazine, says
today’s D.C. Circuit  has been  “one of the right’s most potent
weapons during the Obama era.” And Senator Chuck Schumer, a New
York Democrat, has complained about the court’s rulings on
recess appointments and financial regulations,  vowing  that the
new nominees will change its course.  The court is actually balanced between Democratic and
Republican appointees. In recent  testimony  before the House
Judiciary Committee, C. Boyden Gray noted that the court has
been reversing the Obama administration’s regulatory actions at
a lower rate than it did those of the  Bush administration .
Putting too much weight on such statistics is a mistake; the
reasoning in the cases is more important. Yet when you look at
the specifics, the Democratic indictment is even more off base.  Unreasonable Arguments  Obama is the first president to make a recess appointment
when the Senate said it wasn’t in recess; of course courts
objected. In the financial case, the court merely said that the
Securities and Exchange Commission had to follow the law about
responding to public comments on a regulation’s costs and
benefits before issuing it. As Adam White  points out  in the
Weekly Standard, the court hasn’t touched regulations that
followed the law.  One of the vacancies Democrats are trying to fill used to
be held by  John Roberts . After he became chief justice, Bush
nominated the impeccably qualified Peter Keisler for the spot.
The Democrats blocked him, and the seat has gone empty ever
since. A reasonable case can be made against a minority party
blocking judicial nominations, or for it. What can’t reasonably
be argued is that Democrats should be able to use the tactic to
keep a judgeship open until they have the power to fill it with
a liberal, at which point Republicans have to stand down.  Republicans shouldn’t accept these rules. On this issue,
the president’s agenda deserves to be frustrated.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Ramesh Ponnuru  at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 