-- Rice, Sugar Seen Destroyed in Philippines After Haiyan Hits
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-11-11T09:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/rice-sugar-crops-damaged-in-philippines-by-super-typhoon-haiyan.html
Rice and sugar harvests in the
 Philippines  were damaged by Super Typhoon Haiyan when the most
powerful storm on record to strike the country unleashed winds
and floods that may have killed as many as 10,000 people.  Rice imports may increase, pushing purchases above an
estimate of 1.1 million metric tons by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , said Samarendu Mohanty, senior economist at the
International Rice Research Institute. Between 50,000 tons and
120,000 tons of sugar may have been lost, the Sugar Regulatory
Administration estimated.  An expansion in rice shipments to the Southeast Asian
country would offer opportunities to India, Vietnam and
 Thailand , the world’s three biggest exporters. Stockpiles of the
grain in Thailand stand at a record after a state-buying program
spurred local harvests. The Philippine government warned that
the devastation from Haiyan may hurt the economy, estimating
that farm damage totaled 3.7 billion pesos ($85 million.)  “Depending on damage from the typhoon, the import number
may change,” Mohanty said by phone. The USDA’s estimate for
2013-2014 was made before the typhoon struck. “I’d think there
will be some increase. I can’t tell now how much exactly.”  A total of 131,611 tons of rice was lost, equivalent to a
1.8 percent reduction in fourth-quarter output, according to a
report from the Department of Agriculture today. About 71,000
hectares (175,000 acres) of farmland were affected, it said,
adding that about 4,000 tons of corn were destroyed.  Emergency Mission  The Food & Agriculture Organization is dispatching an
emergency mission to the Philippines to gauge the impact from
the typhoon, said  Hiroyuki Konuma , regional representative for
 Asia  and the Pacific region. While it’s too early to assess the
magnitude of the damage, rice imports may rise, Konuma said.  Rough rice fell 0.9 percent to $15.55 per 100 pounds on the
Chicago Board of Trade at 1:53 p.m. in  Manila . Sugar dropped 6.7
percent in the past year to 18.07 cents a pound in  New York .  While the Eastern Visayas, the hardest hit area, represents
only 5 percent of national rice output, the country may not have
a lot of inventory, said Mohanty. The Los Banos-based institute
is using satellite monitoring to get a better assessment, he
said. The nation had total rice stockpiles of 1.8 million tons
in October from 2.6 million tons in December, according to the
agricultural statistics bureau.  The  United Nations  said it’s stepping up relief operations,
with much of the destruction concentrated in and around Tacloban
city, capital of Leyte province. The difficulty in reaching the
worst-hit areas means the number of casualties has yet to be
confirmed, said the  Red Cross  in Geneva, which cited Philippine
authorities as saying the death toll may reach 10,000.  No Communication  The United Coconut Association of the Philippines has yet
to receive damage reports from the field as the majority of
affected areas still have no communications, said Executive
Director Yvonne Agustin. The country is the world’s largest
producer after India and  Indonesia , according to figures from
the Asian and Pacific Coconut Community.  The typhoon, which made landfall on Nov. 8, damaged sugar
crops in Visayas, which accounts for more than half the nation’s
plantations, Regina Martin, head of the Sugar Regulatory
Administration, told reporters today. About 25,000 hectares are
affected and losses may rise, said Martin.  Cane crops as well as milling infrastructure may have
sustained significant damage across northern Negros, Panay and
Leyte islands, Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty said in a
report today. Negros represents 55 percent of country’s cane
output, Panay about 6 percent and Leyte about 2 percent, said
Green Pool, a research company based in  Brisbane .  China Harvesting  The true extent of the damage in the Philippines may not be
known for months, director Tom McNeill, who’s followed sugar for
more than 25 years, said in a separate e-mail.  The storm, which reached  Vietnam  yesterday and then headed
for  China  while weakening, may delay sugar harvesting in Hainan,
Guangxi and Guangdong, said Green Pool. China is the world’s
second-largest sugar consumer.  Philippine rice imports have declined as the nation
progressed toward self-sufficiency. Purchases from overseas
peaked at 2.6 million tons in 2008-2009, according to the USDA,
which forecasts that China will be the biggest buyer this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  