-- Richard Pryor Set the Comedy World on Fire With N-Word
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/richard-pryor-set-the-comedy-world-on-fire-with-n-word.html
Right this minute, no doubt,
somebody is working on a 700-page doorstop that will chronicle
every wound Richard Pryor ever inflicted on the people who loved
him.  David Henry and Joe Henry (they’re brothers) have a
different aim. “We didn’t set out to write the definitive
cradle-to-grave biography,” they explain in their introduction
to “ Furious Cool ,” a sleek, highly literate biography that
places the comic in the pop-cultural context of his times.  Pryor was the Liszt of profanity in the highly ephemeral
art of stand-up. He did his greatest work, according to those
who saw it, on the stage. His TV appearances were mostly watered
down, and the movies he starred in the authors dismiss as
“crappy, inconsequential or demeaning.”  The exceptions are the astonishing 1979 “ Richard Pryor:
Live in Concert ” and, to a lesser extent, the 1982 “ Richard
Pryor: Live on the Sunset Strip ,” made two years after the
“accident” that was originally attributed to the explosion of
ether he was using for freebasing.  The Henrys tell a different story: “After weeks of nonstop
freebasing, Richard doused himself with 150-proof rum and
flicked his Bic lighter.” It was a half-cocked suicide attempt.  He had monumental demons, and the rage he inflicted on
those around him -- especially the women -- was the flip side of
the freedom he gave those demons to roam and attack onstage.  Cosby Period  After his bland but lucrative Cosby-copying period, he
developed a character-based approach to comedy that no one could
steal jokes from because, devoid of his voice and his gestures,
it wasn’t funny (as excerpts from several routines transcribed
by the authors attest).  In September 1967 he walked onto the Las Vegas stage where
he was being paid $2,400 a week, gazed out at the white crowd,
said “What the f--- am I doing here?” and walked off. He never
played Vegas again.  A long retreat followed. In 1971 he went to Berkeley, where
he hung out with black novelists (Ishmael Reed, Claude Brown)
and black militants (Angela Davis, Huey P. Newton).  It was there that he began startling his audiences by
using, over and over, one famously powerful word. Today, the
Henrys write, in “commentaries penned by scolds and advocates
alike, the N-word’s prevalence in contemporary popular culture
is traced back to Richard Pryor.”  Brilliant Decade  During the decade that followed, his brilliance soared.
Meanwhile, the huge amounts of cocaine he was ingesting, even
supposing that they freed his art (arguable), were ruining his
life. One problem any fuller biography of Pryor will face is the
long and tedious catalog of bad things he did on drugs:  “Richard fired in the air, shattering a $10,000 Tiffany
chandelier ... The three women took shelter in Clayborn’s Buick.
Richard rammed the Buick repeatedly with his Mercedes.”  And so on. He continued freebasing even after he set
himself on fire.  But the drugs didn’t kill him: Multiple sclerosis and a bad
heart did, in 2005. His influence remains huge. Hard evidence --
apart from his recordings, a handful of videos worthy of his
genius and those two concert movies -- is scarce.  “Furious Cool: Richard Pryor and the World That Made Him”
is published by Algonquin Books (297 pages, $25.95). To buy this
book in North America, click  here .  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Seligman in  New York  at 
 cseligman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  