-- Rolex Daytona Sells for Record $1.1 Million at Christie’s
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-11-11T14:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/rolex-daytona-sells-for-record-1-1-million-at-christie-s.html
A Rolex Daytona chronograph sold for
a record $1.1 million at a Christie’s International auction in
Geneva yesterday which raised $13.2 million, four times the
presale estimate.  The 1969 stainless-steel Paul Newman-model wristwatch was
sold to a buyer who wants to be anonymous, the auction house
said in an e-mailed release today. The price was the highest for
a Daytona at public auction. Christie’s also sold a Rolex
Daytona made for the Sultan of  Oman  for $864,285.  The top lot approached the $1.16 million record price for
any Rolex wristwatch in auction that Christie’s set in May. All
of the 50 lots of Rolex Daytona’s sold last night. Their
previous owners included celebrities such as guitarist  Eric Clapton , Apollo Seven astronaut Walt Cunningham, race-car driver
Bobby Unser and actor Jean-Paul Belmondo, who played the lead
role in  Jean-Luc Godard ’s “Breathless.”  “With 400 people in the salesroom and plenty more outside,
I rarely experienced a similar rock-concert atmosphere from the
rostrum,” said Aurel Bacs, head of Christie’s watch department,
in the statement.  Rolex began making the Daytona model in 1963 as its first
chronograph with the tachymeter scale printed on the watch’s
bezel rather than the dial. Those measurements can be used to
help compute speed based on how long it takes to travel a fixed
distance.  Paul Newman , who enjoyed racing, wore one version in the
1970s that now is known after him. Collectors prize Daytonas
because the early models are scarce.  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on European art,
 Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater,  John Mariani  on wine,  Jeremy
Gerard  on U.S. theater,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 