-- Russian Economy Probably Accelerated to End Six-Quarter Slowdown
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-11-11T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/russian-economy-probably-accelerated-to-end-six-quarter-slowdown.html
Russia ’s economic growth probably
accelerated for the first time in seven quarters, halting the
worst slowdown the nation has endured since a 2009 recession.  Gross domestic product  expanded 1.4 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier after a 1.2 percent increase in the
previous three months, according to the median estimate of 19
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The Economy Ministry forecasts
a 1.2 percent advance. The Federal Statistics Service in Moscow
will publish the data today or tomorrow.  The investment-led growth model laid out by President
 Vladimir Putin  after he took office for a third term last year
hasn’t materialized, with weaker domestic demand hurting profits
at companies including OAO AvtoVAZ. A modest recovery last
quarter would bolster the central bank’s decision to focus on
taming  inflation  at the expense of stimulating output after an
unexpected pickup in consumer-price growth last month.  “I’m not expecting any significant acceleration because
all of the data for the third quarter have been weak,” Artem Arkhipov, chief economist for Russia at ZAO UniCredit Bank in
Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday. “I’m becoming a skeptic on
the chances for a change in rates this year. October inflation
dealt a sharp and unexpected surprise.”  Weaker prospects for Russian growth have curbed appetite
for the country’s equities. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  of
50 stocks has fallen 6.2 percent this year compared with a 24
percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Rates Held  The central bank left  interest rates  unchanged last week
for a 14th month after consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in
October from a year earlier. Policy makers led by Chairman
 Elvira Nabiullina  dropped a forecast that the inflation rate
would fall into this year’s target range of 5 percent to 6
percent by year-end and warned that the pace of economic growth
would remain “low” in the medium term.  New sales of cars and light vehicles fell in October for an
eighth month, declining 8 percent from a year earlier, the
Association of European Businesses in Russia said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The drop at AvtoVAZ, Russia’s biggest
carmaker, reached 25 percent, the group said.  Russia, where growth averaged 7 percent during Putin’s
first two terms as president in 2000-2008, will see its share of
global GDP eroded over the next two decades as the economy
expands more slowly than the world average, Economy Minister
 Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters in Moscow last week.  The government now projects an average growth rate of 2.5
percent a year to 2030 compared with 3.4 percent to 3.5 percent
globally, he said.  Putin’s Agenda  Putin’s goals for economic growth included increasing
investment to 25 percent of GDP by 2015 and raising  labor
productivity  50 percent from 2011 levels by 2018, according to
orders published hours after his inauguration on May 7, 2012.  Economic growth has slowed every quarter since the last
three months of 2011, when GDP expanded 5.1 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Economists projected the pace
would accelerate to 3 percent as recently as July, according to
a Bloomberg survey.  “We believe that the period of stagnation is about to
end,” Alexey Devyatov, chief economist at UralSib in Moscow,
said yesterday in an e-mailed report. “In the short term, the
improvement in  Europe  will continue to support the Russian
economy via foreign trade.”  Trade Surplus  The  trade surplus  expanded 9.3 percent in September from a
year earlier, following gains of 31 percent and 24 percent the
previous two months, according to Federal Customs Service data.  That has supported the ruble, which strengthened 1.4
percent against the dollar in the third quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That made it the seventh-best
performer among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “The economy is weak, and it’s not a surprise,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Russia at Bank of America Merill
Lynch, said yesterday by phone from  London . “I don’t think it
will have an impact on the rates outlook simply because the
central bank remains focused on inflationary dynamics and that
actually disappointed quite a bit in October.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  