-- Russia Hinders East Europe Growth Rebound, Development Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-11-11T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/russia-hinders-east-europe-growth-rebound-development-bank-says.html
Russia ’s deepening economic slowdown
is impeding eastern Europe’s recovery as lower oil prices hurt
the world’s largest energy exporter, the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development said.  Russia, the largest of 34 economies from  Morocco  to
Mongolia where the London-based EBRD invests, will grow 1.3
percent in 2013 and 2.5 percent in 2014, the bank said today in
an e-mailed report, cutting May estimates by 0.5 percentage
point for each year. Russia expanded 3.4 percent in 2012.  Russia, whose $2 trillion economy grew an average 7 percent
a year during Vladimir Putin’s 2000-2008 presidency as commodity
prices rose, is enduring its worst slowdown in four years due to
a decline in investment.  Gross domestic product  will rise at an
average pace of 2.5 percent through 2030, trailing the global
average, Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  said. Nov. 7.  “Structural reforms and improvements in the overall
business environment are needed to boost investment, diversify
the economy away from excessive reliance on oil and gas revenues
and lift Russia’s potential growth above 3 percent,” the EBRD
said. “Commodity prices no longer provide a boost.”  Brent crude, the benchmark for more than half the world’s
oil, has fallen 5 percent this year. For Russia, which receives
about half its budget revenue from oil and natural gas, lower
energy prices limit the government’s fiscal scope to counter the
downturn, the EBRD said.  Forecasts Cut  The 30 eastern European and central Asian economies where
the EBRD works will expand 2 percent this year and 2.8 percent
in 2014, the bank projected, down from May forecasts of 2.1
percent and 3.1 percent.  “The revisions are largely driven by the worsening outlook
for Russia and its knock-on effects,” it said.  Expansion in central Europe and the Baltics will quicken to
1.9 percent in 2014 from this year’s 0.9 percent, the EBRD said.
Poland will grow 2.3 percent next year, compared with 1.2
percent in 2013. Lithuania and  Latvia  will remain the best
performers, with GDP surging 3.5 percent and 3.2 percent.  While Ukraine will probably exit its recession in the
fourth quarter, GDP will contract 0.5 percent this year before
returning to growth of 1.5 percent in 2014, the EBRD said.
Slovenia’s recession will extend into next year, when GDP will
shrink 2.5 percent because of the country’s corporate debt
burden, it said.  Risks to the bank’s forecast include a flare-up of the
euro-region debt crisis, an increased chance of an economic
slowdown in  China  and other large  emerging markets  and the
U.S.’s fiscal health, according to the EBRD.  The bank is calling on governments in the countries where
it does business to step up efforts to overhaul their economies
as sluggish growth may be a sign of a decline in potential long-term expansion.  “The current slowdown in the region is only partly
cyclical,” according to the report. “Many of its causes are
structural, reflecting lower growth potential, limited sources
of finance for investment and unfinished structural reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  