-- Schaeffler Profit Falls on Industrial-Component Division
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-11-11T09:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/schaeffler-profit-falls-on-industrial-component-division.html
Schaeffler AG, the industrial-bearing maker that’s the biggest owner of car-parts producer
 Continental AG (CON) , said third-quarter profit fell 14 percent as
manufacturers withheld purchases amid doubts about the economy.  Earnings before interest and taxes dropped to 314 million
euros ($420 million) from 364 million euros a year earlier,
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Schaeffler said today in a
statement. Sales rose 1.5 percent to 2.81 billion euros.  Gross domestic product of the 17 nations sharing the euro
probably rose just 0.1 percent in the quarter, with growth
slowing in  Germany  and stalling in  France , and  Italy  mired in a
slump, according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
Earnings plunged 60 percent at Schaeffler’s industrial division
in the period, versus 4.6 percent growth at the auto-parts unit.  “Recovery of demand in the industrial sectors is not
expected over the fourth quarter of 2013, particularly not in
 Europe  and the Asia-Pacific region,” the company said.  Family-owned Schaeffler ousted Chief Executive Officer
Juergen Geissinger a month ago, giving Chief Financial Officer
Klaus Rosenfeld the top post on an interim basis, after plans to
combine with Hanover, Germany-based Continental failed.
Schaeffler became Continental’s largest shareholder when a
takeover bid backfired amid the global recession of 2008,
leaving the bearing producer with more of 90 percent of
Continental’s shares and debt exceeding 10 billion euros.  Continental Stake  Schaeffler, jointly owned by Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler and
her son Georg F. W. Schaeffler, has since reduced its holding in
Continental, Europe’s second-biggest maker of automotive
components, to 46 percent.  Full-year Ebit will amount to about 13 percent of sales,
excluding currency effects and the cost of scaling back
production in Schweinfurt and Wuppertal, Germany, Schaeffler
said today. The nine-month adjusted-Ebit margin stood at 12.9
percent. The previous forecast was for an Ebit margin of 13
percent on revenue growth of 1 percent to 2 percent.  The reorganization, which the company said in October will
lead to the loss of 900 jobs through 2016, led to 48 million
euros in provisions, Schaeffler said today. Net debt narrowed to
5.7 billion euros as of Sept. 30 from 6.8 billion euros on Dec.
31, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  