-- Shaw’s Beyonics Claims Ex-CEO Bribed to Divert Business
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-11-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/shaw-s-beyonics-claims-ex-ceo-bribed-to-divert-business.html
Beyonics Technology Ltd., owned by
Kyle Shaw’s private equity firm Shaw Kwei & Partners, sued its
former chief executive officer claiming he took bribes to send a
customer’s business to Korean competitors.  Goh Chan Peng, the former CEO of Singapore-based Beyonics,
accepted payments from Nedec Co. and Kodec Co. to steer  Seagate
Technology Plc (STX)  orders for hard-disk-drive parts to them,
according to a lawsuit filed in the Singapore High Court.
Seagate was Beyonics’s biggest customer, accounting for as much
as 64 percent of revenue from 2009 to 2012, Beyonics said.  “The diversion enabled the Nedec/Kodec Group to develop a
commercial relationship with Seagate and grow as a competitor,”
Beyonics said in the lawsuit filed in August. A closed hearing
is scheduled for Nov. 20.  Beyonics sought the return of lost profits, Goh’s salary
from January to March and unspecified damages. Shaw Kwei, based
in Hong Kong, acquired Beyonics in February 2012 for S$127
million ($102 million). The hard-disk-drive partmaker swung to a
S$17.5 million  loss  on sales of S$1.33 billion for the fiscal
year 2011 from net income of S$6.9 million a year earlier.  Goh, who resigned from Beyonics in January, said he had
agreed to provide consulting services to Nedec and Kodec and the
payments he received weren’t bribes. He also said the Korean
firms had been supplying parts to Seagate since 2011, prior to
the alleged diversion of business.  Tudor Shanghai  Goh countersued claiming he’s owed S$17,000 in unpaid
salary, which Beyonics said he wasn’t entitled to because he
failed to disclose that he breached his agreement with the
company.  “My client’s position is the allegations are false and
will vigorously defend against them,” said Goh’s lawyer Ng Lip
Chih. Nedec and Kodec, which aren’t named as defendants in the
lawsuit, didn’t bribe Goh, said Tony Lee, Chief Financial
Officer at the Korean firms.  Kannan Ramesh, a lawyer representing Beyonics declined to
comment.  Shaw, who had opened the Shanghai office of Paul Tudor Jones’s hedge fund firm Tudor Investment Corp. in 1994, founded
his own private equity firm in 1999. Shaw Kwei invests in
companies in Greater China and Southeast Asia.  Beyonics, in its lawsuit, also accused Goh of giving
preferential treatment to Nedec and Kodec in the sale of one of
its units, promising them in a 2012 e-mail a “friend price” of
$40 million, while saying he would ask $50 million from a rival
bidder.  Goh denied the allegation, saying the board had reviewed
and approved the sale process.  Goh also claimed expenses which were unauthorized,
including S$101,910 for wine, Beyonics said in seeking the
return of most of the money.  The wines were given to customers as gifts and used at
functions for Beyonics employees and suppliers, Goh said in his
defense.  The case is Beyonics Technology Ltd. v Goh Chan Peng,
S672/2013. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  