-- Singer’s Gramercy Rebuff Blunts Talk of Bond Deal
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-11-11T16:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/singer-s-gramercy-rebuff-blunts-talk-of-bond-deal.html
Billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer  has dismissed attempts by Argentine bondholders to
orchestrate a deal that would end his legal claims against the
country, calling the initiative pointless.  Exotix Partners LLC and  Capital Economics  Ltd. say Singer,
whose Elliott Management Corp. is suing Argentina for payment on
defaulted bonds, isn’t bluffing.  After a decade-long legal battle, Singer may be only months
away from receiving full payment on the debt through U.S.
courts, giving him no incentive to accept lesser terms in a
settlement, according to  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at
Exotix. Singer’s disinterest in negotiating with owners of
restructured debt led by Gramercy Funds Management LLC may halt
a rally in the bonds as investors realize the legal claims
against the country won’t be dropped, said Culverhouse.  Elliott officials “just want to maximize their return,”
 Michael Henderson , an economist at Capital Economics in  London .
“It’s been a decade already, so for an additional six or nine
months, it’s probably well within their interest to stick with
their timetable.”  Argentine dollar  bonds have gained  0.9 percent since the
first reports of the Gramercy-led talks to find an inter-creditor solution on Oct. 20, beating returns on emerging-market
debt, which lost 1.9 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index. The gains extended year-to-date returns to 17.8 percent, the best among  developing
countries  after Belize.  Gramercy Plan  Gramercy’s preliminary plan calls for most holders of
restructured bonds to agree to cede part of their interest
payments to investors with defaulted securities in exchange for
the holdouts to drop their lawsuits, according to five
bondholders approached by officials from the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based firm.  In order to change the terms of the notes to earmark coupon
payments to holdouts, Gramercy must garner approval from holders
of 75 percent of each series of bonds, according to the bond
prospectus.  Katrina Allen, a spokeswoman for Gramercy at ASC Advisors
LLC, declined to comment on bondholder talks or Elliott’s
statement. Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman at the  Economy Ministry ,
declined to comment on whether Argentina is willing to negotiate
with holdouts or are supporting an inter-creditor plan.  Elliott said Nov. 7 it’s only willing to negotiate with the
Argentine government and has no interest in holding talks with
fellow bondholders.  ‘Sit Down’  “We welcome the idea of good-faith negotiations with
Argentina, but we don’t see the point of negotiating with other
bondholders,” the New York-based fund said in an e-mail. “We
have approached Argentina countless times about negotiating a
resolution to this dispute. It is completely within Argentina’s
power to solve this.”  Elliott money manager Jay Newman said in an Oct. 7
Financial Times editorial it’s time for Argentine President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government to “sit down and
discuss a resolution” with its creditors.  Any out-of-court solution requires Argentina’s
participation because it’s unlikely that Gramercy will gather
the support required to make its plan work, said Diego Ferro,
co-chief investment officer at Greylock, which owns Argentine
exchange bonds.  “If Argentina doesn’t get involved no plan that’s
originated by investors will work because they won’t pull
together enough financing and participation,” he said in a
telephone interview from  Buenos Aires . “As soon as Argentina
sits down to solve this,  capital markets  will open for them
again.”  ‘Got Personal’  Argentina hasn’t tapped international credit markets since
its 2001 default on $95 billion, as it’s unwilling to pay the
additional 8.14 percentage points over  U.S. Treasuries  that
investors demand to hold the country’s dollar bonds.  Argentina offered about 30 cents on the dollar for its
defaulted debt in 2005 and 2010 debt swaps, which 93 percent of
creditors accepted. Fernandez has vowed never to pay the
remaining 7 percent of creditors she calls “vultures” more
than what was offered in the restructurings.  “It shouldn’t matter where the money comes from but
another part of this is they’ve been pursuing Argentina for 10
years,” said Culverhouse at Exotix in a telephone interview
from London. “Money is one thing but there’s also being proved
to be right. I think things got personal a long time ago.”  Navy Ship  Elliott has tried to embargo the presidential jet Tango 01
during a fueling stop in the U.S., seize Argentine central bank
funds deposited in  New York  and successfully grabbed a Navy ship
during a stop in  Ghana  for two months until it was freed in an
international tribunal of the sea.  Argentina  may negotiate with holdouts after a clause in the
exchange bond prospectus that prevents the country from offering
holders of defaulted bonds better terms than those of its
previous restructurings expires in December 2014, according to
ACM Consultores.  “Argentina will have more flexibility after December next
year to sit down and negotiate with holdouts,” Maximiliano Castillo, a former central bank manager who runs ACM, said in a
telephone interview in Buenos Aires. “If the ruling hasn’t been
executed by then, it may have a window of opportunity to reach a
solution outside of court.”  ‘Strong Position’  Argentina is trying to avoid a second default in 12 years
as the court’s decision prevents third parties, including
trustee Bank of New York Mellon Corp., from passing payments to
bondholders unless the nation also pays holdouts. At 1,788 basis
points, the nation’s debt is the most expensive in the world to
protect against non-payment over five years with credit-default
swaps, according to data compiled by CMA Ltd.  While a New York court on Aug. 23 rejected Argentina’s
appeal, it delayed the effect of the orders until the  Supreme
Court  decides whether or not to take the case. Bonds have
rallied since then on speculation legal delays will extend into
2014.  “The only thing working in Argentina’s favor is that
they’ve managed to lodge appeals to kick the process to 2014,”
Henderson said. “From Elliott’s point of view, they’re in a
strong position. It may take some time for them to realize
payment but as it stands there’s probably no reason for them to
want to negotiate with any other bondholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  