-- SNB Rates Zurich Regional Bank Systemically Important
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-11-11T15:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/snb-rates-zurich-regional-bank-systemically-important.html
The Swiss central bank said it
classified Zuercher Kantonalbank, the country’s largest state-owned regional bank, as systemically important under stricter
capital and liquidity rules.  The announcement was issued in agreement with ZKB, the
Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank  said in a statement today. The
lender, owned by the canton of Zurich, said it “expects to
already be able to meet the future minimum requirements today.”  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s two
largest banks each holding assets surpassing gross domestic
product, were the only two Swiss lenders to be classified as too
big to fail after the financial crisis threatened to undermine
the system’s stability. The two lenders have to fulfill stricter
regulatory requirements and hold capital equal to as much as 19
percent of assets, weighted according to risk.  The SNB is able to classify a bank as systemically
important based on criteria such as the size of its balance
sheet, market share of domestic deposits, loans and payments as
well as the company’s risk profile, quality of assets, liquidity
and leverage. The cantonal banks were  Switzerland ’s biggest
mortgage lenders at the end of August, overseeing 299.4 billion
francs ($325 billion), or 35 percent of all outstanding domestic
loans, according to the central bank website.  Key Factor  The bank’s role in domestic deposits and lending is “the
key factor” for classification as a systemically important
institution, ZKB said in a statement. The bank’s market share of
Swiss deposits and loans is 6 percent to 8 percent, while the
share of deposits and loans in the region of Zurich is 35
percent to 40 percent and 30 percent to 35 percent,
respectively, according to the statement.  ZKB is the fourth-biggest commercial bank with assets of
about 150 billion Swiss francs ($163 billion), or about a
quarter of Swiss annual GDP. The Zurich-based lender had 79.8
billion francs in customer loans outstanding at the end of June,
including 68.7 billion francs in mortgages.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, or Finma,
will determine the new requirements for capital and liquidity
that ZKB will have to fulfill, taking into account the degree of
its systemic relevance. The bank will also have to draw up an
emergency plan, detailing provisions that will be made to
maintain systemically important functions.  Raiffeisen Group  ZKB had a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, of 14.9 percent at the end of June. The bank said it
expects to be meeting the stricter  capital requirements  already
now, as it surpasses the 13.6 percent minimum ratio it had to
fulfill so far. After boosting liquidity reserves, it doesn’t
expect to make amendments.  “Even with this regulation, we don’t have an immediate
capital need,” ZKB Chief Executive Officer Martin Scholl said
at a briefing in Zurich.  Switzerland’s Raiffeisen Group of cooperative banks is the
third-biggest commercial bank, with assets of about 165 billion
francs according to the SNB. The lender is in talks with the
central bank on systemic relevance, spokesman Franz Wuerth said
by phone today, adding that no decision has been taken.  Banque Cantonale Vaudoise (BCVN) , the second-biggest cantonal bank
by assets according to SNB data, had a balance sheet of 40.4
billion francs at the end of June. The lender hasn’t been in
contact with the SNB regarding systemic relevance, Jean-Pascal
Baechler, a spokesman, said by e-mail today.  SNB spokesman Walter Meier declined to comment on what
other banks may fall into the systemically important category.
The central bank oversees financial stability, cooperating with
the banking regulator Finma in Bern.  Property Risks  The SNB has warned about the build-up of risks in the
domestic real estate market as record-low  interest rates  boosted
demand and fueled prices. The UBS Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index
rose to 1.20 points in the third quarter from 1.15 points in the
previous three months, with Zurich among regions considered most
at risk. A reading above 2 points would indicate a bubble.  The Swiss government earlier this year followed the SNB’s
proposal to introduce tougher capital rules by the end of
September, forcing lenders to hold capital equal to an
additional 1 percent of risk-weighted assets tied to residential
mortgages. At the behest of the central bank, the government is
able to raise the measure to as much as 2.5 percent.  SNB President Thomas Jordan said on Nov. 8 that while
borrowing costs will remain low, the central bank is
“constantly monitoring” the situation on the Swiss mortgage
market to see if additional measures are necessary. The central
bank will hold its next quarterly rate meeting in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  