-- Solars Jump on Outlook as NQ Advances: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-11-11T21:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/solars-jump-on-outlook-as-nq-advances-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose for a second day
in New York, led by solar manufacturers, after growth in the
Asian nation’s industrial output unexpectedly gathered pace.  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. added 0.9 percent to 101.80 yesterday, after
slumping 2.1 percent last week. Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.,
the biggest solar maker, advanced to a two-week high while  Trina
Solar  jumped 7.5 percent.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  surged 20
percent in its first day of trading over the counter.  Phoenix
New Media Ltd. (FENG)  jumped the most in two months on investment plan
of IDG Capital Partners and  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  rallied 19 percent.  China ’s production rose 10.3 percent in October from a year
earlier, exceeding the 10 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists, a government report showed over the
weekend. That may support China’s top leadership as it wrestles
with the scale and pace of reform at a four-day meeting ending
today. Polysilicon and solar wafer demand increased consistently
during the third quarter, according to Chinese producer GCL-Poly
Energy Holdings Ltd., whose third-quarter sales jumped sixfold.  “It kind of gives a little more support to the notion
we’re not going to see a big deceleration in fourth-quarter
GDP,”  Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya
Capital LLP in  London , said by phone yesterday. “The market is
waiting to hear what comes from the meeting that is going on
right now because that could set the tone for next year.”  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1 percent to $37.23 in
New York, gaining for a second day. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index was little changed as investors awaited retailer earnings
reports to gauge the strength of consumer demand.  Solar Outlook  American depositary receipts of Yingli, based in Baoding,
China, climbed 7.4 percent to $6.94, the biggest advance since
Sept. 27. Changzhou-based Trina, China’s third-largest solar
maker, climbed to $16.91, the highest price since Oct. 24.  “Solar prices right now continue to hold up well,” Angelo Zino, a New York-based analyst at S&P Capital IQ, said in a
phone interview. “Given the growth based on shipment numbers a
lot of these companies are reporting, you may end up to have a
situation here demand continues and will outstrip supply, and
that will be positive for any of the manufacturers across this
region.”  Trading in Suntech, which filed for a provisional
liquidation in  Cayman Islands  last week as its China unit is
restructuring, was suspended on the  New York  Stock Exchange.
NYSE cited “uncertainty” about the company’s completion of
2012 annual report within required time and its restructuring
process in a Nov. 6 statement as the reason for the delisting.  NQ’s Earnings  NQ Mobile’s ADRs jumped to $13.49 in New York, after
tumbling 11 percent last week. The company, set to report its
 third-quarter results  today after U.S. trading closes, was
accused by short seller Muddy Waters LLC of inflating sales in a
report Oct. 24. NQ Mobile, which denied the allegations, has
tumbled 41 percent since the report.  Revenue at the Beijing-company grew 98 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier to $51 million while adjusted profit
increased 99 percent, according to the average  projection  of
five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Phoenix New Media, a Chinese TV and Internet news outlet,
jumped 10 percent to $10.02, rallying the most since Sept. 9.
The company is scheduled to release third-quarter earnings after
markets tomorrow.  Beijing-based Phoenix will get an investment of “millions
of U.S. dollars” from funds managed by IDG Capital Partners to
develop the Phoenix FM app business, which includes smartphone
applications offering news, radio, audiobooks and educational
courses, it said in a statement yesterday.  Vipshop Forecast  Vipshop Holding Ltd., an online retailer based in
Guangzhou, reported adjusted net income of 26 cents per ADR for
the third quarter after trading closed yesterday, beating the
21-cent average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The company forecast fourth-quarter revenue of as much as $590
million, compared with the average projection of $546.2 million.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong  added
1.9 percent to 10,582.9, while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
gained 0.2 percent to 2,109.47, the first advance in four days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  