-- Sony Backs Estimates of 3 Million PS4 Units Sold by Year-End
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-11-12T00:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/sony-sees-sales-of-3-million-playstation-4-consoles-by-year-end.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , poised to release the
PlayStation 4 game console this week, is confident it can meet
analysts’ sales estimates of 3 million units by year-end,
exploiting an early advantage over  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox One.  Sony will have adequate supplies of the $399 PS4 through
Christmas and stands by earlier projections for sales of 5
million units by March,  Jack Tretton , president and chief
executive officer of the company’s U.S. computer entertainment
division, said yesterday in an interview.  “This is a marathon, not a sprint, but getting out to a
nice start is a good thing,” Tretton said. “That hurdle has
been cleared. We’re very, very confident we’re in great shape.”  Tretton’s remarks suggest Sony will avoid the supply
problems that slowed early sales of the PlayStation 3 in 2006.
The new console hits U.S. stores on Nov. 15, followed by  Europe 
on Nov. 29, and will reach 32 countries for the holidays.
Microsoft’s Xbox One will debut in 13 countries a week later,
down from an original target of 21 markets.  Colin Sebastian , an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in
San Francisco, last month estimated each company would sell 3
million units worldwide this year.  “We’re very comfortable with it,” Tretton said. “I’m
excited about next week to be able to talk about what was sold
as opposed to what we may sell.”  Pressure has intensified on Sony Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  in the run-up to the PS4’s debut, after the Tokyo-based company last month shocked investors by reporting an
unexpected second-quarter loss. The shares plunged, and Moody’s
Investors Service warned the  credit rating  may be cut to junk.
The cost to insure Sony debt jumped 45 basis points to 187 basis
points in the month to yesterday, CMA data show.  Smooth Supply  Keeping PS4 supplies flowing is crucial for Sony as the
company seeks to make the most of its early-mover advantage.
Improved planning has raised production yields, collaboration
and the absence of last-minute sprints -- for example, to get
parts ready before shipment -- said Tretton, who’s been involved
in earlier rollouts.  “This time it’s very, very smooth,” Tretton said.  Sony fell 0.5 percent to 1,641 yen yesterday in  Tokyo . The
shares have climbed 71 percent this year.  In August, Microsoft delayed the release of the $499 Xbox
One in eight countries, including  Russia  and the Netherlands,
until 2014 to make sure it had enough supplies for larger
markets.  Online Test  Both companies have added online features to their new
machines, infusing them with entertainment options such as
access to movies and TV shows to make the devices the center of
consumers’ living rooms.  Andrew House, head of Sony’s game operation worldwide, in
September forecast sales of 5 million PS4 units by the company’s
fiscal year-end in March.  Wayne Hickey, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment on the company’s projection for Xbox One sales.  “The only hurdle left that is not a non-issue until it’s
over is launching the thing, having people engage with the
network and it all goes very smoothly,” Tretton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  