-- Sports Agency IMG Said to Cut List of Bidders as TPG Knocked Out
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   J o d i   X u   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-11-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/sports-agency-img-said-to-cut-list-of-bidders-as-tpg-knocked-out.html
Forstmann Little & Co. cut the field
of bidders for its IMG Worldwide Inc. talent agency to five,
knocking out a joint bid from TPG Capital and  Creative Artists
Agency , said people with knowledge of the matter.  Silver Lake Management LLC, KKR & Co., CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  are still vying with each other for
the business, which may fetch more than $2.5 billion, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the information is
private. New York-based Forstmann Little cut the list from 12
bidders after a Nov. 7 deadline, the people said.  The departure of TPG and Creative Artists, which had been
seen as among the front-runners, pits Silver Lake and its
partner, William Morris Endeavor Entertainment LLC, against CVC,
owner of the Formula One car-racing series. IMG represents
National Football League quarterback  Peyton Manning  and singer
 Taylor Swift , and also manages fashion and sports events.  Spokesmen for TPG, KKR, CVC,  Silver Lake  and Forstmann
Little all declined to comment, while a spokesman for
Washington-based Carlyle wasn’t available to comment.  IMG’s college sports team licensing business is one of the
company’s more attractive assets, one of the people said. At the
same time, money-losing joint ventures in India, China, Turkey
and Brazil are weighing down bid prices, two people said.  Year-End Target  Forstmann Little has told bidders that the company has $200
million a year in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, or Ebitda. The overseas operations have
adjustments that lower Ebitda to $181 million, two people said.  Forstmann Little hopes to have a deal done by the end of
the year, one of the people said. The firm hired Morgan Stanley
and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in May as advisers for a possible
sale, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time. In
August, the buyout firm announced it was considering a range of
options for the agency. It acquired IMG in 2004 for about $750
million, according to a person familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  