-- Swiss Stocks Gain for Fourth Day as Transocean Advances
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-12T09:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/stocks-in-switzerland-climb-on-chinese-industrial-output.html
(Corrects size of Chinese economy in sixth paragraph.)  Swiss stocks  advanced for a fourth
day as  Transocean (RIGN)  Ltd. and Novartis AG shares rose and data
showed that industrial output growth in  China  unexpectedly
accelerated last month.  Transocean added 5.4 percent after the board agreed to a
$3-a-share dividend proposal and cost-cutting plan as demanded
by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn . Novartis rose, contributing
the most to the benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI) ’s gain, after
selling its blood-transfusion diagnostics unit to Grifols SA for
$1.68 billion.  The SMI climbed 0.5 percent to 8,280.2 at the close of
trading in Zurich. The gauge advanced 0.2 percent last week as
U.S. economic growth and jobs data beat forecasts. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also added 0.5 percent today.  “The Swiss market is a bit stronger than  Europe  today as
the SMI profits from company news that supports it,” said
Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million as head of equity
and fixed income at LLB Asset Management AG in Vaduz,
Liechtenstein. “News out of China remains difficult to
interpret at the moment, but data are nevertheless coming in
better than expected. Underlying sentiment is still positive and
risk on, though the Christmas rally may already be over.”  In China,  industrial production  jumped 10.3 percent in
October from a year earlier, the  National Bureau of Statistics 
said Nov. 9. That was higher than September’s 10.2 percent and
exceeded the 10 percent median projection of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Inflation was a less-than-forecast 3.2 percent.  Chinese Leaders  President  Xi Jinping  and top Communist Party leaders are
gathering in Beijing for a meeting known as the third plenum to
outline a blueprint to sustain growth and drive urbanization in
the world’s second-biggest economy. The meeting of about 370 top
Communist Party members will conclude tomorrow.  Transocean, the world’s largest offshore rig contractor,
rose 5.4 percent to 50.95 Swiss francs, the highest price in
more than five months, after agreeing at its annual general
meeting to support Icahn’s proposal to pay a $3 a share dividend
and cut costs. The company also committed to increase margins by
$800 million through cost cutting and increased efficiency.  “The announced additional cost-cutting targets should help
to increase the cash flows and are a strong sign that management
is working hard to create increased  shareholder value ,” Fabian Haecki, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Novartis (NOVN)  added 0.9 percent to 71.55 francs. The drugmaker
expects to complete the sale to Grifols, Europe’s largest maker
of blood-plasma products, in the first half of next year.  Divestment Hopes  “This first divestiture will fuel hopes of some investors
that Novartis will divest more non-core businesses such as
 animal health , consumer health, the vaccines business and the
Roche stake,” David Kaegi, an analyst at J. Safra Sarasin,
wrote in a report.  Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-largest reinsurer,
increased 1.2 percent to 83.70 francs. Bank of America Corp.
raised its earnings-per-share estimate for 2013 by 14 percent to
10.73 francs and predicted a possible special dividend payout of
$1.5 billion, up from a previous forecast of $1 billion, citing
third-quarter earnings strength.  Partners Group Holding AG (PGHN)  climbed 2.9 percent to 235.20
francs, its highest prices in two months. Bank of America raised
its rating on the  money manager  to buy from neutral, saying the
performance fees it should generate in the coming years and the
improving cyclical background provide upside for the stock.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 10 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  