-- U.K. Energy Secretary’s Call to Move Levies Played Down
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-11-11T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/u-k-energy-secretary-s-call-to-move-levies-played-down.html
Energy Secretary Ed Davey’s call to
move two of the levies on gas and electricity bills into general
taxation was played down by a person familiar with Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne’s budget plans, who indicated the
matter has yet to be decided.  Liberal Democrat Davey in an interview in the Sunday
Telegraph yesterday suggested the taxpayer could foot the bill
for two of the so-called green levies funded by energy bills.
The newspaper said if the largest levy, the Energy Companies’
Obligation, is removed after talks between senior Conservatives
and energy companies, prices might immediately fall by 7
percent.  Energy and climate change policies add about 9 percent, or
112 pounds ($179), to annual bills for gas and power, the
Department for Energy and Climate Change says. The 47-pound
contribution from the Energy Company Obligation demands that
suppliers offer efficiency measures to vulnerable families.
Other levies include the Warm Home Discount and carbon taxes.  Davey told the paper he’s happy to have a debate about how
green energy policies are funded. “We can maybe find there are
other ways of paying for them. There may be ways and means.”  As winter approaches, the U.K. is debating how to tackle
energy prices that are outstripping inflation. Last month, four
of the “Big Six” energy firms raised prices. Prime Minister
David Cameron has ordered a review of environmental charges
levied on domestic bills in an effort to regain the political
initiative after the opposition Labour Party promised to freeze
power prices if elected in 2015.  Coalition Works  Davey’s Liberal Democrats are in a coalition with Cameron
and Osborne’s Conservatives. A person familiar with the budget
negotiations poured cold water on the suggestion that there
could be a new tax to pay for green subsidies. Osborne will set
out his tax and spending plans on Dec. 4.  The Telegraph today said Osborne would have to raise taxes
to pay for the suggestion or find savings elsewhere. The
chancellor has repeatedly said he favors spending reductions
rather than tax increases as Britain consolidates its austerity
program.  “This is all just speculation,” a spokesman for Osborne
said on condition of anonymity in line with U.K. government
rules. “We have been clear while we are dealing with Labour’s
deficit and fixing the public finances that we will do whatever
we can along the way to help hardworking people. Details will be
coming in due course.”  In the interview Davey also said there has been “massive
interest” in new licenses for fracking and a review to be
published today will set out a revival in the North Sea oil
industry.  The Mail on Sunday  reported  yesterday that energy companies
are set to repay customers up to 2 billion pounds that they have
stockpiled from direct debit overpayments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  