-- U.S.’s Lew Urges Asia to Strive for More Balanced Global Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-11-11T18:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/u-s-s-lew-urges-asia-to-strive-for-more-balanced-global-economy.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, in
an editorial published today calling for a more balanced world
economy, urged Asian countries to boost domestic demand and
allow markets to determine the value of currencies.  “With emerging economies playing an increasingly large
role in the global economy, we must move away from a pattern of
global growth that is built on the U.S. being the world’s
importer,” he wrote in The Wall Street Journal Asia.  Lew is visiting  Japan ,  China ,  Singapore ,  Malaysia  and
 Vietnam  this week. The goal is “to deepen our cooperation to
increase demand, provide shared benefits throughout the global
economy and level the playing field for our workers and
businesses,” he said in the op-ed.  China should speed its move to a market-determined exchange
rate and more open access to its markets, Lew said. Japan should
strengthen domestic demand growth, “avoid simple reliance on
exports” and “continue to respect” Group of Seven and Group
of 20 commitments not to target exchange rates, he said.  Asian economies should also “accelerate reforms to
increase resilience against shifts in capital flows,” he said.  “The process of global rebalancing remains incomplete,”
Lew said. “And as Asian countries that have grown more on the
basis of domestic demand now take steps to increase their
resilience, it is all the more important for  Asia ’s surplus
economies to draw on domestic sources for growth and move toward
greater exchange-rate flexibility.”  Lew’s second visit to Asia this year is part of the Obama
administration’s effort to improve economic ties with the
region. The Treasury secretary said he will also seek to advance
talks on the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement that would
create a 12-nation trade bloc.  In the op-ed, Lew called the partnership “the cornerstone
of our shared growth agenda, creating new opportunities for
boosting trade, investment and innovation.”  “By advancing reforms in our respective countries that are
complementary, together we can pave the way for a strong,
balanced, and sustainable global economy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  