-- UBS to Boost China Computer Trading on Institutional Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-12T04:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/ubs-to-boost-computer-trading-in-china-on-institutional-demand.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s  China  venture plans to
offer more computerized-trading services as it bets on a surge
in demand from institutional money managers in the biggest
emerging market.  Stock-trading volumes from institutional investors will
more than double within five years, spurred by regulators’
efforts to reduce market volatility and reform capital markets,
Qu Hongjie, executive director of China equities at UBS
Securities Co., a venture of  Switzerland ’s largest  lender , said
in a Nov. 8 interview from Shanghai.  “We foresee in the next 3 to 5 years institutional trading
flows will increase from the current 20 percent to over 50
percent,” Qu said. “As institutional investors have higher
demands for better execution services, more powerful and
sophisticated electronic trading platforms will become a key
factor for brokerage firms to win market share.”  The government is targeting more capital from both large
domestic and foreign investors to revive a stock market that has
been among the world’s worst performers over the past three
years. The  Shanghai  Composite Index has fallen 36 percent since
the start of 2010.  Communist leaders are holding a four-day gathering that
ends today to map out an economic blueprint to sustain growth.
The plenum is likely to release structural and financial reform
plans, including capital account liberalization and increases in
the size of investment schemes for foreigners, Zhang Zhiwei,
Nomura Holdings Inc.’s China economist, wrote on Nov. 7. China
almost doubled investment quotas for the qualified foreign
institutional investors program to $150 billion in July.  Price, Anonymity  Institutional investors account for 60 to 70 percent of
trading volumes in developed markets, Qu said. In China, that’s
only about 20 percent, he said.  China will continue expanding the types of contracts traded
on local exchanges, Qu said. The China Financial Futures
Exchange started mock trading of options on CSI 300 stock-index
 contracts  on Nov. 8. The options will help improve price
discovery and market efficiency, according to the exchange.  Some local brokers are also testing the use of  stock
options  with the exchange that would allow investors to hedge
their holdings in specific companies, Qu said.  Institutional clients are moving away from traditional
brokerages to electronic-trading platforms because they are
cheaper and allow for more anonymous trading, Qu said. UBS
currently provides algorithmic-trading services, or “passive”
strategies where the client sets up rules in advance and then
lets the computer trade, Qu said. The firm wants to start
quantitative trading services, where computers identify trading
opportunities for clients, he said.  High-Frequency Trading  While UBS has the technologies for high-frequency trading,
barriers prevent their use in the Chinese market, Qu said. These
include a stamp duty on stock sales and prohibitions on buying
and selling the same stock on the same day, or the “T+1” rule.  High-frequency trading, which allows  hedge funds  and
institutional investors to use computers to execute orders in
milliseconds, has come under scrutiny by regulators in the U.S.
Disruptions in electronic markets have garnered increased
attention since the May 2010 flash crash, when the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  fell almost 1,000 points in minutes before
rebounding.  In China, faulty trading software used by Everbright
Securities Co.’s proprietary-trading desk, which specializes in
high-frequency trades, sent 26,082 unintended buy orders in just
two seconds on Aug. 16. The mistake, which the securities
regulator characterized as unprecedented in China, led the
Shanghai Composite to swing more than 6 percent.  “In bad market conditions, people tend to look for
alternative ways to invest for stable returns and lower risks,”
Qu said. “This can be a good opportunity for us to step up and
provide well-established quant trading models for our clients.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Gregory Turk in Shanghai at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Gao in Shanghai at 
 ygao40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  