-- UniCredit CEO Sees Fourth-Quarter Net Flat on Italy
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-11-12T10:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/unicredit-quarterly-profit-falls-on-lower-lending-income.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive
Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said fourth-quarter profit will
roughly match earnings for the previous three months as Italy’s
economic downturn pares demand for loans.  Net income  fell 39 percent to 204 million euros ($273
million) in the third quarter from a year earlier after
UniCredit earned less from lending, the Milan-based bank said in
a statement late yesterday. That exceeded the 191 million-euro
average estimate of 14  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “I think 2013 remains quite a challenging year,” Ghizzoni
said in an interview with Bloomberg television after the results
were published. “The fourth quarter will be more or less in
line with the previous one. Low demand for loans and cost of
risk in  Italy  is pretty high.”  Ghizzoni is cutting expenses and setting aside more
provisions for non-performing loans to help strengthen
UniCredit’s finances as he prepares for a European Central Bank
review of lenders’ balance sheets.  Italian banks  may need to
write down more bad loans, ECB Governing Council Member Ignazio Visco, who is governor of the  Bank of Italy , said a week ago.  UniCredit rose 0.7 percent to 5.5 euros at 11:30 a.m. in
Milan trading, valuing the company at 31.9 billion euros and
taking gains this year to 48 percent. The  average estimate  for
the share price in 12 months among 27 analysts was 5.35 euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank is making progress on dealing with non-performing
loans, capital and costs, Andrea Filtri, a London-based analyst
at  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , said in an e-mailed report to clients today.  Boosting Provisions  Although UniCredit’s asset position is strong, Italy’s
central bank may ask banks to increase provisions as the ECB
asset review continues and the regulator prepares for stress
tests next year, Ghizzoni said.  “We approach this exercise with confidence -- our capital
and our liquidity position is pretty high and the quality of our
assets has been reviewed several times,” he said. “It will be
tougher, longer, but we are confident.”  Leverage, which global regulators are increasingly focusing
on to gauge financial health, fell to a record low of 17.4 times
tangible capital, UniCredit said in a presentation published on
its website. Risk-weighted assets declined 2.7 percent in the
third quarter from the previous quarter to about 400 billion
euros, driven in part by de-leveraging in commercial banking in
Italy. Assets immediately available to liquidate totalled 138.5
billion euros at the end of September, UniCredit said.  ECB Meeting  Some lenders including UniCredit will be meeting ECB
officials in  Frankfurt  on Nov. 25 for a “preliminary
discussion” about the review, Ghizzoni said. Spanish banks will
hold similar meetings on Nov. 18, El Economista reported today
without saying how it got the information.  Italy’s economy is due to begin recovering from its longest
recession since World War II this quarter after a “moderate”
contraction in the previous three months, the European
Commission said last week.  UniCredit’s provisions for bad debt dropped to 1.55 billion
euros at the end of September from 1.74 billion euros a year
previously, the bank said. The core Tier 1 capital adequacy
ratio, a key measure of financial strength, rose to 11.7 percent
on Sept. 30 from 11.4 percent at the end of June.  Credit Quality  The company expects lower provisions this year compared to
2012, unless regulators make “specific requests,” Ghizzoni
said during a conference call with analysts today. UniCredit’s
management will review targets for its strategic plan next year,
when banks should be benefitting from an expected economic
recovery, he said.  “The focus of investors will remain on credit quality, as
banks approach the asset quality review,” Emanuele Vizzini, who
manages $2.5 billion as chief investment officer at Investitori
Sgr, said by telephone from Milan. “I expect Italy’s systemic
banks, UniCredit and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , already have adequate
levels of capital and are in good shape for the ECB’s
assessment.”  The ECB is beginning its review of the assets of about 130
banks in the euro area this month. It will also conduct stress
tests as it takes over supervision of the industry from national
regulators next year.  Income Falls  Net interest income, the difference between revenue from
loans and the cost of paying interest on deposits, dropped to
3.25 billion euros in the third quarter from 3.53 billion euros
a year earlier as record-low rates, the slowdown in lending and
regulatory changes in  Turkey  squeezed margins. Trading income
fell 39 percent from the previous year to 403 million euros,
while total revenue declined 8.5 percent to 5.72 billion euros.  “The market will likely focus on the balance sheet and it
is overall positive,”  Carlo Tommaselli , a Milan-based analyst
at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said in an e-mailed report to clients.  Third-quarter net income declined even as UniCredit posted
a 191 million-euro gain in the period from the sale of Turkish
insurer  Yapi Kredi Sigorta AS. (YKSGR)   The company will also book a 160 million-euro gain in the
fourth quarter from the sale of a 6.7 percent stake in Italian
insurer  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA)  and 5.7 percent of the Moscow stock
exchange. The disposals will increase the core Tier 1 ratio by
five basis points, the bank said.  UniCredit, which received 26 billion euros during the ECB’s
two longer-term refinancing operations, repaid 3 billion euros
during the year, the bank said. The lender has completed 84
percent of its funding needs for 2013, it said.  The company will continue repaying ECB loans gradually,
depending on market conditions, Ghizzoni said.  UniCredit is expected to post profit of 1 billion euros for
2013 compared with 865 million euros in 2012, according to the
average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  