-- Vodafone’s Project Spring to Spur Network Spending, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/vodafone-s-project-spring-to-spur-network-spending-moody-s-says.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 6 billion-pound
($9.6 billion) plan to upgrade its networks around the world
will pressure European carriers to increase their spending,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Carriers on the continent will struggle to keep up with
Vodafone -- whose three-year “Project Spring” will boost
 capital expenditures  by 30 percent -- since they don’t have the
same financial flexibility, Moody’s said in a report today.  Vodafone is funding Project Spring with the $130 billion
from selling its stake in U.S. mobile carrier Verizon Wireless,
due to be completed in the first quarter of next year. Vodafone
plans to use the cash to blanket 90 percent of its five largest
European markets with high-speed, fourth-generation wireless
service by 2017, the company has said.  “The clear, underlying message is that most companies in
 Europe  are going to have to step up their capex in order to
accelerate convergence to set off the challenges coming from
Vodafone,” said Carlos Winzer, senior vice president of
corporate finance at Moody’s. Carriers are moving to so-called
converged services -- combinations of Internet, phone and TV --
to boost customer loyalty and bills.  The telecommunications industry’s performance in Europe is
tied to the “fragile” recovery in gross domestic product,
Winzer said. While revenue as a whole will stabilize or decline
slightly in 2014, a stronger revival will be delayed by low
 consumer spending  and carriers’ slow shift to pricing plans
focused on data use rather than voice, Moody’s said.  Large cross-border acquisitions are unlikely next year
since the five leading European phone companies -- Telefonica
SA, Deutsche Telekom AG, Vodafone, Orange SA and Telecom Italia
SpA -- are “either in selling mode or do not have much
flexibility or appetite to lead this process,” Moody’s said.  Cross-border deals are less cost efficient than same-country consolidation and vulnerable to governments trying to
keep home-grown companies under local control, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  