-- Vodacom to Boost African Investment as Earnings Gain 11%
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-11-11T13:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/vodacom-first-half-profit-rose-11-as-data-revenue-gains.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the wireless
operator with the most subscribers in South Africa, plans to
increase investment on the continent as it speeds up the pace of
network upgrades.  “In South Africa we’ve been investing 7 billion rand ($677
million) a year and we want to notch that up a couple of
levels,” Chief Executive Officer Shameel Joosub said on a
conference call today. The company will increase  capital
spending  as a percentage of revenue to as much 17 percent from
13 percent in 2013, he said.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s second-biggest wireless
provider, is putting aside about $10 billion from the sale of
its Verizon Wireless stake in the U.S. to upgrade networks for
units including Johannesburg-based Vodacom, in which it owns 65
percent, as part of an investment plan known as Project Spring.  “We put together a program about how we want to accelerate
our investment in  South Africa  and the opportunity presented by
Project Spring makes it easier for us,” Joosub said. The
additional spending will also go toward the improvement of 3G
network connections in Tanzania, he said.  Vodacom is increasingly focused on small- to medium-size
business customers and is seeking to buy Internet provider
Neotel Pty Ltd. The company’s earnings per share excluding one-time items climbed to 4.39 rand in the six months through
September, compared with 3.96 rand a year earlier, it said in a
statement today. Sales rose 6.6 percent to 36.7 billion rand.  Faster Networks  Vodacom  shares  gained as much as 1.7 percent, the most in
almost three weeks, and traded 0.2 percent higher at 115.11 rand
as of 3:32 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The increased investment in South Africa will help improve
fiber access to homes and businesses and enable a faster roll
out of 4G networks, Joosub said on the call. “In Tanzania,
it’ll be more about 3G coverage but also making sure we’ve
captured the opportunity in rural coverage.”  Data revenue from Vodacom’s international operations more
than doubled to 985 million rand, while its total mobile data
revenue rose 29 percent to 6.1 billion rand, according to the
statement.  Vodacom may curb how much it invests in South Africa if the
company can’t reach a compromise on a reduction in mobile
termination rates with the country’s communications regulator,
Joosub said at a presentation today. The amount mobile-phone
companies pay each other to end calls on another network will
halve to 20 cents in March, the Independent Communications
Authority of South Africa last month.  Termination Rates  “The level of investment in South Africa will be
influenced by mobile termination rates,” Joosub said. “The
right number is 20 to 25 percent a year, is what one could
realistically accommodate.”  Voice revenue in South Africa declined 2.6 percent to 14.1
billion rand, while international voice sales rose 27 percent to
3.9 billion rand.  Vodacom’s number of active customers increased 9.7 percent
to 53.8 million as the company added 949,000 subscribers in
South Africa and 2.3 million internationally, the company said.  Vodacom also operates in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo,
Mozambique and  Lesotho .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  