-- Wisconsin High Court Reviewing Collective-Bargaining Law
-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-11T21:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/wisconsin-high-court-reviewing-collective-bargaining-law.html
Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker ’s
2011 legislation curbing the collective-bargaining rights of
most public employees is constitutional, his attorney general
told the state supreme court in a test of whether it infringes
rights to free association and free speech.  Seven justices in Madison are hearing arguments today on
the state’s bid to reverse a trial court judge’s decision last
year that parts of the measure known as Act 10 unduly burden
union members’ rights.  “We do not have a constitutional violation here,”
Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen told the court,
arguing that collective bargaining isn’t a fundamental right.  Asked by Justice Ann Walsh Bradley if the parties’
differing views of the right to free association was tantamount
to two ships passing,  Van Hollen  responded, “I don’t believe we
are two ships passing. We are two ships that collided. The state
has a bigger ship and we will win.”  Lester Pines, a lawyer for the suing Madison teachers’
union, responded by referencing the 1912 sinking of the British
oceanliner RMS Titanic that killed about 1,500 people.  “Titanic was a big ship,” he said. “The problem with
Titanic was that it ran into an iceberg that was a lot smaller.
What Act 10 ran into was the Wisconsin Constitution that
protects the rights of citizens to associate.”  Annual Recertification  Advocated by Walker, a first-term Republican, the
legislation requires annual recertification votes for union
representation and made the payment of union dues voluntary.
Some groups of public safety officers are exempt from its
strictures.  Opposition to Act 10 drew protests outside the state’s
Capitol and triggered a recall election last year in which
Walker prevailed over Democratic challenger  Tom Barrett .  A U.S. appeals court in  Chicago  upheld the measure in its
entirety in a Jan. 18 ruling in a separate case. In a 2-1 vote,
that panel reversed a lower-court decision that the annual
recertification provision was invalid, as was the prohibition of
voluntary deduction of union dues from the paychecks of general
employees only.  Opponents of the measure, counting the opposing federal
appeals court vote, and the state and federal trial court
rulings invalidating parts of the measure, told Wisconsin’s top
court justices that three of the five judges who have looked at
the law have found it constitutionally defective.  ‘Constitutional Right’  “Those outcomes show that this case presents close
constitutional questions that need careful consideration,”
attorneys for the challengers said in their appellate brief.  “Plaintiffs do not contend that municipal employees have a
constitutional right to force their employers to negotiate
collectively with them,” the plaintiffs’ lawyers said.
“Rather, they claim a constitutional right to self-organization
and to associate with a union, including for collective-bargaining purposes.”  Responding to a question from Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson today, Van Hollen told the judges that nothing in Act
10 prevents an individual employee from seeking a raise directly
from an employer.  “The employer has the prerogative to grant the request, to
listen to the employee or to say no,” the attorney general
said, adding the law allows employers to reward those workers
more deserving.  ‘Greater Need’  Trial court Judge Juan Colas in Madison ruled last year
that parts of the legislation unduly burdened affected workers’
constitutional rights to free speech and free association.  A three-judge panel of Wisconsin’s intermediate-level Court
of Appeals in April asked the state’s highest court to decide
the issue after the Walker administration appealed the Colas
decision.  “It’s hard to imagine a dispute with greater statewide
effect or greater need for a final resolution by the  Supreme
Court ,” the appellate judges said in their 24-page request.  The high court in June said it would take the case.  Following Van Hollen, Deputy Attorney General Kevin St.
John told the court Colas’ decision applied only to the suing
unions from Madison and  Milwaukee  and said the judge hadn’t
issued a order blocking application of Act 10, and its annual
recertification requirement, to non-parties.  “The sooner the court acts, the more likely we will be
able to conduct elections,” St. John said.  ‘Other Constitution’  Madison Teachers’ lawyer Tamara Packard countered that an
injunction preventing those votes was unnecessary.  “The unconstitutionality ruling should have prevented the
law from going into effect,” she said. In saying trial court
ruling applied only to the parties to the case, lawyers for the
state are arguing the existence of two state constitutions.  “One applies to these plaintiffs and the other
constitution to all others,” Packard said, adding the state has
an obligation to abide by Colas’ ruling. “Even if the trial
court is dead wrong, that’s the separation of powers concept.”  The case is Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker, 2012-ap-02067,
Wisconsin Supreme Court (Madison). The trial-court case is
Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker, 11-cv-03774,  Dane County ,
Wisconsin, Circuit Court, Branch 10 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Rohde at the Wisconsin Supreme Court in Madison at
 fmarierohde@gmail.com ;
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  