-- Wynn Resorts Drops Proposed Philadelphia Casino Project
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-11T21:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-11/wynn-resorts-drops-proposed-philadelphia-casino-project-1-.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  said it’s
withdrawing an application to open a casino in Philadelphia,
citing looming competition after voters in New York approved
plans to expand gambling in their state.  Wynn Resorts was one of  six applicants  seeking a license in
 Pennsylvania ’s most-populous city. The company’s project,
estimated to cost $926 million, was part of a strategy that
founder Steve Wynn described as an effort to build grand hotels
in major cities.  “The board took a host of factors into consideration,
including the Philadelphia market performance over the past year
and the competition which will result from the recent approval
of gaming in the State of New York,” Las Vegas-based Wynn
Resorts said today in a statement.  Casino expansion drives in  Massachusetts , Pennsylvania and
New York raise the prospect of saturation in the region.
Atlantic City, New Jersey, has suffered from declining gambling
revenue for the past six years, in part because of competition
from neighboring states.  Pennsylvania, which passed New Jersey last year to become
the state with the second-largest casino business after  Nevada ,
is seeking to award a 13th casino license for an operator in
Philadelphia. Others seeking the permit include  Penn National
Gaming Inc. (PENN)  and  Isle of Capri Casinos Inc .  Pennsylvania’s casino revenue fell 1.5 percent to $2.37
billion in the nine months through September, according to
Bloomberg Industries research.  New York  Wynn Resorts rose 0.8 percent to $165.03 at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 47 percent this year, compared
with a 24 percent advance in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   New Yorkers voted Nov. 5 to allow as many as seven casinos
in their state. Wynn is also considering a $1.2 billion casino
project in Everett, Massachusetts, outside Boston.  Wynn, whose company operates casinos in Las Vegas and in
the Chinese enclave of Macau, said on an Oct. 24 conference call
he was frustrated with casino licensing in the U.S. after
Massachusetts investigators recommended that  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  not be permitted in that state.  “You know that we are primarily an Asian company,” Wynn
told investors. “Thank goodness, and God bless that, and we
intend to stay an Asian company primarily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  