-- ‘Wrigleyville’ Bomb Plotter Hassoun Pleads Guilty
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-23T20:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/-wrigleyville-bomb-plotter-hassoun-pleads-guilty.html
A  Chicago  man pleaded guilty to
charges that he tried in 2010 to detonate a bomb he had stashed
in a trash can near the city’s historic baseball stadium,
Wrigley Field.  Sami Samir Hassoun today admitted to attempted use of a
weapon of mass destruction and trying to use an explosive to
damage or destroy a building used in interstate commerce. The
bomb was a fake that had been provided to Hassoun in a
government sting operation.  Wearing a federal prison-issue orange jumpsuit, Hassoun,
24, stood before U.S. District Judge Robert Gettleman in Chicago
as Assistant U.S. Attorney Joel Hammerman read the facts from a
plea agreement. Afterward, the judge asked Hassoun if he had
followed that narrative.  “Yes, your honor,” Hassoun responded.  “What is your plea?” Gettleman asked.  “I plead guilty,” Hassoun said.  Prosecutors and Hassoun agreed to a sentence of 20 to 30
years that requires Gettleman’s approval. Sentencing is set for
Aug. 15. Hammerman told the court he’ll seek the maximum term.  Hassoun’s lawyer, Matthew Madden, declined to comment after
the hearing.  Born in Beirut  Born in  Beirut , Lebanon, Hassoun was arrested in September
2010, three months after he began telling an FBI informant about
his desire to destabilize Chicago, the third-largest U.S. city,
through a campaign of terror, the government said in court
filings.  He later decided to detonate a bomb on a crowded street
near Wrigley Field, home of Major League Baseball’s Chicago
Cubs, in a neighborhood known as Wrigleyville, the U.S. said.  The oldest stadium in baseball’s National League, Wrigley
Field occupies the northeast corner of Clark and Addison
streets. South of that intersection lies a stretch of bars,
restaurants and souvenir shops.  Undercover FBI agents armed Hassoun with a one-gallon paint
can lined with ball bearings and what appeared to be explosives
and topped with a timer, according to the plea agreement.  What he had been told was a bomb that could level half a
city block was in reality harmless. The device had been built by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in Quantico,  Virginia ,
prosecutors said in 2010.  Crowded With People  Hassoun planned to explode his device on a mid-September
Saturday night in 2010 when the street would be crowded with
people, according to Hammerman.  The undercover agents “told Hassoun that they did not need
his assistance with the planned attack and that he could
withdraw from their plan at any time,” according to the plea
agreement. He declined to do so.  The agents set the timer for 20 minutes, placed the ersatz
bomb in a backpack, put the backpack in a shopping bag and
parked a block away from the sidewalk trash can where Hassoun
placed it at about 12:10 a.m., Sunday morning, Sept. 19,
according to the agreement.  He was immediately arrested.  “He wanted to transform the city of Chicago,”  Robert
Grant , who leads the city’s FBI office, said in announcing
Hassoun’s arrest. “He wanted to make a statement.”  Hassoun intended to “kill as many people as he could,”
Grant said.  The case is U.S. v. Hassoun, 10-cr-00773, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  