-- Adobe’s Cloud Math Means New Programs Will Sell for Less
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-04-23T20:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/adobe-s-cloud-math-means-new-programs-will-sell-for-less.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  is making its
first big foray into subscription-based software, testing a
business model that is designed to attract new users and
stabilize revenue growth after years of uneven results.  The company today unveiled the latest edition of Creative
Suite, its flagship set of design applications, including
Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Illustrator. One version of the
software, Creative Cloud, will be delivered over the Internet
for $50 a month, or $600 for a one-year contract.  By moving to subscriptions, Adobe is attempting to make
sales growth more predictable, avoiding the revenue shortfalls
and stock declines that occur in between updates to Creative
Suite. The shift also carries risks. It will take Adobe more
than four years to collect from cloud customers as much as it
generates from a single sale of the desktop version of the top-
end “Master Collection,” which goes for $2,600.  “A lot of things are changing at Adobe,” said Steve Ashley, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee . “Now
people who couldn’t afford the car can lease it for less
money.”  Sales of Adobe’s digital media software, which includes
Creative Suite products, such as the Photoshop editing software,
Illustrator for drawing, Dreamweaver for Web design and After
Effects for video editing, may increase just 5 percent to 7
percent this year, said Ashley, who has a  neutral rating  on the
shares. Historically the segment grows about 10 percent a year,
he said.  Trial Balloons  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen introduced
Creative Suite 6 today with a gala at San Francisco’s  de Young
Museum  that included a citywide scavenger hunt, champagne
reception and 30-foot balloons depicting Photoshop and other
products towering above the art museum’s Golden Gate Park
concourse. It’s an apt metaphor as Adobe floats some trial
balloons of its own.  The revamped package of programs for print, video and Web
designers, scheduled for release by late May, includes the first
major update to Photoshop in two years as well as faster image
processing and new “content-aware” editing technology that
makes intelligent assumptions about how to fill in backgrounds.
The new suite also includes more tools for designing tablet-
computer apps and more support for HTML5 technology, an open Web
standard that’s replacing Adobe’s older Flash tools for many Web
designers.  Reinvention  “Which other company can you look at to have a strategic
relationship for all of your content needs?” Narayen said in an
interview after the event. “This business will continue to
grow,” and sales will increase faster next year, he said.  “People recognize that to build meaningful franchises for
the future, you have to reinvent yourself,” Narayen said.
“Transforming companies takes time sometimes.”  The biggest change is the transition to subscription
pricing. The  San Jose , California-based company, whose products
command a loyal following among longtime users, is overhauling
its business model to stay current.  Creative Cloud will cost $50 a month with a one-year
commitment -- or $75 a month without one -- and give users
access to 20 programs, which they can install on an Apple Inc.
Mac or a personal computer running Microsoft Corp.’s Windows. It
will be available even when they’re not connected to the Web.
Adobe also will include a cloud-computing service for sharing
work with colleagues and clients through a Web browser.  Promotional Rate  Owners of some older versions of Creative Suite will be
able to qualify for a promotional $30-a-month rate for the first
year. A version for business teams will come later this year, at
$70 a month.  “It’s the new model of how software is being delivered,”
Kevin Lynch, Adobe’s chief technology officer, said in an
interview. “It’s very important to us to stay relevant.”  At a presentation to financial analysts in November,
Narayen and other Adobe executives said they expected the
Creative Cloud eventually to attract hundreds of thousands of
new customers and add $1 billion in sales of software delivered
as a service over the Internet. Yet sales in the near term will
probably take a hit.  “Some short-term revenue may look like it’s not going up
as much,” Lynch said. “The move to Creative Cloud is
beneficial to Adobe and to our customers. So if it happens more
quickly than we expect, that’s great. We have the mother of all
spreadsheets to model this thing.”  Stock Performance  Adobe shares have  gained 15 percent  this year, compared
with a 17 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Information Technology Total Return Index. The company’s shares
fell 1.3 percent to $32.62 at the close in  New York  today.  Investors generally buy Adobe in the months leading up to a
new suite release, said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon . The advent of cloud-
computing subscriptions could change investing strategies as
revenue won’t increase as much with each new version.  “In the dozen years I’ve been an analyst, I’ve never seen
a company go through this kind of transition from on-premises to
subscriptions pricing without some speed bumps,” said Barnicle,
who downgraded Adobe to sector perform last month.  Companies including Microsoft, CA Inc. and  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) 
have moved to subscription pricing, and software-as-a-service
companies bill on a monthly or annual basis instead of charging
customers upfront to own their software in perpetuity.  “Adobe waited so long to do this,” Barnicle said. “It’s
just very difficult for any management or finance team to model
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  