-- Advent Seeks to Convert Chemical Foes Into Bid Partners
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-23T08:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/advent-seeks-to-convert-chemical-foes-into-bid-partners.html
Advent International Corp., among
the largest private equity investors in chemicals, said buyout
firms will increasingly join forces with strategic competitors
to bid for chemical companies that can be divided up.  Companies and buyout firms will be more proactive in
seeking out joint ventures and partnerships as the  chemical
industry  becomes increasingly consolidated, said Ron Ayles, who
oversees Advent’s chemical portfolio, in an interview.  “Sometimes the strategic can’t buy everything because of
antitrust, for example, or they want to buy something that
doesn’t fit 100 percent,” said Ayles, the former acquisitions
director at German chemical maker Degussa AG. “We speak the
same language as the corporates. We try to generate deal ideas
jointly, so this is an alternative way to auctions.”  Advent, whose interests span plastics and lithium-battery
materials, expanded its chemical team this year with the
addition of industry insider Guenter von Au. The former CEO of
catalyst maker Sued Chemie, bought by  Clariant AG (CLN) , joined as an
operating partner as Advent pursues expansion in Asian markets.
Having von Au on board will help with making direct contact with
targets, Ayles said.  Private equity firms have hired former industry experts to
spearhead their chemical investments, with Valence Group
recruiting David Lilley, the former CEO of  Cytec Industries. (CYT)  Von
Au will also help Advent with running existing investments,
Ayles said.  Vinnolit Strategy  Advent is in its 12th year of ownership of  Germany ’s
Vinnolit and faces a decision on its investment strategy for the
maker of polyvinyl chloride.  Arkema SA (AKE)  of  France  and  Tessenderlo
Chemie NV (TESB)  of Belgium both exited their PVC operations within the
past year, highlighting a struggle to compete with low-cost
producers and high input costs.  Vinnolit has been refocused on higher-margin specialty
products to improve profitability and recent consolidation will
benefit the industry, Ayles said. The rise of the shale gas
industry in the U.S. has been a boost to the ethylene-based
chemical production chain and will further spur PVC
consolidation as manufacturers feel stronger, he said.  “There are consolidators out there, so it’s simply a
question of finding the right fit,” the executive said.  There are opportunities to make chemical acquisitions in
 Europe  because the larger companies are more focused on driving
Asian expansion, often via greenfield factories, according to
the Advent manager. Major players have less capital allocated
for investments in mature economies, and some U.S. investors are
also hesitant about chemical investments in Europe, Ayles said.  Advent, based in  Boston , typically has two or three
chemical targets in the due diligence phase across the firm and
Ayles said his team tends to analyze all opportunities in its
size range that come to market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  