-- Afghan Stability Undermined by Pakistan, General Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-23T23:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/afghan-stability-undermined-by-pakistan-general-says.html
Hard-won stability in Afghanistan’s
Helmand Province is undermined by the Pakistan Army’s failure to
help stem the flow of arms coming into the area and drugs going
out, a U.S. general said.  “Everything is good, but it’s not irreversible,” Marine
Corps Major General John Toolan said in an interview in
 Washington  yesterday after appearing before the Atlantic
Council, a policy research group. He ended a one-year tour last
month as the commander in charge of the NATO coalition’s
southwestern regional command responsible for Helmand.  Toolan’s prognosis highlights the risks as the U.S.-led
coalition turns its attention to eastern Afghanistan and
prepares to withdraw more forces this year. President  Barack
Obama  plans to cut U.S. troops by 23,000 more this year in
preparation for handing control to Afghan authorities by the end
of 2014.  With reductions planned by other countries in the 50-nation
coalition, about 108,000 personnel will be left until a next
round of cuts. The number of U.S. Marines in Helmand is due to
drop to 7,000 by October from about 20,000 now, Toolan said in
the interview.  “We need to maintain the pressure,” Toolan told the
Atlantic Council audience. “The insurgency in the south is the
greatest threat to the government of  Afghanistan .”  Haqqani Network  The guerrillas known as the Haqqani network, who mainly
operate in the country’s east from havens across the Pakistani
border, have received attention beyond their potential longer-
term impact on Afghanistan, Toolan said. The Haqqanis mainly
operate to maintain themselves rather than to achieve any
grander designs, he said.  “As the insurgency goes, the Haqqani network goes,”
Toolan said. “If you can keep a lid on the insurgency, the
Haqqani network is not going to be as all-powerful as some
people talk it up to be.”  In Helmand, the need to place forces at the border detracts
from efforts elsewhere in the province to compensate for a weak
central Afghan government and drug-fueled corruption, Toolan
said.  “I know for a fact that drugs are moving out through
 Pakistan  and lethal aid is coming in on a regular basis,”
Toolan told the Atlantic Council. “I have had no support from
12th Corps,” the Pakistan Army unit in charge of the area
across the border, he said.  He said he tried to organize meetings with the corps to
discuss the issue. “There always seemed to be something that
interfered,” he said.  Pakistan’s Response  A spokesman for Pakistan’s embassy in Washington, Nadeem
Hotiana, said coordination on common threats has occurred in
regular three-way talks among border officials from his country,
Afghanistan and the coalition led by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization.  “There are certain trilateral meetings where such issues
can be discussed,” Hotiana said yesterday in an interview,
declining to comment further.  Pakistan sees it in its own interest to cooperate on
narcotics trafficking and the cross-border arms trade because
they threaten everyone involved, said another Pakistani official
who spoke on condition of anonymity because he isn’t authorized
to comment publicly. Pakistan’s military makes sincere efforts
within its limitations, the official said.  The U.S. and Pakistan have struggled to rebuild relations,
dashed every few months by a confrontation. In January 2011, a
CIA employee shot dead two Pakistani men in Lahore. U.S. special
operations forces killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in May
during a raid conducted without notice to Pakistan in its army
garrison town of Abbottabad. In November, helicopters of the
NATO coalition in Afghanistan inadvertently killed 26 Pakistani
troops at the border.  Poppy Cultivation  In Helmand Province, corrupt Afghan officials and security
forces and the continuing financial temptations of poppy
cultivation also endanger efforts by the coalition and
legitimate local authorities to win over the population from the
Taliban, Toolan said.  “If the central government of Afghanistan doesn’t stay
strong, then there are individuals in the central government who
can significantly hurt the progress that’s been made,” the
general said.  The answer may be to more aggressively apply provisions of
Afghanistan’s constitution that delegate authority to local
officials, he said.  The Afghan army and police will continue to need robust
backing from international forces through 2014, Toolan said.
That includes intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
technology to supplement their human intelligence sources, as
well as training in military medicine and even firing accuracy,
he said.  The U.S. is deploying surveillance balloons with full-
motion video to buttress the Afghan forces as the coalition
draws back to an advising role, Toolan said. The police also
need more training by experts in the field rather than the
“dabbling” that coalition military forces are able to provide,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  