-- Thailand Targets Rubber Rally by Buying Output: Nattawut
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-04-24T12:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/thailand-targets-rubber-rally-by-buying-up-output-nattawut-says.html
Thailand , the largest rubber
exporter, reaffirmed a plan to drive local prices to 120 baht
($3.87) a kilogram by buying up supplies, while announcing its
intention to push them as much as 50 percent higher than that.  In the second half, “we will revise the target up to 150
baht and will introduce more measures for the price to climb to
180 baht next year,”  Nattawut Saikuar , deputy farm minister,
said in an interview. The 120 baht goal, 13 percent above
today’s level, should be hit as soon as possible, he said.  Higher prices in Thailand, which accounts for about 33
percent of global supplies, may boost costs for companies such
as  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , Michelin & Cie. and  Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Co. (GT) , the top three tire makers. The initial target was announced
three months ago by the government, which also has a rice-buying
program to try to lift prices of the grain.  “If the government takes action seriously, prices can go
up,” Kazunori Kokubo, managing director Yutaka Shoji Singapore
Pte., said today. “Now is bad timing as we have financial
problems in  Europe  and  China’s economy  is slowing down.”  The  auctioned price  of unsmoked sheet in the Thai city of
Songkhla has risen 21 percent this year to 106.41 baht a
kilogram today, according to data tracked by Bloomberg. The
commodity, which hasn’t traded above 120 baht since September,
rose 26 percent the month the purchasing plan was announced,
before dropping 0.7 percent in both February and last month.  Slower Growth  While smoked sheet on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange has
climbed 16 percent this year to 304.9 yen ($3.76) per kilogram,
the price fell 3 percent in March and extended its drop April on
concern slower growth in  China  may hurt demand.  The economy in the largest rubber user expanded 8.1 percent
in the first quarter, the slowest pace in three years.
Bridgestone, the world’s biggest tiremaker, said yesterday that
tire demand in China is growing at a slower pace than last year,
according to Vice President Makio Ohashi.  Thailand has been in talks with China to increase rubber
purchases and to set up processing plants in Thailand, Nattawut
said in Bangkok. “I’m seriously driving policy to strengthen
the rubber industry,” he said.  On Jan. 24, the government approved 15 billion baht in
interest-free loans from the state-run Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives for the Rubber Estate Organization and
growers’ cooperatives to buy supplies at above market-rates.  The government will also expand the cutting down of rubber
trees to 500,000 rai (80,000 hectares) this year, compared with
about 200,000 rai last year, Nattawut said.  ‘Full Steam’  “The bureaucratic process may cause slowness in
implementing the plans, but once they move at full stream, we’ll
definitely see the price  breach 120 baht ,” Nattawut said. Other
measures will be introduced to boost prices to 150 baht, and
further to 180 baht, he said, without giving details.  The Rubber Estate Organization is ready to buy rubber from
farmers once the Ministry of Finance approves the budget,
Managing Director Chanachai Plengsiriwat said by phone today.
The agency aims to boost trading volumes, without setting a
limit on the amount that may be bought, and will sell supplies
to overseas buyers at so-called favorable prices, he said.  A plan for the industry will be drafted to boost export
revenue to 1 trillion baht in 2013 from an estimated 680 billion
baht this year, Nattawut said. The ministry will also discuss
with Indonesia and  Malaysia , the second- and third-largest
producers, ways to stabilize prices, he said.  The Thai government has been buying rough rice from farmers
at above-market rates since October last year in a bid to shore
up domestic prices and lift rural incomes. The country is the
world’s largest rice exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  