-- Asia Currencies Fall on Global Growth Concern, Europe Debt Risk
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-04-23T09:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/taiwan-dollar-leads-advance-in-asian-currencies-on-imf-funding.html
Asian currencies dropped, led by
 India ’s rupee and Thailand’s baht, on concern a slowing Chinese
economy and Europe’s debt crisis will curb the region’s exports.
　　The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched its lowest
level in more than a week after a survey of companies indicated
 China ’s manufacturing shrank for a sixth month in April. Reports
this week may show  South Korea ’s economy expanded 3 percent in
the first quarter, slowing from 3.3 percent growth, and
Thailand’s exports rose 0.1 percent in March from a year
earlier, down from 0.9 percent, according to median estimates of
economists in Bloomberg surveys.
　　“Currencies will stay bearish, especially with the recent
data highlighting concerns,” said Vikas Babu, a currency trader
at state-run  Andhra Bank (ANDB)  in Mumbai. “Europe continues to be the
source of pain for Asian and other emerging markets.”
　　The rupee slumped 0.8 percent to 52.50 per dollar as of 1:48
p.m. in Mumbai, after touching 52.57, the weakest level since
Jan. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The baht
dropped 0.2 percent to 30.97 and the Philippine peso declined
0.2 percent to 42.673. The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most active currencies excluding the yen, slid 0.1
percent to 116.45.
　　HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics reported a preliminary
reading of 49.1 for their China purchasing managers’ index in
April, compared with a final 48.3 in March. A number less than
50 signals contraction. European Central Bank officials led by
President  Mario Draghi  resisted calls from the  International
Monetary Fund  and  U.S. Treasury  to do more to stem the debt
crisis roiling the euro-area economy.  Stock Sales  Global funds sold $1.2 billion more South Korean, Taiwanese
and Indonesian stocks than they bought last week, exchange data
show. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares fell for a third
straight day.
　　The baht touched the weakest level since April 11 before
trade data this week. China was the Southeast Asian nation’s
biggest export market, buying 11.5 percent of the total in the
first two months of this year, while the European Union
purchased 8.3 percent, according to official data.
　　“The weakness in the  Thai baht  is due to the situation in
 Europe  that’s causing some small capital outflows,” said Kampon
Adireksombat, an economist in Bangkok at Tisco Securities Co.
“Apart from a base effect, exports are also affected by the
slowdown in China and Europe.”
　　Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,188
per dollar, while the Chinese yuan was unchanged at 6.3085.
South Korea’s won and Taiwan’s dollar were little changed at
1,139.50 and NT$29.52, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story: Yumi Teso in Bangkok at
   yteso1@bloomberg.net ; Jeanette Rodrigues in
Mumbai at   jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Sandy Hendry
at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 