-- Lakers’ Metta World Peace Is Ejected for Elbow to Player’s Head
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/lakers-metta-world-peace-is-ejected-for-elbow-to-player-s-head.html
Metta World Peace of the  Los
Angeles Lakers  may face a National Basketball Association
suspension into the playoffs after elbowing Oklahoma City
Thunder guard James Harden in the side of the head.  World Peace, who legally changed his name from  Ron Artest 
last year, was ejected after drawing a flagrant 2 foul for the
incident during the second quarter of the Lakers’ 114-106
double-overtime win yesterday. All flagrant fouls are reviewed
by the NBA to determine if a suspension is warranted.  World Peace, 32, was pounding his chest with his right hand
while celebrating a dunk when he raised his left arm across his
face and then swung it back, elbowing Harden in the ear. Harden
fell to the floor and held the side of his head as play was
stopped for several minutes. Harden didn’t return to the game.  “Once you follow through, you’re meaning to do it,”
former Lakers Hall of Fame guard  Magic Johnson , now an NBA
analyst, said on ESPN. “It’s a shame.”  The Lakers, who lead the Western Conference’s Pacific
Division with a 41-24 record, have one regular season game left
-- on April 26 at  Sacramento  -- before the playoffs begin.  The latest incident involving World Peace marred a win
against a Thunder team that’s tied with the  Miami Heat  for the
NBA’s third-best record.  Detroit Brawl  The 6-foot-6 World Peace in 2004 ran into the stands and
started a brawl with Detroit Pistons fans while playing for the
 Indiana Pacers . He was suspended for a total of 86 games -- the
final 73 of the regular season and another 13 in the playoffs.  World Peace, who was also banned for the first seven games
of the 2007-08 season after pleading no contest to spousal abuse,
a year ago received the NBA’s citizenship award for his efforts
to promote mental-health awareness. He’s averaging 7.6 points
and 3.4 rebounds in his third season with the Lakers, who won
NBA titles after the 2008-09 and 2009-10 seasons.  World Peace apologized to Harden and the Thunder after the
game, saying the elbow was unintentional and that he was caught
up in the emotion of dunking on Kevin Durant and Serge Ibaka.  “The Thunder, they’re playing for a championship this year,
so I really hope that he’s OK,” World Peace told reporters in
the Lakers’ locker room. “I apologize to the Thunder and to
James Harden. Such a great game and it was unfortunate so much
emotion was going on at that time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  