-- Lamborghini, BMW Expect Car Sales Growth in China to Slow
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/lamborghini-bmw-expect-car-sales-growth-in-china-to-slow.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Lamborghini and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  said they expect sales of luxury
cars in China to rise at a slower pace amid higher fuel costs
and a decelerating economy.  Lamborghini Chief Executive Officer Stephan Winkelmann and
BMW sales chief  Ian Robertson  are among global car executives
who said yesterday at the Beijing auto show that Chinese demand
is slowing. Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, said April 22
that industrywide inventory of vehicles in China is rising.  China’s  economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first three
months from a year earlier, the least in almost three years, as
exports cooled and Premier  Wen Jiabao  waged a campaign to damp
consumer and property prices. The slower pace of growth and
stiffer competition prompted BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) , and VW’s Audi AG -
- the world’s three biggest premium automakers -- to dangle
steeper discounts in the world’s largest automobile market.  “The message sounds a bit more cautious than before,”
said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst with Bankhaus Metzler in
 Frankfurt . “Everybody understands that growth has been too high
to sustain. I think the market will normalize to a more
sustainable rate of growth.”  China raised prices of gasoline and diesel last month by
the most in more than two years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Ease Somewhat’  BMW expects sales growth this year to “ease somewhat”
from a gain of 37 percent in the first quarter, Robertson said.
Still, new products such as the revamped 3-Series and a factory
that will open next month in Tiexi will help the company post a
double-digit sales increase in the Asian nation this year as it
targets a new global sales record, he told reporters yesterday.  Orders for Lamborghini in China were lower in the first
quarter, which is being offset by a pickup in the U.S. and the
 Middle East , Winkelmann said. Lamborghini expects to beat last
year’s global deliveries of 1,600 vehicles in 2012.  Porsche AG, the sportscar maker jointly owned by VW and the
 Porsche SE (PAH3)  holding company, expects that growth will slow to
about 10 percent this year in China from 65 percent in 2011,
Chief Executive Matthias Mueller said in a Bloomberg TV
interview yesterday. Sales last year were boosted by the
revamped Cayenne SUV, he said.  Adding Dealers  Growth is expected to accelerate when Porsche introduces
the Macan compact SUV in China in 2014. The company sees
potential to double sales as it increases dealers to 100 from 40
by 2015, Mueller said.  Sales by Maserati SpA, a unit of  Fiat SpA (F) , in China may
exceed 1,000 cars for the first time from 822 vehicles in 2011,
Chief Executive Officer Harald Wester said in Beijing yesterday.
Smaller cities outside of Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin will
drive gains for Maserati, he said.  Local automakers face difficulties in promoting self-
developed models given pressure from joint ventures, competition
from well-known international brands and demands to cut
emissions and fuel consumption, Xu Heyi, chairman of Beijing
Automotive Group Co., said yesterday in Beijing.  Industrywide Slowdown  Vehicle sales will probably miss an 8 percent growth
forecast, Gu Xianghua, deputy secretary of the  China  Association
of Automobile Manufacturers, said March 21, citing his personal
opinion.  Sedan sales in China declined 2.2 percent in the first
quarter. So-called dual-purpose vehicles used to ferry goods and
people slumped 8.5 percent, while truck sales dropped 6.8
percent, according to data from the auto association.  That’s in contrast with 2010, when total auto demand jumped
32 percent after the government introduced subsidies and
rebates. Sales then slowed to 2.5 percent last year after the
incentives ran out.  Growth in the premium segment will be “definitely slower”
this year, Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes, chief executive officer of
Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd., said in an interview in Beijing
yesterday. Rolls-Royce is a unit of BMW.  “In the past three months, we have seen growth but not in
the explosive manner we have seen before,” said Mueller-
Oetvoes. “You can sense a little bit of hesitation on the
economy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  