-- American Moves to Void Labor Deals as Unions Back US Airways
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-23T21:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/american-moves-to-void-labor-deals-as-unions-back-us-airways.html
American Airlines  told a judge it
must void labor agreements to emerge successfully from
bankruptcy as workers protested the planned cuts and backed a
takeover by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   American began a hearing today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Manhattan on rejecting union contracts, saying it can’t survive
without securing its proposed cuts of $1.25 billion in annual
labor costs.  “This hearing is the single most important step to date in
this bankruptcy case,”  John Gallagher , an attorney for the
airline, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane at the start of
the hearing.  American’s parent,  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , is in court after  US Airways 
moved closer to a merger with the carrier. US Airways said last
week it had reached agreements on contract terms with American’s
major unions contingent on a merger. AMR has said it intends to
emerge from bankruptcy as a standalone company.  Edgar James, an attorney for the pilots’ union, said at the
hearing that American should consider merging with another
airline to make the company stronger and produce a better
outcome for workers.  “We see no other choice if this company is going to
succeed,” he told the judge.  Courthouse Protest  Union workers from American held a rally before the hearing
in Battery Park in lower  Manhattan , then marched to the
courthouse carrying signs and chanting, “Enough is enough.”  Arla Phenicie, a flight attendant at the protest, said a
merger with US Airways would save union jobs and provide buyouts
to employees. American’s management wants “to take all their
costs from labor,” she said.  Peter Gerard, an aircraft maintenance crew chief for
American, also backs a deal with US Airways. The Transport
Workers Union and other unions at American agreed to wage and
benefit cuts in 2003 to help the airline, and management
“squandered” the savings, the 49-year-old said.  “They keep taking everything from us to offset their
management,” he said. “There’s no more to give.”  American’s effort to reject contracts with the TWU and
unions for pilots and flight attendants comes after the airline
filed for bankruptcy in November, making it the last of the U.S.
industry’s full-service carriers to seek to restructure in
bankruptcy.  Labor Savings  AMR is seeking $1.25 billion in annual labor savings under
a plan announced earlier this year to reduce annual operating
costs by $2 billion and increase revenue by $1 billion a year.
The  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline says it has the highest
labor costs in the industry.  Every employee workgroup, including management, must reduce
salary and benefit costs by 20 percent, it has  said . American is
also pursuing work-rule changes that it says will make it more
efficient.  American Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said in a
letter to employees today that AMR is proceeding with its
restructuring plans and the actions by US Airways aren’t binding
on the company or unions. Any decision by American to do a
merger “will be determined by the facts in a disciplined manner
and process,” he said.  “We must be mindful of other parties who don’t have our
best interests at heart and who are working their own agendas at
our expense,” he wrote.  A merger with US Airways would create the largest airline
in the world by passenger traffic, surpassing  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  American is the third-biggest in the U.S., while
US Airways is No. 5.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  