-- Andreessen Horowitz Defends $78 Million Expected From Instagram
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-04-23T14:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/andreessen-horowitz-defends-78-million-expected-from-instagram.html
Venture capital fund Andreessen
Horowitz says its $250,000 investment in Instagram will be worth
about $78 million after social network  Facebook Inc. (FB)  closes its
$1 billion purchase of the mobile photo-sharing startup.  Ben Horowitz , a co-founder of the venture firm, said on his
 blog  that the fund passed on another investment round in
Instagram to avoid a potential conflict of interest after
backing Dalton Caldwell, whose company built a mobile photo-
sharing service called PicPlz.  “Despite Instagram’s awesome performance and our monstrous
return, a number of articles have come out criticizing us for
not making even more money,” Horowitz said. That has put the
entrepreneurs behind Instagram and PicPlz “in an unfair light
and glosses over an important ethical issue that we faced.”  When Andreessen Horowitz invested in Instagram, it wasn’t
yet a photo-sharing company. It had a different name -- Burbn --
and was focused on microblogging, according to Horowitz’s blog
post. Burbn founder Kevin Systrom transformed the  service  into
Instagram to focus on photo-sharing, the most successful aspect
of his original idea, according to the blog post.  That pivot put the venture fund in a bind when the time
came to exercise its rights to participate in Instagram’s
subsequent funding rounds, Horowitz said.  “Valuable Rights”  “These are important and valuable rights, but it seemed
completely unethical for us to exercise them since we funded a
competitor,” he said. “As a result, we unilaterally and
without compensation or consideration gave Kevin back those
rights and did not invest further in Instagram.”  Facebook said on April 9 that it agreed to buy Instagram,
using its biggest acquisition yet to lure users of mobile
devices.  Instagram lets users take pictures with smartphones,
retouch them with borders and filters, and then post the images
on social networks. Founded in 2010, it had become the most
popular free photo-sharing application on Apple Inc.’s  App Store 
and boasted more than 30 million users by the time the deal was
announced. Owning it may help Facebook attract handset users and
advertisers who target them.  Instagram was introduced in October 2010 by Systrom
and Mike Krieger. Building on its popularity among iPhone users,
earlier this month the company added an application for devices
that use Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  