-- Manufacturing Contraction Spurs Chalco Decline: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-23T21:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/manufacturing-contraction-spurs-chalco-decline-china-overnight.html
Aluminum Corp. of China  led
declines in Chinese commodity stocks traded in New York as data
signaled manufacturing in the world’s second-largest economy may
shrink for a sixth month in April.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 2.3 percent to 100.98 yesterday
in New York, the lowest close since April 10. Aluminum Corp.
plunged the most in seven weeks on concern a drop in Chinese and
European output will curb demand for commodities.  Petroleum and
Chemical Corp.  fell to a four-month low, trading at a discount
to its  Hong Kong  stock, while PetroChina Co. also fell.  China’s purchasing managers’  index  shrank to a preliminary
reading of 49.1 in April, compared with a final 48.3 in March,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday. A number
below 50 points to a contraction. In the euro zone, China’s
biggest trading partner, a composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in services and manufacturing fell to a
five-month low, Markit Economics said yesterday.  “Any weakness in  China  feeds directly into the commodity
complex that extends to Chinese commodity producers,” Michael Shaoul, chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New York,
which oversees more than $1.6 billion -- including bets that
Chinese stocks will decline -- said by phone yesterday. “The
market has started to become nervous about the general status of
 China’s economy .”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., snapped a four-day rally,
losing 2.6 percent to $37, the largest one-day decline since
March 14.  Chalco Tumbles  Beijing-based Aluminum Corp., China’s largest maker of the
lightweight metal, agreed to buy 29.9 percent of Hong Kong-based
Winsway Coking Coal Holdings Ltd. for HK$2.39 billion ($308
million), according to a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange yesterday. The company known as Chalco will become the
largest shareholder of Winsway, which imports Mongolian coal
into China.  Chalco’s American depositary receipts sank 4.3 percent to
$11.91, the biggest one-day loss since March 6. The ADRs, each
representing 25 common shares in the company, traded 0.6 percent
 below  Chalco’s Hong Kong stock, which fell 3.9 percent to
HK$3.72 a share, the equivalent of 48 U.S. cents. The ADRs
traded at a  discount  for the third day.  Aluminum prices sank, with the contract for three-month
delivery of the metal sliding 1.1 percent yesterday on the
London Metal Exchange to $2,059 a ton. Copper futures for July
delivery slid 2 percent $3.634 a pound on the Comex in New York,
on concern that demand will slow in China, the world’s biggest
user of the metal. That was the biggest drop for a most-active
contract since April 13.  Gas Prices  ADRs of China Petroleum -- known as Sinopec and the largest
refiner in the country -- plunged 2.3 percent to $104.75, the
lowest level since Dec. 20.  PetroChina (PTR) , the nation’s biggest oil
producer and second-largest refiner, declined 1.9 percent to
$143.36 in New York, the biggest one-day drop since March 28.  The Chinese government may reduce gasoline and diesel
prices next month because a slowing economy has reduced demand
for fuel, China National Radio reported, citing Zhang Bin, an
analyst at researcher Chem99.com.  PetroChina’s ADRs traded at a discount to its Hong Kong
stock for the fourth day, at 0.7 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 0.8 percent to
2,388.59 yesterday, the biggest one-day drop since April 17. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in
Hong Kong fell 2.2 percent to 10,810.48, the steepest decline
since March 6.  ‘Stimulate Further’  China’s preliminary PMI data has added to investor
speculation that Chinese monetary authorities will take steps to
stimulate the economy, Michael Gayed, chief investment
strategist in  New York  at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on
over $150 million in assets, said by phone yesterday.  “The market is feeling that China is going to have to
start to initiate interest rate cuts and stimulate further,”
Gayed said.  The People’s Bank of China has cut the amount of cash
lenders must set aside as reserves twice since November to boost
lending. Policy makers have kept interest rates on hold since
July, while central banks in India and Brazil cut benchmark
rates last week.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , which runs a Twitter-like service in China,
tumbled for the seventh day, the longest losing streak since
June 2011. The company’s shares dropped 2.8 percent to $56.64
yesterday in New York, the lowest level in more than three
months.  Baidu Earnings  Alicia Yap, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital 
lowered Sina’s 12-month price target to $66 from $70 yesterday.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , China’s biggest online search engine, plunged
3.6 percent to $139.66, the biggest decline in two months. The
company’s first-quarter earnings results are due today after
U.S. markets close.  Beijing-based Baidu may report that  sales  for the three
months through March rose 76 percent from a year earlier to 4.29
billion yuan ($680 million), according to the average estimate
of 15 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The company said on Feb.
16 that revenue will climb to between 4.2 billion yuan to 4.33
billion yuan.  Net income may jump 76 percent from a year ago to 1.88
billion yuan, according to the average analyst forecast. That
compared with 2.05 billion yuan earned in the last quarter of
2011.  Solars Sink  Analysts at T.H Capital LLC in Beijing, led by Tian X. Hou,
wrote in a report yesterday that Baidu’s first-quarter results
may beat analysts’ predictions while maintaining a hold rating
on the stock because “potential upside from the current level
of expectation could be limited.”  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  tumbled the most among its Chinese solar
peers traded in the U.S. as the  Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar
Index (BLGS)  of solar stocks slid 2.4 percent in the gauge’s fourth day
of declines.  LDK, based in Xinyu in China’s Jiangxi province, plunged
8.6 percent to $2.97, the lowest close in five months.  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel manufacturer
based in Jiangsu province, lost 4.6 percent to $2.49, the lowest
level since Jan. 9.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , also based in Jiangsu
province, declined 5.8 percent to $6.38.  Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest
thin-film panel maker, was  cut  to sell from hold by Maxim Group
LLC yesterday, on excess supply of polysilicon across the
industry.  ‘Panicking People’  “The manufacturing numbers out of China are apparently
panicking people and downgrades don’t help either,”  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer at First Empire Asset
Management, which has $4.5 billion under management, said in an
interview. Obuchowski sold shares of First Solar last year.  First Solar slid 6.8 percent to $19.25 in New York.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 0.8 percent to
1,366.94 yesterday amid growing concern Europe’s debt crisis may
continue to worsen.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his cabinet’s
resignation amid a revolt against spending cuts. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  trailed challenger Francois Hollande
in the first round of the nation’s presidential elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  