-- Apple Rally Stalls on Concern Mobile Growth to Slow
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o ,   I a n   K i n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-04-23T20:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/apple-rally-stalls-on-investor-concern-mobile-growth-to-slacken.html
The biggest rally in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
shares since 2004 lost steam as some investors speculated that
the maker of the iPhone may not be able to keep growing at the
pace that made it the world’s most valuable company.  Apple has dropped 10 percent since reaching a record on
April 9, the  biggest  10-day slide since August. Fueling the
descent were reports indicating a possible shortage in key
components for mobile devices and a decline in sales of the
iPhone at Verizon Wireless, the top U.S. mobile phone company.
Some traders also took cues from trends showing there’s little
precedent for surges like Apple’s.  “They are so huge that you can’t get these huge percentage
gains forever because at some point sales growth has to slow
down,” said  Giri Cherukuri , a portfolio manager at Lisle,
Illinois-based Oakbrook Investments LLC, which manages $3
billion, including Apple shares. “The question is where are we
on that curve -- near the bottom or are we near the top?”  Investors will find out whether the concerns are warranted
from a fiscal second-quarter  report  tomorrow that’s predicted to
show profit rose 55 percent while sales increased 48 percent
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Apple is benefiting from the  release  of the iPhone 4S in  China 
and 21 other countries, and the debut of a new iPad. If results
 fall short , the stock decline may resume.  Apple slid 0.2 percent to $571.70 at the close in  New York ,
cutting this year’s increase to 41 percent. The 48 percent gain
in the first quarter was the biggest since the last three months
of 2004.  What Goes Up  Traders and investors who look to history for a guide see
few companies of Apple’s size that have gained so quickly. Rapid
ascents by technology bellwethers in the 1990s were often
followed by equally dramatic plunges.  Apple’s market value gained more than $250 billion in four
months through April 9, more than  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s current value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s the most since the 1990s technology bubble, when  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  grew even more, expanding by more than $350 billion
in eight months, while  Intel Corp . gained more than $230 billion
in four months.  Cisco subsequently lost more than $200 billion in two
months and Intel shrank by almost $130 billion in a month and a
half. Cisco is now about one-fifth its peak value from 2000,
while Intel is about one-quarter its former size.  Apple has represented more than 4 percent of the  Standard &
Poor’s (SPX)  500 Index’s value since Feb. 28, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. General Electric Co., Microsoft Corp. and Exxon
Mobil Corp. all reached the 4 percent threshold during the past
13 years. None stayed above that level longer than 10 months.
Cisco lasted nine days.  ‘Really Far, Really Fast’  “It moved really far, really fast,” said  Malcolm Polley ,
who oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital Advisors in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania .  Bullish share-price predictions by Apple watchers,
including  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. who set
a $1,000 price target, fueled speculation that Apple would
become the first U.S. company worth $1 trillion.  “Psychologically, that’s a huge red flag,” Polley said.  Also giving some investors pause was a report that
suggested Apple may face a shortfall in supply of certain
components.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of chips that
connect mobile phones to cellular networks, said last week that
it can’t get enough of its most advanced chips.  Qualcomm, which already makes chips for some versions of
the iPhone, is the leading provider of so-called LTE chips,
which enable faster data connections. That means San Diego-based
Qualcomm will probably supply that part for the next iPhone
version, according to analysts including Munster.  Qualcomm, Verizon Wireless  The shortage of Qualcomm chips may also point to limits in
the output of other components of Apple devices. Companies such
as Broadcom Corp. rely on the same factories in  Taiwan  used by
Qualcomm. If those plants can’t meet Qualcomm’s needs, they may
not be able to meet demand from other Apple suppliers, said Gus
Richard, who researches semiconductors for Piper Jaffray.  Another report last week showed a drop in iPhone sales.
 Verizon Wireless  said its iPhone sales fell to 3.2 million in
the first quarter from 4.3 million in the preceding period, when
the new iPhone 4S was released.  Concerns over the iPhone aside, most analysts are sticking
to projections that Apple shares will keep rising. There’s only
one  analyst  -- Edward Zabitsky of ACI Research -- who recommends
that investors sell Apple, compared with 48 buy ratings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some fund managers are also projecting that Apple will
rally after tomorrow’s earnings report. The company will
probably say net income rose to $9.95 a share, the average
analyst  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg. Except for one case,
Apple has released better per-share profit than analysts were
predicting in each of the past 28 quarters,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “I understand the stock’s been weak and it’s getting
knocked around on the Qualcomm news,” said Daniel Morgan, a
fund manager at Synovus Financial Corp. “On Tuesday evening it
will be another slam over the left field wall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  