-- Harbor Freight Tools Seeks $1 Billion Loan to Fund Dividend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-04-23T15:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/harbor-freight-tools-seeks-1-billion-loan-to-fund-dividend-1-.html
Harbor Freight Tools USA Inc., a
tool and equipment catalog retailer, will host a lender meeting
April 25 at 1:30 p.m. in New York to discuss a $1 billion seven-
year  term loan  the company is seeking to refinance debt and pay
a dividend, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Wells Fargo &
Co. are arranging the financing for the Calabasas, California-
based company, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1 cent more
than face value to refinance the debt during the first year, the
person said.  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 3.7 times for the
company, the person said.  Harbor Freight Tools is also seeking a $400 million asset-
based revolving line of credit being arranged by  Wells Fargo &
Co ., according to the person.  The company’s existing term loan due in December 2017 pays
interest at 5 percentage point more than the London interbank
offered rate with a 1.5 percent floor, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt was sold to investors at 99
cents on the dollar.  John Batten, a spokesman for Harbor Freight, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t. Libor, the rate at
which banks say they can borrow in dollars from each other,
serves as a reference for about $360 trillion of financial
instruments worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  