-- Marchionne Arrives Late To China Party with Fiat Viaggio
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T21:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/marchionne-arrives-late-to-china-party-with-fiat-viaggio.html
Xu Lei, a 31-year-old investment
manager, rarely sees  Fiat SpA (F)  cars on the streets of Shanghai.
No wonder, given that the Italian carmaker sold fewer than 1,000
vehicles last year in the world’s biggest auto market.  “Most of my friends would consider German or American
brands when choosing to buy a car,” said Xu, a self-described
lover of Italian design who has his eye on a Fiat but for now
drives a Citroen.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  kicked off Fiat’s
third attempt at winning over buyers such as Xu in Beijing
yesterday, showing the Viaggio sedan, which was developed
specifically for local tastes and will be built at the
carmaker’s new factory in the country. Marchionne, who also runs
Chrysler Group LLC, needs Chinese growth to counter losses in
 Europe  and reduce dependence on the U.S. and  Brazil  for profit.  Fiat’s belated return to the country after more than a
decade of failed efforts may be too late to meet its  own mid-
term target . Fiat and Chrysler together may sell about 200,000
cars in 2014 in China, according to market researcher IHS
Automotive. The company’s goal for that year is 300,000.  Fiat-Chrysler lags far behind competitors in China, selling
a combined 35,000 cars in the country last year, according to
IHS data. The Italian brand delivered just 991 vehicles in China
in 2011.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest foreign automaker in
the country, sold 2.55 million vehicles last year while
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  delivered 2.26 million.  Arriving Late  “It’s going to be hard for Marchionne to catch up with
rivals in China as Fiat is arriving late when major players have
already established brand equity and gained market share,” said
Giuliano Noci, vice rector for the China campus of the Milan
Polytechnic.  Fiat will try to crack away at the dominance of rivals by
initially building as many as 170,000 Viaggios a year at a new
plant in  Hunan province  in a joint venture with Guangzhou
Automobile Co., Marchionne said this month. Production of the
four-door Viaggio, which means “voyage” in Italian, will start
by the end of June, with deliveries beginning in the third
quarter. Fiat is able to expand production to 300,000 cars a
year with a minimum investment, he said. The CEO also plans to
build Jeep models in the country starting as early as next year.  ‘Flying’ in China  Marchionne, 59, is expanding in  Asia , where Fiat-Chrysler
earned just 5 percent of  profit  in 2011, as part of a strategy
to forge a global carmaker out of the two regional companies.
The CEO needs  China  to reach a goal of more than 100 billion
euros ($132 billion) in revenue by 2014. The two carmakers are
targeting sales exceeding 77 billion euros this year.  The small sedan market is “the biggest segment in the
country, so it makes sense to enter through the big door,”
Olivier Francois, head of the Fiat brand, said yesterday in an
interview in Beijing. “We have to find our own territory, our
own voice” in the Chinese market.  The Viaggio, which will have the Chinese name “Fei Xiang”
meaning flying, is the first car built in China by the Italian
carmaker since 2007, when it ended an eight-year alliance with
Nanjing Automobile Group Corp. After that, Fiat had a
partnership with Chery Automobile Co., which fell apart after
two years.  The Italian carmaker aims to more than double its dealers
in the country to as many as 200 by the end of 2013, Jack Cheng,
general manager of GAC Fiat Automobile Co. said in an interview
last week. Fiat GAC targets 100,000 vehicle sales next year,
Cheng said.  Sales Rebound  “Fiat is not yet well known in the country, like Audi,
which everybody has heard of,” said William Chen, executive
director of Zoton Holdings Group, who just signed up to sell
Fiat cars and is in the process of getting authorization to sell
Chrysler’s Jeep brand as well. Zoton Holdings has 30 dealers in
coastal areas such as Zhejiang province and Shanghai selling
Audi, Infiniti and Jaguar brand cars.  China’s passenger-car sales rose 4.5 percent in March. The
rebound may ease concern that a slump in auto sales in January
and February, the worst two-month start to a year since 2005,
will deepen and threaten foreign automakers from GM to
Volkswagen that depend on the world’s biggest vehicle market to
help make up for declining demand in Europe.  “China is looked at as the El Dorado of the automotive
industry and everybody wants to pick up a nugget,”  Daimler AG (DAI) 
Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said last week in
 Chennai ,  India . “China is a growth market and you have to be
present if you want to be a significant player in the global
automotive market.” Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz sales in China
jumped to 223,000 last year from 31,000 in 2007.  Rival Factories  Ford Motor Corp., also playing catch up in China with GM
and VW, announced plans last week to build a $760 million
assembly plant in Hangzhou that will double its Chinese output
to 1.2 million vehicles annually. Volkswagen’s board last week
approved building a new assembly line in western China to
further fuel expansion in the country.  “Fiat missed the golden years of China’s auto market
expansion and now it’s hard to shake market leaders which have
already established themselves in China,” said Jenny Gu, an
analyst at LMC Automotive based in  Shanghai .  Xu, the Citroen-driving investment manager in Shanghai, may
soon do his bit to help Fiat catch up.  “If Fiat lowers the cost of buying and replacing their
components, I’d definitely buy the car,” Xu said. “They need
to localize.”  --Tommaso Ebhardt, Liza Lin and Chris Reiter, with assistance
from Tian Ying and Feifei Shen in Beijing,  Alfred Cang  in
Shanghai, Siddharth Philip in Mumbai, Flavia Rotondi in  Rome  and
Dan Liefgreen in Milan. Editors:  Chad Thomas , Rick Schine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 