-- Stocks, Euro Drop Amid European Political Concern
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2012-04-23T20:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/asian-stocks-advance-on-imf-pledges-while-dollar-weakens.html
Stocks plunged worldwide and the
euro weakened as  Europe ’s backlash against budget cuts gained
momentum, while commodities retreated as manufacturing shrank.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent at 4 p.m.
New York time, trimming its drop from 1.4 percent. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index sank 2.3 percent to a three-month low as gauges
for eight nations, including Sweden,  Germany ,  France  and the
Netherlands decreased 2.5 percent or more. The euro lost 0.5
percent versus the dollar and 1 percent against the yen. The
cost of insuring against a European sovereign default climbed to
the highest level in four weeks. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials slumped 0.3 percent. Treasuries rose a fourth day.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his cabinet’s
resignation amid a revolt against spending cuts. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of his re-
election bid as the anti-euro National Front won a record share
of the vote. Euro-area services and manufacturing contracted
more than estimated, while data indicated China’s production
will shrink for a sixth month.  “There’s enough out there that can justify taking the
market down,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage about $125 billion
at Guggenheim Investments in Irvington, New York, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s more work to be done in Europe,
yet there’s political and social pressure not to do more. The
economic news was disappointing. In addition, we’re digesting a
big advance in the market.”  Stocks (MXAP)  fell after the  S&P 500  rose 0.6 percent between
April 13 and April 20, ending a two-week losing streak. The
benchmark measure of U.S. shares had rallied 25 percent since
Oct. 3. The Stoxx Europe 600 advanced 1.7 percent last week,
rising for the first time in five weeks.  German Bonds  The yield on Germany’s five-year bond fell to a euro-era
low of 0.60 percent. The cost of credit-default swaps on Dutch
government debt climbed 11.5 basis points to 130, the highest in
five months, as opposition to austerity in the traditionally
budget-conscious nation propelled Rutte’s coalition toward an
early breakup.  France’s CAC 40 stock index slumped 2.8 percent after
Sarkozy trailed  Francois Hollande  in the first round of his re-
election attempt, while Marine le Pen’s National Front won 20
percent of the vote.  “Politics will undoubtedly provide the pepper in this
week’s financial melting pot,” said  Bill Blain , co-head of the
special situations group at Newedge Group Ltd. in  London . “A
turnover in the Dutch government, and the inevitable swing
toward more skeptical anti-Europe politics could well generate
increased uncertainty.”  Less Manufacturing  Euro-area services and manufacturing declined, according to
a Market Economics index that fell to a five-month low of 47.4.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected an increase to 49.3,
the median forecast. HSBC Holdings and Markit reported a
preliminary reading of 49.1 for their China purchasing managers’
index, compared with a final 48.3 in March. Readings of less
than 50 indicate contraction in both reports.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped the most since April 10
as all 19 industries retreated. ING Groep NV, the largest Dutch
financial-services company, and The Hague-based Aegon NV sank
more than 6 percent. Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd. led
mining shares lower, falling at least 3.6 percent.  Netherlands, Sweden  Royal Philips Electronics NV was the only company in the
AEX index of Dutch stocks to advance after the world’s biggest
light-bulb maker reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates.
Sweden’s OMX Stockholm 30 Index plunged 4.6 percent, the most
among developed-market gauges worldwide, driven lower by
declines exceeding 4.5 percent in Hennes & Mauritz AB and Nordea
Bank AB.  The  Dollar Index  gained 0.2 percent as the euro weakened.
Treasuries gained, driving yields on 10-year notes down three
basis points to 1.93 percent. The yield on the 30-year bond
dropped to the lowest in almost seven weeks before the  Federal
Open Market Committee  begins a two-day meeting tomorrow to set
monetary policy.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments climbed three basis points to
278. The cost of insuring French government debt rose to the
highest in more than three months with credit-default swaps
linked to the nation’s debt adding five basis points to 204.5.  Copper futures lost 2 percent to settle at $3.634 a pound
on the Comex in  New York .  Hedge funds  cut their bets on higher
commodity prices by the most in four months on mounting concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will derail global growth. Money
managers lowered net-long positions across 18 U.S. futures and
options by 11 percent to 898,022 contracts in the week ended
April 17, the most since Dec. 20, data from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  Oil, Gold  Oil dropped 0.7 percent in New York, slipping from the
highest closing price in three days. Gold futures retreated 0.6
percent to settle at $1,632.60 an ounce. Prices slipped to
$1,623.60, the lowest since April 5.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.8 percent and the Hang
Seng  China  Enterprises Index dropped 2.2 percent. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index lost 0.5 percent for a third day of losses. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Verdonck in London at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  