-- AstraZeneca’s Ardea Purchase May Be First of New Deals
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-04-23T14:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/astrazeneca-to-buy-ardea-biosciences-for-1-26-billion-1-.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s $1.26 billion
purchase of  Ardea Biosciences Inc. (RDEA) , its biggest acquisition in
five years, may be the first in a series of deals for the
company as it tries to counter looming generic competition.  AstraZeneca is in talks with several companies about
possible licensing accords and acquisitions, said Shaun Grady,
head of business development, in a telephone interview today.
The company would consider acquiring late-stage assets outside
its research and development focus on cancer, diabetes and
gastrointestinal ailments, he said.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker is seeking new products
as generic competitors challenge its top-selling medicines.
After experiencing setbacks in developing treatments for
depression and cancer, the company last week won the backing of
a European regulatory panel for approval of an experimental
diabetes drug. With Ardea, it gains a drug called lesinurad,
which is in the third -- and most advanced -- phase of clinical
tests for patients who have too much urea in their blood.  “We’re building some momentum here in R&D,”  Martin Mackay, head of research and development, said in a telephone
interview today. “I would be disappointed if we didn’t announce
further deals by the end of this year. We’ve taken our hits but
we’re turning a corner.”  AstraZeneca fell 1.8 percent to 2,815.50 pence at 3:01 p.m.
in  London , where the company is based. The stock has dropped 5.4
percent this year, compared with a 1.6 percent gain in the
Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index. Ardea had dropped 25
percent in the last year before today. The shares jumped 51
percent to $31.57 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Deal Premium  AstraZeneca will pay $32 a share for Ardea, the London-
based company said in a statement today. That’s 54 percent above
Ardea’s closing price on April 20. Excluding the cash on Ardea’s
books, the purchase values the company at $1 billion. Of 16
similar deals in the last six years, the average premium paid
was 41 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  David Brennan  hasn’t announced an
acquisition of more than $1 billion since buying MedImmune Inc.
in 2007 for about $15.2 billion, and the company says it’s not
looking for another deal of that size.  The planned takeover of Ardea “looks pretty sensible,”
said  Justin Smith , an analyst with Oriel Securities Ltd. in
London. “It doesn’t look like they overpaid.”  Ardea Shareholders  Ardea, based in  San Diego , was incorporated in 1994. The
U.S. company’s biggest  shareholder  is Baker Brothers Advisors
LLC, an investment firm founded by Felix and Julian Baker. Felix Baker sits on Ardea’s board.  In addition to lesinurad, Ardea is developing an early
experimental compound for the same ailment. The U.S. company has
a partnership with  Bayer AG (BAYN)  of Leverkusen,  Germany , to develop
two cancer treatment combinations, for tumors of the liver and
pancreas. The therapies are in mid-stage testing.  “Combination drugs are the future in cancer therapy,”
Elmar Kraus, an analyst with DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a
phone interview. “A phase III drug is always a good buying
argument for a pharma company, even if gout is not one of the
major indications.”  For Ardea, AstraZeneca paid “fair value” because it
brings with it a late-stage clinical asset, Mackay said. He said
he expects to submit Ardea’s experimental gout treatment for
approval in the U.S. and Europe in the first half of 2014.  Rival Gout Drugs  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  said on April 11 it agreed to buy
closely held URL Pharma Inc. for $800 million to gain a new gout
treatment.  Savient Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT)  makes Krystexxa, and the
FDA is reviewing  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ’s Arcalyst
injection for prevention of gout flares in patients initiating
uric acid-lowering therapy.  “There is  competition  in this space but we think there is
a real unmet need, particularly in  emerging markets , which is a
thrust for us,” Mackay said.  Ardea’s lesinurad may generate $194 million in sales by
2016 if approved, according to the average of three analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Savient’s Krystexxa, which won
U.S. approval in 2010, may have 2016 sales of $226.5 million,
the average of four estimates. Revenue from Regeneron’s Arcalyst
may reach $53.4 million next year, the average of two estimates.
U.S. regulators are scheduled to decide whether to approve
Arcalyst by July 30.  Industry Takeover Bids  AstraZeneca joins U.K. rival  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and
Switzerland’s  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  in pursuing purchases to fuel
growth.  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  rejected a $2.6 billion offer
from Glaxo, based in London.  Roche said today that its $6.7 billion bid for  Illumina
Inc. (ILMN) , a maker of gene-mapping tools, expired. The Basel,
Switzerland-based drugmaker is in talks with the research
centers of three universities that want to sell their gene-
sequencing technologies to Roche, Der Sonntag newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Grady declined to comment about whether one of the
companies AstraZeneca is talking to is  Amylin Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (AMLN) , which is said to be seeking a buyer.  Two of AstraZeneca’s biggest-selling drugs, Nexium for
ulcers and antipsychotic medication Seroquel, lose patent
protection by 2014. Nexium and Seroquel generated about $10.3
billion of sales last year and accounted for 30 percent of
revenue. The drugmaker recently saw the failure or delay of
experimental drugs for diabetes and ovarian cancer.  Smaller-scale acquisitions and licensing seem to be the
best options for AstraZeneca given the company’s weak pipeline
and the attractiveness of maintaining its share buybacks, Mark Belsey, an analyst with WestLB AG in London, said in an e-mailed
comment. The company has to make sure it doesn’t overpay for
such deals, Belsey said.  AstraZeneca announced April 3 it would share in the
development of five drug candidates from  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s
biggest biotechnology company. The experimental products are
monoclonal antibodies, proteins that mimic those naturally
produced by the body’s immune system, and will be studied in
inflammatory diseases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  