-- Tata Consultancy Shares Surge After Net Beats Estimates
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-04-24T04:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/tata-consultancy-net-beats-estimates-as-outsourcing-orders-climb.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 Asia ’s largest computer services provider by market value, rose
the most in two years in  Mumbai  as profit beat analyst estimates
and the company said the outlook for new orders was “good.”  Shares climbed as much as 9.7 percent to 1,167.80 rupees,
the biggest intraday jump since May 2010, and traded up 8.7
percent at 1,156.90 rupees as of 9:58 a.m. local time. The stock
was the  best performer  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Tata Consultancy has seen “absolutely no problem” for
growth this year, as customers in the banking and financial
services industries spend in new areas such as regulation and
mobility, Chief Financial Officer S. Mahalingam said in an
interview today. The company yesterday joined larger rival
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  in reporting profits that exceeded analysts’
estimates, as businesses outsource more information technology
services to cut costs amid economic uncertainty.  “It’s impressive,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an analyst at
Elara Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. “Their peers who had
less exposure to customers in the banking, financial services
industries struggled. TCS was able to hold BFSI revenue steady
during a tough time in spite of having greater exposure.”  Net income  rose 23 percent to 29.3 billion rupees ($555
million) in the three months ended March 31, from 23.9 billion
rupees a year earlier, Tata Consultancy said in a statement
yesterday. The median of 44 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg was profit of 28.3 billion rupees.  ‘Deal Momentum’  “We have kept our focus on profitability and consolidated
our market leadership,” Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said in the statement. “Deal momentum is good,
so we are pretty positive,” he said in a press conference.  Revenue rose 31 percent to 132.6 billion rupees, from 101.6
billion rupees a year earlier. That compared with the 132.3
billion rupees median of 51 analysts’ estimates.  Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and
back-office support to clients including Citigroup Inc. and
U.K.-based Friends Life, added 42 customers last quarter. The
company said it won orders from a U.S.-based insurance company
and an international automotive retailer among others.  The  software company  derived 53.3 percent of its revenue
from companies in  North America , 15.2 percent from the U.K., and
10.1 percent from continental  Europe  in the year ended March 31,
Tata Consultancy said in an analyst presentation on its website.
Banking, financial services  contributed  43.1 percent of annual
sales, while telecommunications clients gave 10.5 percent and
retail and distribution provided 12.2 percent.  Infosys slumped the most in almost three years on April 13
after forecasting sales that missed analyst estimates.  Sales in the year that began April 1 may be between 384.3
billion rupees and 391.4 billion rupees, Bangalore, India-based
Infosys said. That lagged behind the 396.3 billion-rupee median
of 64 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys (INFO)  also
reported fourth-quarter sales that trailed estimates.  Hiring Plans  Tata Consultancy added a net 11,832 employees during the
quarter, for a total of 238,583, according to the statement.  The company plans to hire as many as 50,000 graduates in
the financial year that started April 1, Chandrasekaran said.  “We understand the company has adequate visibility on
customer spends and its own market share within that spend,”
Dipen Shah, head of fundamental research at Kotak Securities Ltd.
in Mumbai, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “TCS remains
our preferred pick in the large cap space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  