-- Tate Starts Building $346 Million Wing With 75% of Funds Raised
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-23T11:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/tate-starts-building-346-million-wing-with-75-of-funds-raised.html
Construction has started on a 215
million-pound ($346 million) new wing of Tate Modern, the London
museum that was once a power station, with three-quarters of the
money raised,  Tate  Director Nicholas Serota said.  The new Tate 2 wing was due to open this year, in time for
the 2012 London Olympics. The opening was postponed because of a
funding shortage, with the board of trustees holding back
construction until enough cash was raised.  Now, with more than 160 million pounds in the pot, the work
has begun.  “We intend to move steadily ahead,” Serota said at a news
conference announcing the artistic program for disused oil tanks
in the  Tate Modern  building. “You’ll see two cranes that were
recently erected to help us move forward.”  Referring to Tate 2’s new opening date of 2016 at the
latest, Serota said, “My guess is, it’ll be sooner than that.”  “The new building arises out of the tanks,” he said. “We’ve
started building the upper part, or foundations for the upper
parts.”  The arena-shaped tanks, which were previously used to store
oil for electricity generation in the building, will open
temporarily for a 15-week festival of live art, performance,
installation and film work. The festival runs July 18 to 28
October and coincides with the London  Olympic Games .  The tanks will be reopened “periodically” over the next
couple of years for art programs, Serota said.  Visible Platform  “It’s about giving a visible platform to this art form,
treating it in exactly the same way as we treat painting,
sculpture and other visual arts,” he said.  According to Tate, the tanks are “the world’s first museum
galleries permanently dedicated to exhibiting live art,
performance, installation and film works.”  Highlights of the 15-week festival are a performance by
choreographer  Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker  of her 1982 work “Fase”
(July 18 to 20). Eddie Peake, an artist who once choreographed a
soccer game for naked players, has been commissioned to make a
work exploring sexuality and voyeurism.  Tate 2 is designed by architects Herzog & De Meuron.  Today’s Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater 
and  John Mariani  on  wine .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 