-- Aussie Drops as Inflation Slows; Bond Yields Tumble
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-04-24T06:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/aussie-n-z-dollars-stay-lower-on-stocks-drop-europe.html
Australia ’s dollar weakened and
government bond yields sank to record lows after data showed
consumer price inflation slowed in the first quarter, providing
the nation’s central bank with scope to lower borrowing costs.  Yields on 10-year and five-year debt reached all-time lows
as traders increased bets that the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
will cuts its benchmark rate from 4.25 percent when it meets
next month. The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, weakened
as stocks in  Asia  extended a global slide. Concern that European
leaders are struggling to muster support to fight the region’s
debt crisis also weighed on the South Pacific currencies as
investors spurned higher-yielding assets.  “The fact that it’s a more benign reading on inflation,
you’ve got higher risk aversion -- all are likely to add
pressure on the Aussie dollar,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of
global currency strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB.
“A 25-basis-point cut is the most likely outcome” of the RBA’s
next meeting, he said.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.5 percent to $1.0270 as of
4:21 p.m. in Sydney. It fell as low as $1.0247, the weakest
since April 11. The Aussie slid 0.7 percent to 83.16 yen. New
Zealand’s currency declined 0.1 percent to 81.30 U.S. cents from
yesterday when it weakened 0.6 percent. The kiwi depreciated 0.3
percent to 65.74 yen.  Record Low Yields  Australian bonds advanced, pushing the  10-year rate  down by
as much as 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 3.638
percent, the lowest ever. The spread to similar maturity U.S.
debt narrowed to 175 basis points, the least since Dec. 27. The
 yield  on the five-year Australian note fell to a record 3.094
percent.  The so-called trimmed mean gauge of  core consumer prices 
rose 0.3 percent from the previous quarter, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today, compared with the median
economist estimate for a 0.6 percent gain. The consumer price
index increased 0.1 percent from the previous three months,
compared with a forecast 0.6 percent gain.  The RBA has signaled that it may be willing to lower its
benchmark interest rate from 4.25 percent in a bid to bolster
the economy, provided prices remain in check.  RBA Rate Cuts  “The lower inflation outcome means that the RBA has very
little reason to keep  interest rates  at current settings,” said
 Richard Grace , chief currency strategist and head of
international economics at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in
Sydney. “It’s going to put the Australian dollar under a bit of
downward pressure for the next 24 hours or so, perhaps 48
hours.”  The Aussie has weakened against all 16 of its major peers
today as investors speculate that the RBA will implement even
deeper rate reductions than previously expected.  A Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on swaps indicates
traders are positioned for 108 basis points of cuts over the
next 12 months, compared with 98 points yesterday. A related
index shows traders are certain that the RBA will reduce rates
by at least 25 basis points when it meets on May 1.  Political uncertainty in  Europe  is also limiting demand for
the Australian and  New Zealand  currencies. Dutch Prime Minister
Mark Rutte yesterday tendered his Cabinet’s resignation after
talks over budget cuts collapsed.  In France, Nicolas Sarkozy’s grip on leadership is under
threat after he attracted fewer votes than his Socialist rival
in the first round of the country’s presidential election. The
incumbent president will face off against  Francois Hollande  in a
final vote on May 6.  ‘Looking Vulnerable’  “Australia’s dollar is looking vulnerable, with strong
support in the $1.0225 to $1.0260 area,” said Khoon Goh, a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Singapore. “If that breaks, we could see
a slide toward $1.0125.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks declined 0.2 percent
today after the  MSCI All-Country World (MXWD)  Index slid 1.4 percent
yesterday. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
known as the VIX, climbed 8.8 percent to 18.97, its highest
close in a week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  