-- Aussie’s Rise, Rates Won’t Derail Growth, Deloitte Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-23T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/aussie-s-rise-high-rates-won-t-derail-growth-deloitte-says.html
Australia ’s “deadly duo” of
sustained strength in the currency and the highest  interest
rates  among major developed economies won’t derail the nation’s
mining fueled economic growth, Deloitte Access Economics said.  “The two-speed split in Australia’s economy, which was
already large, is getting larger still,” Chris Richardson, a
partner at Deloitte Access Economics, said in a statement. “Yet
that doesn’t stop the overall outlook for growth still looking
rather better than most people realize.”  He said more optimism about Europe increases the likelihood
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will disappoint businesses and
families on the scale of rate cuts. “Chances are it will nudge
rates down a notch, given that the big banks have done some
nudging of their own in the other direction, and as the
inflation outlook looks less of a worry,” Richardson said.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled this month that the
next rate reduction hinges on a report today on first-quarter
inflation, as recent data indicates the economy is growing
slower than the central bank predicted. Australia’s consumer
price index is scheduled for release at 11:30 a.m. in Sydney.  The RBA decided against lowering borrowing costs at its
three meetings this year as the global recovery stabilizes and a
mining boom sustains growth.  Richardson said Deloitte has “yet again revised up the
outlook for capital spending by businesses -- meaning
Australia’s key strength is still getting stronger.”  The mining boom spurred Australia’s currency, which has
remained above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for almost four
months as the RBA kept the nation’s benchmark borrowing cost at
4.25 percent. High rates have discouraged spending and
encouraged saving, a trend Richardson said is likely to persist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  