-- Tax-Lien Antitrust Probe Wins Eighth New Jersey Guilty Plea
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-23T16:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/tax-lien-antitrust-probe-wins-eighth-new-jersey-guilty-plea-1-.html
A  New Jersey  investor and his
company pleaded guilty in an expanding federal investigation of
bid-rigging in auctions for municipal tax liens throughout the
state.  David Butler, 58, admitted in federal court in  Newark , New
Jersey, that he helped eliminate competition by submitting
collusive bids at tax-lien auctions. Butler, who faces as long
as 10 years in prison, became the eighth person to plead guilty
to the scheme and agree to cooperate with prosecutors in a bid
for leniency at sentencing.  Butler entered the guilty plea on behalf of his
corporation, DSBD LLC, which he ran with David M. Farber, who
admitted his guilt on Feb. 23. DSBD managed tax-lien investments
held by two funds -- CCTS Tax Liens I LLC and CCTS Tax Liens II
LLC, according to court papers.  “Mr. Butler accepted responsibility for a course of
conduct that he greatly wishes he had not engaged in,” said his
attorney, Paul Shechtman, in an interview after the hearing.  Butler, of  Cherry Hill , admitted that his role in the
conspiracy lasted from 2005 to 2009. U.S. District Judge Dennis Cavanaugh set his sentencing for Aug. 6.  Local Tax  New Jersey municipalities seeking revenue sell about
$100 million a year in local tax debt on commercial and
residential property, according to Vincent Belluscio, executive
director of the Tax Collectors and Treasurers Association of New
Jersey.  Firms that buy liens at auction pay the tax liability in
full and seek to collect from the property owner. They may earn
as much as 30 percent on their investment, according to
Belluscio. Beyond interest of as much as 18 percent on back
taxes, the firms may add penalties of 12 percent, he said.  Bidders on the liens are supposed to compete fairly for the
right to buy them and collect taxes on property. Buyers, who
seek the return of their principal investment and interest,
begin bidding at 18 percent interest and lower that rate with
each bid.  Since August, seven others have pleaded guilty in the New
Jersey probe, including several lawyers. At least three people
have admitted guilt in auctions in  Maryland .  Last Plea  Last week, Stephen Hurby pleaded guilty. He was once
affiliated with a unit of M.D. Sass Investors Services Inc., a
closely held manager of more than $5 billion that purchases tax
liens in New Jersey and other states. M.D. Sass hasn’t been
accused of wrongdoing.  The New Jersey tax lien auctions being probed by U.S.
prosecutors include one on March 5, 2007, in Newfield, according
to a copy of a Justice Department subpoena. Among the seven
bidders at that auction were a representative of M.D. Sass and
three others who later pleaded guilty to antitrust charges.  From 1998 to 2009, investors bought tens of thousands of
New Jersey tax liens, according to court records. Crusader
Servicing Corp. and Royal Tax Lien Services -- just two of more
than a dozen companies buying liens in New Jersey in those years
-- said in a civil court filing last month that they purchased a
combined 28,767 liens in that time.  Crusader and Royal Tax Lien are co-owned by Royal Bank
America, which operates branches in New Jersey and  Pennsylvania ,
and by  Robert Stein , an attorney. Stein has pleaded guilty in
the U.S. probe. Crusader and Royal Tax liens are “subjects” of
the investigation, according to a 2010 regulatory filing by
Royal Bank’s parent,  Royal Bancshares of Pennsylvania Inc. (RBPAA)   The case is U.S. v. Butler, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  