-- Robert Williamson, Investor, Julian Robertson Kin, Dies at 55
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-04-24T15:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/b-robert-williamson-chilton-manager-found-dead-in-car-at-55.html
B. Robert Williamson Jr., a  money
manager  at Chilton Investment Co. and nephew of hedge-fund
pioneer  Julian Robertson , for whom he once worked, has died
during a visit to his native North Carolina. He was 55.  His body was found April 22 in a car pulled from the
Intracoastal Waterway near a boat ramp on Figure Eight Island,
New Hanover County Sheriff’s Sergeant J.J. Brewer said. He had
been reported missing earlier that day. No foul play is
suspected, Brewer said.  A resident of  Manhattan , Williamson never lost touch with
his southern roots, hosting Christmas parties with his wife,
Caroline, at which “southern accents predominated,” according
to an  obituary  written by the family.  At Chilton, a Stamford, Connecticut-based investment
management firm, Williamson was a manager of Chilton U.S. Hedged
Equities, according to the firm.  “Robert was a dear friend, and he will be missed,” the
firm said in a statement. “His curiosity, enthusiasm,
intellect, and passion for stock picking were gifts he shared
with all who knew him.”  He joined Chilton in January 2011, one month after the
hedge fund he co-founded, Williamson McAree Investment Partners
of  New York City , closed. The firm’s flagship fund was down 9.7
percent in the first 11 months of 2010 after returning a net
annualized return of 9.8 percent since its inception, according
to a report in the magazine Absolute Return + Alpha. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned  7.9 percent  in 2010 through
November.  Letter to Investors  Williamson and co-founder Edward McAree said in a letter to
investors that several large investors had recently chosen to
redeem their money.  “Unfortunately, the combination of recent negative
performance and the continuing trend of investors moving towards
larger, more institutional management firms, proved too much to
overcome,” they wrote, according to the magazine article. It
said the firm had managed $205 million as of mid-2010.  Williamson was a managing director from 1998 to 2000 at
Tiger Management LLC, the hedge fund run by Robertson, his
billionaire uncle. Williamson was the son of Robertson’s sister,
Blanche Bacon, Robertson’s assistant, Julie Depperschmidt, said
today. He also was the step-brother of  Louis Bacon , founder of
New York-based Moore Capital Management LLC.  Focus on Clients  Before working at Tiger, Williamson spent 15 years at
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, where he managed about 100
discretionary client portfolios, according to his  biography  on
Chilton’s website.  Benjamin Robert Williamson Jr. was born on Sept. 18, 1956,
in Raleigh. His interest in business traced to his preteen
years, when he created a rabbit farm, his family wrote.  He attended Ravenscroft preparatory school, which awarded
him its  Distinguished Alumni Award  in 2008. As a senior he
received most valuable player awards for basketball and
football, and he was inducted into the school’s sports hall of
fame.  He graduated from the University of  North Carolina  at
 Chapel Hill  in 1979 with a degree in business administration.
After two years at Sonoco Products Co., a paper products company
in Hartsville,  South Carolina , he earned his master’s degree in
business administration from  Wake Forest University  in 1983,
according to the obituary.  With his wife of 24 years, Caroline Crook Williamson, he
had three children: Caroline Costner, 20; Benjamin Robert III,
18; Wyndham Josephine, 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  