-- BAA Agrees to $1.3 Billion Edinburgh Airport Sale to GIP
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-04-23T16:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/baa-sells-edinburgh-airport-to-gip-for-807-2-million-pounds-1-.html
London Heathrow airport owner  BAA
Ltd. (FER)  will sell its  Edinburgh terminal  to U.S. buyout firm Global
Infrastructure Partners Ltd. for 807.2 million pounds ($1.3
billion) after antitrust regulators ordered a breakup.  Scotland ’s busiest airport will be added to GIP holdings
that already include London’s Gatwick hub, which the New York-
based company bought from BAA in 2009, and the U.K. capital’s
City airport, located close to the main financial district.  “Edinburgh airport is a high-quality infrastructure asset,”
Adebayo Ogunlesi, GIP’s chairman and managing partner, said in a
statement, describing the acquisition as a “landmark deal.” The
U.S. firm plans to close the purchase by the end of next month.  Edinburgh’s passenger total jumped 9.2 percent to a record
9.4 million last year and is forecast to reach 12.3 million by
the end of the decade. BAA, a unit of Spanish builder Ferrovial
SA, is selling to comply with a U.K. Competition Commission
ruling, and may also be forced to shed its  London  Stansted base.  Good Price  GIP will make the purchase, which has Competition
Commission approval, through its GIP II infrastructure fund,
which is still open, spokesman Jack Cowell said by phone.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s infrastructure unit, supported by
 Korea ’s Incheon International Airport Corp., was the other
bidder at the end of the tender process, two people familiar
with the sale said last week.  “It’s quite a good price for a quality asset,” said
Robert Crimes, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in London
who wrote in a note on Oct. 19 that Edinburgh had an enterprise
value in the region of 600 million pounds. The auction will have
benefited from the scarcity value of airport assets, he said.  The auction of Gatwick fetched 1.51 billion pounds, while
Ferrovial’s purchase of BAA in 2006 was valued at 10.1 billion
pounds. The Madrid-based builder agreed to sell a 5.9 percent
stake to Alinda Capital Partners for 280 million pounds in
October, valuing the whole company at 4.76 billion pounds.  BAA will now focus on improving passenger journeys at
Heathrow,  Europe ’s biggest hub, together with Stansted and its
airports at Aberdeen and Glasgow, Scotland -- which will compete
with Edinburgh -- and Southampton in southern  England , Chief
Executive Officer Colin Matthews said in a statement.  GIP’s financial adviser on the deal was Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, with Slaughter and May as legal advisers.
BAA was advised by BNP Paribas, Citigroup, McGrigors, Ernst &
Young, Leigh Fisher, Waterman and Marsh, it said.  Ferrovial closed 1.1 percent lower at 8.13 euros in  Madrid 
and has declined almost 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  