-- Bakrie Lenders Said to Seek $100 Million After Bumi Slumps
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-04-24T05:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/bakrie-creditors-ask-for-extra-100-million-as-bumi-shares-fall.html
PT Bakrie & Brothers (BNBR) , the
Indonesian family palm oil-to-property empire founded in 1942,
needs to raise about $100 million in cash by the end of this
week as loan collateral, a person familiar with the matter said.  The value of collateral fell below 1.2 times the amount of
the loan on April 20, triggering a rule that it must be
increased to 1.54 times, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private. The $437 million
loan is backed by a  stake  in Bumi Plc, a London-listed coal
mining company whose shares have slumped 29 percent in the past
month. It dropped 8.5 percent yesterday to a record low.  Bumi, founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild  in 2010 as investment
vehicle Vallar Plc, has halved in value since the 2010 initial
public offering that raised 707.2 million pounds ($1.14
billion).  “There’s no doubt they will be able to come up with a
solution of either refinancing, selling the stake or selling it
with a  call option  to buy it back,”  Richard Knights , a London-
based mining analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. who recommends
investors buy the stock, said by phone. “There’s multiple
options for them.” The Bumi share slump is “an overreaction.
It’s not a fundamental concern, it’s a technically driven
issue,” he said.  PT Borneo Sale  The Bakries have until the end of the week to place the
cash with Credit Suisse Group AG, the loan’s facility agent, the
person said. The Bakries sold half of their 47.6 percent stake
in Bumi for $1 billion in cash to PT Borneo Lumbung Energi &
Metal in January to help repay a loan to Credit Suisse.  Adam Bradbery, a spokesman for the Swiss bank in  London ,
declined to comment.  Eddy Soeparno, Bakrie & Brothers’ finance director,
declined to comment on whether the company had received notice
from banks about the covenant and the need for additional
collateral when reached by telephone in Jakarta yesterday.
Soeparno earlier denied receiving a default notice from
creditors, as reported by the Financial Times.  Bumi  fell  to 497.4 pence in London trading yesterday.
That’s the lowest since the 2010 Vallar IPO, when shares were
sold at 1,000 pence apiece. Jakarta-listed Bumi Resources, which
declined 7.44 percent yesterday, rose 0.5 percent to 2,000
rupiah (22 U.S. cents) as of 11:59 a.m. local time.  Sovereign Rating  Indonesia ’s bonds fell, prompting 10-year yields to rise
for a second day, after  Standard & Poor’s  kept the nation’s
rating at speculative grade.  S&P refrained from joining Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings in upgrading Indonesia to investment grade, citing
“policy slippages” in a statement yesterday. The decision
wasn’t expected by the central bank, Perry Warjiyo, director for
economic and monetary policy research at the monetary authority,
said yesterday. S&P affirmed the rating on Indonesia’s sovereign
debt at BB+, with a positive outlook, it said in the statement.  Non-investment grade bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Investors are concerned the Bakrie family may pledge shares
in Bumi and other companies to top up collateral on its debt,
Herman Koeswanto, an analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta,
said in a phone interview. Still, investors are overreacting, he
said.  Samin Tan, president director of Indonesian coal supplier
PT Borneo, was appointed chairman of  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  last month after
Rothschild stepped down as co-chairman. Ari Hudaya, chief
executive, was replaced by Nalin Rathod.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  