-- Bareheaded Bikers Cheer Rules End as Fireworks Go Legal
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/bareheaded-bikers-cheer-rules-end-as-fireworks-go-legal.html
Andy Webb, owner of Captain Boom
Fireworks LLC in Otsego,  Michigan , says he plans to hire more
salespeople this season after the state decriminalized items
such as bottle rockets and Roman candles.  Led by Republican administrations such as those in Michigan
and Florida, states are relaxing restrictions or considering
regulatory relief on things from motorcycle helmets, firearms
and tanning beds to bunny dyes and the size of a barber’s trash
can. A 2009 study showed that regulation cut gross state  output 
in California by $493 billion a year.  “There is a national focus on reducing regulation, and
this is not necessarily all along political lines,” said Mattie
Duppler, who writes Americans for  Tax Reform ’s “Nanny State
Update” online column in  Washington . “Some of it is about jobs
and revenue and some of it is about less government.”  Michigan this year replaced a 1931 law that limited
retailers such as Captain Boom to selling sparklers and non-
exploding fireworks, allowing purchases of all fireworks cleared
by the U.S. for public sale. Also, for the first time in more
than three decades, state residents 21 or older can legally ride
a motorcycle without wearing a helmet.  Webb said he plans to sell a full line of pyrotechnics from
two new tents this year, adding to a business that already
offers professional-grade indoor and outdoor displays and fills
mail-orders from his warehouse.  Overdue Change  “This was long overdue,” said Webb, who has worked in the
industry for 33 years. “I like the idea of reducing
regulations, particularly for fireworks.”  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  has said he wants to cull more
than 1,000 state rules that he says are unnecessary. There are
about 19,200 on the books. Michigan Governor Rick Snyder’s
Regulatory Reinvention Office has cut more than 350 mandates and
is studying at least 18,800 more.  The search for regulatory relief isn’t limited to
Republicans. California’s top Democrat, Governor  Jerry Brown ,
said April 17 that he wants to  eliminate  718 required state
reports, including one annually on  Australia ’s kangaroo harvest.  Americans for Tax Reform, a nonprofit group that opposes
tax increases, has estimated that the average U.S. worker
labored almost 28 days in 2011 to cover that year’s societal
costs of state and local regulations. The 2009  California  study
released by then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican,
showed that rules reduced employment by 3.8 million jobs, with
the effects almost entirely borne by small businesses.  Babysitters Must Smile  Among the more intrusive rules identified in Michigan were
those that required child-care providers to smile, specified the
size of barbers’ wastebaskets and when to empty them and
stipulated replacements of warning labels on ladders, said Rob
Nederhood, deputy director of the Regulatory Reinvention Office.  “In many cases regulations grew out of requests from the
occupation and have become a barrier to entry,” Nederhood said.
“Many of these laws were added in just the last decade.”  Minnesota  and Alabama are also weighing fireworks law
changes, joining at least 11 states that have relaxed rules in
the past dozen years, according to the American Pyrotechnics
Association. Industry sales climbed 58 percent in 2011 from 2000
and are nearing $1 billion annually, the group’s figures show.  As for motorcycle crash-helmets,  Massachusetts ,  Missouri ,
 New York ,  North Carolina ,  Tennessee ,  Oklahoma , Minnesota and
Washington state lawmakers are weighing whether to ease laws
requiring them, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures in Denver.  First Bareheaded Spin  “I’m still smiling from ear to ear,” said Vince
Consiglio, a retired Detroit school teacher who led efforts to
change his state’s helmet law. A motorcycle safety instructor
who received his first citation for riding without headgear in
1974, Consiglio said he took the inaugural legal helmetless spin
on his 2011  Harley Davidson Inc. (HOG)  Police Road King on April 13,
the day the law was enacted.  As states have run out of money and cut back on taxpayer
services and support, citizens have gotten more resentful of
regulations, said Nick Gillespie, editor-in-chief of online and
video productions at the Reason Foundation, a Los Angeles-based
nonprofit organization that promotes free markets.  “What you’re seeing is this push back on all these petty
and arbitrary restrictions on everyday life,” Gillespie said by
telephone. “You don’t get to run every detail of my life if you
can’t balance the budget. Suddenly things like regulating the
size of barbers’ waste baskets in Michigan don’t make sense.”  Legal Silencers  Arizona  this year ended a legal fight over a 2010 state law
permitting medical marijuana dispensaries. In March, the state
began letting residents buy  silencing devices  for their guns.  The Idaho Senate last month killed a bill that would have
restricted use of tanning beds by people younger than 16 years
old. In  Florida , a ban on using dyes to color animals ends July
1, under a law Scott signed this month.  Plenty of rules remain, and some are tightening.  The Sunshine State still prohibits riding a bicycle without
at least one hand on the handlebars. Many jurisdictions are
tightening restrictions on tobacco use and teenage drivers.  In the Nanny State column, Duppler recently highlighted
initiatives banning food donations to homeless people for health
reasons and proposals to bar smoking in personal cars.  West Virginia Republican John Raese, a candidate for the
 U.S. Senate , compared smoke-free building stickers required in
his Monongalia County to Nazis making Jews wear a yellow star,
in a video posted on YouTube.com of a speech he gave this month.  Encroaching on Freedoms  “I don’t want government telling me what I can do and what
I can’t do,” Raese said in the clip. “But in Monongalia County
you can’t smoke a cigarette, you can’t smoke a cigar, you can’t
do anything. And I oppose that because I believe in everybody’s
individual freedoms.”  Whatever the motivation to reconsider regulations, relaxed
helmet laws shouldn’t be in the mix, said Anne McCartt, senior
vice president of research at the Insurance Institute for
Highway Safety, an industry-funded group in Arlington, Virginia.  “It’s hard to overstate how dangerous it is to ride a
motorcycle without a helmet,” McCartt said by telephone.
“Maybe we’re in a period when personal liberties are more
important. In terms of helmet laws, it’s going mostly the wrong
way.”  In Michigan, Webb, who benefits from the relaxed fireworks
law, is wary of too much freedom. The former physics instructor
helps teach motorcycle-safety courses and plans to be more
careful in cautioning new riders on the risk of going without
headgear.  “I’m a big supporter of freedom, but death rates will go
up for people not wearing helmets,” Webb said by telephone.
“Natural selection is a messy thing. We’re getting a return to
more personal freedom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 