-- Barnes & Noble Gains as Activist Investor Discloses Stake
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-04-23T20:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/barnes-noble-gains-as-activist-investor-discloses-stake.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  gained the most
in 11 months after Jana Partners LLC, a hedge fund that has
pushed for companies to sell off assets, disclosed a 12 percent
stake in the largest U.S. bookstore chain.  The New York-based retailer  rose  18 percent to $13.41 at
the close in  New York  for the largest gain since May 20. The
shares have declined 7.4 percent this year.  Barnes & Noble is considering separating its growing Nook
digital unit into a separate company so investors will give it
the higher valuation of a technology business. In March the
company hired a new chief financial officer, Michael Huseby, who
helped spin off two units while at Cablevision Systems Corp.
Jana has taken an activist role in publisher McGraw-Hill Cos.,
proposing a plan last August to break up the company.  “This increases the possibility of action,” said Michael Glickstein, chief investment officer of G Asset Management LLC,
a Barnes & Noble investor that has pushed for the company to
spin off units. “Jana has experience in the publishing space,
and a track record in finding value in breakup plays.”  Jana disclosed its stake and the purchase of 250,000
options to buy shares on April 20 after U.S. markets closed. It
hasn’t reported a more detailed filing stating whether it will
be a passive or active investor. The hedge fund is now the
third-largest  holder  of Barnes & Noble, following founder and
Chairman  Leonard Riggio  and  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barnes & Noble put itself up for sale in 2010 following
pressure from investor Burkle. The process ended with  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp. investing $204 million in Barnes &
Noble in August 2011.  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) , the crude refiner, considered an
initial public offering of its pipeline assets in February two
weeks after Jana bought a stake and began talks with the
company.  Charles Penner, a spokesman for New York-based Jana
Partners, declined to comment, as did Mary Ellen Keating, a
spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  