-- Betting Against Fads in the Fund Industry
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-04-23T15:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/betting-against-fads-in-the-fund-industry.html
     Imitation, the saying goes, is the sincerest form of
flattery. In the financial services industry, it's often
flattery that investors could do well without: A crush of
similar products in a niche market is often a sign to run in
the opposite direction.  A recent example is volatility funds. In January
2009, Barclays Global Investors launched the iPath S&P 500 VIX
Short-Term Futures exchange-traded note (ETN) so investors
could profit from moves of the volatility index. Stocks were
near the trough of one of the worst bear markets in
history, and volatility was off the charts. For frightened
investors eager to hedge portfolios, a fund tracking the aptly
nicknamed “fear index” seemed to fit the bill.  As it turns out, the VIX had peaked three months earlier
at 89.5 and has declined ever since. The ETN
plummeted, delivering an annualized return since inception of
-63.7 percent through the end of March. Since it first was
offered, some 28 other VIX-related ETFs have followed. Not
surprisingly, most have performed poorly.  Following the Trend  The problem: When a niche fund attracts a
following, others try to replicate its success. As money piles
in, valuations become inflated, and the cycle continues until
eventually the bubble bursts. “New fund products often follow
the trend instead of anticipating it,” says Jeff Tjornehoj, a
research director at fund tracker Lipper.  The pattern occurs over and over. In 2000, 94 tech stock
mutual funds and ETFs were launched, according to
Morningstar -- more than in any other year -- right at the
peak of the dot-com bubble. From the end of 2000 through the
October 2002 lows of the bear market, the average tech fund
lost a cumulative 64 percent while the S&P 500 lost 31
percent.  In 2007 there were 16 real estate mutual fund and ETF
launches -- more than in any year since 1997.
Investors, viewing real estate as a defensive asset
class, piled in. A year later, the average real estate fund
fell 42 percent, while the S&P 500 fell 37 percent. And the
same basic dynamic unfolded with managed futures funds when
new offerings multiplied after 2008.  Contrarian Indicator  A current example of an overheating niche is energy
master limited partnerships (MLPs), says Rick Brooks, vice
president of investment management at financial advisory firm
Blankinship & Foster. Investors like the hefty dividend yields
on MLPs. Brooks has invested in them through a fund family
called SteelPath. Lately, though, he’s been put off by all the
money flowing into the tiny sector, which only has about 80
stocks. The number of funds investing in the niche has grown
from one in 2009 to more than 20.  “All the money flowing in is driving up valuations
potentially beyond where they reasonably should be,” he says.
“When you’ve got that tsunami of capital coming in, fund
managers feel compelled to put it to work, and you start
seeing really bad investment decisions.” Brooks is
contemplating selling his position.  Niche Fixed-Income Plays  New product launches don’t always mean bad news. A
broader asset class such as bond ETFs, for example, has room
for more funds without liquidity constraints. “You could point
to a lot of the fixed-income investing over the last couple of
years as indicative of a bubble in bonds,” says Tjornehoj.
“People have been saying that for years now, but it’s been
wrong. Fixed income has done pretty well, and asset flows have
followed that direction.”  That problem is particularly worrisome in
narrow, illiquid sectors. “Income-oriented ETFs focused on
preferred stocks, global high-yield bonds, Canadian unit
trusts and MLPs are being launched, and those are some of the
most illiquid categories in the business,” says financial
planner Louis Stanasolovich of Legend Financial Advisors in
Pittsburgh. “If there’s a big redemption out of these
ETFs, they are going to be trying to sell stuff that can’t be
sold or at really bad prices.” Rather than pile into
funds with a 3 percent yield, investors should focus on total
return, he adds.  The Cooling-Off Period  Investors may do better if they wait until fund offerings
in a hot area die down. After the dot-com bubble burst, 30
tech mutual funds were liquidated or merged out of existence.
Only one tech mutual fund opened in 2002. After that
year, from 2003 through March of 2012 the average tech fund
delivered a 10.41 percent annualized return -- handily beating
the S&P 500, which delivered 7.4 percent during the same
period.  This strategy also works in broader categories. According
to one Morningstar study of unloved fund categories suffering
shareholder redemptions, buying funds from the three
categories with the greatest redemptions each year produced an
8.98 percent annualized return from 1994 through 2011 compared
to just 7.42 percent for the S&P 500. (In 2011 the three fund
categories were large-cap blend, large-cap growth and world
stock.) Buying into the flattery in funds, it seems, is an
unprofitable exercise. 