-- Bicent Power Files for Bankruptcy Protection in Delaware
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-04-23T17:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/bicent-power-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-delaware-2-.html
Bicent Holdings LLC and 12
affiliates sought  bankruptcy protection  from creditors saying
the electricity producer will file a pre-arranged reorganization
plan within five business days.  Bicent Power LLC listed assets of less than $500,000 and
debt of as much as $1 billion in Chapter 11 documents filed
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “The company engaged in extensive negotiations with the
supporting lenders, which resulted in the debtors successfully
negotiating a pre-arranged plan of reorganization,” Christopher
Ryan, chief financial officer of Bicent Holdings, said in court
papers.  Bicent, based in Lafayette, Colorado, owns and operates two
generating facilities: Hardin, a 120-megawatt coal-fired plant
about 40 miles (64 kilometers) southeast of Billings, Montana,
and San Joaquin, a 48-megawatt natural gas-fired facility about
70 miles east of  San Francisco  in Lathrop, California, according
to court papers.  Bicent Holdings is owned by non-debtor Bicent Prime
Holdings, which is 87.1 percent-owned by Natural Gas Partners
VIII LP, Natural Gas Partners IX LP and NGP IX Offshore Holdings
LP and 12.9 percent-owned by Beowulf (Bicent) LLC, court papers
show.  Bicent’s largest unsecured creditors include  Barclays
Capital , as agent under a mezzanine credit agreement, with a
claim of $65.5 million; Lea Power Partners LLC, with a claim of
$22 million; and the Montana Department of Revenue, with a claim
of $820,475, according to court papers.  Colorado Energy Management, CEM Energy Services, Colorado
Cogen Operators, San Joaquin Cogen, Rocky Mountain Power,
Hartwell, Hartwell Power Co., Hartwell Independent Power
Partners, Hart County IPP, Bicent R.F. and Bicent Funding also
sought protection.  The main case is In re Bicent Holdings LLC, 12-11304,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  