-- Billionaire Rinehart Seeks More Royalties From Rio Tinto
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-23T05:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/billionaire-rinehart-seeks-more-royalties-from-rio-tinto.html
Gina Rinehart,  Asia ’s richest
woman, said  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  owes royalties to her company and
partner Wright Prospecting Pty. on 12 years of production at
two mines in  Australia .  The payments amount to 2.5 percent of ore sales at the
Channar and Eastern Ridge mines, Wright’s lawyer Rod Smith said
in New South Wales state court in Sydney today. Rinehart’s
Hancock Prospecting Ltd. and Wright are suing  Rio Tinto ’s
Hamersley Iron Pty. unit to recoup royalties they say are owed.  Rio Tinto, the third-biggest miner, sought to split the
case into separate trials to determine whether it owes the
money and how much the royalties are worth. Matthew Darke, the
London-based company’s lawyer, said determining the amount
would require examining more than 1,000 boxes of documents at
an estimated cost of more than A$600,000 ($621,000).  “Rio knows how to do the calculation” using the mining
company’s sales and production records, Smith said.  In an unspecified sample month, the mines produced 951,742
tons of ore, Smith told  Supreme Court  of New South Wales
Justice Robert McDougall today, citing documents from Rio Tinto.
The net output attributable to the royalties and revenue
received were confidential, he said.  Officials at the court last week said the documents
related to the case weren’t available because they were being
used to prepare for today’s hearing.  McDougall ordered Rio Tinto to submit a calculation of the
royalties to Hancock and Wright to consider. If the sides
couldn’t agree on an amount acceptable to all, they could get
involved in a “mega-litigation, and you are mega-parties” who
can deal with the costs, he said.  Lang Hancock  Rinehart inherited iron ore mining assets from her father,
 Lang Hancock , who, with E.A. Wright, negotiated the first
agreements with Rio Tinto in 1961 and 1962 to develop the
Pilbara region in Western Australia state, according to
Hancock’s  web site.   Wright, which is controlled by the children of the founder
E.A., and Hancock are basing their royalty claim on a 1970
agreement between the parties, Darke said.  Rio Tinto is paying royalties on ore produced at Mount  Tom
Price , Marandoo and Paraburdoo mines, Mark Bickerton, a Hancock
spokesman, said in an e-mail last month. Hancock has also sued
in the Supreme Court of Western Australia claiming it’s owed
royalties on other properties. Hancock receives no royalties
from Rio Tinto’s biggest mine, Yandi, or its Robe River
operations, Bickerton said.  As  iron ore  prices surged on demand from  China , the
royalties propelled Rinehart to 30th on the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, with an estimated net worth of $18.7
billion as of today.  The case is: Wright Prospecting Pty v. Hamersley Iron Pty.
2009/00323345. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  