-- Billionaire Spends $1.3 Billion on Hotels With Dubai Rebounding
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2012-04-23T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/billionaire-spends-1-3-billion-on-hotels-with-dubai-rebounding.html
Khalaf Al Habtoor’s father made his
living buying and selling pearls. The son became a billionaire
by buying and selling -- and building -- hotels.  The 62-year-old founder and chairman of  Al Habtoor Group 
LLC in Dubai deployed his hotel, engineering and auto businesses
to amass a fortune worth at least $2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In an interview in his office, decorated
with photos of him with  Queen Elizabeth II  and former President
 Jimmy Carter , Habtoor put the figure at closer to $4 billion.  As Dubai emerges from a property crash that sent prices
down more than 65 percent,  Habtoor  is now spending $1.3 billion
on a complex located on the emirate’s main commercial strip. It
will include three five-star hotels with more than 1,600 rooms,
tennis courts, a garden, shops, restaurants and a theater.  To him, it’s a fitting investment for an emirate that’s on
the mend.  “Our hotels are from 80 to 90 percent occupied, with an
average room rate in Dubai of $400,” Habtoor said as he sat in
front of a set of mahogany bookcases in a white Kandura, the
national dress of the  United Arab Emirates . “It is much higher
than last year. There is a clear sign of recovery.”  Dubai, home to the world’s No. 1 international airline,
Emirates, and the tallest tower,  Burj Khalifa , is benefiting
from an increase in visitors and trade. In February, 19 percent
more passengers arrived at its international airport over the
same period a year before. A record 51 million travelers arrived
in 2011. The emirate received 9.3 million tourists last year, up
10 percent from 2010, its tourism department said March 7. Hotel
revenue jumped 20 percent.  Hotels, Offices  Habtoor is poised to benefit from the new traffic. His
group owns and operates five hotels managed by Hilton, with
three in Dubai, after the demolition of the Metropolitan Hotel,
and two in  Beirut . He also has seven residential and office
properties in the emirate.  His auto retailer, Habtoor Motors, has 13 showrooms
throughout the U.A.E. and a leasing division with 8,000 rental
cars. In addition, the group owns and runs two international
private schools and has a 28 percent stake in contractor Habtoor
Leighton Group, a joint venture formed in 2007 between Habtoor
Engineering and Australia’s  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI)   The $2 billion valuation for Habtoor’s empire is based on
estimated sales at his hotel, auto, real estate and education
businesses. Sales were then compared to the average enterprise
value-to-earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization and price-to-earnings multiples of similar publicly
traded companies.  His stake in Habtoor Leighton Group was calculated based on
the value Leighton Holdings put on its stake in the venture as
of December 2011. Habtoor in a later e-mail declined to comment
about how he values his net worth.  Taking Care  “He is a very successful person who started from scratch
and built Habtoor Group,” said his brother, Sultan Al Habtoor,
who manages the automotive business. “We are all there, but
without him Habtoor Group will not be what it is today. He built
the base. He’s the one who’s taking care of us.”  Born before the seven emirates united in 1971 to form a
federation, Habtoor grew up with two brothers and four sisters.
His father worked in the pearl trade, a mainstay of the region’s
economy centuries before its oil-fueled construction boom. He
bought and sold pearls as well as gold in the emirate.  As one of just 100,000 or so Dubai locals, it was common
for Habtoor to be on familiar terms with members of the ruling
family. According to Habtoor, Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum,
Dubai’s ruler, was one of his boyhood friends.  Habtoor got his start in the  construction industry  at the
age of 15, working full-time at an Abu Dhabi builder. He soon
became the company’s youngest manager. His schooling stopped at
seventh grade.  Theater-Building  In 1970, at 21, Habtoor struck out on his own, forming Al
Habtoor Engineering. The country’s rapid push to modernize
provided ample opportunities for contracts. One of his earliest
was for Dubai’s first movie theater.  Beginning in 1975, the U.A.E. embarked on a plan to double
its number of hospitals and Habtoor made a name for himself as a
hospital specialist. By the 1990s his focus had broadened, in
tandem with the government’s development plans, to airports,
shopping malls and hotels such as the sail-shaped  Burj Al Arab .  Like many of the region’s prominent family businesses,
Habtoor’s group has diversified. His 29-year-old auto division
is the country’s sole distributor for Mitsubishi, Bentley and
Bugatti. That brand monopoly is particularly valuable in a
country rife with both bargain-shopping expats and wealth-
flaunting locals who prize luxury cars.  Women’s Tennis  Habtoor himself is unabashed about enjoying his fortune. A
sports enthusiast, he spends almost two hours a day playing
tennis and sponsors an annual  women’s tennis tournament  that has
at least a $75,000 purse. It was the first tennis competition
dedicated to women in the  Middle East .  He also founded  Al Habtoor Polo , a team with 40 horses and
8 fulltime grooms that competes internationally. Habtoor’s two
sons both play under the family banner.  Tourism and trade in Dubai are recovering after a $20
billion bailout in 2009 from the U.A.E’s central bank and
neighboring  Abu Dhabi . Dubai and its state-owned companies
borrowed at least $113 billion, according to an International
Monetary Fund report in June.  Several companies in Dubai were forced to restructure debt
after property prices and asset values slumped and credit
markets froze, following the global financial crisis.  Falling Values  The downturn in property values and a 9 percent drop in
2009 Dubai hotel occupancy rates, according to Jones Lang
LaSalle, hit Habtoor Group hard. The damage to the empire would
have been much worse had Habtoor not sold a 45 percent stake in
Habtoor Engineering to Leighton in September 2007 for A$870
million ($896 million). The sale personally netted Habtoor
almost $364 million.  According to a January 6 Citigroup report, $964 billion
worth of construction projects had been suspended or canceled in
the U.A.E. as of last November. Facing $1 billion in late
payments, parent Leighton was forced to inject $272 million into
its Gulf subsidiary. As of December, Leighton valued its equity
stake in HLG at $387.2 million, 21 percent less than six months
earlier. Habtoor’s stake is now worth less than $250 million.  Habtoor was also one of the Middle Eastern investors who
bought shares in  Barclays Plc (BARC)  as the British lender sought funds
during the credit crisis. He sold his stake in December 2009 at
a “minor” loss at 322 pence apiece, after being disappointed
when the lender cut its dividend, he said in an Oct. 10
interview.  Like Las Vegas  Habtoor is still ready to make big bets on his home turf.
To make way for his new Habtoor Palace complex, he is tearing
down the 33-year old Metropolitan Dubai, the first hotel for
both Habtoor Group and the emirate. Habtoor says the centerpiece
of the new project will be a 1,000-seat theater with a hydraulic
central stage and movable floors that will host  Las Vegas  and
Broadway-style productions. The performances will be the first
permanent shows of their kind in the emirate.  The Palace will consist of two towers rising from a five-
story base and will also have a spa, Michelin-star themed
restaurants and designer shops. The new property will replace a
hotel that hosted actors Omar Sharif and Jean Claude Van Damme
as well as officials such as Prince Michael of Kent and former
president  George H.W. Bush .  Habtoor “moved with the emirate, but I’d like to think as
his friend that he helped the emirate move as well,” said Paul Rayner, a former banker with Barclays and Credit Suisse AG whom
Habtoor recruited from retirement to become his senior adviser
across the group.  In addition to the hotel projects, Habtoor is also looking
to buy commercial property or hotels in  Europe , namely in Paris
and  London , and has no intention to get involved in new
industries.  “I have a policy,” he said, sipping coffee from a
porcelain cup. “We don’t do anything unless we know it. We
expand within our own group.” 