-- Biota Falls Most in Eight Months on Merger with Nabi
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-04-23T03:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/biota-falls-most-in-eight-months-on-merger-with-nabi.html
Biota Holdings Ltd. (BTA) , an Australian
company that earns royalties on influenza drugs, slumped in
Sydney trading after agreeing to merge with  Nabi
Biopharmaceuticals (NABI)  to gain access to the  Nasdaq  market.  Biota fell as much as 9.5 percent, the biggest decline on
an intraday basis since Aug. 9., and was trading 7.9 percent
lower at 87 Australian cents as of 1:36 p.m. local time.
Rockville, Maryland-based Nabi will issue new stock to acquire
all of Biota’s shares, with investors in the Australian company
to own 74 percent of the combined business.  The agreement comes more than 12 months after Melbourne-
based Biota hired  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  to help consider capital
raising or merger and acquisition structures. Biota Chairman Jim Fox declined to specify what value the merger puts on his
company’s stock and said shifting from the Australian market to
Nasdaq may improve liquidity for investors and help it develop
its drug program for the U.S. government.  “It helps to be in America for that, and that seems to be
one of the primary motivations, although I don’t understand why
they can’t do it in  Australia ,” said Shane Storey, an analyst
at  Wilson HTM Investment Group (WIG)  in Brisbane. “There’s some
fundamental sense in this.”  The deal has the backing of directors at both companies and
investors don’t need to take any action now with further
information to be released in the “next few weeks,” Biota said
in a statement.  Nabi has a  market value  of $79.4 million, based on its
April 20 closing price of $1.85, and its stock has plunged 67
percent in the past 12 months. The company said July 18 that a
treatment to help smokers quit failed to show effectiveness in
clinical trials.  After the deal is completed, the combined company will be
known as Biota Pharmaceuticals Inc., it said.  Piper Jaffray advised both Biota and Nabi separately,
Biota’s Fox said on a conference call today. Biota has also
hired Lonergan Edwards & Associates as an independent adviser,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  