-- Bobby Valentine’s Red Sox ‘Hit Bottom’ After Yankees Debacle
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/bobby-valentine-s-red-sox-hit-bottom-after-yankees-debacle.html
Bobby Valentine  said his return as
a Major League Baseball manager after a nine-year hiatus has
been a challenging one and that the  Boston Red Sox  only have
room for improvement after their latest loss.  At 4-10 less than three weeks into Valentine’s tenure, the
Red Sox are in last place in their division and have the second-
worst record in the  American League . The team’s current skid hit
five games after it blew a 9-0 lead in a 15-9 loss to the
archrival  New York Yankees  two days ago.  “I think we’ve hit bottom,” Valentine told reporters
after the game. “If this isn’t the bottom, then we’ll find some
new ends to the earth or something.”  The  Red Sox  had last night’s series finale against the
Yankees at Fenway Park rained out and today are scheduled to
begin a seven-game road trip with the first of three games in
 Minnesota . They’ll then travel to  Chicago  for a four-game series
against the White Sox.  While Boston’s relief pitchers have combined for an MLB-
worst 8.44 earned run average so far and the Red Sox are without
outfielder Jacoby Ellsbury and closer  Andrew Bailey  due to
injury, Valentine has taken the brunt of criticism from fans and
the Boston media for the team’s poor start.  The Red Sox haven’t won since he publicly questioned the
commitment of third baseman  Kevin Youkilis  and was booed by fans
at Fenway Park as he repeatedly went to the mound for pitching
changes in the April 21 collapse against the Yankees. Six Red
Sox relievers combined to allow 13 runs over the final three
innings. It was the first time since June 26, 1987, that Boston
blew a 9-0 lead against its division rival.  Booing Valentine  “I’ve been booed in a couple countries, a few different
stadiums,” said the 61-year-old Valentine, who is the only
manager to have teams reach championship rounds in the U.S. and
 Japan . “I don’t want to be booed. I want the good decisions,
this just didn’t work out.”  Valentine said he understood the passion of Red Sox fans
and “the rich tradition of baseball in this city” when he was
hired in November to succeed  Terry Francona , who left in
September after the team blew a nine-game wild-card lead in the
final month and missed the postseason for the second straight
year. Dating back to last season’s late collapse, the Red Sox
have lost 30 of their past 41 games.  Valentine, who led the  New York Mets  to an appearance in
the 2000  World Series , signed a two-year contract with the Red
Sox after spending the past two years working as a major-league
analyst for Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN. His last managerial job had
been with Chiba Lotte Marines from 2003 to 2009, having gone to
Japan after being fired by the Mets.  Challenging Return  Valentine said his return as a major-league manager has
been a difficult one and the tough transition has been
compounded by injuries.  Bailey, acquired by the Red Sox in December to close out
games, had reconstructive surgery on his right thumb and may not
return until after the All-Star break.  Ellsbury went on the disabled list with a partially
dislocated shoulder following a season in which he finished
second in the AL Most Valuable Player voting after hitting .321
with 32 home runs, 105 runs batted in and 39 stolen bases.  ‘Got to be Tough’  “This is a psychological situation,” Valentine said.
“Last September had a toll. Losing Ellsbury had a toll. You’ve
got to be tough. I think we’re a tough team. We’ll find out.”  The Red Sox have had 14 straight winning seasons, including
10 years with 90 or more victories, and have won the World
Series twice in that span. First-year General Manager  Ben Cherington  said the organization is “very satisfied” with
Valentine and is confident he’ll get the team turned around.  “The players will always influence wins and losses more
than anybody else, and that’s no different here,” Cherington
 told MLB.com . “He’s doing the best he can with the roster he
has. It’ll get better -- he knows that and I know that and,
along the way, if changes need to be made on the roster, that’s
my responsibility.”  The Red Sox also started 4-10 last year under Francona and
then won 26 of their next 38 games. Boston was as many as 31
games over .500 -- at 83-52 on Aug. 31 -- before losing 20 of
its final 27 games. Valentine said rebuilding a winning
mentality is part of the task ahead.  “This is all a challenge, this is my job,” Valentine said.
“If they said it was only going to be for the good days, I
probably wouldn’t have come. Challenges are great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  