-- Boston Scientific Heart Device May Malfunction, Wise Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-04-23T20:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/boston-scientific-heart-device-may-malfunction-wise-says.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s Cognis
and Teligen defibrillators, used to shock hearts into a normal
rhythm, may have a flaw that’s has been linked to a death, said
 Rick Wise , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co.  An electrical transformer has shown a “pattern of
malfunction,” that causes the device to heat up, Wise said in a
note to clients, citing Boston Scientific’s Product Performance
Report. The flaw has been detected in 26 of 233,000 units.  The event rate is “extremely low,” he said, and shouldn’t
affect the outlook of the Natick, Massachusetts-based company.
Boston Scientific’s new defibrillators don’t include the
transformer, Wise said. The devices haven’t been recalled and
the company is providing doctors and patients with more
information, he said.  A panel of physicians and safety advocates reviews the
safety of Boston Scientific products, said Steve Campanini, a
Boston Scientific spokesman. The company is committed to
reporting quality issues to regulators and stands behind the
performance of the devices and safety systems, he said.  “While no medical therapy is perfect, the Cognis and
Teligen family is performing within our reliability
expectations,” he said in an e-mail.  Boston Scientific fell 1.4 percent to $5.86 at 4:06 p.m.
New York time. The  shares  have fallen 18 percent in the past 12
months.  St. Jude’s Device  Defibrillator risks are getting more attention after  St.
Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s Riata, which the company stopped selling in
2010, was linked to a rare malfunction caused when the wires
used to connect the device to the heart broke free of the
insulating cables.  A U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory panel this
week is reviewing the safety of Cameron Health Inc.’s
defibrillator, which works without directly attaching the
defibrillator wires to the heart. Boston Scientific agreed in
March to purchase the closely held company for as much as $1.35
billion to get access to the device called the S-ICD System.  The defibrillator has been tied to inappropriate shocks and
infections, the FDA said in a staff report that was released
ahead of the April 26 meeting to review the device’s safety and
effectiveness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  