-- BP Gulf Oil Spill Accord Is Biased, Shrimp Processors Say
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-04-23T19:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/bp-gulf-oil-spill-accord-is-biased-shrimp-processors-say.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s proposed settlement of
private plaintiffs’ claims of losses from the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill  discriminates against some members of the
shrimp industry, lawyers for processors said.  The American Shrimp Processors Association today asked the
judge overseeing the lawsuits to delay preliminary approval of
the settlement until “relevant revisions and modifications are
made.” The accord treats shrimp harvesters and boat captains
better than owners of docks and plants that receive the catch
and prepare it for market, the organization said.  “The two groups are part of the same shrimp supply chain
and share virtually identical future economic loss risk; however
their compensation for future economic loss risks is widely
disparate,” the association’s lawyers said in the filing.  BP last month agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property
damage and injuries. The March 2 settlement, reached days before
a scheduled trial on liability for the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover
federal government claims and those of the Gulf Coast states
 Louisiana  and  Mississippi .  Also excluded are claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deepwater drilling prompted by
the spill.  Hearing this Week  Lawyers for BP and plaintiffs suing the company filed the
proposed settlement April 18 with U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  for preliminary approval. Barbier set a
hearing for April 25 to consider the request. The shrimp
processors asked the judge to allow its lawyers to speak at the
hearing.  BP and the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, a group of
lawyers appointed by Barbier to handle the lawsuits, asked the
judge to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing before final approval of
the accord and to postpone any trial on liability until after
the hearing.  The U.S. will oppose postponing the trial, acting U.S.
Associate Attorney General  Tony West  said in an interview April
20.  Barbier won’t consider the request to postpone the trial
until a closed-door hearing May 3, he said today in a one-page
order. He ordered parties to file briefs opposing or supporting
BP’s motion to postpone the trial by May. 2.  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history.  The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against London-
based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner
and operator of the rig; and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
which provided cementing services.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 