-- Bullish, Bearish Forecasters Agree on Strong Dollar
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-23T18:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/bullish-bearish-economy-forecasters-agree-on-strong-dollar-1-.html
There’s at least one thing that
bulls and bears on the U.S. economy agree on: the dollar, the
most undervalued major currency in the world, is due to rise as
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis threatens the global recovery.  Strategists who as recently as November were predicting the
dollar would depreciate against currencies of the Group of 10
nations, now say it will climb by year-end. After weakening
against all but the Mexican peso among its 16 most actively
traded peers over the past decade, it has gained against 13 of
them since February.  Bulls say the dollar will benefit from increased U.S.
hiring and an economy that’s projected to grow 2.3 percent this
year, almost double the 1.26 percent for the Group of 10,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists. The currency will
also gain if global and U.S. growth slows as Europe’s debt
crisis worsens, boosting demand for dollar assets such as
Treasuries as traditional havens from market turmoil diminish.  “We’ve become more bullish on the dollar because the
economic prospects in the U.S. are improving,” Ken Dickson, an
investment director of currencies at Standard Life Investments
in Edinburgh, which manages about $235 billion, said on April 18
by telephone. “There are additional reasons including problems
in the periphery, and a weaker euro is required to help the
transition to a better economic situation in Europe.”  Calls Reversed  Scotland ’s second-biggest money manager is “overweight”
the dollar against the yen and the euro, meaning it owns a
greater percentage denominated in the currency than is contained
in benchmark indexes. The greenback may climb about 9 percent to
$1.20 per euro in the next six months, Dickson said.  Currency analysts predict it will appreciate 1 percent
versus other G-10 currencies by the end of this year, according
to the average median estimates of strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg, from a 4 percent drop expected in November.  It strengthened 0.7 percent to 81.52 yen last week and fell
1.1 percent to $1.3219 per euro. The dollar slid 0.5 percent to
81.10 yen as of 2:12 p.m.  New York  time, and appreciated 0.6
percent to $1.3136 per euro.  Currency strategists expect the dollar to advance to $1.30
per euro and 84 yen by year-end, based on the median estimate of
at least 46 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
November estimates of $1.41 per euro and 80 yen.  Japan, Switzerland  Demand is being buoyed as central banks in  Japan  and
 Switzerland  resist gains in their currencies, with both nations
seeking to protect their exporters from rising prices for their
goods. That leaves the dollar as the sole haven for investors
seeking refuge from Europe’s crisis.  Japan has intervened to curb the yen’s 60 percent
appreciation over the past decade. The currency surged to a
post-World War II record of 75.35 per dollar in October before
slipping about 8 percent. The Swiss National Bank imposed a 1.20
franc per euro ceiling on Sept. 6, and the franc has fallen 0.3
percent versus the dollar since the end of that month.  Global gross domestic product will expand 3.5 percent this
year and 4.1 percent in 2013, the  International Monetary Fund 
said last week in its World Economic Outlook, raising forecasts
made in January from 3.3 percent for 2012 and 4 percent for next
year. The U.S. will grow 2.1 percent this year and the euro area
is projected to decline by 0.3 percent in 2012.  The euro zone’s $12.1 trillion economy is the world’s
second-largest, after the U.S.’s $14.6 trillion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro’s Risk  There’s a risk of the euro sliding to $1.25 “if sovereign
funding conditions deteriorate significantly,” John Normand,
the London-based head of currency strategy at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said April 19. “Our view is that the funding stress,
although intense sometimes, is manageable” and the euro may
rebound to $1.34 this quarter, he said in an interview.  While the dollar has benefited from its role as the world’s
 reserve currency , with 62 percent of global holdings, its value
fell in foreign-exchange markets as the  Federal Reserve  printed
$2.3 trillion to inject into the economy after the financial
crisis began five years ago.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the currency against those of six trading partners, tumbled 14
percent during the Fed’s two rounds of asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, or QE, between December 2008 and June 2011.  Strategists who expect the dollar to decline say that while
the U.S. unemployment rate is at the lowest in three years,
payrolls increased by the least in five months in March and the
Fed may introduce more QE before year-end.  Bernanke’s Assessment  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
unemployment benefits in the week through April 14, a government
report showed on April 19, adding to signs the improvement in
labor-market conditions may be faltering.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last month that further
“significant” improvements in employment would probably
require a more-rapid expansion.  “Prospects of QE3 had never left the table,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more
than $26 trillion in assets under custody and administration.  Woolfolk expects the dollar to weaken to $1.40 per euro and
to appreciate to 90 yen by the end of the year.  “QE3 would send a signal that the Fed wants to continue to
grow the balance sheet and continue with the foot on the
accelerator in terms of monetary policy,” he said. “This would
be viewed as negative for the dollar by the market.”  Easing Odds  The odds of more easing measures by the Fed are 50 percent
or higher, the majority in a Bloomberg News survey of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed showed this month.  Longer-term depreciation has left the dollar as the only G-
10 currency undervalued versus the euro, by 5.6 percent, based
on an index by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development that uses relative costs of goods and services.  The dollar is too weak by 31 percent against the yen and 24
percent compared with its Canadian counterpart, according to the
Paris-based OECD.  “The dollar is probably about 20 percent undervalued,”
John Taylor, who manages about $4.5 billion as founder and chief
executive officer of New York-based currency hedge fund FX
Concepts LLC, said in an April 20 telephone interview. “It will
be stronger against the euro and yen and even against the
 emerging markets .”  Central Bank Steps  Like the Fed, policy makers in Japan and Europe have taken
steps to support their economies with fiscal stimulus.  The  Bank of Japan  is “committed” to monetary easing,
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said April 18 in a speech in New
York. The  European Central Bank  issued about 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) in three-year loans to area banks in two longer-
term refinancing operations, or LTROs, in December and February.  New Fed stimulus may be sterilized, which would involve the
simultaneous draining of cash from the banking system through
the repurchase agreement market. The central bank is now
replacing $400 billion in shorter-term holdings with longer-term
debt in a program called Operation Twist that expires in June.  “The bias at this point is toward steady monetary policy
in the U.S. relative to other central banks that could ease
further,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in New York, said in an April 17 telephone
interview. “The economy in the U.S. is going to be steady, so
when we look at those trends elsewhere, we feel the dollar
should benefit overall.”  Dollar Index Rally  Wells Fargo revised its year-end forecast for the dollar
against the yen to 84 last week, after predicting 80 yen at the
beginning of the year. It expects the greenback to end the year
at $1.24 per euro.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  has rallied more than 2 percent since the
Fed announced the start of Operation Twist on Sept. 21.
Indicators such as  retail sales , manufacturing and  consumer
confidence  signal a pickup in the recovery.  Consumer sentiment  has been above 70 every month this year,
according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index.
The gauge averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the
five years before the crisis. Retail sales rose 0.8 percent in
March, exceeding the 0.3 percent median estimate of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, Commerce Department data last
week showed.  The ISM index of manufacturing activity jumped to 53.4 last
month, from a two-year low of 51.4 reached in July. It is down
from a high of 59.9 in January 2011.  Futures Bets  Bets on dollar gains are growing as Europe’s debt crisis,
which started in  Greece  in October 2009, persists.  Italy  last
week delayed its goal to balance the budget by one year to 2014,
joining  Spain  in missing fiscal targets amid a worsening
recession.  Hedge funds and other large speculators increased bets the
dollar will rise against the  euro  to 118,125 contracts in the
week ended April 17 from 101,364 the previous week, according to
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. Against the  yen ,
futures traders are long the dollar by 57,803 contracts.  “We expect the  U.S. economy  to outperform a lot of Europe,
therefore we look for the dollar to appreciate over the course
of this year,” Sara Yates, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Barclays Plc in  London , who sees the dollar climbing to $1.25 in
six months and $1.20 in a year, said in an interview on April
17. “It’s also the case that if we get euro-area risk really
coming back to the fore, then the dollar will do well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  