-- Bundesbank Says Low Rates Help to Fuel German Housing Investment
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/bundesbank-says-low-rates-help-to-fuel-german-housing-investment.html
Germany ’s  Bundesbank  said falling
unemployment, rising wages and low  interest rates  are helping to
fuel investment in the housing market.  “The domestic economy is still benefiting from an
improving labor market and higher wage deals, which are
strengthening consumption,” the Frankfurt-based central bank
said in its monthly report published today. “In conjunction
with favorable financing conditions, that’s fueling investment
in house construction.”  The  European Central Bank  has cut its  benchmark rate  to a
record low of 1 percent and flooded the banking system with cash
to battle the region’s sovereign debt crisis. At the same time,
German unemployment has dropped to a two-decade low, boosting
domestic spending. According to the Bundesbank, German  house
prices  jumped 5.5 percent last year, the most since the
country’s post-reunification boom of the early 1990s.  Still, manufacturing output shrank more than forecast in
April as spending cuts across the 17-nation euro region weighed
on export demand.  “The German economy is currently lacking momentum, even
though it’s in good shape overall,” the Bundesbank said.
“Companies still assess their situation to be good or at least
satisfactory, and are  hiring  additional personnel on a
significant scale.”  German  business confidence  unexpectedly increased to a
nine-month high this month, suggesting growth may gather pace
after the debt crisis caused an economic contraction in the
final quarter of 2011. The Bundesbank said a global economic
recovery should spur export orders from faster growing  emerging
markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  