-- Cable & Wireless Owner Refuses Support for Vodafone Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-23T13:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/cable-wireless-owner-refuses-support-for-vodafone-deal.html
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/) ’s
largest shareholder refused to support  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 1.04
billion pounds ($1.7 billion) offer, saying the bid doesn’t
reflect the value of the U.K. fixed-line network operator.  “The proposed deal is clearly attractive for Vodafone
shareholders,” Orbis Holdings Ltd., which owns a 19 percent
stake, said today in a statement to Bloomberg. “However, we are
concerned that the offer price does not appear to reflect the
value inherent in CWW.”  Vodafone, the largest wireless operator, agreed to pay 38
pence a share in cash in an offer recommended by Cable &
Wireless’s board. Investors holding 18.6 percent of Cable &
Wireless shares have agreed to back the deal. Vodafone, which
needs support from shareholders representing 75 percent,
predicts that the deal will be completed in the third quarter.  “Be careful what you wish for, it seems to be a pretty
high-risk strategy,” said Evan Miller, a London-based managing
director at  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL) , which owns less than 1 percent
of Cable & Wireless, referring to the statement from Hamilton,
Bermuda-based Orbis. “I don’t see that there’s going to be
another Vodafone on the scene.”  Vodafone became the sole bidder for London-based Cable &
Wireless after  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  last week failed to
agree on a price and decided against making an offer. Newbury,
England-based Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line
acquisition for the first time since 2010, when it ended talks
to buy Germany’s  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)   Sole Bidder  Cable & Wireless surged as much 17 percent to 37.45 pence
in London and traded at 36.50 pence as of 2:09 p.m. The stock
has gained 85 percent since Vodafone publicly expressed interest
on Feb. 13. Vodafone rose as much as 1 percent.  The British mobile-phone operator is paying 2.5 times
reported earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, including debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an average of 3.5 times for
similar deals in western  Europe  in the last three years. Based
on estimates for the 12 months through March 2012, Vodafone is
paying a multiple of 3 times Ebitda.  Vodafone will double its revenue from enterprise customers
with the purchase, while also gaining the largest U.K. fiber
system for businesses. The operator needs the system to relieve
the strain of surging data traffic on its own mobile-phone
network as customers increasingly adopt smartphones including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.  ‘Opportunistic’  “We can fill their network with our own traffic,”
Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said on a
conference call. “Those assets are probably finding the right
long-term home for them,” he said, calling the acquisition
“opportunistic.”  By gaining its own fiber network, Vodafone will avoid
paying fees to access those of rivals including  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , to
whom it pays 200 million pounds a year, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein analysts. Vodafone will also gain British customers
including  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)  Vodafone said it probably won’t be able to
use Cable & Wireless’s past losses to offset its own tax
obligations.  Cable & Wireless , tracing its roots to 1866 when the first
submarine cable across the Atlantic Ocean was laid, has holdings
in more than 60 global cable systems. Separated from its parent
company in March 2010, Cable & Wireless was once worth 2.4
billion pounds. The stock has lost 65 percent of its value in
the past two years before today. In November, the company
suspended future  dividend payments  as sales fell in its
traditional voice network.  Gavin Darby, a former Vodafone executive who replaced  John Pluthero  as Cable & Wireless’s CEO in November, said Feb. 16
that he would be prepared to consider “significant, strategic
decisions” as part of plans to restructure the business.
Vodafone said today it plans to reduce the new unit’s headcount.  Vodafone was advised by UBS AG, while Barclays and
Rothschild are Cable & Wireless’s advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  