-- Cameron Health’s Defibrillator Raises Safety Concerns
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-23T20:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/cameron-health-s-defibrillator-raises-safety-concerns.html
Cameron Health Inc. ’s novel
defibrillator used to shock a stopped heart has been tied to
inappropriate shocks and infection rates, U.S. regulators said.  A study of the San Clemente, California-based company’s
device in 314 patients showed 48 episodes of shocks in 38
patients that were inappropriate and higher infection rates
compared with devices with leads inserted through a vein,
according to a  report  released today by Food and Drug
Administration staff. Advisers to the agency are scheduled to
meet April 26 to discuss the device’s safety and effectiveness.  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  agreed in March to purchase closely
held Cameron Health for as much as $1.35 billion for the device
called the S-ICD System. Boston Scientific fell 1.4 percent to
$5.86 at the close in  New York . The FDA staff also questioned
whether the Cameron Health data is sufficient to assure the
device works.  “FDA has raised several questions regarding the totality
of the safety and effectiveness data submitted,” agency staff
wrote.  Cameron Health also is working with the FDA to understand
the root cause of premature  battery depletion  in the device. The
FDA won’t consider approval until the issue is resolved,
according to the report. The panel won’t weigh the battery
issue.  Ward Dykstra, a spokesman for the company, didn’t
immediately return a phone call requesting comment on the staff
report.  No Wires  Cameron Health’s defibrillator, approved in  Europe , is
implanted completely under the skin, eliminating the need for
lead placement inside the heart, the company said. About 850,000
people in the U.S. are at risk for  sudden cardiac arrest , which
is rapid or chaotic heart activity that leads to loss of
function, and are eligible to use an implantable defibrillator,
according to the company.  In the study of the Cameron Health device, most of the
shocks deemed inappropriate were from oversensing, according to
the FDA staff report. Twenty inappropriate shocks represented
normal device function and were consistent with what would occur
with a defibrillator inserted in a vein.  Patients with the S-ICD System reported 18 infections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  