-- Canadian Dollar Climbs Versus Most Majors on Europe
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-23T21:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/canadian-dollar-depreciates-to-1-week-low-on-safety-bid.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against the
majority of its most-traded peers as speculation faster economic
growth will lead to higher interest rates tempered a decrease in
worldwide equities.  The currency fell earlier to the lowest level in almost a
week against its U.S. counterpart as demand for the safest
assets drove the U.S. dollar and the yen higher after an
election in  France  worsened prospects for the euro-zone debt
crisis. The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, appreciated
the most since March last week against the greenback after  Bank
of Canada  policy makers suggested interest-rate increases this
year were more likely.  “The ongoing influence domestically has provided a
positive spin on the dollar and the global backdrop remains
challenged,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto, in a telephone
interview. “As we get closer to parity, the market seems to
have some trouble, but investors are buying the Canadian dollar
on any weakness as it should outperform over the long term.”  Canada’s currency rose 0.1 percent at 99.13 cents per U.S.
dollar at 5:02p.m. in Toronto. It earlier touched 99.79 cents,
the least since April 17. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0087.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined as much as 1.4
percent while the MSCI World Index of equities also lost 1.4
percent.  Price Patterns  “We’re only back to where we closed Friday, but with
stocks down 1 percent, it’s an impressive move,”  Steve Butler ,
managing director in Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia
Capital unit, wrote in an e-mail. “It feels like possibly
there’s some M&A money coming into the market. We’ve seen a few
consistent sellers of U.S. dollars today.”  Investors have increased bets that the Bank of Canada will
move this year to raise interest rates after Governor  Mark
Carney  said on April 17 that removing stimulus “may become
appropriate” in light of stronger growth and inflation.  Traders have priced in almost a full quarter-percentage
point of tightening by the central bank’s Dec. 4 meeting,
according to Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.
That compares with about seven basis points the day before the
bank’s announcement and less than five basis points April 11.  “The Federal Reserve meeting is coming up, and the U.S.
certainly won’t be more hawkish than Canada has been lately,
which also tends support to the Canadian Dollar,” Spitz added.
The U.S. central bank holds a two-day meeting that starts
tomorrow.  Carney’s Policy  Carney, who has held the policy rate at 1 percent since
September 2010, is weighing the risks to inflation posed by
stronger growth and record household debt against an uneven
global recovery and the unresolved euro-zone debt crisis. The
bank’s statement last week said “in light of the reduced slack
in the economy and firmer underlying inflation, some modest
withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy stimulus
may become appropriate.”  Canadian 10-year  government bonds  rose, with the yields
dropping two basis points to 2.04 percent. The price of the 3.25
percent bonds maturing in June 2021 advanced 16 cents to
C$110.02. Federal  government bonds  rose 0.1 percent this month,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The Canadian currency briefly pared losses earlier after a
report showed wholesale sales unexpectedly increased.  Sales rose 1.6 percent to C$48.5 billion ($48.7 billion) in
February, according to Ottawa-based Statistics Canada.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted February sales would
decline 0.2 percent, based on the median of 13 estimates.  Canada’s currency is up 0.8 percent during the past week
for the second-best performance among 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, spurred by speculation
 interest rates  may be rising. The pound has gained 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  