-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Materials, Energy Producers Drop
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-04-23T20:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/canadian-stocks-fall-as-materials-energy-producers-drop.html
Canadian stocks  fell the most in
over a week as materials and energy shares declined after
manufacturing shrank in the euro-area and China and the French
election heightened concern over Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, dropped 1.7 percent.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) ,
Canada’s second-largest publicly traded copper producer,
declined 5.3 percent.  MEG Energy Corp. (MEG) , a Calgary-based oil-
sands developer, fell 2.1 percent. Baja Mining Corp., which is
building the Boleo copper and cobalt mine in Mexico, plummeted
37 percent after saying the project’s cost may be 22 percent
higher than forecast.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  decreased 158.33
points, or 1.3 percent, to 11,988.95 in Toronto, its biggest
drop since April 13.  “It’s the European numbers, plus another data point
confirming that China is slowing,” Jennifer Radman, a  money
manager  at Caldwell Investment Management Ltd. in Toronto, said
in a telephone interview. The firm oversees about C$1 billion
($1 billion). “It’s a very widespread sell-off. Risk is coming
out of the market due to those factors.”  The S&P/TSX had its first weekly gain in almost two months
in the five days ending April 20, snapping its longest losing
streak since 2008. Canadian stocks rallied after the
International Monetary Fund and the Bank of Canada said economic
growth would be faster than previously forecast.  Materials companies fell, driven by metals producers.
Copper headed for its biggest loss in more than a week in New
York on concern that demand will slow as manufacturing contracts
in China, the world’s biggest copper user. The metal also fell
on concern that the outcome of French and Dutch elections will
disrupt efforts to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Base Metals  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s biggest base-metal producer,
decreased 3.7 percent to C$35.33.  First Quantum declined 5.3 percent to C$19.83 after being
 lowered  to sector performer from sector outperformer at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, which cited lowered gold and nickel
price forecasts for 2012 and 2013. The rating means that the
stock is expected to perform in line with its sector during the
next 12 to 18 months.  Baja Mining plunged 37 percent, the biggest drop in more
than nine years, to 57 Canadian cents. The Boleo project may
cost an additional C$246 million after exhausting contingency
and cost-overrun facilities, the Vancouver-based company said
today in a statement.  Stronger Dollar  Gold declined to a two-week low as a stronger U.S. dollar
curbed demand for the metal as an alternative investment. Silver
slumped to a three-month low.  Barrick Gold dropped 1.7 percent to C$39.29.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) ,
the world’s second-biggest bullion miner, fell 3.4 percent to
C$39.65.  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , the country’s third-biggest
precious-metals company by market value, decreased 3.6 percent
to C$28.12.  Energy stocks in the S&P/TSX fell as oil declined the most
in two weeks after preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’
index in China fanned concern that fuel consumption will
diminish.  MEG Energy Corp. declined 2.1 percent to C$37.65.  Cenovus
Energy Inc. (CVE) , Canada’s fifth-largest energy company, dropped 1.2
percent to C$34.20.  Financial shares in the benchmark gauge also decreased for
a second day.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the country’s second-
largest lender, fell 1.4 percent to C$82.81.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  