-- Canadian Pacific Boosts Dividend Amid Ackman Proxy Battle
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-04-23T22:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/canadian-pacific-boosts-dividend-amid-ackman-proxy-battle.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) 
increased its dividend by the most in at least 10 years as
hedge-fund investor William Ackman wages a proxy battle to bring
in a new chief executive officer.  The payout will rise to 35 Canadian cents a share from 30
Canadian cents, payable on July 30 to holders of record June 22,
the Calgary-based company said today in a statement. The 5-cent
increase is the largest since February 2002 and compares with a
3.25-cent boost  forecast  by Bloomberg.  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP is the
railroad’s biggest shareholder, says investors have lost 18
percent during CEO  Fred Green ’s tenure because of overspending
and declines in market share. The dividend boost capped a day in
which Ackman renewed his criticism of the company and  Canadian
Pacific  denounced some of his comments as “outrageous.”  The railroad’s plan for boosting profit “is clearly
delivering record operating and service metrics,” Chief
Financial Officer Kathryn McQuade said in the statement
announcing the dividend increase.  Canadian Pacific is resisting Ackman’s push to replace
Green with former  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  CEO  Hunter Harrison . While Canadian Pacific says a change would disrupt a
strategy that’s already in place, Ackman says Harrison would be
able to produce gains in the operating ratio, a benchmark
measure of profit, as he did at  Canadian National .  The shares fell 2.9 percent, the most since March 6, to
C$74.21 at the close in Toronto as Canadian stocks slumped. That
pared the gain for the year to 7.5 percent.  Role of Bonuses?  Ackman said today that the company improved its first-
quarter margin by not setting aside money for bonuses.  “You accrue for bonuses, you set aside money to pay
bonuses, if you expect they’re going to be paid,” Ackman told
Canada’s  Business News Network . “So effectively, by not
accruing for bonuses, they made the operating ratio look about
100 basis points better.’  Canadian Pacific’s operating ratio, a gauge that compares
expenses to revenue, improved to 80.1 percent of sales from 90.6
in the first quarter of 2011, when severe winter weather boosted
costs.  The first-quarter performance shouldn’t be confused with
successful execution because it compares a period of mild
weather in 2012 to one with much worse conditions, Ackman said
earlier today in a letter to the railroad’s investors.  ‘‘If things have really turned, why aren’t they paying
bonuses to their team?” Ackman wrote. “The answer is, to make
the quarter look better, in my opinion.”  Board Nominees  Ackman, whose Pershing Square holds about 14 percent of
Canadian Pacific’s stock, is asking investors to support board
nominees who would work to oust Green as CEO.  Canadian Pacific responded that Ackman was wrong in his
“comments about incentive compensation accruals.”  Those accruals were “higher by $4 million when compared to
first quarter 2011,” the railroad said in a statement. “All
accruals have been properly made and recorded in full
compliance” with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  “It is outrageous for Mr. Ackman to make the accusations
he did today on the Business News Network,” Dick Kelly,
chairman of the  audit committee  of the railroad’s board, said in
the statement. “To put the Company’s performance in a negative
light, Mr. Ackman suggested that management deliberately
distorted CP’s financial results.  He attacks the competence of
our audit committee, which approved our first-quarter results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  