-- Caro’s Johnson Sheds Cornpone Jibes in White House
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/caro-s-johnson-sheds-cornpone-jibes-in-white-house.html
President John F. Kennedy knew
many things -- literature, history, the arts. His vice
president,  Lyndon B. Johnson , knew one thing: power.  Johnson understood power, worshiped power, cultivated
power and wielded power. First to build himself up, but later to
build a new conception of the role of government: as a tool to
battle ignorance, injustice, poverty, hunger and the fear that
accompanies aging.  In “ The Passage of Power ,” the fourth volume of his
magisterial biography of Johnson and his time, Robert A. Caro
recounts the most searing and successful transfer of power ever.
On a Friday in  Dallas  in 1963, Johnson, a man who craved but had
been denied the presidency, ascended to the White House on the
most tragic afternoon in American history.  This volume begins in 1958 and runs through Johnson’s
first State of the Union address on Jan. 8, 1964. Even to the
Johnson cognoscenti, there are surprises here:  Though he knew  Franklin Roosevelt ’s vice president, John
Nance Garner, found the job a one-way ticket to a pecan farm in
Uvalde, Texas, Johnson’s eagerness for the position grew out of
his (now eerie) calculation that so many vice presidents
ascended to the White House after a presidential death.  Robert F. Kennedy very likely acted on his own when he
tried to nudge Johnson off the ticket at the 1960 convention.  Johnson was motivated as much by a fear of failure as by a
drive for success.  Vice President Johnson  Johnson chafed in the vice presidency, and in some ways
Caro’s portrait of those years are the most vivid of this
volume. A man who had been at the center of things as Senate
majority leader could not bear being at the periphery -- and
couldn’t come to peace with how he was marginalized, criticized
and ridiculed by the Harvards, as he called Kennedy’s men.  They in turn called him “Rufus Cornpone” and saw him as a
 Texas  Hill Country alien in the new, sophisticated, glib and
glamorous  Washington .  As vice president, Johnson was mortified by  Robert Kennedy ,
his views ignored or treated with contempt. He was a man with no
duties and no dignity -- no meetings to attend, no advice to
give.  Kennedy Assassination  Then Nov. 22 changed everything. The path to power led down
an isolated Parkland Hospital corridor to an unmarked car that
sped to Love Field. Within minutes, one president rested in a
coffin in the back of Air Force One while another paced
restlessly in the front. Grown men and strong women wept.  This is a scene unforgettable to anyone who was alive then,
unfathomable to anyone who was not. But Caro adds to our
knowledge and understanding, showing how, in those fraught
minutes, both LBJ’s decisiveness and his insecurity were
revealed.  “He seems to have felt even in this first hour that the
best way to legitimize his ascent to the throne, to make himself
seem less like a usurper, would be to demonstrate that his
ascent had the support of the predecessor’s family,” Caro
writes.  Because  Caro  is a student of power and his subject an
accumulator of power, the way power flowed to the White House in
the first days of Johnson’s presidency is described in
meticulous, almost loving, detail.  Johnson in Action  Here are the private meetings LBJ held, the cajoling he
conducted, the maneuvering he undertook, not just to redeem his
promise to continue the Kennedy legacy but also to set forth his
own bold vision of a war against poverty, an offensive against
segregation, an effort to strengthen education and the arts and
to provide federal coverage of health care for the elderly. All
were set in motion in those first few weeks.  While idealism had flowed from Kennedy’s lips, it took form
in Johnson’s legislation.  But this is also a story of greed and connivance. Big
thoughts and big dreams mixed with small indignities and small-
mindedness, foreshadowing Johnson’s entire presidency.  Johnson’s administration would sow violence domestic and
foreign, foster a credibility gap and youth rebellion, create a
tragedy in  Vietnam  and in the presidency that would tarnish the
president’s triumphs and, within four years, bring the fall of a
man whose rise from Texas road gang to president constituted one
of the greatest dramas of American history. This book shows the
mastery of Johnson in politics, and also the mastery of Caro in
biography.  “The Passage of Power: The Years of  Lyndon Johnson ” will
be published on May 1 by Knopf (712 pages, $35). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater 
and  John Mariani  on  wine .  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 