-- Catalent Pharma Seeks $205 Million Loan to Refinance Debt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-04-23T18:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/catalent-pharma-seeks-205-million-loan-to-refinance-debt-1-.html
Catalent Pharma Solutions Inc., a
provider of development services to the pharmaceutical industry,
set the  interest rate  on a $205 million add-on term loan the
company is seeking to refinance debt, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  The debt, due in September 2017, will pay interest at 4
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private. Libor, a rate banks say they can borrow in dollars
from each other, will have a 1.25 percent floor.  Catalent is proposing to sell the loan at 99 cents to 99.5
cents on the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the
company and boosting the yield to investors.  Morgan Stanley is arranging the financing for the Somerset,
New Jersey-based company and investors have until tomorrow to
submit commitments, according to the person.  Lenders are being offered soft-call protection of 101 cents
until Feb. 22, 2013, meaning the company would have to pay 1
cent more than face value to refinance the debt before that
date, the person said.  Proceeds will be used to refinance the company’s non-
extended  term loan  B due in April 2014, according to the person.
Catalent’s existing debt pays interest at 2.25 percentage points
more than Libor, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A spokesman for Catalent wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t. A term loan A is sold
primarily to banks, while so-called B loans are mainly bought by
non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan obligations, mutual
funds and  hedge funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  