-- McGuinty Proposes 2% Ontario Rich Surtax to Survive Vote
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-23T20:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/mcguinty-proposes-2-surtax-on-the-rich.html
Ontario’s minority Liberal
government is set to survive a budget vote after Premier Dalton McGuinty said he will introduce a 2 percent tax on people with
incomes greater than C$500,000 ($503,700), meeting a key demand
from the New Democrat Party.  “The NDP want a tax on the rich,” McGuinty told reporters
today in Toronto after meeting NDP Leader Andrea Horwath. “We
want to reduce the deficit.”  Horwath said the NDP did not “intend to defeat” the
budget in a vote in the provincial legislature tomorrow. “We’ve
done the heavy lifting for Ontario,” Horwath said in Toronto,
adding she would prefer to work in the legislature instead of
triggering an election.  The government of  Canada ’s most populous province was
elected in October with a minority of seats and needs some
opposition support to win the budget vote and stay in power.  The surtax would generate C$470 million next year, McGuinty
said, all of which would go to reduce the province’s deficit,
which is slated to drop to C$15.2 billion in the year that began
April 1 from C$15.3 billion last year.  McGuinty said his government will also raise Ontario Works
payments, which helps people in temporary financial need, by 1
percent. It will pay for this out of savings generated by
reducing generic drug costs. The government will also create a
C$20 million transition fund for northern and rural hospitals to
help them achieve efficiencies.  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan introduced a fiscal
plan March 27 that freezes public-sector wages and scraps
corporate tax cuts to balance its budget by 2017-18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  