-- Chavez Breaks 10-Day Silence, Quashing Death Speculation
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-04-24T18:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/chavez-breaks-10-day-silence-quashing-death-speculation-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
appeared on television for the first time in 10 days in the
latest attempt to dispel speculation that his health has
deteriorated ahead of elections in October.  Chavez, who is in Cuba for cancer treatment, kissed a
crucifix and played a local form of bowls with his ministers and
family members in images broadcast on all local television
stations. Reading from yesterday’s newspaper, he said he doesn’t
need to exert himself to prove he’s fit enough to govern.  “Those who start to spread rumors seem to think that this
is a piece of cake,” Chavez said of his treatment in the video
recorded in  Havana . “This is radiotherapy, just ask anyone who
has been through this. Do I need to carry four sacks of cement
to show my strength?”  The broadcast was a further attempt to quell speculation in
social media that his cancer has spread. Yesterday, he broke a
10-day silence to phone into state television and say he expects
to return home April 26. Later, Information Minister Andres Izarra  published photos  that appear to have been taken at the
same time as the video was recorded.  Chavez has missed the Summit of the Americas with President
 Barack Obama  and Venezuela’s Constitution Day celebrations in
the past two weeks on doctors’ advice. His battle with cancer
has fueled a rally in Venezuelan bonds that have returned 19.6
percent this year, the second most in emerging markets after
 Ivory Coast , on speculation his weakened health will lead to a
change in government and economic policies after an Oct. 7
election.  Carrying On  Chavez said he would continue to attend to his work as he
receives treatment and dismissed criticism of his prolonged
absence from Venezuela, saying governing from Cuba is legal
according to the constitution.  The  self-declared socialist , who has undergone three
operations since June as part of his treatment, is seeking to
extend his 13-year rule until 2019 in October. The government
hasn’t disclosed any succession plans in case Chavez isn’t
strong enough to participate in the election.  Speaking at a Catholic Mass in his home state of Barinas on
April 5, Chavez wiped tears from his face as he pleaded for life
in his fight against cancer.  Bond Yields  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due
in 2027 rose 4 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 11.24
percent at 12:44 p.m. Caracas time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell 0.29 cent to 85.54 cents on
the dollar.  Government officials moved to deny speculation April 22
that Chavez may have died after he was absent from television
screens for the longest period since at least November.  Chavez last spoke during an April 13 rally to commemorate
the 10th anniversary of an attempted coup that briefly removed
him from power. He was last seen alighting from his plane in
Cuba in images carried on Venezuelan state television April 14.  While absent from television screens, he maintained a media
presence in Venezuela through government statements and by
sending several messages from his Twitter account.  Opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski used his
own Twitter account to question Chavez’s absence, writing April
22, “the country and the problems of Venezuelans can’t be
resolved over Twitter!”  ‘Absurd’  Chavez, who intends to return to Cuba for further
treatment, said criticism that he’s ruling by Twitter is
“absurd” and called for patience as he recuperates.  “It seems some people want me to run the 100-meter dash or
go out and play a baseball game right away,” he said. “I want
to do those things, but it will take time.”  Chavez was supported by 46 percent of those surveyed in a
poll by Caracas-based Consultores 21 taken between March 3 and
March 13, while Capriles had 45 percent. The poll used a sample
of 2,000 people with a margin of error of 2.3 percentage points.  The former tank commander said yesterday that the wave of
rumors had compelled him to phone his mother to calm her worries
and that speculation about his health will probably increase as
the election nears.  “I have a pact with God,” Chavez said in today’s
television images. “I’m sure that God will intervene in this
treatment to ensure everything turns out well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  