-- Chavez Allies Deny Mortality Speculation Amid 10-Day TV Absence
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-04-23T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/chavez-allies-deny-mortality-speculation-amid-10-day-tv-absence.html
Venezuelan government officials
denied social media speculation President  Hugo Chavez  may have
died as the leader’s 10-day absence from television screens
fueled talk that his poor health may prevent him from running in
October’s election.  Information Minister Andres Izarra, writing on  Twitter 
yesterday, said opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski
was the “political fatality” and that the speculation had been
“denied.”  “These bitter people don’t learn, they’ve been saying for
days that the commander died, while the only one without life
is” Capriles,  Diosdado Cabello , head of the National Assembly,
wrote yesterday on his  Twitter  account.  Chavez missed the Summit of the Americas in  Colombia  and
Venezuela’s Constitution Day celebrations in the past week after
flying to Cuba for cancer treatments. His absence from
television is the longest since at least November. Chavez hasn’t
spoken publicly since a speech April 13 in Caracas, sending
 messages  from his Twitter account instead.  The self-declared socialist, who has undergone three
operations since June as part of his treatment, is seeking to
recover from the cancer in time to campaign for re-election in
October in a bid to extend his 13-year rule until 2019. The
government hasn’t disclosed any succession plans in case Chavez
isn’t healthy enough to participate in the elections.  Venezuelan bonds returned 18 percent this year, according
to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co., on speculation his
weakened health may lead to a change in government in October
and a reversal of policies that fueled inflation and drove away
investment.  Twitter Accounts  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due
in 2027 fell 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 11.19
percent on April 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bond’s price rose 1.18 cents to 85.90 cents on the dollar.  Capriles used his Twitter  account  to question Chavez’s
absence, writing yesterday, “The country and the problems of
Venezuelans can’t be resolved over Twitter!”  Chavez will return to the South American country this week
after completing radiation therapy in Cuba, Cabello said April
20 on state television.  Chavez met with Science Minister Jorge Arreaza and Foreign
Minister  Nicolas Maduro  in Cuba yesterday to discuss a labor law
and the economy, Arreaza, who is Chavez’s son-in-law, wrote in a
 message  on his Twitter account.  Nelson Bocaranda, a journalist who often reports on the
president’s health in the absence of official statements, has
said on his  website  that doctors this month in Cuba discovered
the cancer has started to affect Chavez’s liver and kidneys.
Bocaranda revealed last June that Chavez had cancer five days
before the president announced doctors in Cuba had removed a
tumor from his pelvic area.  Bocaranda, writing on his Twitter  account  yesterday, said
that Chavez may return to Venezuela within 72 hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  