-- Check Point Bearish Bets Jump: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-04-24T07:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/check-point-bearish-bets-jump-israel-overnight.html
Options traders are boosting  bets 
by the most since 2004 that  Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. (CHKP)  will extend its New York drop after the world’s second-
largest maker of network security gear reported slower revenue
growth.  The ratio between put options to sell  Check Point ’s shares
relative to calls to buy rose to an eight-year high last week of
1.12-to-1, up from 0.4-to-1 last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Tel Aviv-based company sank 5.1
percent to $60.76 in New York yesterday, the second-biggest
decliner on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest
Israeli companies listed in the U.S.  Bearish wagers on Check Point are growing after the company
reported slower growth in the first quarter for sales of product
licenses and didn’t raise guidance for this year, according to
Oppenheimer & Co. and ThinkEquity LLC. Product licensing
increased 5 percent from last year, after growing 13 percent in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The product revenue growth decelerated to mid-single
digits and that’s really sticking out as a big question mark,”
Daniel Cummins, an analyst at ThinkEquity, said yesterday by
phone in  New York . “Is this a period of choppiness or is this a
new situation that we’ll see going forward?”  Put options expiring in May with a $60 strike price, which
is six percent below the close on April 20, were the most owned
and accounted for about half of the put contracts outstanding,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Check Point reaffirmed its forecast for the year, Chief
Executive Officer Gil Shwed said yesterday in the earnings call.  ‘Decelerating Growth’  “Investors likely are concerned with full-year 2012
guidance being kept intact rather than upped, and product
license revenue growth of 5 percent year-on-year potentially
indicating decelerating growth in 2012,” Shaul Eyal, a
technology analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, wrote in an
e-mailed report yesterday.  The company reported adjusted earnings of 74 cents per
share, beating the 72-cent median estimate of 27 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Check Point will probably report sales of $324 million to
$336 million in the second quarter, as the company is benefiting
from growing demand for its technology used to defend computer
systems, Shwed said.  Sony Corp. (6758) , the world’s second-largest maker of video-game
machines, saw its worst hacker attacks in April, when intruders
compromised more than 100 million customer accounts in the
second-largest on-line data breach in U.S. history.  Investors should buy shares of Check Point following
yesterday’s decline, Shebly Seyrafi, an analyst at FBN
Securities, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday, raising his
price estimate for the company’s stock to $75 from $70. The
company’s revenue from software and appliance sales will result
in higher sales, he said.  ‘Expensive Stock’  Check Point shares advanced 22 percent this year before
yesterday’s drop, sending  valuations  to 20 times estimated
earnings, higher than the 15 average multiple for companies on
the Nasdaq Composite Index.  “The quarter was in line and for an expensive stock, that
doesn’t cut it these days,”  Robert Breza , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets , said by telephone from Minneapolis yesterday.
“Expectations were too high.”  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Israeli and foreign venture capital funds invested a total
of $483 million in the first quarter of 2012, up from $479
million in the same period last year, the IVC Research Center
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Foreign fund
investments were $236 million, the highest amount in over a
decade, Marianna Shapira, IVC Research Manager, said by phone
from  Tel Aviv  today.  Europe Concern  U.S.  stocks  joined a global sell-off yesterday as French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  trailed challenger  Francois Hollande 
in the first round of the nation’s presidential elections while
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his cabinet’s
resignation, intensifying concern about  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent and the
Nasdaq Composite Index declined 1 percent.  Interest Rate  The Bank of Israel kept the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged for a third straight month amid renewed European debt
concerns. The central bank’s monetary policy committee, led by
Governor  Stanley Fischer , held the rate at 2.5 percent, the
Jerusalem-based central bank said on its website yesterday. All
23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the decision.  The benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  rose 0.7 percent to 1,156.78 at
10:22 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  fell 0.9 percent to $23.45 in New
York yesterday. The shares in Tel Aviv rose 0.6 percent to 89.09
shekels, or the equivalent of $23.68.  The Hod Hasharon, Israel-based maker of networking
equipment is in negotiations to buy Ortiva Wireless Inc., daily
TheMarker reported, without saying how it obtained the
information.  Justine Schneider from Calysto Communications, an external
investor-relations company that represents Allot, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  