-- Iran Crude Supplies to China Fall for Fourth Month in March
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T08:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-crude-oil-imports-from-iran-drop-54-on-year-customs-says.html
Iran’s oil shipments to  China  fell
for a fourth month in March to the lowest in 22 months amid
delays in signing term supply contracts.  Imports by the biggest buyer of Iranian  crude  fell 6.2
percent to 1.08 million metric tons, or about 254,000 barrels a
day, according to calculations by Bloomberg from data released
via e-mail today by the Beijing-based General Administration of
Customs. Supplies from the  Persian Gulf  nation averaged 557,413
barrels a day last year.  Purchases from Iran slid as China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Co., the nation’s biggest oil trader, put
off signing a 2012 term contract with National Iranian Oil Co.
after a disagreement over payment terms. The issues were largely
resolved by the end of February, according to three people with
knowledge of the talks. The decline in imports also comes as the
U.S. and European Union enacted new sanctions to raise pressure
on  Iran  to abandon any illicit nuclear program.  “China’s Iran oil imports will continue to go down,
slowly,”  Gordon Kwan , Hong Kong-based head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd., said by e-mail. “It’s
also in the interest of national  energy security  for China to
diversify its sources of oil imports regardless of prices.”  The  Strait of Hormuz , between Iran and Oman, is where  oil
tankers  exit the Persian Gulf, a transit point for about 20
percent of the world’s oil. Iran has threatened to blockade the
strait in retaliation for EU and U.S. sanctions.  U.S. Pressure  China paid $118.70 for each barrel of crude it bought from
Iran in March, up from $112.21 in February, according to
Bloomberg calculations from today’s data. The 6 percent
reduction in import volumes follows a 45 percent cut in February
from January.  The Obama administration wants China to present specific
plans of how it will curtail Iranian oil imports, saying past
cuts aren’t enough to win them an exclusion from new U.S.
sanctions. If a country doesn’t prove it’s making necessary
reductions by the end of June, any institution in that nation
that settles petroleum trades through Iran’s central bank will
be cut off from the U.S. banking system.  Iran slid one place to become the eighth-biggest source of
Chinese crude imports in March compared with a month earlier,
according to the data. It was the third-largest supplier in 2011
after  Saudi Arabia  and  Angola .  Chinese imports of Saudi crude were 3.95 million tons in
March, followed by 3.63 million tons of oil from Angola,
according to the data. Iraq was the seventh-biggest supplier at
1.16 million tons.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  