-- China Auto Rental Said to Struggle to Attract Investors
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-04-23T22:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-auto-rental-said-to-struggle-to-attract-investors.html
China Auto Rental Holdings Inc. (CARH) ,
striving to become the second Chinese company to go public in
the U.S. this year, may raise less than planned after struggling
to attract investors, said two people with knowledge of the
situation.  The company may reduce the price sought as only about half
the order book for the initial public offering was covered early
yesterday, the people said then, declining to be identified as
the deliberations were in progress.  China  Auto is offering 11
million American depositary receipts for $10.50 to $12.50 each,
regulatory filings show. The deal is scheduled to price later
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Auto is the country’s biggest car-rental company,
according to its filings, with a fleet of almost 26,000 vehicles
and customers including General Motors Co. and China Telecom
Corp. The company is pushing ahead even after  Vipshop Holdings
Ltd. (VIPS)  slashed its IPO by 39 percent last month and slid by as
much as a third once it started trading.  “The bottom line is, there’s still a lot of negative
sentiment,” said Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at Paragon
Capital LP in New York. “What’s the incentive to jump in at the
IPO price when the track record hasn’t been good?”  At the midpoint of the offering range, China Auto would be
valued at $847 million, or about 7 times last year’s sales.
That’s about 33 times the ratio for Lentuo International Inc.,
the Chinese car retailer that conducted a U.S. IPO in December
2010 and has since lost more than half its value, Bloomberg data
show.  Listing Requirements  Unprofitable China Auto initially filed for a $300 million
IPO on Jan. 18. The company’s  net loss  widened to 151 million
yuan ($24 million) last year while revenue jumped fivefold to
$123 million, filings show. While mainland China’s securities
regulator requires three continuous years of profitability for
new listings on its main board, the U.S. has no such rule.  All of the proceeds from the offering will go to the
company for fleet expansion and other working capital. Founder
and Chief Executive Officer Charles Zhengyao Lu will own 25
percent ownership after the IPO, and Legend Holdings Ltd.,
parent of Lenovo Group Ltd., will retain 55 percent, filings
show.  A call to China Auto outside regular business hours wasn’t
answered. Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of
America Corp. are leading the deal, and the shares will be
listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol CARH.  Steep Declines  The number of new listings by mainland China-based
companies on the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market
peaked in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 13 Chinese companies that debuted in the U.S. last year
include traditional medicine maker  Tibet Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TBET) ,
which has  declined  77 percent, and dating website Jiayuan.com
International Ltd., which has slid by more than half.  Chinese companies attempting IPOs in foreign markets are
encountering heightened scrutiny from investors after others
that had gone public through reverse mergers were later revealed
to be misreporting financial information.  One such company, Sino-Forest Corp., lost C$3.3 billion
($3.3 billion) of its market value after Carson Block, founder
of research firm Muddy Waters LLC, accused the company of
overstating its timber holdings last June. In a reverse merger,
a closely held firm buys a publicly traded shell company and
retains its listing.  Even legitimate Chinese companies conducting IPOs in the
U.S. haven’t been immune to fear among investors that their
prices are inflated, said Pollack, who invests in U.S.-listed
China shares.  “The current sentiment today and the track record are such
that it’s better to sit out and wait to see where the price
settles,” Pollack said. “The hype is gone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  