-- China Plans Shale-Gas Investment Floor to Tap Largest Reserves
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-04-23T08:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-to-set-minimum-investment-rule-to-boost-shale-exploration.html
China , holder of the world’s
biggest shale-gas reserves, plans to speed up exploration of the
resource by asking companies including  PetroChina Co. (857)  invest
three times the minimum amount sought for crude oil areas.  The Ministry of Land and Resources is drafting rules that
will allow it to seize blocks from companies that fail to invest
at least 30,000 yuan ($4,747) per square kilometer annually,
Zhang Jianfeng, a director at the ministry’s research institute,
said in an interview today. Explorers will have three years to
meet the requirement, he said.  China holds 25.08 trillion cubic meters of exploitable
reserves of the unconventional fuel trapped in shale rock, the
ministry said March 1, citing a nationwide survey. The
government has pledged to prioritize land approvals, allow tax-
free equipment imports and offer subsidies to explorers.  The policy “will certainly prevent companies from sitting
on acreage,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an e-mail.  The proposed rules will be similar to those for
conventional oil and gas exploration, where the minimum annual
investment requirement is set at 10,000 yuan per square
kilometer, Zhang said in Beijing, while attending a two-day
Shale Gas Summit organized by Centre for Management Technology.  More than 100 Chinese companies have qualified to
participate in China’s second auction of shale exploration area,
which will likely be held before July, the official said. The
government will offer at least 20 areas, he said.  Overseas Companies  Overseas companies will remain barred from bidding directly
and can invest in ventures led by local explorers, Zhang said.  The Chinese government will hold one or two auctions of
shale-gas blocks this year, the land ministry said on March 1.
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , the nation’s second-largest
oil company, and Henan Provincial Coal Seam Gas Development and
Utilization Co. won the rights to explore two areas in the
country’s first shale-gas auction in June.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , which has started exploring its first shale-gas
site in China, plans to increase investments in North American
shale projects to acquire technology to develop domestic fields,
Chairman Wang Yilin said on March 5.  China National Petroleum Corp., the parent of Hong Kong-
listed PetroChina, agreed in June to form a venture with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to improve its drilling efficiency after taking
11 months to complete the nation’s first shale well.  The country aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of
shale gas annually by 2015 and ramp up output to between 60
billion and 100 billion by the end of the decade, the National
Development and Reform Commission said, citing a plan drafted by
the National Energy Administration.  China has yet to produce shale gas commercially as its
explorers struggle to overcome the lack of domestic drilling
expertise and geology that is tougher than in the U.S., where
output has surged 15-fold in the past decade. A “breakthrough”
would be needed by 2015 for the country to achieve its targets,
the Energy Administration said on March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  