-- China’s Bright Food Denies Report on Weetabix Acquisition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T08:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-s-bright-food-denies-report-on-weetabix-acquisition.html
Bright Food Group Co.,  China ’s
second-largest food company, denied media reports that it is in
talks to buy British cereals maker Weetabix Ltd. from private
equity firm Lion Capital.  “We are not in talks” with Lion Capital, Pan Jianjun, a
Shanghai-based spokesman for Bright Food, said over the phone
today. A spokeswoman for Lion Capital in  London , who asked not
to be named, declined to comment.  Bright Food has been in negotiations for several weeks with
Lion Capital, owner of Weetabix, about a possible purchase,
which would value the maker of Ready Brek and Alpen cereals at
around 1 billion pounds ($1.61 billion), the Telegraph newspaper
reported today. The Sunday Times also reported that Bright Food
was considering a Weetabix acquisition.  Bright Food, backed by the Shanghai government, has been
actively seeking overseas food acquisitions and aiming to feed
the growing appetite of Chinese consumers whose disposable
income is rising. The company last year agreed to buy 75 percent
of  Australia ’s Manassen Foods from Champ Private Equity.  Chairman Wang Zongnan said in an interview in February that
he expects to make one to two overseas acquisitions this year in
sugar, dairy, wine and casual food industries.  Bright Food, which has interests that span food and
beverage, farming and retailing, lost out to General Mills Inc.
for a stake in French yogurt maker Yoplait last year and was
outbid by Wilmar International Ltd. for CSR Ltd.’s sugar unit,
Australia’s largest producer in 2010.  Weetabix, which is founded in 1932, currently employs about
2,000 people and exports to more than 80 countries, according to
its  website . In 2004, a unit of Lion Capital acquired all of the
issued share capital of Weetabix, the website shows.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  