-- China to Boost Coal Imports on Wider Price Gap: Chart of the Day
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-to-boost-coal-imports-on-wider-price-gap-chart-of-the-day.html
China  is poised to accelerate coal
imports to take advantage of the cheapest international prices
in 20 months relative to domestic supplies.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the price difference in southern
China for thermal coal delivered from the northern Chinese port
of Qinhuangdao compared with shipments from Newcastle,
 Australia . The gap expanded last month to as much as $8.30 per
metric ton, the widest since August 2010, according to data from
CLSA Ltd. Also tracked are China’s monthly coal imports, which
typically climbed as the price spread expanded.  “China’s coal imports will probably increase due to the
wide premium” of Qinhuangdao over Newcastle prices, said  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “The price
gap could narrow with Newcastle prices rebounding on higher
demand from China.” Newcastle is the world’s biggest coal
harbor.  Chinese demand helped a  recovery  in the regional seaborne
coal market in 2009, when the world’s biggest consumer of the
fuel became a net importer for the first time as Chinese buyers
snapped up cheap overseas supplies. Rising imports this quarter
may keep the price of Newcastle coal with a heating value of
6,700 kilocalories per kilogram, a benchmark grade for  Asia , at
an average of $112 a ton, Lau said. The price was at $101.55 on
April 20, IHS McCloskey data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Chinese government seeks to encourage coal imports and
cap annual domestic production at 3.9 billion tons by 2015 to
curb pollution, according to a five-year plan released by the
National Energy Administration in March. China’s growing demand
for electricity has been supporting domestic prices of the fuel.  China’s coal imports rose for a second straight month in
March, to 17.1 million tons, according to customs data published
yesterday. Imports rose 10 percent from a year earlier to a
record 183 million tons in 2011, according to Bloomberg
calculations from customs data. China gets about 70 percent of
its energy by burning coal in power stations.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  