-- China May Ease Lending-Rate Controls First, Zhou Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T09:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-may-ease-lending-rate-controls-first-zhou-says.html
China  may first relax controls on
 borrowing  costs and widen the “range” for deposit rates as
part of changes to financial-industry rules, central bank chief
 Zhou Xiaochuan  said in an interview with Caijing Magazine.  The government is waiting for a consensus to emerge among
officials and for a “suitable” time to act, as adjustments
have been complicated by inflation and capital inflows, the
People’s Bank of China governor said, according to a transcript
of the  interview  on the magazine’s website today. The interview
took place “recently,” Caijing said, without giving a date.  Zhou’s comments highlight the central bank’s concerns that
overhauling China’s interest-rate system when growth is slowing
and inflationary pressure persists would create difficulties for
banks to implement changes. The  International Monetary Fund  said
in November China needs to move to a more market-based way of
setting rates to help contain financial risks.  “There’s a question of finding the right time for
reforms,” Zhou said. “Based on our current view, the global
financial crisis has yet to calm down and the external
environment still warrants observation. Domestically an economic
downturn and inflation pressures co-exist.”  The central bank removed the ceiling on lending rates in
2004 and allows borrowing costs to drop as much as 10 percent
lower than the benchmark rate. Banks have less flexibility on
deposit rates and are banned from offering  savings rates  that
are higher than the benchmark.  Lower Rates  Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist with Credit
Agricole CIB, said relaxing controls on lending rates and
allowing a wider range for deposit rates may effectively serve
as a rate cut without sending a signal that the PBOC is
“dropping the ball of inflation.”  “This would permit policy makers to both make progress in
terms of rate policy liberalization and to ease monetary-policy
conditions,” Kowalczyk wrote in an e-mailed note.  China has held off adjusting benchmark  interest rates  since
July even as economic expansion slowed to  8.1 percent  in the
first quarter from an 8.9 gain in the previous three months. A
preliminary survey released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics today showed manufacturing may have shrunk for a sixth
month in April, maintaining pressure on officials to ease
policies.  Relax Controls  Andre Meier, a resident representative for the IMF in  Hong
Kong , today called on China to move over time to a more market-
based financial system in which prices -- especially interest
rates -- play a bigger role than quantitative restrictions.  Given the “obvious interest-rate gap” with other
countries, rushing to relax controls on deposit rates may lead
to speculative inflows of funds, Zhou told Caijing.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has indicated interest rates will
stay close to zero through at least late 2014, while the
 European Central Bank  cut its key rate to a record low of 1
percent in December. China’s benchmark one-year deposit rate has
been 3.5 percent since July.  Zhou indicated the PBOC will scale back intervention in
China’s currency markets. The yuan’s exchange rate has moved
toward its “equilibrium level” and as market forces play a
greater role, the central bank will “intervene in the market
only when there’s extra volatility, with less frequency and more
flexibility,” Zhou said.  The central bank doubled the yuan’s daily trading band
against the  U.S. dollar  to 1 percent from April 16, the first
widening since 2007.  Zhou said bringing  inflation  “under control” would help
advance changes to China’s interest-rate system. “When
inflation is on the rise, that usually results in various price
regulations and makes reforms difficult,” he said.  China’s consumer prices rose 3.6 percent in March from a
year earlier after easing to a 20-month low of 3.2 percent the
previous month. The government has said it wants to keep gains
within about 4 percent this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  