-- China to Produce Substantial Shale Gas in Decade, Breitling Says
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-04-23T09:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-to-produce-substantial-shale-gas-in-decade-breitling-says.html
China  has been slow to tap its huge
shale gas resources, the largest in the world, and may take at
least 10 years to start producing “substantial” quantities of
the fuel, an independent U.S. energy company said.  It’s very unlikely that China can meet its production
targets for 2015 and 2020, Chris Faulkner, Chief Executive
Officer of Breitling Oil and Gas Corp., said today in an
interview in Beijing.  Delays in shale-gas production plans may increase China’s
imports of liquefied natural gas and curb expectations the
country can replicate the U.S. shale boom. China plans to speed
up exploration of the resource and has pledged to prioritize
land approvals, allow tax-free equipment imports and offer
subsidies to companies tapping the unconventional fuel.  China aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of shale gas
by 2015 and set a target of 60 billion to 100 billion cubic
meters by 2020, the National Development and Reform Commission
said. The U.S. produced 96 billion cubic meters in 2009,
overtaking  Russia  as the world’s biggest natural gas provider.  China has 25.08 trillion cubic meters of exploitable
onshore shale-gas reserves, the land ministry said on March 1.
That’s part of an estimated 134.42 trillion cubic meters of
total gas reserves in the country, according to the ministry.  “Nobody denies the huge potential, but having reserves is
one thing and turning them into a real product is quite
another,” Faulkner said at the venue of a two-day Shale Gas
Summit organized by the Centre for Management Technology.  Slow Drilling  China drilled 50 shale gas wells in the past year, compared
with 1,300 a month in the U.S., Faulkner said.  It takes “three to five years” for a shale gas discovery
to start commercial production and an extensive pipeline network
is needed to transport the fuel to consumers.  China is “way behind” in both well-drilling and
infrastructure construction, Faulkner said.  China plans to speed up shale gas exploration by asking
explorers to invest three times the minimum amount sought for
crude oil areas.  The Ministry of Land and Resources is drafting rules that
will allow it to seize blocks from companies that fail to invest
at least 30,000 yuan ($4,758) per square kilometer annually,
Zhang Jianfeng, a director at the ministry’s research institute,
said in an interview today.  Drilling in China will be “at least three times more
expensive” than in U.S. because of different geological
structures, Faulkner said.  Breitling, based in Irving,  Texas , hasn’t made progress in
talks to form ventures with PetroChina Co., China Petroleum and
Chemical Corp. and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , to tap shale gas resources,
Faulkner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  