-- China Manufacturing Contraction May Spur More Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T05:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-manufacturing-may-contract-a-sixth-month.html
China ’s manufacturing may shrink
for a sixth month in April, maintaining pressure on officials to
adopt more policies to stimulate economic growth, a survey of
companies showed.  The 49.1 preliminary reading of the purchasing managers’
index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today compares
with a final 48.3 in March. A number below 50 points to a
contraction.  The contraction, if confirmed in the final reading due May
2, would be the longest since the global financial crisis and
may spur the government to lower banks’ reserve requirements a
third time since November. A $430 billion expansion of the
International Monetary Fund’s lending power in Washington talks
ending yesterday may help contain Europe’s debt turmoil and
shore up demand in China’s biggest export market.  “The numbers in recent months have never been that good
but don’t show signs of falling off a cliff either,”  Paul Cavey ,
a Hong Kong-based economist with Macquarie Securities Ltd., said
of the HSBC PMI. “Today’s number would suggest continuation of
the government’s current policy of slow, cautious loosening.”  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1 percent at
1:36 p.m. local time.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is trying to avert a deeper slowdown in
the world’s second-biggest economy that will restrain world
growth as U.S. expansion shows signs of moderating.  ‘Low Level’  “The earlier easing measures have started to work and
hence should ease concerns of a sharp growth slowdown,”  Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-based chief China economist for HSBC Holdings
Plc, said in a statement. “That said, the pace of both output
and demand growth remains at a low level in an historical
context and the job market is under pressure. This calls for
additional easing measures in the coming months.”  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first three
months from a year earlier, the least in almost three years and
the fifth straight slowdown, as export growth slumped and Wen
waged a campaign to cool consumer and property prices.  The economy still faces “downward pressures,” according
to a report of an April 13 State Council meeting chaired by Wen.
The cabinet reiterated the government will preemptively adjust
and fine-tune policies and maintain an appropriate level of
investment.  The central bank lowered lenders’ reserve requirements in
February for the second time in three months to spur lending and
boost growth. Banks including Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank
AG have raised their China growth forecasts partly on
anticipation that authorities may further ease policies to prop
up economic expansion.  Lending Increase  New local-currency loans rose last month to 1.01 trillion
yuan ($160 billion), the highest in more than a year.  Today’s preliminary reading, called the Flash PMI, is based
on 85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey of more
than 420 companies, according to HSBC.  A separate index from China’s logistics federation and the
National Bureau of Statistics, which has a different sample and
methodology, showed manufacturing expanded for a fourth month in
March. Its April reading is scheduled to be released on May 1.  Preliminary readings on a purchasing managers’ index in
 Europe  may signal improvement. The Markit Economics euro-area
composite manufacturing and services index is forecast to show a
smaller contraction in April than in March, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, prices paid by
Australian producers unexpectedly fell last quarter for the
first time in more than two years. Inflation in Hong Kong
probably quickened to 4.9 percent in March, based on the median
estimate of analysts ahead of a report today.  Property Market Drop  China’s growth may slow before rebounding in the second
half as the  property market  declines further,  Li Daokui , a
former central bank adviser, said in an April 18 interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Today’s report showing a smaller contraction “reinforces
our view that economic growth bottomed” in the first quarter,
Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
 Hong Kong , said in a research note today. Still, the figure
“indicates a rather moderate recovery,” said Zhang, who
forecasts looser monetary and fiscal policy this quarter,
including a reserve-requirement ratio cut in May.  Chinese industrial companies had their first January-
February profit decline since 2009, a government report showed
on March 27.  Maanshan Iron & Steel Co., the second-biggest Hong Kong-
traded steelmaker, said this month it may be unprofitable in the
first half as slower economic growth curbs demand. Steelmakers
in China, the world’s biggest producer, incurred losses totaling
more than 1 billion yuan in the first quarter, according to data
from the China Iron and Steel Association.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Lily Nonomiya in  Tokyo .
Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  