-- China’s Money Rate Slides as Zhou Sees Less Inflation Pressure
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-23T09:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/china-s-money-rate-slides-as-zhou-sees-less-inflation-pressure.html
China ’s money-market rate fell the
most in two weeks after central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan
said inflation pressure has “moderated,” spurring speculation
policy makers will loosen control on cash supply.  Authorities remain “vigilant” amid “ample global
liquidity,” Zhou said yesterday in  Washington , where he
attended the spring meetings of the  International Monetary Fund .
The central bank today didn’t gauge demand for bill sales this
week, signaling it won’t resume sales tomorrow, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “Zhou’s comments are reinforcing confidence that liquidity
will increase,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at
China Merchants Bank Co.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 16 basis points to 3.79 percent as
of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest decline since April 9,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It touched 3.50 percent earlier.  Consumer prices  in the world’s second-biggest economy
gained 3.6 percent in March from a year earlier, compared with a
3.2 percent increase the previous month, the statistics bureau
said on April 9.  The central bank has refrained from issuing three-month and
one-year bills since Dec. 22 and Dec. 27, respectively.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed one
basis point to 3.23 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.14 percent government bonds due February
2017 was little changed at 3.15 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  