-- Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Goldman Said to Prepare CDO Bid
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-23T14:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/citigroup-credit-suisse-goldman-said-to-prepare-cdo-bid.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are teaming up to bid on $7.49
billion of commercial-real estate securities the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York took on in the 2008 rescue of American
International Group Inc., according to three people with
knowledge of the auction.  The group expects to distribute its preliminary price
estimates tomorrow on the debt, composed of two collateralized
debt obligations issued by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2007 and 2008.
Final bids are due on April 26 by 9 a.m. in New York, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the negotiations
are private.  The New York Fed invited eight broker-dealers to compete
for the so-called MAX CDOs after receiving “several”
unsolicited bids for the holdings in its Maiden Lane III LLC
portfolio, according to an April 10 statement. The other banks
invited to bid are  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank AG,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Nomura Holdings Inc.  Steven Vames, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, Goldman
Sachs’s Michael DuVally and Citigroup’s Scott Helfman declined
to comment.  The CDOs could be sold intact or broken into pieces, though
an interest-rate swap contract with Barclays would need to be
paid out to access the underlying bonds, eating into profits,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts said in a report last week. The
consortium of the three banks is not looking to break up the
deals, the people said.  Swaps Unwound  The two CDOs, which bundle securities culled from 103
commercial mortgage bond deals, are estimated by the Fed to be
worth $4.8 billion as of December, according to the district
bank’s website.  The Fed’s Maiden Lane vehicle unwound credit-default swaps
that AIG had sold to protect counterparties against losses on
mortgage-backed securities. The facility bought the underlying
assets that AIG insured for banks, sparing the Wall Street firms
from any losses. Lawmakers criticized the payments as a
“backdoor bailout” of the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  