-- Clemens Jury Set for Perjury Retrial of Ex-Yankee Pitcher
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-23T18:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/clemens-jury-set-for-perjury-retrial-of-ex-yankee-pitcher.html
The jury that will decide whether
New York Yankees ex-pitcher  Roger Clemens  lied to Congress when
he said he never used performance-enhancing drugs includes a
schoolteacher for the deaf and an administrative assistant for
the Canadian embassy.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in  Washington  today
empaneled the jury after almost four days of vetting 70
Washington residents for possible service in Clemens’s trial.
The three dozen people in the final pool were cut to 12 jurors
and four alternates after the defense and the government
eliminated potential members.  The 16 selected include a woman who teaches deaf fourth
graders at a public school, the former executive director of a
psychologists’ association, a cashier at a Giant food store
who’s never heard of Clemens, and a cybersecurity expert at the
Treasury Department.  Opening statements are scheduled for later today.  Clemens is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged use of performance-
enhancing drugs. If convicted on all counts, he may face as long
as 30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Video Clip  Walton declared a mistrial in July after finding that
prosecutors improperly showed the jury a video clip of a 2008
congressional hearing in which the wife of a government witness,
Andy Pettitte, was discussed. Walton had ruled earlier that the
government could make no references to Laura Pettitte or an
affidavit she gave Congress.  Clemens, 49, made his Major League Baseball debut in 1984
and played for four different teams over 23 years. Clemens and
Pettitte were teammates with the Yankees and the  Houston Astros .  In a ruling from the bench today, Walton said prosecutors
won’t be able to ask Andy Pettitte, who has admitted to using
human growth hormone, where he received the drugs.  Pettitte, who is a key witness for the government, said he
obtained HGH from Clemens’s trainer,  Brian McNamee . Clemens’s
lawyers decried what they called an attempt by prosecutors to
prove “guilt by association” by having Pettitte testify he
obtained the HGH from McNamee, without having to show that
Clemens played any role in the decision to do so.  ‘Distorted Picture’  Prosecutors said testimony that Pettitte used human growth
hormone injected by McNamee is relevant to their case because it
“completes the narrative.”  “By chopping out the  Andy Pettitte  part of that, we have
this distorted picture,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham
told Walton.  Walton said that Pettitte made “an independent decision on
his part” to uses HGH to “hopefully help him heal.” Given
that, the significance of the testimony to the government’s case
doesn’t outweigh the prejudice to Clemens, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  