-- Clemens Lied to Protect Image, U.S. Says at Retrial’s Start
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-24T02:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/clemens-lied-to-protect-image-u-s-says-as-retrial-begins-1-.html
Roger Clemens , facing a second
trial on charges of perjury in a congressional investigation,
told lie after lie to make himself look good and others look
bad, a U.S. prosecutor said in opening statements.  “The choices he made are what tell the story of this
trial,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham said today in
federal court in Washington. It is a “story of deceit,
dishonesty and betrayal. A story of vanity, ego and pride.”  Earlier today, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  seated a
12-person jury after almost four days of vetting 70 Washington
residents for possible service in Clemens’s trial. The four men
and eight women will decide whether the ex-New York Yankees
pitcher lied to Congress when he said he never used performance-
enhancing drugs.  Members of the panel include a public school teacher of
deaf fourth graders, an administrative assistant at the Canadian
embassy, a former executive director of a psychologists’
association, a cashier at a Giant food store who never heard of
Clemens and a special police officer for the  Washington 
Metropolitan Transit Authority.  Clemens, 49, is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury. If convicted on all
charges, the seven-time Cy Young Award winner faces as long as
30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Video Clip  Walton declared a mistrial in July after finding that
prosecutors improperly showed the jury a video clip of a 2008
congressional hearing in which the wife of a government witness,
 Andy Pettitte , was discussed. Walton had ruled earlier that the
government could make no references to Laura Pettitte or an
affidavit she gave Congress.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, will give his opening
statement tomorrow morning.  Clemens, who pitched for the Yankees,  Boston Red Sox ,
 Houston Astros  and  Toronto Blue Jays  during a 24-year career,
used the anabolic steroids and human growth hormone, or HGH, to
remain competitive as he aged, Durham told jurors during his
hour-long presentation.  The drugs were injected into him by  Brian McNamee ,
Clemens’s former personal trainer who worked with the pitcher
for 10 years, Durham said. The evidence includes a needle and
cotton balls containing Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for
anabolic steroids, he said.  Pettitte ‘Misremembers’  Pettitte will testify about his close relationship with
Clemens and how Clemens told him in 1999 or 2000 that he had
used HGH, Durham said. Clemens told Congress that Pettitte
misheard or “misremembers” the conversation.  The government also plans to call  Brian Cashman , the
Yankees general manager, and Kirk Radomski, a former clubhouse
assistant for the  New York Mets , who will testify that he sent
HGH to Clemens’s home in Houston in 2003 for Clemens’s wife,
Debbie, Durham said.  Clemens has denied drug use since former U.S. Senator
 George Mitchell  released a report on steroids in  Major League
Baseball  on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell named Clemens in the report
as having used drugs on 16 occasions between 1998 and 2001.  The criminal charges stem from statements Clemens made to
the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in
February 2008 during a private interview with committee staff
and later in a public hearing on ballplayers’ use of
performance-enhancing drugs. Under oath, Clemens denied ever
using steroids or HGH, according to the indictment.  ‘Cover Stories’  “He went beyond the straight denials,” Durham told the
jury. “He told cover stories -- lies to cover up other lies.
The web of lies continued to grow until he got trapped in it.”  Those “cover stories” included Clemens telling Congress
that McNamee injected him with vitamins or other permissible
drugs, he said.  Durham showed the jury a picture of Clemens holding up his
right hand while being sworn in for his congressional testimony.
It was the same hand Clemens used to win 354 games and gain
“great fame” in the league, he said.  Another photo shown to the jury showed Clemens in a
swimming pool with a young boy seated on the edge. Durham said
the boy was a big fan of Clemens. Durham used the picture to set
the time frame for when Clemens began allegedly using steroids
in 1998. The picture also may have been an attempt to bolster
the government’s position that Congress was investigating drugs
in baseball because of potential harm to children who emulate
their heroes.  ‘Pick a Fight’  Durham said the government didn’t “set out to pick a
fight” with Clemens and no one forced him to testify before
Congress in February 2008. Congress invited him to appear after
Clemens began a “disinformation campaign” to “attack” the
credibility of McNamee and the Mitchell report, Durham said.  “The evidence will show that his greatest adversary that
day four years ago was Roger Clemens himself,” Durham said.
“The man who built this tangled web of deceit, betrayal and
hurt.”  After the jury was excused for the day, Hardin asked Walton
for permission to introduce evidence about a 2001 rape
investigation in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , where McNamee was
interviewed by police. McNamee made false statements in the
course of that probe, prosecutors said in a 2011 court filing.  Opened Door  Hardin said the government “opened the door” to details
about that probe when Durham told jurors that Clemens continued
to work with McNamee after his firing from the Yankees.  He said McNamee lied to Clemens about the Florida incident.  Prosecutors have a responsibility to find out “whether
their witness is still lying to them,” Hardin said.  Walton said he’ll decide later how much information about
the Florida matter the jury can hear.  In a ruling from the bench today, Walton said prosecutors
won’t be able to ask Pettitte, who has admitted to using human
growth hormone, where he received the drugs. Pettitte has said
he obtained HGH from McNamee.  Clemens’s lawyers decried what they called an attempt by
prosecutors to use that testimony to establish “guilt by
association.”  Walton said that Pettitte made “an independent decision”
to use HGH to “hopefully help him heal.” Given that, the
significance of the testimony to the government’s case doesn’t
outweigh the prejudice to Clemens, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  