-- Climate Change Main Contributor to Corn Volatility, Study Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-04-23T08:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/climate-change-main-contributor-to-corn-volatility-study-says.html
The impact of  climate change  on
corn-price volatility outweighs movements caused by energy
market policies and  oil prices , according to research published
in the journal Nature Climate Change.  “U.S. corn-price volatility exhibits higher sensitivity to
near-term climate change than to energy policy influences or
agriculture-energy market integration,” researchers Noah S.
Diffenbaugh, Thomas W. Hertel, Martin Scherer and Monika Verma
wrote in a paper published in the  journal  yesterday. The
presence of a biofuels mandate enhances sensitivity to climate
change by more than 50 percent, they wrote.  Corn, the primary feedstock used to make ethanol in the
U.S., has dropped 6.5 percent this year as U.S. growers plant
the most acres since 1937, the government estimates. World corn
output may rise 4.2 percent in the 2012-2013 crop year on a
bigger U.S. harvest, lifting ending stocks for the first time in
four years, the International Grains Council said April 2.
Ethanol futures on the Chicago Board of Trade are down 4.3
percent this year as the market struggles with a glut.  “The likelihood of increasing occurrence of severe hot
events in response to increasing global greenhouse-gas
concentrations poses a particular risk for field crops,”
boosting yield variability and price volatility, the researchers
said. While volatility will be damped by closer integration of
the corn and energy markets, it increases exposure to oil price
uncertainty and the influence of biofuel mandates, they said.  Ethanol has received government support since the Energy
Tax Act of 1978. President  George W. Bush  made it part of his
plan to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil in 2006 and more
than doubled the country’s renewable fuels targets in the 2007
law that calls for the U.S. to use 15 billion gallons of the
fuel by 2015. Congress last year allowed a 45-cent-a-gallon tax
credit that helped support demand to lapse.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  