-- Coal Seen Rebounding as China Sets Steel Output Record
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-04-24T17:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/coal-seen-rebounding-as-china-sets-steel-output-record.html
Coking coal prices are set to
rebound as early as July from four straight quarterly declines
as  China  and India seek raw material overseas to fire new steel
production in the world’s fastest-growing major economies.  Contract prices that fell to $206 a metric ton for the
quarter ending June 30 may rebound to average $225 a ton this
financial year, based on the mean estimate of 10 analysts,
steelmakers and mining companies surveyed by Bloomberg.
Contracts of coking coal, a key ingredient used to make steel,
peaked at $330 in the June quarter last year.  China, the largest steel producer, is leading demand growth
forecast at almost 10 percent this year. It started about 10 new
blast furnaces in the past six months, lifting output to a
record in March, according to market researcher Custeel.com.
 India , the third-biggest steelmaker, is set to boost capacity a
third to more than 100 million tons by March in a five-year $1
trillion plan to build roads, bridges and railway networks.  “Rising Indian imports will have a positive impact on
coking coal,” said Natalie Robertson, an analyst at ANZ Banking
Group Ltd. in Melbourne. “The near-term prices will more
closely track development in China.”  China may surpass  Japan  as the biggest coking coal importer
by 2015, a position it may eventually relinquish to India,
Robertson said.  BHP, Rio  China is encouraging global use of the yuan and allowing
more overseas investors in its local  capital markets  as Premier
 Wen Jiabao  seeks to shift the focus of economic growth to
domestic demand from slowing export industries. The government
broadened the yuan’s trading band against the dollar to 1
percent from its daily  reference rate  on April 16, having held
the limit at 0.5 percent since May 2007.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest coking coal
exporter, rose 1 percent to close at 1,917 pence in  London .  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO) , the third-biggest mining company, climbed 1.2
percent to 3,415 pence.  Growth in China slowed more than forecast last quarter to
the least in almost three years, prompting economists to predict
a rebound as the government loosens policy to counter weak
domestic and European demand. Gross domestic product expanded
8.1 percent from a year earlier after an 8.9 percent fourth-
quarter gain, the National Bureau of Statistics said.  Demand for imported coking coal in China may rise 37
percent to 63 million tons this year from last year,  Australia ’s
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said on March 21.
Consumption is projected to increase due to state investment in
steel-intensive infrastructure such as highways and rail
networks, linking the less-developed provinces in western China
to demand centers in the east, it said.  Roads, Railways  Urbanization and infrastructure building in central and
western China will fuel “very strong” steel demand,  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  Chief Executive Officer Neville Power said on
April 3. The 7.5 percent economic growth target Jiabao announced
for this year, the lowest since 2004, may result in 5 percent
annual increases in steel demand, he said.  Global trade in coking coal may rise 9.6 percent to 297
million tons this year, compared with a 0.7 percent drop last
year, the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said.  Mongolia, which became China’s biggest supplier of coking
coal in July, will probably continue to grow this year,
Battsengel Gotov, chief executive officer at  Mongolian Mining
Corp. (975) , said in a March 7 interview.  Restocking Room  “For  Europe , China, Japan and  South Korea , the main
tailwind for metallurgical coal is there’s room for restocking
across the world,” Bloomberg Industries analyst Andrew Cosgrove
said. “China remains the wild card because Mongolia is stealing
seaborne volumes by exporting more land-borne tonnages.”  Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd. said yesterday it will
buy 29.9 percent of Mongolian coal exporter Winsway Coking Coal
Holdings Ltd. for HK$2.39 billion ($308 million) to boost
earnings as its aluminum unit posts lower profits. The nation’s
biggest producer of the lightweight metal, known as Chalco, will
buy about 1.1 billion shares from Winsway Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Wang Xingchun and become Winsway’s largest
shareholder, the Beijing-based company said.  India’s coking coal needs may jump 13 million tons this
financial year as its rising appetite for the alloy drives
companies to add capacity worth at least $10 billion in the year
that started April 1, said Ashish Upadhyay, associate director
at  Fitch Ratings  in a telephone interview on April 9. Indian
demand may support coking coal prices as most of the local
requirements are met through imports, he said.  India Imports  Last year, India imported 13 percent of the 271 million
tons of coking coal traded globally. Australia is estimated to
have shipped 148 million tons of the steelmaking ingredient in
the year ended March 31, the Bureau of Resources and Energy
Economics said in its March 21  report .  Coking coal prices touched a record last year after floods
disrupted output and shipments from mines in Australia, the
world’s biggest exporter of the fuel, said Arun Kumar Jagatramka, chairman of  Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd. (GNC) , which owns mines
in Australia’s New South Wales state. Prices have since declined
as supplies were restored and demand waned in Japan and in debt-
laden Europe.  Indian steel consumption may increase 8 percent during the
year started April 1, faster than last year’s growth of 5.5
percent, fueled by investment in infrastructure projects and
improving sales of automobiles, said G.K. Basak, executive
secretary at the steel ministry’s joint plant committee.  Indian Demand  Demand may improve as India reduces  interest rates  on
loans, critical for developing industrial projects and buying
homes, cars and appliances, said Tapan Ray,  executive director 
for mining at PricewaterhouseCoopers Ltd. in Mumbai. Coking coal
prices may range between $220 and $230 a ton this year and may
rise higher if a European recovery starts, he said.  Supply constraints in Australia’s Queensland state, caused
by rain and labor strikes at mines, will also boost prices,
Robertson said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest coking
coal exporter, said it may miss deliveries from its Australian
mines after strikes and rain affected output.  Workers at mines in Queensland intensified protests since
start of the year, adding to rolling strikes since June. About
3,000 miners at seven operations stopped work for a week last
month and have held further strikes since.  Steel demand in Europe is expected to grow 4 percent in the
year that started April 1,  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  Managing Director
H.M. Nerurkar said April 20. Mills in Europe run by Tata,
India’s biggest steelmaker, will operate at 80 percent to 85
percent of capacity for the year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  