-- Cockatoo Falls After SK Networks Drops Stake Plan: Sydney Mover
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-04-23T06:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/cockatoo-falls-after-sk-networks-drops-stake-plan-sydney-mover.html
Cockatoo Coal Ltd. (COK)  fell the most in
seven months in Sydney trading after South Korea’s SK Network
Co. scrapped a A$313 million ($324 million) plan to boost its
stake in the Australian producer to 40 percent.  Cockatoo fell 7.3 percent to 32 cents, the most since Sept.
26, at the close in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
declined 0.3 percent.  Uncertainty in global markets and investment priorities had
driven SK Networks’ decision, Cockatoo said today in a
statement, citing the Seoul-based company. Under last month’s
accord, the funds were to have been used to help fund the
expansion of projects, including the Baralaba coal mine.  “The investment by SK Networks was important to fund
Baralaba capital expenditure for the expansion,”  James Stewart ,
a Sydney-based resources analyst for CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets,
said by phone. “There needs to be another funding solution.”  The decision doesn’t affect a A$150 million loan to
Cockatoo from KEB  Australia  Ltd., a unit of  Korea Exchange Bank (004940) ,
to fund commitments for its projects, Cockatoo said in the
statement. Under the initial agreement, SK Networks, which owns
a 5.5 percent stake in Cockatoo, agreed to guarantee the loan.  The undrawn A$80 million portion of the loan will help
Cockatoo fund potential commitments and development work, the
company said.  Rio Tinto Group, the third-biggest mining company, last
week said it has pulled out of talks for a coal port expansion
in Australia, citing economic volatility and higher costs.
Coking coal prices have declined 7.8 percent this year,
according to Platts, as  China’s economy  expanded at the slowest
rate in five quarters in the first three months this year.  SK Networks dropped the planned investment following an
internal review, the Korean trader of products including steel,
oil and timber said today in a regulatory statement in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  