-- Coded Twitter Messages Get Around French Electoral Results Rules
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-23T10:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/coded-twitter-messages-get-around-french-electoral-results-rules.html
When it came to revealing early
trends in the French presidential elections yesterday, coded
postings on  Twitter Inc.  ruled by breaking the rules.  “Weather Forecast:  Netherlands  29.5 degrees,  Hungary  25.5
degrees, USSR 14.5 degrees, Austria 14 degrees,”  Anti_Nanti , a
Twitter user with more than 4,000 subscribers, wrote at 1 p.m.
yesterday, long before the 8:00 p.m. results deadline.  He used the Netherlands for  Francois Hollande , Hungary for
President Nicolas Sarkozy, whose father was a Hungarian
immigrant, USSR for the Left Front’s Jean-Luc Melenchon and
Austria for the anti-immigrant National Front’s Marine Le Pen.  Thousands of Twitter messages an hour were posted using the
hashtag  #radiolondres , a reference to the frequency created by
the French resistance movement in  London  during World War II to
send coded radio messages to German-occupied France.  The cryptic postings sought to skirt laws making it illegal
to disclose results or voting indications before 8 p.m., when
Paris polling stations closed. Those who posted some of the
barely disguised messages may now face prosecution.  “If it was in a clear, little-concealed context, it would
be considered dissemination, ” Romain Rambaud, a researcher and
professor at Universite de Rennes, said on the i-Tele television
channel today.  About 80 percent of  France ’s 44.5 million voters cast their
ballots yesterday for the first round of the presidential
election. Hollande took 28.6 percent of the vote against 27.2
percent for Sarkozy, the  Interior Ministry  said in Paris. The
anti-immigrant Le Pen got 17.9 percent, a record for the party
that surpassed the predictions of all pollsters. The second
round takes place on May 6.  Law Breach  No polling institute, private person or media was allowed
to publish, air or broadcast any data or political message from
candidates before the closure of all polling stations on
mainland France. Offenders face a $99,000 fine and prosecution.  Media outlets in  Switzerland  and Belgium, including the
daily  La Tribune de Geneve  and the  RTBF  national television and
radio, said last week that they would publish the results before
the legal embargo, thumbing their noses at French laws.  Paris prosecutors said late last night that they have
opened an investigation into the breach of embargoes by  Agence
France-Presse  and websites in Belgium, Switzerland and  New
Zealand .  The rise of social media -- Facebook Inc. and, more
especially, Twitter -- pose a threat to the French law that
dates back  to July 1977 . Sarkozy and other lawmakers have
suggested that the country needs to change its election rules to
adapt to such media.  ‘Chanson d’Automne’  The postings yesterday used codes to allude to candidates.
Sarkozy was referred to as a  Rolex watch  for his “Bling-Bling”
reputation, or as the “garden gnome” for his height.  Hollande was called Flanby, after a  Nestle SA (NESN)  caramel
pudding to show he’s soft and wobbly, or Gouda, the cheese made
in the Netherlands.  Messages on the Internet often turned into jokes or into
veiled calls for voting like  YannSig ’s posting at 3.27 p.m.
saying “dessert always comes with a good glass of red (wine)
and some Gouda.”  Radio Londres, which was hosted in the  BBC ’s offices,
broadcast before the 1944 D-Day Allied forces landings in France
the first lines of Paul Verlaine’s “Chanson d’Automne” poem to
tip the resistance that the invasion, dubbed Operation Overlord,
would start in the next 24 hours.  The lines “the long sobs of the violins of autumn wound my
heart with a monotonous languor” were used as the coded call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  