-- Colt to Start Portugal Gold Mine in Early 2014 After Price Gains
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-04-23T14:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/colt-to-start-portugal-gold-mine-in-early-2014-after-price-gains.html
Colt Resources Inc. (GTP) , an explorer
for gold in  Portugal , is seeking to bring its Montemor mine into
production in early 2014 after price gains spurred development.  “We’re hoping that by June we’ll have an economic deposit
and then we can consider moving a little bit quicker than people
anticipate,” Chief Executive Officer Nikolas Perrault said
today by phone ahead of Colt’s resources update in two months’
time. He sees the mine costing less than $100 million to build.  Colt, based in  Montreal , took over the Montemor concession
in southern Portugal after previous owner Tamaya Resources Ltd.
filed for bankruptcy during the global financial crisis. It’s
among gold developers boosting investment in exploration after
prices for the precious metal increased for 11 years in a row.  Gold resources at Montemor were estimated by the previous
operator at about 600,000 ounces after drilling only 100 meters
(330 feet), Perrault said. “Even less than a million ounces
would be very economic” because high-grade ore is near the
surface, he said, without giving a current resource estimate.  Portugal, expected to contract 3.3 percent this year, is
seeking to attract investment to its  mining industry  to
stimulate economic growth. The government announced the start of
gold and silver mining tenders for concessions in Mertola,
Albernoa and Alcoutim in March, and in November signed 10 mining
contracts with exploration companies including Colt.  Attractive Targets  “We’re going to be expanding our current drilling program
quite substantially; we have numerous regional targets that have
never been drill-tested,” Perrault said. “The previous
drilling was in mid-2000 and gold was $700 an ounce, so we have
a lot of targets that were deemed not worthy back in those days
but are extremely attractive now.”  Gold is trading above $1,600 an ounce on the London Metal
Exchange, after reaching a record $1,900.05 in September.  “We’re in the process of finding a new level for gold and
the new level is a bit higher than what it is right now,”
Perrault said. “This project is extremely attractive as it is;
because of the high-grade nature of the system even if the gold
price goes down a bit we can make some serious money here.”  Colt also owns a tungsten project in northern Portugal.
It’s in talks with potential partners for the venture and plans
to select one in the next 12 months, according to the CEO.  “The strategy is to develop the tungsten project with an
industry player or a strategic partner and the gold project
directly on its own,” he said.  Prices for tungsten, a metal used to harden steel in
ballistic missiles and in drill bits, have risen after  China 
imposed export restrictions on the metal. While China provides
about 85 percent of global supplies, tungsten is also mined in
countries including  Russia ,  Bolivia ,  Peru  and Portugal.  “We have what is arguably the highest grading non-
developed tungsten project in  Europe ,” Perrault said. “It’s
quite attractive and we think we’ll be able to choose the right
partner for the benefit of our shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  