-- Commodities Slump to 10-Week Low, Led by Metals, Cocoa
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-04-23T20:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/commodities-slump-to-10-week-low-led-by-metals-cocoa.html
Commodities tumbled to a 10-week
low on signs that  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis and a
manufacturing slowdown in China may reduce demand for raw
materials from metals to energy to food.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
fell 0.3 percent to settle at 674.44 in New York, after touching
667.98, the lowest since Feb. 7. Cocoa, lead and silver led the
declines, with 14 raw materials in the index trading lower.
Commodities have retreated 2.1 percent in April, matching last
month’s slide.  Euro-area services and manufacturing contracted more than
estimated in April, a report showed today, while a Bloomberg
survey indicated industrial output in China probably will shrink
for a sixth month. Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered his
resignation amid a revolt against spending cuts, while French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of his re-
election bid as the anti-euro National Front won a record share
of the vote.  “The outlook is bleak as demand in both developed and
developing countries is taking a hit,” said  Stanley Crouch , who
helps oversee $2 billion of assets as chief investment officer
at New York-based Aegis Capital Corp., in a telephone interview.
“People are in a risk-off mode, and we may see painful
unwinding in the short term.”  Euro-area services and manufacturing declined, according to
a Market Economics index that fell to a five-month low of 47.4.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected an increase to 49.3,
the median forecast of 17 estimates. HSBC Holdings and Markit
reported a preliminary reading of 49.1 for their  China 
purchasing managers’ index, compared with a final 48.3 in March.
Readings of less than 50 indicate contraction in both reports.  Dollar Rallies  The dollar jumped as much as 0.6 percent against a basket
of currencies, while the MSCI World index retreated as much as
1.8 percent, as Europe’s backlash against budget cuts gained
momentum.  “Investors are getting worried about what will happen in
 France , as progress made by Sarkozy to stem the region’s crisis
will be derailed should we see a new government,”  Frank McGhee ,
the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago,
said in a telephone interview today.  Silver futures for July delivery touched $30.52 an ounce on
the Comex in  New York , the lowest price since Jan. 20. Copper
futures posted the biggest loss since April 13, while crude oil,
which dropped 0.7 percent, has declined 8.2 percent in the past
year.  Cocoa for July delivery fell 2.9 percent to $2,204 a metric
ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Cattle futures for June
delivery reached $1.1355 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest for a most-active contract since Sept. 2.  “You are going to see a reduction in the demand side of
the equation from the major normal buyers like China,” said
Bill Greiner, who helps manage $13 billion in assets as chief
investment officer at Mariner Wealth Advisors in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri . “Commodities will start to move down in value through
the second half of this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  