-- Companies More Upbeat on U.S. Economy, NABE Survey Shows
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/companies-more-upbeat-on-u-s-economy-nabe-survey-shows.html
Companies are growing more upbeat
about the  U.S. economy  this year and plan to take on more
workers as demand improves, a survey showed.  Some 78 percent of businesses, the most in a year, project
the world’s largest economy will expand more than 2 percent in
2012, according to the  National Association for Business
Economics ’ April survey released today in Washington. The share
is up from 65 percent in the group’s January report.  About four in 10 firms, the most since July 2011, said they
expect employment to pick up in the next six months, showing
businesses are looking beyond higher  oil prices  and  Europe ’s
debt crisis. At the same time, 66 percent said they expect no
change in prices in the next three months, indicating Federal
Reserve policy makers will have room to keep  interest rates  low
to nurture the almost three-year-old expansion.  The survey shows “an improvement in economic conditions,”
said Nayantara Hensel, chairwoman of the NABE outlook survey
committee and professor of Industry and Business at the National
Defense University in Washington. “Panelists are not
significantly concerned about the potential impact of higher oil
prices or the European crisis on their business.”  The April survey showed that 60 percent of the businesses,
the most in a year, said their sales were rising. In January, 41
percent said demand was climbing. Some 83 percent of
manufacturers surveyed said sales were increasing, indicating
the industry is still powering the economy.  Employment Outlook  Thirty-nine percent of all companies surveyed from March 20
to April 10 projected job gains in the next six months. Eleven
percent said employment will drop because of attrition, which
suggests the labor market outlook may be more optimistic since
such declines often occur when an employee is confident about
finding another job, the report said.  Profit (SPX)  margins are also improving at more companies, with
40 percent, the most in a year, saying earnings were increasing.
In the January survey, 30 percent reported rising margins.  Companies indicated in the latest survey that  materials 
costs may be less of a concern. Some 37 percent said input
prices were rising. While up from 31 percent in January, the
share is less than the 69 percent who said in July that
materials were getting more expensive.  Cheaper costs may help explain why 66 percent expect no
change in their prices in the next three months. Six percent,
twice as many as in January, said they will fall 5 percent or
less.  Fifty-five NABE members responded to the survey, which has
been conducted quarterly since 1982. The National Association
for Business Economics, founded in 1959, is the professional
organization for people who use economics in their work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle at in  Washington  or
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  