-- Conoco Profit Falls on Lower Production, Refining
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-04-23T20:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/conocophillips-net-income-falls-as-asset-sales-cut-production.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the U.S. oil
company that plans to spin off its fuel-processing and pipelines
business next week, said first-quarter profit fell 3 percent
because of production declines and lower refining earnings.  Net income dropped to $2.94 billion, or $2.27 a share, from
$3.03 billion, or $2.09, a year earlier, Houston-based
ConocoPhillips said in a statement today. Profit excluding one-
time costs and gains related to asset sales and writedowns was
about $2.02 a share, 6 cents less than the average of 16
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ConocoPhillips’s refining profit dropped 6.2 percent in the
quarter from a year earlier to $452 million, missing a  Raymond
James  estimate for more than $600 million from the segment.
General and administrative expenses surged 37 percent from a
year earlier to $685 million, topping Raymond James’s estimate
of about $500 million.  The weaker earnings report “just kind of looks bad”
considering the company is about to spin off its refining unit,
said Stacey Hudson, a research associate at Raymond James whose
firm has a market perform, or hold, rating on ConocoPhillips
shares.  Production Focus  ConocoPhillips fell 0.8 percent to $72.33 at the close in
 New York .  ConocoPhillips will focus on finding and producing oil and
natural gas after spinning off its refining, chemical and
pipeline businesses as  Phillips 66 (PSX-W)  at the end of the month.
Regular trading for the separate companies begins May 1.
ConocoPhillips has been selling assets and buying back shares as
part of a three-year restructuring.  Revenue in the first quarter totaled $58.4 billion, little
changed from $58.2 billion a year earlier. The company had $239
million of earnings related to  Russia ’s OAO Lukoil in the first
quarter of 2011, compared with none this year after it sold its
stake in the producer.  Profit from producing oil and gas declined 3 percent from a
year earlier, excluding one-time costs and gains, to $2.13
billion in the quarter.  The company said first-quarter output of oil and gas fell
3.8 percent to the equivalent of about 1.64 million barrels of
oil a day, citing asset sales and a suspension in  China ’s  Bohai
Bay . For 2012, ConocoPhillips said it expects production to be
1.55 million to 1.6 million barrels a day, depending on the
timing of asset sales.  Curtailing Gas Production  North American gas production was the equivalent of 18,000
barrels a day lower in the first quarter than a year earlier,
with about half of that from curtailments, Chief Financial
Officer Jeff Sheets said on a conference call with analysts and
investors today.  Some natural-gas liquids prices didn’t move up along with
crude prices, Sheets said, though the company’s plan to boost
margins hasn’t changed. ConocoPhillips has said it sees annual 3
percent to 5 percent production and profit-margin increases in
coming years.  The company’s focus on crude and petroleum liquids, which
fetch higher prices than gas, was seen throughout its North
America results.  About 60 percent of ConocoPhillips’s production in  Texas ’
Eagle Ford Shale is crude or condensate, while 20 percent is gas
liquids and 20 percent is gas, Sheets said. Output in the Bakken
in the northern U.S. is about 90 percent crude, he said. The
company estimated at least half of its Permian Basin production
is related to crude.  Asset Sales Target  The company is targeting $8 billion to $10 billion of asset
sales over the next 12 months, Sheets said. ConocoPhillips plans
to complete $5 billion of share repurchases in the first half of
the year, with additional repurchases possible following asset
sales, he said.  Brent crude futures, a benchmark oil price used by much of
the world, climbed 12 percent from a year earlier to average
$118.45 a barrel in the first quarter. Gas futures traded in New
York tumbled 40 percent to average about $2.50 per million
British thermal units.  Chemical profit in the first quarter rose 13 percent from a
year earlier to $218 million, while midstream earnings climbed
27 percent to $93 million.  ConocoPhillips leads major U.S. oil companies in reporting
first-quarter earnings.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. oil
company, plans to release results on April 26, followed by
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-biggest U.S. oil company, on April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  