-- Costa Rica Imports Coffee as Rains Cut Crop, Broker Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-23T12:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/costa-rica-imports-coffee-as-rains-cut-crop-broker-says.html
Costa Rica , traditionally a
producer of coffee, has stepped up bean imports over the past
three years to meet local demand as rainfall reduced the
country’s output, according to broker Escritorio Carvalhaes.  Coffee output in Costa Rica was below the 1.87 million bags
produced in the 2007-08 season in the last three seasons, data
on the  website  of the U.S. Department of Agriculture show.
Production may be lower again this year, with the USDA
forecasting a crop of 1.64 million bags. The Central American
country’s coffee imports may be 150,000 bags this season, up
from 15,000 bags in 2008-09, the department’s data shows.  “In the last three years, with smaller harvests,
especially because of weather changes, coffee production in
Costa Rica has been insufficient to meet consumption and
exports,” the Santos, Brazil-based broker wrote in a report
dated April 20. “The solution found by the Central American
country was to import.”  Costa Rica has been importing coffee from other nations in
the region, especially Mexico and  Peru , the broker said. Some of
the country’s roasters are currently visiting  Brazil , the
biggest coffee grower, according to the report. Rains that
reduced output in  Colombia , the second-biggest producer of
arabica beans, have also resulted in imports, the broker said.  Colombia almost tripled purchases of Peruvian coffee to
make up for a decline in harvests this year, according to the
head of Peru’s main coffee-growing group. The Andean nation
bought 99,581 bags through February, almost triple the 36,545
bags a year earlier, making it the second-largest buyer of
Peruvian coffee after the U.S., Eduardo Montauban, head of
Peru’s Coffee Chamber, said on April 9.  A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms or 132 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  