-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Manufacturing Contracts Globally
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-04-23T21:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-manufacturing-contracts-globally.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk rose as manufacturing shrank in Europe and  China  and
as Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  offered to resign.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 100.9 basis points at
5:01 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. Contracts linked to  Beam Inc. (BEAM) , which is making the
second-largest acquisition of a U.S. wine and spirits business
since 2007, increased by the most in more than two months.  The default-swaps gauge increased after Euro-area services
declined more than estimated in April, while data indicated
China’s production will contract for a sixth month, according to
 Markit Economics  and HSBC Holdings Plc. In the Netherlands,
Rutte offered his Cabinet’s resignation after struggling to
clinch an austerity deal.  “The U.S. may be impacted by slower global growth at a
time when we are seeing weaker U.S. numbers,”  Kingman Penniman ,
chief executive officer of KDP Investment Advisors Inc. in
Montpelier,  Vermont , said in a telephone interview. “Given the
heightened uncertainty we have seen and how cheap hedging has
been, it’s not a bad idea to guard your exposure.”  ‘Fiscal Goals’  HSBC Holdings and Markit Economics reported a preliminary
reading of 49.1 for their China purchasing managers’ index,
compared with 48.3 in March. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction. A euro-area index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in manufacturing and services fell to 47.4, a five-
month low, from 49.1 in March, Markit Economics said in an
initial estimate.  “The core of  Europe  is beginning to push back against
austerity, while the periphery also is slipping on its fiscal
goals,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. credit analysts led by  Eric
Beinstein  said in a research note today. Weak manufacturing
numbers from Europe highlight “the challenging dynamic of
austerity combined with recession throughout the EU,” they
said.  Sovereign-debt risks may damp optimism from better-than-
expected earnings numbers reported by American companies,
despite the  European Central Bank ’s three-year long-term
refinancing operation, according to KDP’s Penniman.  “With the LTRO, there was a belief that the liquidity
problems had been solved in Europe and wasn’t going to create a
sovereign concern,” Penniman said. “That honeymoon seems to be
over.”  Vodka Acquisition  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Default swaps protecting Beam’s debt from default for five
years increased by 7.9 basis points to 63.3 basis points at 5:16
p.m. in New York. The jump comes after the company, which
commands about a third of the U.S. bourbon market, agreed to buy
Pinnacle Vodka and Calico Jack Rum from White Rock Distilleries
for $605 million.  Swaps on Beam increased by 15.5 basis points Feb. 17,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The company had $1.9
billion of total debt as of Dec. 31, the Deerfield, Illinois-
based company said in its Feb. 29 annual filing.  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) ’s acquisition of Fortune Brands
Inc.’s wine unit for $885 million was the biggest takeover in
the industry since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  