-- CWCapital Selling $345 Million of Distressed Real Estate Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-23T16:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/cwcapital-selling-345-million-of-distressed-real-estate-debt.html
CWCapital Asset Management LLC, a
firm specializing in troubled commercial mortgages, is marketing
$345 million of distressed debt in its biggest sale ever as
investors circle souring loans.  CWCapital, the second-largest servicer charged with
resolving problem real estate contained in securities, is
selling a portfolio linked to properties spanning the U.S. from
 Brooklyn , New York to  Pasadena ,  California , according to Mission
Capital Advisors, the manager of the sale. Retail buildings
account for the largest share of the pool, comprising 36.3
percent, followed by office buildings at 28.2 percent, according
to Mission.  So-called special servicers, who deal with delinquent
landlords on behalf of commercial-mortgage bondholders, are
offloading bad debt as defaults pile up. CWCapital, which
oversees about $21 billion in delinquent mortgages tied to
office buildings, shopping centers, hotels and apartments, is
selling as property investors wait for a flood of debt sales.  “Funds have raised a significant amount of capital to buy
a tsunami of distressed debt,” according to Harris Trifon, a
commercial-mortgage debt analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “That
tsunami never came. There is a lot of pent-up demand for that
part of the market.”  LNR Property LLC, the largest special servicer, oversees
about $23 billion in delinquent commercial mortgages, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Increasingly Aggressive’  The sale from CWCapital is composed of debt on 76
properties in 27 states, listed as non-performing, defaulted at
maturity or bankrupt, according to Mission. The loans range in
size from under $1 million to $16.5 million.  “The market for distressed debt has grown increasingly
aggressive as clarity related to asset values emerge,” said
Will Sledge, a managing director at Mission Capital. “Also
driving demand is the need for private equity to deploy capital
raised in the early stages to take advantage of the impending
sell-off.”  The delinquency rate on commercial-mortgages bond deals
recorded the largest increase since November 2010 in March,
jumping 42 basis points to 10.04 percent, according to Wells
Fargo & Co. Property owners fell behind on $4.3 billion in debt
tied to everything from skyscrapers to strip malls, compared
with about $3.3 billion the prior month, Wells Fargo analysts
led by Marielle Jan de Beur said in a report last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  