-- Cyprus Bank Rescue May Give $2 Billion to One Bank, Shiarly Says
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-04-23T14:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/cyprus-bank-rescue-may-give-2-billion-to-one-bank-shiarly-says.html
Cyprus may earmark as much as 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) to recapitalize a single bank before
a June 30 deadline set by the European Banking Authority,
Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said.  Shiarly, a former Bank of Cyprus executive, didn’t name the
lender when he spoke to reporters in Nicosia today. Central Bank
of Cyprus Governor Athanasios Orphanides said on Feb. 29 that
Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the island’s second-largest, needs 1.35
billion euros to reach the EBA’s core Tier 1 capital target of 9
percent. Bank of Cyprus needs 400 million euros, he said.  The finance minister declined to specify where Cyprus would
find the funds for a bank rescue. The  budget deficit  in Cyprus,
which has been shut out of the markets since last May, widened
to 6.3 percent of gross domestic product last year from 5.3
percent in 2010, and public debt soared to 71.6 percent of GDP
from 61.5 percent, according to the  European Union’s statistics
agency .  Shiarly said a plan that would allow Cypriot lenders access
to bailout funds earmarked for the recapitalization of Greek
banks was “one of the measures being examined,” though
obtaining approval would be difficult and this option couldn’t
be “quickly implemented.”  The newspaper Politis reported on April 18 that Shiarly and
Orphanides had met with European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to discuss the plan, under which the Cypriot and Greek
operations of Cyprus Popular Bank, formerly known as  Marfin
Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , would be separated, making its Greek-based
unit eligible for Greek bank recapitalization aid.  Debt Writedowns  Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular posted losses of 1
billion euros and 3.3 billion euros, respectively, for 2011,
resulting mainly from writedowns of Greek government debt.  Shiarly said today that Cyprus hasn’t yet requested access
to Greek bailout funds. The government is also considering
guaranteeing loans and issuing bonds for bank recapitalization,
he said.  “It wouldn’t be proper to discuss the method of the
recapitalization or the order of preference as this is a subject
of negotiations,” he said, adding that any rescue would be done
in a way “that won’t affect markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  