-- Czech PM Seeks Confidence Vote to Show Budget-Cut Force
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-24T14:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/czech-premier-seeks-confidence-vote-to-show-budget-cut-force.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas
will ask lawmakers to prove that his Cabinet still has enough
backing to push through  budget-deficit  cuts after the breakup of
the ruling coalition.  Necas will initiate an April 27 confidence vote to see
whether a group that split off from a former coalition party
attracted enough defectors to guarantee a majority. Deputy
Premier Karolina Peake, who left the Public Affairs party last
week, said yesterday she had enough votes to keep the Cabinet in
power, helping Necas adjourn a parliamentary session today.  “I have received information from the vice premier that
she has 10 signatures showing a willingness to support the
government, and we will verify this in the vote,” Necas told
reporters in Prague late yesterday. “We will find out, in the
most transparent way, whether the government has a sufficient
majority.”  Governments are crumbling across  Europe  as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  pushes for austerity to prevent the
euro area from breaking up. Necas’s three-party coalition fell
apart following clashes over spending cuts and personnel issues
as the administration prepares legislation to cut the budget
deficit to within the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of
economic output in 2013.  The debt crisis in Europe has already resulted in the
ouster of leaders in Ireland,  Portugal ,  Greece ,  Italy ,  Spain ,
Slovenia, Slovakia, and  Finland .  Austerity Costs  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s Cabinet offered to quit
yesterday after the  Freedom Party  withdrew its support for the
minority government on April 21, putting early elections on the
horizon.  Queen Beatrix  asked the Cabinet to stay as a caretaker
in the meantime. French bonds slid after results from a weekend
presidential election showed Socialist Francois Hollande took
more first-round votes than incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Czech measures to narrow the fiscal gap, including an
overhaul of the pension system, have helped curb funding costs.
The yield on the Czech Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.249 percent,
heading for the lowest close for the security ever. The koruna
gained 0.2 percent to 24.971 per euro as of 4:13 p.m. in  Prague .  While the economy returned to a recession in the second
half of last year, Necas’s 20-month-old administration wants to
push through tax increases and savings on pensions totaling 57
billion koruna ($3 billion) to meet the goal of reducing the  gap 
to 2.9 percent of GDP next year from 3.1 percent last year.  Public Discontent  The budget measures also sparked public discontent. About
90,000 people marched through Prague on April 21 demanding early
elections in a protest against spending cuts, the newswire CTK
reported, citing police estimates. Trade unions, which organized
the rally, said it was the largest popular protest since the
fall of communism in 1989.  Early elections are a “terrifying nightmare” for all
parties in the government because of declining support in
opinion polls, political analyst Jiri Pehe said.  “None of the actors in the government crisis can afford
early elections, as the Civic Democrats and TOP09 would lose
ground significantly, while the Public Affairs and Peake’s
platform would be erased from the political map,” said Pehe,
who is also the director of  New York University  in Prague.  Necas backed down from a demand that he would only enter an
accord with Peake if she created a parliamentary caucus, which
requires at least 10 lawmakers. Peake said she has enough votes
to guarantee a “safe majority” for the government, without
specifying whether she will form an official faction in the
legislature.  Largest Majority  The breakup of the coalition ended the largest government
majority in parliament since the  Czech Republic  became an
independent state 19 years ago. Since taking power in 2010, the
parties have repeatedly quarreled over personnel issues and
measures to cut spending.  The Czech Republic has a history of political infighting.
It’s had two minority governments and two interim Cabinets in
the past 14 years, stalling previous efforts to control the
budget deficit. In 2009, Prime Minister  Mirek Topolanek  lost a
no-confidence motion halfway through the country’s six-month
term as EU president.  Public Affairs clashed with the other two government
parties over its demands to secure more money for teachers’
salaries and transportation infrastructure. Cuts in all budget
allocations are needed to meet the government goal of reducing
the deficit before balancing public finances in 2016.  Necas’s Civic Democrats and the TOP09 party hold 93 of the
legislature’s 200 seats, while Public Affairs had 21 before
Peake’s exit. Peake and seven other lawmakers who defected from
parties of the former coalition today helped Necas push through
a motion adjourning the parliamentary session until May 2.  Party Chief Convicted  Necas refused to cooperate with Vit Barta, the former head
of Public Affairs’ parliamentary caucus and the party’s sponsor,
who was convicted of bribery on April 13. Barta, who owned a
detective and security company before he was elected to
parliament, rejected the charges and appealed the verdict.  Public Affairs’ support in opinion polls has fallen the
most among the three former coalition parties since the
elections. It wouldn’t reach the 5 percent threshold to enter
parliament if elections were held now, according to a poll by
the CVVM company.  The opposition  Social Democrats  would win elections now,
followed by the Communist Party, according to the CVVM survey,
which was conducted among 1,048 respondents and released April
18. Necas’s Civic Democrats, or ODS, and TOP09 wouldn’t get
enough votes to create a majority government together, the poll
showed. The CVVM didn’t publish a margin of error for the poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  