-- D.R. Horton Beats Estimates as Builder’s Home Sales Rise
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-04-23T20:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/d-r-horton-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-as-home-sale.html
D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by volume, beat analysts’ earnings estimates as it
increased sales in the second quarter.  Net income was $40.6 million, or 13 cents a share, for the
three months through March 31, up from $27.8 million, or 9
cents, a year earlier, the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company said
today in a statement. Analysts expected earnings of 3 cents a
share, the average of 17  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  The company had a profit for a fifth straight quarter as
sales increased in each of its regions. U.S.  new-home sales 
probably rose in March to an annual pace of 318,000, the median
estimate of 64 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be
up 1.6 percent from February and 4.3 percent from a year
earlier. The Commerce Department will report the data tomorrow.  “At this point, we see no other builder executing
better,” Stephen East, an analyst with International Strategy &
Investment Group LLC in St. Charles,  Missouri , wrote in a note
to investors today. “We are not at a point in the housing cycle
where all boats are lifted -- or left stranded on dry land --
consequently, the ability to grow the business while earning
money and not burning cash deserves a premium valuation.”  East, who  rates  the company a buy, projected earnings of 3
cents a share.  Revenue, Orders Increase  D.R. Horton ’s homebuilding revenue for the quarter was
$935.6 million, up from $733.1 million a year earlier.  Orders rose 19 percent from a year earlier to 5,899 homes,
and the company’s backlog of properties under contract increased
17 percent to 6,189. The number of completed home sales jumped
21 percent to 4,240.  A “strong” sales pace has continued through the first
half of April, Chairman Donald R. Horton said in the statement.
The company predicted stronger closings and profitability in the
second half of the fiscal year, as consumers traditionally buy
more new homes during warmer months.  The company, which spent $319 million on new lots and
development during the quarter, continues “to aggregate market
share across the country” as it broadens sales beyond first-
time homebuyers and as competing builders lack the capital to
keep up, Chief Executive Officer Donald Tomnitz said on a
conference call today.  “I see an opportunity for us to continue to take market
share,” he said. “Not only away from those small and medium-
sized, undercapitalized private builders, but I also believe and
know that the very first time in our company’s history, that we
have an excellent opportunity to continue to take market share
away from our public competitors who I perceive are way
overleveraged.”  Housing Starts  Builders broke ground on  new houses  at an annual pace of
462,000 last month, down from 463,000 in February and up from
418,000 in March 2011, the Commerce Department said last week.  D.R. Horton dropped 2.1 percent to $15.06 at the close in
 New York , compared with a 2.3 percent decline for the 11-member
Standard & Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding  index . Markets fell
worldwide in response to European political and economic
concerns.  NVR Inc. (NVR) , the fourth-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
said April 19 that its orders rose 31 percent and its backlog
increased 33 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  