-- Danish Bank Crisis Claims Two Lenders in Takeover Wave
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-04-23T05:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/danish-bank-crisis-claims-two-lenders-in-takeover-wave.html
Denmark ’s regional banking crisis
claimed another two lenders over the weekend, adding to three
failures last year, as local lenders stepped in to buy up their
insolvent peers.  Sparekassen Kronjylland A/S will take over the healthy
parts of Sparekassen Oestjylland A/S, the government said
yesterday. The merger will come under Denmark’s consolidation
package, protecting creditors from losses. Separately, Den Jyske
Sparekasse will take over all of Spar Salling Sparekasse, the
Business and Growth Ministry said late yesterday. While
depositors will be protected, subordinate guarantee capital and
the state’s hybrid holdings will suffer losses, it said.  “The fact that two banks have collapsed doesn’t mean that
there in general are problems with Denmark’s regional banks,”
Business and Growth Minister Ole Sohn said in the statement.
“It continues to be my view that Denmark’s financial
institutions are in general sound.”  Denmark’s bank industry is still struggling to emerge from
the fallout of its 2010 bail-in package, a resolution framework
that required senior creditors to share losses. A merger bill
was passed last year in an effort to avoid a repeat of the
creditor losses that followed the February 2011 collapse of
Amagerbanken A/S. That  credit event  sent Danish bank funding
costs soaring, and prompted lenders including Spar Nord Bank A/S
to shelve debt sales.  ‘Sensible Solution’  “Even though it’s always sad when a bank is in dire
straits, it’s satisfying that it’s once again been demonstrated
that it’s possible to find a sensible solution,” Joergen A. Horwitz, the director of the Bankers Association, said in an e-
mailed statement late yesterday.  Sparekassen Kronjylland, based in the Danish city of
Randers, will take over deposits worth 3.9 billion kroner ($690
million) and loans worth 3.4 billion kroner, Financial Stability
Co. said yesterday. Denmark’s state resolution agency, the
Financial Stability Co., will absorb the unhealthy remnants of
Sparekassen Oestjylland’s business.  Hammel, Denmark-based Sparekassen Oestjylland had state-
backed loans and guarantees of more than 1 billion kroner,
according to Financial Stability Co.  Denmark is struggling to emerge from a burst housing bubble
that sent loan losses surging among many of its regional
lenders.  House prices  will have slumped 25 percent by next year
since the crisis started in 2007, the government-backed Economic
Council estimated in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  