-- Danone Infant Options Limited as Nestle Gets Pfizer Unit
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-04-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/danone-infant-options-limited-after-nestle-clinches-pfizer-unit.html
Danone, beaten by  Nestle (NESN)  SA in an
$11.9 billion contest to acquire  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s nutrition unit,
may have to scale back its expansion ambitions in the baby-food
market after losing out on one of the industry’s main prizes.  The maker of Activia and Actimel yogurts could try to buy
parts of the Pfizer business that Nestle has to divest because
of antitrust obstacles, though has few other alternatives,
according to Jeff Stent, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in
 London .  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the baby-formula maker that
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. took public in February 2009, is a
possibility, though with a market value of about $17 billion may
be too large to swallow, even if it’s available, he said.  “There’s smaller baby-food businesses around, but this was
pretty unique,” Stent said of Pfizer’s Wyeth unit. “Pfizer was
almost bigger than ideal but it was still doable and a fantastic
strategic fit. There isn’t a Pfizer part two.”  Danone (BN)  lost out to Nestle by less than $250 million, or 2
percent of the final $11.9 billion bid, said a person familiar
with the matter, putting in a bid higher than $11.6 billion.
That price difference along with concerns Pfizer had about
Danone’s ability to get antitrust approval for the deal in
China, gave the asset to Nestle, said two people familiar with
the matter.  Pfizer also determined Nestle was a safer home for its
employees, added another person familiar with the matter. Danone
bid alone, said these people, as an agreement that would have
pre-sold some assets to Mead Johnson fell through weeks earlier.  Fresh Dairy  Danone gets more than half its  revenue  from fresh dairy
products, while infant nutrition accounts for only a fifth of
its sales. Global sales of baby-food products are likely to gain
6 percent a year to 2016 from $30.9 billion in 2011, according
to Euromonitor International, which says that growth is being
helped by low private-label penetration and the importance of
infant nutrition to consumers.  Nestle could have to sell 10-15 percent of the assets it
just acquired from Pfizer, said people familiar with the matter,
as antitrust concerns in countries in like Mexico and  Australia 
could force divestitures.  The Vevey, Switzerland-based company may be instructed by
regulators to sell some assets in markets where it already has a
strong presence, according to Ildiko Szalai, a senior company
analyst at  Euromonitor  International in London. A combined
Nestle and Pfizer baby-food business would have a market share
in  Latin America  exceeding 70 percent, she said.  Emerging Markets  “Danone would really like to enhance its American
positions and if Nestle auctions some assets, Danone could pick
up some in Latin America,” Szalai said.  The Paris-based owner of the Evian bottled-water brand,
which generates about half its sales in  emerging markets ,
declined to say whether it would be interested in acquiring any
divested assets. It has said it plans to expand in markets such
as  China , India, Indonesia and Mexico as well as the U.S.  Danone  shares  rose 1.3 percent to 53.13 euros in Paris
trading yesterday. Nestle advanced 0.6 percent after adjustment
for the shares trading without the right to a dividend.  Danone may also seek to expand in the dairy market through
acquisitions similar to its purchase in 2010 of a majority stake
in  Russia ’s OAO Unimilk, said Stent at Exane BNP Paribas. That
purchase made the company Russia’s biggest dairy producer.  “You might see another deal like Unimilk because there’s a
lot of the world where they don’t have a meaningful presence in
dairy, so they could definitely do something here,” he said.  Bottled Water  Another possible avenue for expansion is bottled water,
according to Stent. Revenue from the product group increased 16
percent last year and made up 17 percent of revenue in 2011.  “Danone’s not a global player in water, so I can’t see how
they’d do a big waters deal, but they’ve been building up in
markets like  Brazil  and they could seek to do some small bolt-
ons,” Stent said.  Danone may also be looking to expand its existing
collaboration and investment in Japanese beverage maker  Yakult
Honsha Co. (2267)  The company is in talks to increase its holding to 28
percent from 20 percent, the Nikkei newspaper reported April 21,
without saying where it go the information. A Danone spokeswoman
declined to comment on the report.  Yakult’s probiotic and fermented milk drinks are similar to
offerings from Danone. The two companies talk about increasing
their collaboration “as part of daily communication,” Yakult
said, without providing additional information. Danone would
make a tender offer to raise its stake to 35 percent should the
talks fail, the Nikkei reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  