-- Rio’s Uranium Gambit in Canada Seen Enriching Denison Bid
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-04-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/denison-takeover-bets-enriched-with-rio-s-uranium-grab-real-m-a.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s ambition to
extract uranium in Canada is opening the door for  Denison (DML)  Mines
Corp. to reap the industry’s richest takeover offer.  Denison, which owns deposits in Saskatchewan’s Athabasca
Basin, rose 29 percent last week after the sale of its U.S. unit
sparked speculation it was positioning itself to be acquired.
The decision came three months after Rio secured a toehold in
the area by outbidding  Cameco Corp. (CCO) , the world’s largest uranium
producer, with a $642 million offer for Hathor Exploration Ltd.  While Rio paid the biggest premium of any uranium takeover,
BMO Capital Markets Ltd. says it needs more assets to justify
the investment in Hathor. Denison would double Rio’s resources
in the basin, where a fifth of the world’s uranium is produced.
Cameco, which has a stake in Denison’s largest development, may
also try to keep Rio from expanding in a region it has explored
for decades, Versant Partners Inc. said. A bidding contest could
make Denison costlier than Hathor, which extracted a 65 percent
premium, according to Versant and data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Both companies would be likely to look at it, and if one
does, then the other one is certainly going to be kicking the
tires,” said Robert Gill, a Toronto-based  money manager  at
Aston Hill Financial Inc., which oversees $5.7 billion. He runs
the  Aston Hill Global Uranium Fund (GUR) , which owns shares of Denison
and Cameco. “With the possibility of Denison being available,
if Rio was able to buy that, that might really provoke some
anger in the Cameco camp, like ‘Hey, this is my backyard and we
don’t want you guys expanding here.’”  ‘Looking at Opportunities’  Illtud Harri, a spokesman at London-based Rio, declined to
comment on whether the world’s third-largest mining company has
approached Denison about an acquisition or considered buying it.  Gord Struthers, a spokesman for Cameco, said the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based mining company is “looking at opportunities
in the Athabasca Basin and elsewhere all the time.”  He declined to comment on whether Cameco was interested in
Denison or had approached it about an acquisition.  Denison Chief Executive Officer Ronald Hochstein said in a
telephone interview that selling the U.S. assets was intended to
boost shareholder returns and not to create a more attractive
takeover candidate. The Toronto-based company will still
evaluate whether to sell more than just the U.S. assets, he said.  “Everything’s for sale at a price,” Hochstein said,
adding that Rio and Cameco would be among the most likely buyers
if Denison put itself up for sale. He declined to comment on
whether Denison had been approached by either company.  Geological Corridor  Denison has undeveloped uranium deposits in  Canada , Zambia
and Mongolia. Denison’s  resources  in Saskatchewan hold about 50
million pounds of uranium, or more than 40 percent of the
company’s total of about 118 million pounds.  The Wheeler River claim, Denison’s largest in Canada, is
located on the eastern edge of the  Athabasca Basin  in
northeastern Saskatchewan. The site is in the same geological
corridor as Cameco’s McArthur River and Cigar Lake mines, which
sit atop two of the world’s richest uranium deposits.  Before last week’s rebound, shares of Denison had lost more
than half their value after a partial meltdown in Japan 13
months ago caused the worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl and
pushed the price of uranium down by almost 30 percent.  Denison then said on April 16 that it agreed to sell all of
its U.S. mining assets to Energy Fuels Inc., disposing a unit
that was unprofitable last year and less attractive to potential
buyers wanting to expand in the Athabasca Basin, according to
Curtis Watkins, an analyst at New York-based Water Island
Capital LLC, which oversees more than $3 billion and owns shares
of Denison in its Arbitrage Event Driven Fund.  Logical Target  The  U.S. operations  had an operating loss of about $11
million in 2011, in addition to a charge of $32.6 million after
Denison said it overpaid for an acquisition in  Utah , according
to the company’s filings and data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If there was an acquirer that was interested in the
company as a whole, the U.S. assets were probably a big
detractor of value,” Watkins said in a telephone interview. The
U.S. sale “isolates and showcases the development assets
Denison has, specifically in the Athabasca region of Canada. It
makes those assets that much more attractive,” he said.  Rio’s purchase of Hathor in January signaled its commitment
to Canadian uranium projects and Denison is a logical target to
fortify the $111 billion global mining company’s  interests  in
the Athabasca Basin, Watkins said.  Rio beat out Cameco in a three-month bidding contest that
drove  Hathor’s price  to C$4.70 a share, 65 percent higher than
its 20-day average before the first offer was made.  Relative Value  Hathor’s Roughrider deposit, which contains at least 58
million indicated and inferred pounds of uranium, cost Rio the
largest premium in the non-ferrous metals industry for deals
worth more than $250 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While producing uranium from undeveloped deposits can take
years, adding Denison would give Rio more than 100 million
pounds of uranium resources in Canada alone and help it narrow
the gap to Cameco once it starts extracting the ore.  With its mines in Australia and  Namibia , Rio plans to
increase its global uranium production this year by at least a
third to 9.4 million pounds. That’s still less than half as much
as Cameco, which anticipates that its total output will slip
about 3 percent to 21.7 million pounds.  Denison’s ownership in the McClean Lake mill would also
allow Rio to process the ore it eventually unearths, according
to David Sadowski, a Vancouver-based analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc. Rio doesn’t currently own any mills in the area.  “It’s not just simply a matter of pounds that Denison has
in the ground,” Sadowski said. It offers “more strategic value
because of the interests in the McClean Lake mill,” he said.  Nimby Principle  If Rio bids for Denison, Aston Hill’s Gill says Cameco
could be pressured to counter with its own offer to maintain its
grip on the Athabasca Basin, which Cameco says is home to the
world’s richest high-grade uranium deposits.  Cameco, which accounted for about  16 percent  of last year’s
worldwide uranium production of 143 million pounds, owns a 30
percent stake in Denison’s Wheeler River project.  “It’s in their backyard so I think that they might take
umbrage” if Rio tries to buy Denison, said  John Kinsey , a
Toronto-based  fund manager  for Caldwell Securities Ltd., which
oversees C$1 billion ($1 billion) and owns Rio and Cameco stock.
“It’s always better, if it’s a good project, to have it all
than to have to split a joint venture with somebody else.”  Cameco also wants to double production to 40 million pounds
by 2018 and acquiring Denison could help it reach that target.  Cigar Lake  Cigar Lake, site of the world’s richest undeveloped uranium
deposit that Cameco co-owns, was delayed by six years after an
underground flood at the mine in October 2006. The project,
which will eventually provide Cameco about 9 million pounds of
uranium a year, is now scheduled to start production in mid-2013.  Denison might help “backstop their guidance,” Caldwell’s
Kinsey said. “Cigar Lake is still a bit of a question mark.”  Rio and Cameco are both betting demand for uranium will
rebound as  developing countries  from  China  to India and  Russia 
build more nuclear reactors to power their economic growth.  China is constructing 26 reactors, the most of any country
in the world, and also has 51 more planned, according to the
 World Nuclear Association ’s  website . India and Russia, which
together have 53 reactors, are building 17 and have 33 planned.  Among industrialized nations,  Japan  is preparing to start
two nuclear  power plants  closed after 19,000 people were killed
or presumed dead from the earthquake and tsunami that wrecked
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station. The U.S. also approved
four new reactors, the first licenses issued since 1978.  Triuranium Octoxide  Uranium prices may climb to $65 a pound this year and $80
by 2014 as a shortfall of uranium supplies worsens, according to
Rob Chang, an analyst at Versant in Toronto. That’s why it makes
sense for either Rio or Cameco to buy Denison now, he said.  Futures on uranium’s tradable form, U3O8, ended last week
at $51.10 per pound on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Before
the earthquake and tsunami in Japan on March 11, the contracts
sold for $67.50 a pound, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They should do it sooner rather than later because
uranium prices are low and the consensus is they will eventually
go higher, not lower,” Chang said in a telephone interview.
“This is the move that everyone’s expecting.”  While Chang says a bidding contest could make Denison more
expensive than Hathor, Edward Sterck, an analyst at BMO Capital
in  London , is less optimistic.  Denison’s deposits could be more costly to develop because
the sites are deeper and the uranium ore is lower quality than
what is mined at the Roughrider project, he said.  Cost of Losing  The  Wheeler River  project “might have more challenges,”
Sterck said in a telephone interview. “Hathor effectively is a
one-asset company. Denison has got a few more strings.”  The cost of losing Denison could still be enough to compel
either Rio or Cameco to pay up, according to Aston Hill’s Gill.  Denison’s uranium claims are “pretty strategic assets and
they are very attractive to both of these companies and they’re
right in the location where they’re looking to expand,” he said.
“Whoever moves first on this, the other guy is going to have to
take a look at this as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 