-- Linklaters, Dewey, Sullivan, Akin Gump: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-23T10:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/dewey-sfo-s-alderman-sullivan-akin-gump-business-of-law.html
Allens Arthur Robinson, a 190-year-
old Australian law firm, and Linklaters LLP, a London-based firm
with 2,200 lawyers, agreed on an alliance to compete
internationally with local firms that have grown after combining
with foreign ones.  AAR, to be named Allens, and Linklaters will operate
independently although they’ve agreed on joint ventures in  Asia ,
including a joint practice in  Indonesia  with Widyawan &
Partners,  Michael Rose , Allens’s chief executive partner, said
in a phone interview. The alliance will take effect May 1.  Australian law firms are tying up with international firms
to gain access to global legal business as U.K. and U.S. firms
seek to operate in the growing Asian market. Chinese attorneys
are also looking for international tie-ups to expand. China’s
King & Wood merged with Australia’s Mallesons Stephen Jaques on
March 1 to create Asia’s biggest law firm, while London-based
Norton Rose combined with Deacons Australia in 2010.  The firm sought a broader international reach because of
changing trade and investment flows, Rose said. While most
offshore business coming into  Australia  10 years ago was from
the U.K., U.S. and  Japan , that has changed recently and now
includes the  Middle East ,  Russia  and  India , in addition to
companies and sovereign funds, he said.  “The firms are a very good fit,” Linklaters senior
partner Robert Elliott said in a statement, referring to his
firm allying with Allens. “By combining our resources and
aligning our supporting processes we will be able to enhance and
expand what we can do for our clients.”  Allens, with 800 lawyers in 14 offices in Asia and
Australia, has been the legal adviser to 77 of the top 100
publicly traded companies in Australia, according to the firm’s
 website . It was named the Australian law firm of the year in
2011 in the Chambers Asia-Pacific 2012 guide.  For more, click here.  Greenberg Traurig Says It’s Talked About Dewey & LeBoeuf Lawyers  Greenberg Traurig LLP said it has held preliminary
discussions regarding lawyers at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the  New
York  law firm said to be considering options including a
prepackaged bankruptcy filing.  “We have had preliminary discussions relating to lawyers
at Dewey LeBoeuf but we have made no commitments, have not
reached agreements and have had no involvement in the firm’s
financial situation or relationships,” Jill Perry, a Greenberg
Traurig spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement April 20.  Greenberg Traurig has grown into a firm with more than
1,700 lawyers and 29 U.S. locations without having done a
merger, Perry said in the statement. The New York-based firm
regularly considers “quality opportunities” and had
discussions “in that spirit,” according to the statement.  More than 60  partners  have left Dewey during what the firm
has called a restructuring process. The largest exiting
contingent was a group of 12 insurance and regulatory lawyers
who went to Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP last month.  A team led by Dewey partners  Martin Bienenstock  and Bruce Bennett is considering a so-called prepackaged bankruptcy plan,
a person familiar with the matter said. Such a plan, which would
be approved by creditors before it was filed, could lead to a
merger with another U.S. firm, said the person who asked not to
be identified because he isn’t authorized to discuss the plans
publicly. The team is also examining what would happen if the
firm shuts down, the person said.  “We are considering various paths, including continuing to
operate as an independent global law firm and a strategic
combination with another leading law firm, the latter of which
could take many forms,” Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for
Dewey, said April 20 in a statement. “Nothing, however, at this
point, is definitive.”  Kakolyris didn’t return calls after regular business hours
April 20 seeking comment on talks with Greenberg Traurig, which
were reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Bill Brennan, a consultant with Altman Weil Inc. who
advises on law firm mergers, said the firm’s debt poses an
obstacle to any merger plans.  For more, click here and here.  News  U.K. Serious Fraud Office Chief Walks Away From Agency in Flux  Richard Alderman , the director of the U.K.’s Serious Fraud
Office, stepped down April 20 after a four-year term in which
ambitious reforms to combat bribery were hampered by a dwindling
budget and a depleted staff, Bloomberg News’s Lindsay Fortado
reports.  Alderman has championed a system of negotiating corruption
settlements with companies rather than prosecutions since
joining the SFO as director in 2008. He was criticized for
taking on several high-profile investigations, including
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Financial Products unit and
convicted swindler  Bernard Madoff ’s London operations, only to
close them later citing a lack of evidence.  He’s also faced a shrinking budget amid government
austerity measures, a year-long fight with the  Home Office  to
save the SFO from dissolution, judicial criticism of the
agency’s handling of cases, and a staff exodus to law and
accounting firms.  “With very severe cutbacks in our budget, we’ve taken less
time to take cases to court, and we’re taking on more cases than
ever before and being more successful with them,” Alderman, 59,
said in an interview on April 11. The SFO is “pushing the
boundaries” on global settlements in corruption investigations.  Alderman said he intends to stay involved in anti-
corruption work when he leaves the SFO.  David Green , a barrister
who led the Revenue and Customs Prosecutions Office for five
years until it was folded into the  Crown Prosecution Service ,
will inherit an agency in flux when he takes over on April 23.  The SFO’s chief executive officer, general counsel, chief
investigator, head of anti-corruption and proceeds-of-crime
units, head of fraud, and a senior policy adviser have all left.  Lawyers say Green may prefer to take cases to court to
prosecute, whereas Alderman encouraged companies to self-report
instances of corruption and negotiate a settlement, a tactic
that allowed the agency to handle some cases on a tight budget.  For more, click here.  On The Docket  MBIA Case Over Restructuring Approval Set for May 14 Trial  Banks suing over New York’s approval of  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s
restructuring in 2009 are set to argue their case starting May
14, as they ask a judge to hear claims the bond insurer hid
information from state regulators.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP’s Robert Giuffra will be
representing the banks along with colleagues, Michael Steinberg, Michael Tomaino and Brian Frawley.  Marc Kasowitz  of Kasowitz
Benson Torres & Friedman LLP will be representing MBIA along
with New York partner Kenneth David.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick in
 Manhattan  said at a hearing April 20 that trial would begin May
14 and the proceeding will be “a glorified oral argument with
some testimony.” There won’t be a jury.  The case focuses on the decision by the New York Insurance
Department and then-Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  to approve
MBIA’s restructuring in which it split its main bond-insurance
unit into two businesses.  A group of institutions holding financial guarantee
policies issued by MBIA Insurance sued Dinallo, the regulator
and MBIA, claiming the move left MBIA Insurance insolvent. A
separate lawsuit is also pending against MBIA. The banks suing
are  Bank of America Corp. ,  Natixis (KN)  and  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   The banks contend MBIA concealed information about its
financial condition from the regulator.  “We’re confident that on the law and on the evidence this
approval cannot stand,” Giuffra said in an interview.  MBIA has said the insurance department had full access to
company records and personnel.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for
Armonk, New York-based MBIA, said earlier this month that the
insurance department conducted a “thorough, independent and
comprehensive investigation” before the approval.  “The bank’s started this case with almost 20 petitioners
and there are only a few left,” Kasowitz said in an interview
April 20. “Everyone else has dismissed their claims and our
expectation is that the claims of the remaining petitioners will
be dismissed as well.”  The case is ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2010, New York
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Deals  Akin Gump, Simpson Thacher Represent Great Wolf Bidders  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  raised its bid April 20 for
water-park operator  Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF)  for the second time
last week, topping an offer from private equity firm KSL Capital
Partners LLC.  Great Wolf is getting legal counsel from Paul Weiss Rifkind
Wharton & Garrison LLP and Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP
and financial advice from Deutsche Bank AG. Paul Weiss’s lawyers
include New York partners Jeffrey Marell, Lawrence Wee and
Kelley Parker, and counsel Ross Fieldston. Young Conaways’ team
includes Wilmington partners David McBride, Bruce Silverstein,
John Paschetto and James Hughes.  Apollo is being advised by Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld
LLP and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  Akin’s
legal team is led by New York-based corporate partner Adam
Weinstein and included New York partners Rosa Testani, Brian Kim
and Jeffrey Kochian and counsel Tony Feuerstein.  Lawyers from Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP are
representing KSL, including Palo Alto partners Chad Skinner and
William Brentani and Washington D.C. partner Christopher Brown.
Associates Nick Washburn, Jonathan Amt, Ryan Coombs, Andrew
Veit, Kamal Patel and Diana Snyder have also been involved.  The board is backing Apollo’s new offer of $7.85 a share,
the Madison, Wisconsin-based company said in a statement April
20. The offer is about $740 million, including debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Later that day, KSL told Great
Wolf that it wouldn’t submit any further bids, Great Wolf said.  This is at least the third time New York-based Apollo has
sweetened its bid for Great Wolf, which operates 11 resorts in
 North America , after KSL started a bidding war. Shareholders
sued Great Wolf following Apollo’s initial proposal on March 13
of $5 a share, claiming Great Wolf didn’t obtain the highest
possible offer.  KSL offered $7.25 a share April 19, in its third public
attempt to buy Great Wolf. The Denver-based private equity firm
first challenged Apollo for the resort operator earlier this
month. Great Wolf traded at $4.19 on March 12, the day before
the board approved Apollo’s original offer.  Moves  Life Sciences Partner Joins McDermott Chicago Office  McDermott Will & Emery LLP added Kristian A. Werling as a
partner in its corporate advisory practice group. Werling, who
is in the Chicago office, was previously chair of of the life
sciences group at McGuireWoods LLP.  Werling has worked on behalf of both corporate and private
equity funds on acquisitions in the life sciences area.  McDermott’s life sciences group has more than 135 lawyers,
patent agents and scientific advisers. The firm has more than
1,000 lawyers in 16 offices in the U.S. and  Europe .  Disputes Specialist Joins Minter Ellison in Western Australia  Minter Ellison has announced the appointment of Michael
Hales, former chair of Nabarro LLP’s international committee, as
a senior legal consultant in the Perth office. He will become a
partner after the finalization of Australian visa requirements
and formalities required to practice in  Western Australia .  Hales is a commercial dispute resolution and international
arbitration specialist with nearly 25 years experience, the firm
said in a statement. He has handled international and multi-
jurisdictional cases involving banking, corporate law, e-
commerce, taxes and fraud.  Minter Ellison’s international litigation and dispute
resolution team has more than 35 partners throughout the firm’s
Australasian offices and in  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  