-- Dolby Bets Atmos Theater Sound System Fills Theater Seats
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/dolby-bets-atmos-theater-sound-system-fills-theater-seats.html
Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB) , the sound
and video pioneer, is introducing audio technology designed to
transform moviegoers’ listening experience the way 3-D and Imax
have altered what they see.  Dolby’s Atmos cinema sound system, which makes its debut
tomorrow at the CinemaCon trade show in  Las Vegas , employs
dozens of speakers, some in the ceiling, and sound-mixing
technology to create a more immersive experience, Stuart
Bowling, a senior technical marketing manager for cinema at the
San Francisco-based company, said in an interview. For instance
the sound of a bird chirp can actually come from overhead.  “It’s a radical shift from anything we’ve ever done
before,” Bowling said.  The system, costing more than $10,000 in some cases, uses
as many as 64 speakers, compared with the typical theater’s five
to seven, plus subwoofers for bass, Bowling said. Getting
exhibitors to shell out will be a challenge following a costly
conversion to digital projection that is only now being
completed, said Michael Karagosian, president of MPKE
Consulting, a film-industry consultant.  “People go to the theater to see movies, and not to hear
sound systems or see projectors,” Karagosian said. “What
Dolby’s introducing is quite exciting, but it’s a tool that
could take a while to get used.”  Director Brad Bird, shown remastered audio from his 2004
film “The Incredibles,” came away so impressed he wrote on
Twitter that Dolby’s treatment of his movies was “killer.”  In demonstrations this week, Dolby will show scenes from
the Pixar movie and other pictures, with sounds of buzz-saw
machines flying overhead, birds chirping and rain encircling
audience-goers.  Upgrade Cost  Depending on the number of speakers required by a room’s
geometry, an upgrade could cost “tens of thousands of
dollars,” per screen, Bowling said.  Atmos, which can automatically adjust sounds to the number
of speakers placed in a room, may test the fortitude of theater
chains that since 2009 have spent about $70,000 per screen to
upgrade to digital cinema, says  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com’s box-office tracking division.  “Theater attendance is way up but after having spent all
this money on digital projection and 3-D projection, is there
money left on the table for sound technology?” Dergarabedian
said.  Dolby added 0.9 percent to $38.06 on April 20 in  New York .
The shares have gained 25 percent this year.  The company stands to benefit as exhibitors emerge from a
prolonged slump in ticket sales, Dergarabedian said.  Attendance Jumps  As of yesterday, U.S. box-office sales had risen 17 percent
to $3.14 billion, while attendance was up 19 percent, according
to Hollywood.com  Upgrading to digital projectors has allowed theater owners
to reduce distribution costs, offer hyper-realistic films in
three dimensions and at double the resolution available on a
television at home -- incentives for customers to keep coming.  By comparison, few exhibitors have upgraded to the Dolby
Surround 7.1 standard that lets movies deliver sounds through
seven speakers plus one subwoofer, which handles bass.  Dolby will focus on installing Atmos in theaters that
charge a premium for upgraded screens and sound systems in the
U.S.,  Europe ,  China  and  Japan , with a target of 500 to 1,000
screens installed by the end of 2013, said Matt Cuson, a senior
director at the company.  The first movie created with Atmos sound mixing will debut
this summer, Cuson said, without naming the movie.  “The exhibitors aren’t going to invest in anything unless
they know they can put butts in seats,” Cuson said. “This is
something we think that’s going to go into every movie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  