-- Dollar to Gain Versus Euro After French Elections, Taylor Says
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-23T14:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/dollar-to-gain-versus-euro-after-french-elections-taylor-says.html
John Taylor , founder of currency
hedge fund FX Concepts LLC, said the dollar will strengthen
against the euro this quarter as the French election raises
concern about stability in the region.  “ Europe ’s going to be in a recession and they’re going to
have to print more money and be looser, and the U.S. is going to
have a stronger economy than them by quite a bit,” Taylor said
in an April 20 telephone interview. “There’s a lot of headwinds
coming in the  euro zone  and the question is how the ECB
responds.”  The dollar weakened 3.1 percent against the euro in the
first quarter as the  European Central Bank  lent an unlimited
amount of three-year loans to the region’s banks in an effort to
curb contagion of the sovereign-debt crisis. Socialist
challenger  Francois Hollande , who has called for further action
from the ECB, won the first round of the French elections
yesterday, capturing 28.6 percent of the vote compared to
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s 27.2 percent. The decisive round
will be May 6.  Since March, the greenback has strengthened 1.7 percent as
concern about contagion in the euro zone intensified. The yield
on Spanish 10-year bonds surged to 6.16 percent April 16, the
highest since December, after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
in March the nation would miss its 2012 deficit goal approved by
the European Union.  The dollar may weaken against the yen in the next two to
three months as prospects for further easing from the  Federal
Reserve  damp investor demand for the greenback, Taylor said.  ‘Recession Scare’  “If we do have a crisis in Europe and a little recession
scare in the U.S., that might drive money back to the yen and
it’ll be stronger for a couple of months before it weakens,” he
said.  Labor-market growth has slowed since February as U.S.
employers added the fewest jobs in five months in March and as
more Americans than forecast filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  in the five days through April 14, according to an
April 19 government report.  The slowdown has increased speculation that the Fed may
introduce a third round of asset purchases to stimulate the
economy. The greenback would also drop against the euro if the
Fed increased stimulus in the second half of the year, Taylor
said.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks
the currency against those of six major trading partners,
dropped 14 percent during when the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of
bonds in two rounds of purchases, known as quantitative easing,
between December 2008 and June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  