-- Dubai Group Said to Propose 1% to 2.5% Interest in Debt Proposal
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-04-23T12:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/dubai-group-said-to-propose-1-to-2-5-interest-in-debt-proposal.html
Dubai Group LLC, the  investment
company  owned by the emirate’s ruler, proposed paying interest
of 1 percent to 2.5 percent in a $6 billion debt restructuring
proposal, three people familiar with the plan said.  Four different interest rate classes have been proposed
depending on the currency and the type of creditors, two people
said, declining to be identified because the information is
private. Secured creditors, whose loans are backed by assets,
will be repaid principal in three years, according to the
people. Banks that offered partially secured and unsecured loans
will be returned principal in 12 years and receive additional
interest at the end of the loan term, they said.  A spokeswoman for Dubai Group declined to comment.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the emirate seeking to restructure loans
after property prices and asset values slumped and credit
markets froze. Dubai World, one of the sheikhdom’s three main
state-controlled holding companies, reached a deal in March 2011
with about 80 banks to delay payments on $25 billion of debt.  Dubai Group appointed eight banks to represent creditors in
two committees in 2011. Paris-based Natixis SA’s Nexgen unit and
Dubai-based  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  make up the committee of secured
lenders.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) 
lead the group of partially secured and unsecured lenders.  Three Parts  The overall restructuring proposal is in three parts, one
for a $300 million fully secured Islamic syndicated facility
managed by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , another $1.1 billion secured facility
provided by Natixis and a third for the $4.6 billion owed to the
partially secured and unsecured lenders, one person said. Banks
with the most assets backing their loans will receive the
highest interest and discussions are under way with the
partially secured and unsecured lenders, he said.  Financial advisers  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , law firm Clifford Chance
LLP and accounting firm KPMG are advising on the deal.  The below-market  interest rates  will lead to losses for
banks. Emirates NBD, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank,
said in October it set aside 950 million dirhams ($259 million)
to cover losses from 4.8 billion dirhams of loans to an entity
that was restructuring debt, which it indicated was Dubai Group.  Dubai Group, which owes another $4 billion, invests in
financial services and owns property in the U.S., according to
its website. It holds stakes in companies including Dubai-based
investment bank  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , Cairo-based investment bank
 EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , and  BankMuscat SAOG (BKMB)  in Oman.  Debt  In its pursuit to transform into a tourism, trade and
financial services hub, Dubai and its state-owned companies
amassed debt of $129.3 billion, or 149 percent of economic
output in 2011, Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch estimates
show. The emirate was rescued from the brink of default in 2009
by a $20 billion loan from the central bank and  Abu Dhabi .  Still, Dubai has sealed successful restructuring deals.
Dubai International Capital LLC, another private equity company
owned by Dubai Holding, reached an agreement earlier this month
to restructure $2.5 billion of loans.  Drydocks World LLC, which owns the  Middle East ’s biggest
shipyard in Dubai, received approval from an “overwhelming
majority” of creditors for its $2.2 billion debt restructuring
proposal, the state-controlled company said April 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  