-- Durable U.S. Recovery at Hand as Growth Shifts
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-23T20:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/durable-u-s-recovery-at-hand-as-growth-drivers-shift-economy.html
Almost three years after it began,
the U.S. recovery may strengthen as autos and housing begin to
reemerge as mainstays of growth.  “The traditional engines that tend to give you a recovery
are kicking in now,”  Joseph Carson , director of global economic
research at AllianceBernstein LP in New York, said in an
interview. “We’re seeing confirmation of sustainability from
all sides. That’s a real business cycle.”  Over the past two quarters, measures normally associated
with early stages of lasting rebounds, including hours worked,
employment, consumer and business sentiment, household spending
on durable goods and residential investment, have picked up in
tandem, said Carson. Ian Shepherdson at High Frequency Economics
Ltd. is betting the comeback from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression will be rooted in a thawing of
lending, an area that usually lags behind.  Household spending led by durable goods like automobiles,
as well as gains in homebuilding, may account for more than half
of the first-quarter advance in gross domestic product,
according to Carson. Those two areas contributed 1.7 percentage
points to the 3 percent gain in gross domestic product at an
annual rate in the fourth quarter and probably made a similar
contribution in the past three months, he said.  That marks a shift from the period following the recession.
Exports and business investment accounted for about 70 percent
of the 2.4 percent growth seen in the first nine quarters of the
recovery, compared with a historical contribution of about 20
percent in rebounds spanning the past five decades, according to
Carson, who worked as an economist at the Commerce Department.  Shares Fall  U.S. stocks joined a global selloff today as political
uncertainty in  France  and the Netherlands intensified concern
about  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.8 percent to 1,366.94 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York. So far this year, the  S&P 500  is up 8.7 percent amid signs
the U.S. is gaining strength.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.5 percent pace from
January through March, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce
Department’s report on April 27. Carson projects the gain will
be 3.5 percent.  Consumer spending  rose at a 2.3 percent rate,
the best performance in more than a year, the Bloomberg survey
showed.  One stand-out in the rebound for consumer durable goods is
automobiles, typical of the early stages of a lasting expansion,
Carson said. Cars and light trucks  sold  in the first quarter at
the strongest pace in four years, according to Ward’s Automotive
Group. The pickup is linked to job gains, according to  Mark Fields , president of the Americas at  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Auto Sales  “Bolstered by a recent strengthening in the economy and
the improving employment situation, U.S. industry sales have
surged in the early months of 2012,” Fields said in a
conference presentation telecast on April 4.  Ford this month raised its 2012 forecast for total U.S.
vehicle sales to as much as 15 million. If Ford’s prediction is
on the mark, industrywide vehicle purchases would rise by about
2 million this year from 12.7 million in 2011, according to
Carson. Such an increase has occurred only three times in the
past 40 years, and in each of those cases -- 1971, 1976 and 1984
-- an economic recovery was taking hold, he said.  “We’re starting to see improvement in  consumer confidence 
and, combined with rising fuel prices and aging vehicles, the
market is starting to move,”  Bob Carter , Toyota Motor Corp.’s
group vice president for U.S. sales, told reporters on April 5
at the New York auto show. “It’s happening quicker than anyone
thought.”  Credit Easing  Consumers won’t be the only ones buying more vehicles,
predicts Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at Valhalla, New
York-based High Frequency Economics. Credit is starting to
become more readily available, which will make it possible for
small- and medium-sized companies to replace aging delivery
trucks, he said. That means business investment probably won’t
slow much this year, according to Shepherdson.  “We are seeing a real recovery in bank credit,” he said
in an interview. “In an economic cycle that has been defined by
a  credit event , credit is not a lagging indicator, it’s a
missing link.”  Bank loans to  commercial and industrial  companies have
climbed 14 percent in the 52 weeks ended April 11, the biggest
year-to-year gain since November 2008, according to Federal
Reserve data.  ‘Easier’ Credit  “The credit situation couldn’t be described as easy, but
it can be described as easier,” said Shepherdson. “The economy
will therefore take off properly.” Shepherdson and Carson both
forecast the economy will grow 3 percent this year, compared
with a 2.3 percent median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg this month.  Steve Latin-Kasper, director of market data and research at
the Detroit-based National Truck Equipment Association, is among
those with first-hand knowledge of the improvement.  “We’re seeing demand not just for  consumer durables , but
for capital equipment as well,” he said in an interview.
“We’ll continue to see steady growth in spending.” Latin-
Kasper projects the economy will grow about 3 percent this year
and is not ruling out a 4 percent gain in 2013.  Not everyone is as optimistic. Household finances and the
job market aren’t robust enough to encourage consumers to
splurge, cooling global growth will restrain exports, and
housing “is going nowhere,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S.
economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York . Monetary
and fiscal policy are also limited in their ability to spur
growth.  No ‘Breakaway’  “The economy has not yet reached a breakaway momentum,”
Shapiro, who forecasts GDP will rise 1.9 percent this year, said
in an interview. “We’re still muddling through. Consumers
aren’t ready to open their wallet in any grand manner” and
“are increasingly aware they’re going to have to fend for
themselves as there will be less government largesse.”  Housing will play a bigger role as employment improves,
consumers repair balance sheets and more people move away from
their families and gain confidence to strike out on their own,
according to Shepherdson and Carson.  Rising home sales ripple through the economy by spurring
demand for everything from building materials like paints to
furniture and electronics, said Shepherdson.  Purchases of building materials jumped 22 percent in the
first quarter from the prior three months, after rising 10
percent, according to Carson’s calculations.  While unseasonably mild temperatures probably boosted
demand, “there is no way that that entire increase is a weather
effect,” said Shepherdson. “Some of the rebound is real and
sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  