-- Dutch Cabinet Collapse Shows Folly of Merkel Fiscal Pact
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-23T23:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/dutch-cabinet-collapse-shows-folly-of-merkel-fiscal-pact.html
Alarm over Europe’s financial
predicament is surging again. The immediate cause is the
European Union’s fiscal pact.  Germany  insisted on this plan to
cut public borrowing sharply and immediately, and euro-area
governments hoped it would restore stability. It’s doing the
opposite.  The pact is proving so unpopular that it’s undermining
governments, and not just in the peripheral countries most
obviously at risk. The stresses caused by the EU’s strategy
influenced presidential elections on Sunday in  France  and forced
a crucial partner in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s austerity
drive, Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte , to offer his cabinet’s
resignation on Monday.  While socialist Francois Hollande’s campaign against French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s “excessive austerity” has received
considerable attention, Europe’s big surprise came when the
Dutch coalition government resigned, days after the far-right
anti-EU  Freedom Party  refused to go along with the center-right
Liberals’ plans for budget cuts to comply with the new fiscal
pact. Voters in the Netherlands don’t appear to be deserting the
Liberals, but the collapse of the coalition and the need for new
elections complicates parliamentary ratification of the budget
deal, due by the end of the year.  Critical Allies  There’ll be some crowing about this. The Netherlands has
been Germany’s leading ally in the EU, calling for stringent
budgets and criticizing the fiscal self-indulgence of  Greece  and
other sinners.  The Dutch government was as keen as Germany’s to ram the
pact down the throats of the so-called Club Med countries. Now
it has choked on its own efforts to comply, making Rutte the
latest of about a half-dozen European leaders to be unseated by
the financial crisis.  This new political turbulence is spilling over into
financial markets, threatening a vicious circle of worsening
economic stress and political risk. The Netherlands’ sovereign
debt position is strong -- it enjoys an AAA rating, despite
concerns over high levels of  household debt . On Monday,
investors demanded higher yields from Dutch  government bonds ,
but Spain remains the country to watch. Its debt position is
anything but strong. Yields on its 10-year bonds rose above 6
percent on Monday, stirring fears of insolvency. Spain is the
euro area’s fourth largest economy, and might settle the EU’s
fate. If it goes the way of Greece, the EU’s financial defenses
would probably be overwhelmed, and the wider global recovery
would again be in peril.  That doesn’t need to happen, but the fiscal pact makes it
more, rather than less, likely. Even if the deal on budgets were
politically feasible, it would be financially unsound. In
countries without recourse to monetary easing or  currency
devaluation , the strategy demands too much austerity too soon.  It’s one thing to apply pressure on governments for needed
policy reforms -- evidently the guiding principle of German
policy. It’s another to bring the ceiling down on the entire
euro project. That’s the gamble Germany is now taking.  Spain ’s new government has made brave budget cuts -- though
not brave enough to fully comply with the pact’s demands -- and
under the most difficult circumstances is carrying out long-
overdue labor-market reforms. Yet according to the  International
Monetary Fund , Spain faces continuing recession followed by a
dismally slow recovery, even if all goes well. Its  unemployment
rate  is more than 23 percent; one in two young people is without
work. Remarkably, the commitment of Spanish voters to the
European Union seems not to have dimmed. But there must be a
limit to Spain’s tolerance of such acute economic pain. The EU
should stop testing it.  Pooling of Risk  Without compromising on long-term fiscal control, the
Spanish government needs to ease the short-term fiscal pressure,
and the EU should help it do so. The way to do this, as we have
argued before, is through formal pooling of fiscal risk. The
 European Central Bank  must explicitly promise to be a lender of
last resort to euro-area sovereign borrowers, or the EU must
introduce some form of euro bond or other collective borrowing
arrangement. This would reduce Spain’s borrowing costs to a
level consistent with solvency, and would allow some needed
short-term fiscal moderation.  Such a plan, of course, would be the very fiscal union
Germany has opposed. Merkel should consider that her choice
might come down to this: fiscal union, with the costs it implies
for German taxpayers; or isolation for Germany in  Europe ,
economic collapse in some countries, renewed contraction in
others, and political turmoil spreading across the union. In
either case, Germany pays -- but in the second case, it pays
much more.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View   Today’s highlights: the View editors on  antibiotics  in farm
animals;  Edward Glaeser  on Mitt Romney’s  plan  to shut the
Department of Housing and Urban Development; Jeffrey Goldberg on
the  space shuttle ; Ramesh Ponnuru on the  Buffett rule ;  Enrique
Krauze  on  Peru ’s economic revival; and David Crane on
 California ’s rising taxes.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 