-- Dutch Face Elections As Rutte Seeks Majority for Measures
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-04-24T10:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/dutch-face-elections-as-rutte-seeks-majority-for-measures.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
will try to build support among opposition lawmakers for further
austerity measures aimed at shielding the Netherlands from the
debt crisis after he pulled the plug on his minority government.  Rutte is due to speak during a debate in parliament in the
Hague at 2 p.m. today, less than 24 hours after he tendered his
Cabinet’s resignation to  Queen Beatrix  in a bid to break a
budget deadlock over additional cuts of at least 9.5 billion
euros ($12.5 billion) needed to satisfy European deficit limits.  Rutte, who ran out of room for maneuver after talks with
Geert Wilders’s Freedom Party collapsed over proposed reforms to
state pensions, is struggling to win support to dispel investor
concerns the Netherlands can regain control of its finances.
With the two-year crisis again rippling across  Europe , equities
slumped globally yesterday as Rutte offered to quit amid
uncertainty over the timing of elections and investor doubts
about his country’s ability to retain its AAA  credit rating .  “Most important is to show financial markets you’re good
for the money,” Charles Kalshoven, an economist at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam, said in an interview. Efforts to strengthen the
economy, bolster growth and raise tax revenue are more important
than cutting the deficit, yet “now it looks like neither is
going to happen as there doesn’t seem to be a parliamentary
majority willing to cut the deficit below 3 percent.”  Risk Premium  Dutch bonds gained today as the nation sold 2 billion euros
of debt. Ten-year Dutch bonds snapped three days of losses after
an auction of securities due in July 2014 and January 2037.
Dutch 10-year yields declined 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 2.34 percent at 12:16 p.m. in Amsterdam, after
advancing to 2.47 percent, the highest since March 28.  The 2.25 percent security due July 2022 rose 0.495, or 4.95
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 98.895. The yield
difference between Dutch 10-year bonds and similar-maturity
bunds narrowed almost 10 basis points to 66.8 basis points.  The Dutch government said yesterday that the Queen will
consider Rutte’s offer and asked that the Cabinet handle current
affairs in the meantime. Rutte may propose to parliament today
that the government carry on in a caretaker capacity until
elections are held, while being charged with presenting a budget
for 2013, Wim Voermans, a professor of constitutional and
administrative law, said in a televised interview.  Election Date  The parliamentary debate will focus on what happened during
the failed budget negotiations that began March 5 as well as a
possible date for the elections and a budget for 2013, said
opposition  Labor Party  leader Diederik Samsom.  Samsom told local news agency ANP today that he no longer
opposes elections in September in order to give smaller parties
time to prepare. The Dutch electoral council has said that Sept.
5 would be the earliest possible date for a new ballot.  “I’m sure that behind closed doors work is being done to
prevent the Netherlands from losing its credit rating, because
that would only aggravate problems for the next government,”
 Andre Krouwel , an associate professor of political science at VU
University in Amsterdam, said by phone. Even so, there’s “no
way” an accord can be reached before the election, he said.  European stocks rebounded from a three-month low today,
with the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  up 0.6 percent as of
12:15 p.m. in Amsterdam. The euro snapped its biggest decline in
more than a week and was little changed at $1.3155.  Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said that the current
administration will have to “find majorities” for the 2013
budget as well as for a “stability program” to submit to the
commission in Brussels. “The Netherlands, in every
circumstance, will maintain disciplined budgetary policy,” he
told reporters in The Hague yesterday.  French Election  Uncertainty in the Netherlands, a traditional crisis ally
of  Germany , adds to the turmoil springing from the debt crisis
as it reverberates throughout Europe. In  France , presidential
election candidates are pushing the  European Central Bank  to be
more pro-growth, a stance at odds with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ,
while in the Czech Republic Prime Minister Petr Necas is seeking
to avoid snap elections and push through deficit cuts after the
breakup of his coalition.  In the Netherlands, the euro-area’s fifth biggest economy,
the 2013 budget shortfall is currently forecast at 4.6 percent
of gross domestic product. To pare it to 3 percent as specified
by the European Commission, Rutte needs to find at least 9.5
billion euros of extra cuts to submit to Brussels by April 30.  “The package is way too rigorous and it’s bad for the
economy,” Emile Roemer, head of the Socialist Party, which
would double its seats to 30 according to latest polls, said in
broadcast remarks. “We need to have elections and clarity as
soon as possible.”  Wilders Objection  With budget deliberations dragging on for seven weeks, the
fate of Rutte’s minority government was thrown into doubt on
April 21 when Wilders unexpectedly withdrew its support over
efforts to narrow the shortfall. He cited proposed cuts to
welfare benefits for the elderly, specifically the impact on the
incomes of those retirees who receive state pensions and which
form the bedrock of his  Freedom Party ’s support. That prompted
Rutte to cite new elections as “an obvious scenario” to try to
resolve the deadlock.  Rutte’s  Liberal Party  would win 33 of the 150 parliamentary
seats if general elections were held now, up from the 31 seats
it currently holds, according to a poll of about 4,500 people by
researcher Maurice de Hond and No Ties BV.  The second governing party, the  Christian Democrats , would
fall to 11 seats from 21, while the Freedom Party would drop to
19 from 24. The Socialist Party would double its seats to 30 and
Labor would drop to 24 from 30, according to the poll, which was
conducted April 21-22. No margin of error was published.  Opposition leaders such as Labor’s Samsom and Alexander Pechtold, the head of the D66 Democrats, both called for an
early ballot. The nation last held a general election in June
2010 and the next wasn’t due to be held until 2015.  “I think it can be done before the summer so we can make a
new start for the Netherlands,” Samsom told NOS television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  