-- HeartWare Implant Pump Met Goals While FDA Questions Data
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-23T20:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/heartware-implant-pump-met-goals-while-fda-questions-data.html
HeartWare International Inc. (HIN) ’s
implantable pump for heart-transplant candidates, under review
for approval by U.S. regulators, met its primary goal in
studies, according to a report.  While there are questions about missing data for 80 percent
of the patients that tested the HeartWare Ventricular Assist
System, the device “seems to have statistically met the
primary” goal in studies, Food and Drug Administration staff
said in a  report  today. Regulators still have concerns about
stroke rates, according to the FDA staff documents.  The Framingham, Massachusetts-based company awaits a
meeting of FDA advisers scheduled for April 25 to discuss the
device, which draws blood from the left ventricle. While
HeartWare met its patient survival goal to prove the device
works, “the data require careful consideration of what clinical
conclusions can be drawn,” the FDA staff said. The advisers
typically take into account assessments from such staff reports.  “The documents did not contain any major negative
surprises,”  Larry Biegelsen , a senior analyst with Wells Fargo
Securities in  New York , wrote in a note to clients.  HeartWare  rose  6.8 percent to $71.71 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day increase since Nov. 30.  The U.S. market for left ventricular pumps may pass $750
million in 2015,  Jason Mills , an analyst with Canaccord Adams
Inc. in  San Francisco , said by telephone. If HeartWare’s product
also is approved for heart-failure patients who aren’t eligible
for a transplant, the company may split the U.S. market with
Pleasanton, California-based  Thoratec Corp. (THOR) ’s HeartMate II by
2015, he said.  Failing Hearts  Of 140 patients who used HeartWare’s device in the final-
phase trial, 92 percent survived, according to the company. This
is compared with 90 percent of 499 patients in a registry for
patients who use mechanical circulatory support, such as
Thoratec’s HeartMate II, for advanced heart failure.  Heart failure  is a progressive disease that strikes one in
five Americans older than 40. It occurs when a damaged organ
can’t supply enough oxygen-rich blood to keep other organs, such
as the lungs, working. There are few treatments and no cure.  Missing Data  HeartWare was supposed to collect central venous pressure
or right atrial pressure of patients using the company’s device
and of those in the registry who were considered the control
group. The company gathered the data for 51 percent of patients
and for the rest replaced the missing value with the treatment
group median, the FDA staff said.  Fifteen patients on the HeartWare device experienced
strokes about six months into testing, according to the report.
This data “suggest a trend toward higher stroke rates” with
the pump compared to other devices, the staff wrote.  If the device is approved, the FDA said it expects
HeartWare to conduct a post-approval study on the safety and
effectiveness of the device by body surface area and quality of
life five years after the date of implant.  The HeartWare and Thoratec devices are intended to take
over for the failing heart, extending patients’ lives or gaining
patients time to find a donor for transplant.  Thoratec dominates the worldwide ventricular assist device
market with about 68 percent of the market share, according to
data compiled by a Bloomberg analyst, Michael Manns. The
company’s HeartMate had  $366 million  in revenue last year.  Deadly Defect  HeartMate II is approved for heart-failure patients whether
they are eligible for transplantation. Thoratec said in February
that a component may be improperly attached to the device and
sent a guide to hospitals to ensure the component remained
connected. The FDA later classified the issue as a potentially
deadly defect.  HeartWare’s device is sold in  Europe . It is implanted next
to the heart, avoiding the abdominal surgery required by
competing devices, the company said. Thoratec’s HeartMate II is
placed below the diaphragm in the abdomen.  HeartWare is recruiting patients for a  study  on the
device’s use in patients who aren’t eligible for heart
transplant, according to the National Institutes of Health
website clinicaltrials.gov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  