-- ECB Didn’t Settle Any Government Bond Purchases for a Sixth Week
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-04-23T13:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/ecb-didn-t-settle-any-government-bond-purchases-for-a-sixth-week.html
 The  European Central Bank  said it
didn’t settle any government bond purchases for the sixth
straight week.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it will take seven-day term
deposits tomorrow to absorb the 214 billion euros ($279 billion)
of liquidity created since the program started in May 2010, a
practice it employs to ensure the purchases don’t fuel
inflation.  The ECB halted the bond-buying program after its two three-
year loans to banks totaling more than 1 trillion euros helped
debt markets to rally. Officials in  Europe  and around the world
are bickering about additional crisis-calming steps, as turmoil
returns amid concern that  Spain  may need a bailout. While ECB
officials say Spain and  Italy  need to agree further action,
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government wants the ECB to
reactivate its bond-buying program.  Further measures to quell financial turmoil in Spain risk
stretching the credibility of the bank’s monetary policy,  Luc
Coene , ECB Governing Council member and governor of  Belgium ’s
central bank, said in an interview on April 21.  “We have done what we can do so far within our mandate and
within the possibilities we have,” he said in  Washington . “The
only thing we could do is overstretch ourselves and then we
would even lose the credibility we have at that moment.”  While the ECB’s steps helped calm financial markets, their
effects may be wearing off, with Spain’s 10-year bond yield this
month nearing levels which triggered bailouts of  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal . Since March 2, Spanish bond yields have surged
above those of Italy, igniting speculation that the Iberian
nation may be the next to require a financial lifeline. Italian
borrowing costs have also risen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  