-- Technology Volatility Rises to Year High Versus VIX
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-04-23T08:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/technology-volatility-rises-to-year-high-versus-vix.html
Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s slump and forecasts
from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  that trailed analyst
estimates are driving risk perceptions for technology shares to
a  one-year high  versus the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange NDX Volatility Index,
which tracks equity derivatives on the Nasdaq-100 Index, is 16
percent higher than the  S&P 500  options gauge known as the VIX,
the biggest premium since March 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Nasdaq measure has retreated 3.9 percent from
the 11-year high reached on April 2, while Apple lost 9.9
percent over the past nine sessions.  Investors are anticipating larger swings in CBOE’s NDX
Volatility Index as Apple, which reports quarterly earnings
tomorrow, declined from an all-time high while Intel and
Qualcomm missed Wall Street estimates. The results increased
concern about the industry after computer and software stocks
helped lead the S&P 500 to its biggest first-quarter rally since
1998, according to John Farrall of PNC Wealth Management.  “It’s about Apple and some earnings misses and concerns in
the technology sector,” Farrall, who helps oversee about $110
billion as director of derivatives strategy at PNC in Cleveland,
said in an April 20 phone interview. “That has gotten people
more worried about tech relative to the rest of the market.”  Companies in the S&P 500 information-technology gauge
posted the only decline among 10  industry groups  last week,
falling 1.5 percent, while the full  index (VXN)  rose 0.6 percent.
Qualcomm, the largest maker of mobile-phone semiconductors, had
the third-biggest  drop  among computer shares in the index after
the  San Diego , California-based company’s forecasts missed some
analysts’ estimates.  Apple’s Retreat  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , had the sixth-
largest retreat. Intel of  Santa Clara , California, had the
second-biggest  drop  in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Declines in technology stocks  pushed  the Nasdaq-100
volatility index, known by its ticker symbol VXN, up 27 percent
since its March 26 low to 20.17 on April 20. The VIX advanced 22
percent to 17.44 during that time. The ratio of the two values
was 12 percent above the average for the past year on April 20,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Apple’s  implied volatility , the key gauge of options
prices, for three-month contracts closest to the current stock
price had the second-biggest increase among S&P 500 stocks,
adding 24 percent since March 26.  Price Swings  Bets on future price swings in Apple rose 70 percent to
38.35 on April 20 from a record low of 22.52 on Jan. 26, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock, which makes up almost
one-fifth of the Nasdaq-100’s value and 4.3 percent of the S&P
500, rallied 29 percent during the period. It fell to $572.98 on
April 20 after reaching a record high of $636.23 on April 9.  “It’s a troubling sign,” Brian Bier, head of equity
derivatives sales and trading at Macro Risk Advisors LLC, said
in an April 20 interview in  New York . “The higher the stock is
going, the bigger a correction the market is expecting. Everyone
is talking about when Apple is going to crack. That’s driving
the VXN up,” he said.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Intel posted the
slowest sales growth in more than two years last quarter as the
slump in  Europe  weighed on orders. Intel also forecast second-
quarter  gross margin  that was lower than the average analyst
prediction as spending on a new production technique erodes
profitability.  Intel, IBM  Intel sales rose 0.5 percent to $12.9 billion last quarter,
while revenue for IBM, which isn’t in the Nasdaq-100, climbed
0.3 percent to $24.7 billion. That was the smallest increase for
either company since the third quarter of 2009, when the  U.S.
economy  was just emerging from  recession . Intel is the world’s
largest semiconductor maker, while IBM is the biggest computer-
services provider.  Qualcomm declined the most in eight months on April 19,
dropping 6.6 percent, after its third-quarter forecasts fell
short of some analysts’ estimates amid increased spending to
bolster chip output.  Apple’s  weighting  in the Nasdaq-100 Index has increased to
18.2 percent from 11.9 percent on May 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. reduced its
proportion last year after it climbed as high as 21.3 percent,
the data show.  “People are worried about the concentration within the
index,” Andrew Greeley, a senior managing director at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Acorn Derivatives Management Corp., which
manages over $500 million in volatility assets, said in an April
20 interview. “That is helping the premium to go higher.”  Nasdaq-100 Weighting  Nasdaq OMX imposes a 24 percent  limit  for any Nasdaq-100
stock, along with a 48 percent restriction for all companies
with at least a 4.5 percent weight. Microsoft Corp.,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and Intel have the largest weights after
Apple’s, and the five amounted to 42 percent of the index’s
value on April 20.  The exchange operator can also redo weightings should it
become “necessary to maintain the integrity of the index,”
according to the Nasdaq OMX’s  website .  Technology stocks, which account for more of the  U.S.
market (SPXL1)  than any other group, will prove resilient as the use of
computing technology and reliance on communication networks
increases, Oakbrook Investments’s  Peter Jankovskis  said.  ‘Rough Patch’  “I’m not so sure there is a tremendous disenchantment with
tech shares,” Jankovskis, who helps manage about $2.9 billion
at Oakbrook in Lisle, Illinois, said in an April 20 telephone
interview. “A lot of what’s being pointed to as weakness in the
tech sector may simply be the fact that Apple’s gone through a
bit of a rough patch. In terms of the direction that the world
is evolving, technology becomes ever more important.”  Microsoft (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, reported
fiscal third-quarter profit that topped estimates on better-
than-expected sales of software for businesses. The stock surged
4.6 percent, the most in three months, on April 20 as the
Redmond, Washington-based company said it was helped by
corporate purchases of Office productivity programs and Windows
7 operating systems.  S&P 500 technology companies  trade  at 15.5 times reported
earnings, 9.6 percent more than the overall equity index. While
computer makers and software firms are more expensive than the
broader equity market, the stocks are trading at half the
average since 1993 and remain below the 81.4 price-earnings
multiple reached in 2002.  VXN Versus VIX  The VXN rose 12 percent in the last two weeks, while the
VIX added 4.4 percent. The technology volatility gauge is 4.1
percent above its average since the end of the year. In Europe,
the  VStoxx Index (V2X) , a measure of Euro Stoxx 50 Index option
prices, dropped 11 percent to 26.23 last week after four
consecutive weekly gains. It advanced 9.8 percent to 28.81 at
10:19 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today.  “People are driving up the volatility of Apple and other
technology stocks as there’s more uncertainty in this earnings
cycle,” Joshua Parker, who oversees about $400 million in
options and stocks at Gargoyle Asset Management LLC in
Englewood, New Jersey, said in an April 20 phone interview.
“The less diversified an index becomes, the more volatile it
becomes, and this is what is happening to the Nasdaq-100 as
Apple becomes a greater and greater percentage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  