-- Medicare’s Financial Condition Holds Pat After Debt Deal
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-23T21:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/medicare-to-exhaust-hospital-funding-by-2024-u-s-says.html
The deal President  Barack Obama 
made last year with Republicans to reduce the U.S. deficit may
have stalled a worsening in the financial condition of Medicare.  The debt-reduction legislation included cuts to Medicare
payments that will be enacted in 2013. Those pending reductions
are offsetting gloomier assumptions about the nation’s future
economic performance, leading to no change in the 2024 date that
trustees said Medicare will exhaust its main  trust fund .  “While Medicare is stable for now, we have a lot of work
ahead of us to guarantee its future,”  Marilyn Tavenner , acting
administrator for the Centers for Medicare, said in a statement.  The insolvency date didn’t change, in part, because of 2
percent payment cuts called for in the congressional debt-
reduction deal, according to a  report  today from the trustees.
The long-term projections for the U.S. health program, which
covers the elderly and disabled, still worsened because the
trustees adopted more conservative assumptions about economic
growth, which would lead to reduced revenue from Medicare’s
payroll tax, and the growth of Medicare’s costs.  “Lawmakers should address the financial challenges facing
Social Security and Medicare as soon as possible,” the trustees
said in a summary of the report. The trustees include Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius .  Costs Rise  Medicare costs rose about 5 percent to $549 billion last
year as the program covered about 49 million people. The program
is central to congressional debate over the nation’s debt, with
Republicans proposing to convert Medicare to a system in which
the elderly would receive subsidies to buy private insurance,
instead of the government paying hospitals and doctors for their
care.  Medicare has three parts -- A, B, and D -- that cover
hospital inpatient services, outpatient care and  prescription
drugs . Each of those parts is paid for with trusts funded by
taxpayers. Part C, known as Medicare Advantage, includes care
paid for by health plans run by insurance companies such as
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  Humana Inc. (HUM)   The Part A trust fund, which pays for hospital care, is the
one that will run out of money. Parts B and C share a separate
trust fund that doesn’t face insolvency because it automatically
draws money from the  U.S. Treasury .  $5.5 Trillion Deficit  A mix of negative and positive observations and assumptions
about Medicare’s spending added up to no change in the projected
date of the  Part A trust fund ’s insolvency, senior
administration officials told reporters. The officials asked not
to be identified as a condition of the briefing.  Fewer Medicare beneficiaries than expected were admitted to
hospitals in 2011, and when they were, their care was less
costly than anticipated, one official said.  Medicare’s leaders don’t yet know why hospitalization fell
and plan to study the development, the official said. One
explanation: the first members of the  Baby Boom generation  began
enrolling in Medicare last year, and younger Medicare
beneficiaries tend to be healthier and less costly.  Over the next 75 years, the Part A trust fund faces a $5.5
trillion deficit, $2.3 trillion more than in 2011, according to
the report. That projection assumes planned cuts in payments to
doctors, hospitals and other health providers aren’t blocked by
Congress.  Blocking those cuts would boost the long-term deficit to
about $9.7 trillion in 2012 dollars.  Payments for hospitals and other inpatient care would be
cut automatically if the Part A trust fund reaches insolvency,
the trustees said.  “Lawmakers have never allowed the assets of a Medicare
trust fund to become exhausted” in practice, the trustees said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  