-- Egypt Willing to Negotiate Israel Gas Deal With New Terms
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/egypt-willing-to-negotiate-israel-gas-deal-with-new-terms.html
Egypt is willing to negotiate a new
agreement to supply natural gas to  Israel  under different prices
and terms, the country’s Planning and International Cooperation
Minister Fayza Aboulnaga said.  The Egyptian parties to the 2005 accord notified East
Mediterranean Gas Co., which transports the gas to Israel, five
times about past-due amounts before deciding to end the
agreement yesterday, Aboulnaga told reporters in Cairo. The last
notification was issued on March 31, she said.  Ampal-American Israel Corp. (AMPL) , which owns 12.5 percent of
EMG, said yesterday it had been informed by EMG that Egyptian
General Petroleum Corp. and the Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Co.
were terminating the gas-supply agreement.  The scuttling of the deal may offer an already unpopular
post-Mubarak government the opportunity to collect political
capital as it struggles against an Islamist-dominated parliament
intent on passing a no-confidence motion. That could damage
already shaky investor confidence in the country as it heads
toward electing a new president on May 23, analysts said.  With or without the deal, “investors are genuinely very
concerned about the direction that Egypt is going in,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings Doha Center in
Qatar, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “There isn’t a responsible leadership. Whether it’s the
Brotherhood or SCAF, there’s a sense that both of them are
willing to play the nationalist” card,  he said, referring to
the ruling military council by its acronym. “I don’t think
that’s reassuring a lot of outside observers.”  ‘Willing to Renegotiate’  Egypt  “is willing to renegotiate the deal, though it would
be under a new contract, with new terms and prices,” Aboulnaga
said. She didn’t say how much money was past due.  Mahmud Ghozlan, a spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood who
earlier lauded the move as affirming Egypt’s sovereignty, said
talk of renegotiating the deal “doesn’t represent the Egyptian
people and I don’t think the people will welcome it.”  The gas deal “has been a cause of a lot of pressure on the
regime and on the military council,” said Emad Gad, a secular
lawmaker who also heads the Israeli studies program at the Al-
Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, in an
interview. “It was difficult for them to terminate it until a
legal opportunity presented itself when the payments weren’t
made.”  Egyptian officials said the decision had no political
motivation, while Israeli officials yesterday said the move
raised concerns about the peace agreement between the two
countries. Israel later softened its tone, saying it hoped the
matter was purely commercial.  ‘Nationalist Credentials’  Oil Minister Abdalla Ghorab said in an e-mailed statement
today that the termination was in line with the contract’s
terms. “The dispute is merely a commercial one that does not
reflect any political considerations or any state position,” he
said.  Egypt’s government is “trying to assert its nationalist
credentials,” said Hamid. “Being anti-Israel and anti-American
is the lowest hanging fruit. It’s the easiest thing to do, it
doesn’t take a lot of effort and there’s really no downside
domestically.”  Egypt refused to authorize permits for eight U.S. non-
governmental organizations, including the  Carter Center , saying
their work runs counter to the country’s sovereign interests,
the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  