-- Emerging Stocks Close At Lowest Level Since January
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-04-23T21:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/emerging-stocks-drop-for-third-day-on-china-manufacturing.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to the
lowest level in almost three months as shrinking Chinese and
European manufacturing output boosted concern a global slowdown
will curb demand for exports.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 1.3 percent to
1,007.96 in New York with energy and consumer staple companies
leading declines. The Bovespa index dropped 1.5 percent as JBS
SA, the world’s largest beef producer, fell 6.3 percent, its
sharpest drop in a month.  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  fell 12
percent, the most since 1998, as the company investigates
possible bribery payments to Mexican officials. Equity gauges
across  Europe  slumped, with Poland’s WIG20 tumbling the most in
five months.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics reported a
preliminary reading of 49.1 for their  China  purchasing managers’
index, compared with a final 48.3 in March, a sixth consecutive
month below 50. A euro-area composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in services and manufacturing fell to 47.4,
a five-month low, from 49.1 in March, London-based Markit
Economics said in an initial estimate today. Commodities fell
for the first time in three days as cocoa, silver and lead
declined.  “Commodity price declines are a reflection of global
growth weakness,” Simon Quijano-Evans, emerging markets head of
research at ING Bank, said in by phone from  London . Those
declines are “going to hit commodity exports of emerging
markets the hardest,” he said.  Brazil, Russia  MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA , a  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil-based homebuilder, fell to its lowest level since Jany .
6 after Valor Economico, a Sao Paulo-based newspaper, reported
the company has received offers for less than half of the 500
million reais ($265 million) of Brazilian local bonds it’s
seeking to sell.  The Micex Index fell 2.6 percent in Moscow as OAO Mechel,
 Russia ’s biggest coal producer for steelmakers, slipped 3.4
percent. OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas exporter,
retreated 2.9 percent to its lowest level since December.  Hungary’s Budapest Stock Exchange Index slid 2.2 percent to
its lowest level in three months while the  FTSE/JSE Africa All
Shares Index (JALSH)  slipped 1.5 percent. Mining companies  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  fell more than 2 percent as metals
prices slid.  The  PX Index (PX)  retreated 1.7 percent in Prague after the
Czech Republic’s governing coalition broke up over Cabinet
personnel decisions and trimming the deficit to meet a European
Union target.  Vienna Insurance Group AG (VIG)  slipped 3.3 percent and
 Komercni Bank AS (KOMB)  fell 3.1 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.6 percent last week,
its fifth week of declines, capping the longest stretch of
weekly losses since 2008, after the Group of 20 nations warned
the European debt crisis still threatens global growth.  ‘Weak Earnings’  The  Hang Seng China Enterprise Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
in  Hong Kong  tumbled 2.2 percent, the most since March 6.  China
Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s biggest phone carrier by users, fell 3
percent, the sharpest loss since October, after net income
missed analyst estimates.  “Investors remain cautious as recent data continue to show
that more actions are needed to boost economic growth in
China,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc. “Share prices can’t continue to
move higher on weak earnings.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.8 percent. The BSE
India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , fell 1.6 percent and Taiwan’s
 Taiex Index (TWSE)  slid 0.3 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped
0.1 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 358, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  