-- Energy Week Ahead: Republicans Say ‘All of the Above’ Not Enough
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/energy-week-ahead-republicans-say-all-of-the-above-not-enough.html
Nothing sticks in Republicans’
craws quite like President Barack Obama’s claim that oil
production has increased during his administration -- except
maybe his adoption of the phrase “all of the above” to
describe his energy philosophy.  Party members will take another swing at what they view as
correcting the record on April 26 when a House Natural Resources
Committee panel takes up bills to expand development on U.S.
lands.  One measure, H.R. 4381, from Representative Scott Tipton, a
Republican freshman from  Colorado , directs the Interior
secretary to develop an energy plan every four years with a goal
of decreasing U.S. reliance on imported oil.  The “Quadrennial Strategic Federal Onshore Energy
Production Strategy” would describe how the U.S. planned to
meet its 30-year energy demand through the production of oil,
natural gas, coal and renewables like wind, solar, biomass,
hydropower and geothermal. The secretary then would report
progress annually to congressional committees.  “All of the above” is actually written in the bill
language, returning to Republicans a phrase they say they coined
during the last gasoline price run-up in 2008, also a
presidential election year.  Legislation from fellow Colorado Republican Mike Coffman,
would require the secretary to offer no less than 25 percent of
available federal acreage to energy developers.  “Although the president is taking credit for increased
production, the truth is that his administration has spent
nearly four years blocking and delaying domestic energy
production,” Coffman said in a statement. His bill is H.R.
4382.  U.S. oil and gas production has increased, mostly on gains
in private and state lands. While crude production on federal
property dropped in 2011, partly because of the 2010 deepwater
drilling moratorium imposed after BP Plc’s Gulf spill, it was
still higher than it was in 2008, according to Energy Department
data.  The bills under consideration are part of what the
Republicans call their American Energy Initiative. It has
included measures to open the Atlantic Coast to drilling, force
approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, and repeal Environmental
Protection Agency rules that slow development.  The effort has borne few results, though it does allow
Republicans to continue to hammer Obama on energy with gasoline
prices close to $4 a gallon nationally.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  OFFSHORE DRILLING-SAFETY: The Ocean Energy Safety Advisory
Committee meets in Houston on April 26 to discuss
recommendations for drilling in the deep waters of the  Gulf of
Mexico . The Obama administration imposed a moratorium on
deepwater drilling after the 2010 Gulf spill. It lifted the ban
in October of that year after Interior revised its offshore
drilling regulations.  BLACKOUT REVIEW: The House Energy and Natural Resources
Committee on April 26 will take a look at how power companies
responded to weather-related electricity outages during the past
year. One of the biggest occurred just before Halloween when a
nor’easter knocked out power to more than 3 million homes and
businesses from  West Virginia  to  Maine . 