-- Let Space Shuttle Demise Awaken Gingrich Dream: Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-04-23T23:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/let-the-shuttle-s-demise-awaken-gingrich-s-space-dreams.html
The morning of April 17, on the
tarmac at Reagan National Airport: The  Delta (DAL)  shuttle to
LaGuardia appeared to be No. 287 in line for takeoff. The plane
was full, mainly with purposeful-looking middle-aged men in
quality suits, fully absorbed in whatever it is that absorbs
them.  Suddenly, a commotion: All at once, the passengers
contorted themselves to get a view out of the starboard windows.  And there it was. The actual shuttle, the space shuttle
Discovery, piggybacking a ride atop a Boeing 747, on the way to
the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center at the  Smithsonian’s National
Air and Space Museum , where it would be retired. A ripple of
excitement -- boyish, unvarnished excitement -- moved through
the cabin.  It was an entrancing sight, and completely improbable,
especially to people like me, who still don’t quite understand
how a 747 gets into the air, even without a space shuttle as
carry-on luggage.  The 747 and the space shuttle made a pass over the
 Washington  Monument and the capital’s other grand marble
temples, all consecrated to the American idea. They gleamed in
the sun as they received a salute from a spacecraft that
represented the physical manifestation of American ingenuity and
confidence.  Then the 747 left our view. We settled back into our seats,
having been elevated for a moment by a magnificent and elegiac
vision -- elegiac, because the end of the shuttle program marks
the first time since the dawn of the Space Age that the U.S.
government has no immediate plan to launch humans into space.  American Decline  A few minutes later, while we were still parked on the
tarmac, the pilot spoke to us over the public-address system. He
said, in that laconic voice pilots use when they have bad news
to report, that the plane’s steering seemed to be
malfunctioning. We’d be returning to the terminal. If necessary,
he continued, someone with Delta could help us book a later
flight.  This posed a problem for me. I was due to moderate a panel
at the  New York Ideas Forum  in a few hours. The topic our panel
was supposed to address: Is America in decline?  We returned to the terminal, and I watched on CNN as
Discovery finished the journey to its nursing home in the
Virginia countryside. Only then did the obvious thought cross my
mind: Newt is right.  This isn’t a thought that has often crossed my mind,
especially over the past several months, but on the matter of
space exploration and the role it has played in teaching
Americans that they are capable of performing exceptional acts
of creativity and bravery,  Newt Gingrich  is exactly right.  So I called him and told him so. He is, from what I’m told,
still busy running for president. But he seemed happy to talk
about space and the terrible mistake the Obama administration
made by canceling the Constellation program, which was meant to
get Americans back to the moon.  Gingrich was particularly keen to talk about his Republican
rivals, who had savaged him during a debate in  Florida  for
proposing that the U.S. -- mainly with private funding --
establish a colony on the moon.  This is what Mitt Romney said at the time: “If I had a
business executive come to me and say they wanted to spend a few
hundred billion dollars to put a colony on the moon, I’d say,
‘You’re fired.’ The idea that corporate America wants to go off
to the moon and build a colony there, it may be a big idea, but
it’s not a good idea.”  The small-minded  Rick Santorum  piled on, saying, “Let’s
just be honest, we run a $1.2 trillion deficit right now ... and
to go out there and promise new programs and big ideas, that’s a
great thing to maybe get votes, but it’s not a responsible
thing.”  New Worlds  Gingrich told me he was “shocked that night” by Romney and
Santorum. “If I had been clever, I would have said to Romney,
‘You would have fired  Christopher Columbus  and  John F. Kennedy 
because they were proposing daring and large things. They were
proposing to go out and discover entire new worlds, and they
did.’”  He believes that human settlements on the moon, or on Mars,
are inevitable. “I can tell you flatly that there will be a
human colony on the moon,” he said. “It may be Chinese, but
there will be a colony on the moon. Anyone who watches the
Chinese space program and doesn’t think we’re facing a
competitor is foolish.”  Gingrich would make a lousy  NASA  chief, and I wouldn’t
trust him with private money, either. But I would hire him as
the space program’s resident philosopher and noodge.  The U.S. space program has never been as aimless as it is
now. NASA still  eats taxpayer dollars , but for what isn’t
entirely clear. Every year that goes by without a grand vision
for space exploration -- enunciated by leaders who believe that
America, the place where just about everything worth inventing
gets invented, is uniquely qualified to push at the outer edge
of knowledge -- is a year in which thousands of engineers and
physicists decide to do something else with their time, and a
year in which thousands of students otherwise inclined to study
science fail to discern its romantic and heroic possibilities.  The famous astronaut  Bob Dylan  once wrote what may become
NASA’s epitaph: “He not busy being born is busy dying.”  Unmanned space exploration -- which the U.S. still excels
at -- is, of course, less risky and less expensive than human
travel. But there is no romance in unmanned space exploration,
and it was romance, as much as the desire to beat the Soviets,
that got the U.S. to the moon.  I told Gingrich about the reaction of a plane full of
middle-aged professionals to the sight of the space shuttle over
Washington, and asked him what he thought it meant.  “Everyone dreams,” he said. “It’s all about the dream. It’s
an individual dream, but it’s a national dream as well. And it’s
the species reaching beyond itself.”  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on European  austerity  and
 antibiotics  in farm animals;  Edward Glaeser  on  Mitt Romney ’s
 plan  to shut the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on the  Buffett rule ;  Enrique Krauze  on  Peru ’s
economic revival; and  David Crane  on  California ’s rising taxes.  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 