-- MetLife to Pay $500 Million to Settle Death-Benefit Probe
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-23T20:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/metlife-to-pay-500-million-in-insurance-probe-chiang-says.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, will pay about $500 million in a multistate settlement
after regulators reviewed whether companies were holding funds
that should go to beneficiaries.  MetLife said $188 million will be paid in 2012, and
remaining funds over the next 17 years. The New York-based
company said it reserved for the expense after taking charges
against  earnings , including one in the first quarter for $52
million. The insurer said it will use Social Security
Administration records to determine when policyholders die.  Life insurers have faced increased scrutiny from regulators
in  Florida , California and other states over unpaid benefits.
Florida’s insurance commissioner said in May that insurers may
have accumulated at least $1 billion in unpaid funds. New York’s
insurance regulator last year ordered firms to use current
Social Security data to determine when death payments are due.  The “agreement will make sure families who have been
harmed by MetLife’s practices are made whole,”  California 
Controller John Chiang said in a statement today. “If the
industry isn’t willing to make the payments legally required, we
will take action.”  Life insurers are generally required to pay claims after
being notified of a policyholder’s death and receiving a valid
death certificate. Chiang said a hearing showed that MetLife
didn’t use information the insurer had from Social Security data
to pay benefits and wasn’t forwarding funds to his office as
unclaimed property.  Reaching Out  The insurer said that more than 99 percent of claims are
submitted by beneficiaries and paid in a timely matter, and that
the company is implementing monthly reviews to identify any
additional deaths. MetLife will also reach out to some of the
 oldest people  it insures, many of whom either don’t have a
Social Security number or didn’t provide a date of birth when
their policies were issued. Generally these people are older
than 90, the company said.  MetLife  advanced  1.2 percent to $35.39 at 4:01 p.m. in  New
York , the biggest gain in the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  Chiang said California’s share of the settlement will
probably be about $40 million, with an average value of $1,200
on more than 30,000 policies. The accord goes into effect once
20 states have signed on, according to the statement.  Jones, Cuomo  MetLife is paying $40 million to state insurance
departments, according to a separate statement today from  Dave Jones , California’s insurance regulator.  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest U.S. life insurer, previously reached a
$17 million deal with the watchdogs.  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , the bailed-out insurer, added $202 million to
reserves at its life unit last year after changing its process
for determining when policyholders die.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said today that a new
website,  NYPolicyFinder.com , will help life-insurance
beneficiaries discover funds that they are owed. An
investigation by New York’s Department of Financial Services
into instances where insured parties died and beneficiaries
didn’t file claims has led to more than 32,000 payments totaling
$262.2 million, according to a statement from Cuomo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  