-- EU Planning WTO Complaint Against Argentine Import Curbs
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-04-23T15:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/eu-planning-wto-complaint-against-argentine-import-curbs.html
The European Union intends to
complain to the  World Trade Organization  about Argentinean
import restrictions that the bloc says violate global rules,
according to a person with knowledge of the plan.  The EU will probably file its legal challenge at the
Geneva-based trade arbiter in the coming weeks, spurred by a
separate dispute over Argentina’s nationalization of the  YPF SA (YPFD) 
unit of Spanish oil company  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , said the person, who
declined to be identified because work on the plan is
continuing. Other WTO members opposed to Argentina’s import
curbs may join the action, the person said.  Argentina has subjected a growing number of imports ranging
from tractors and tires to irons and kitty litter to licensing
regulations since 2008, a policy the EU and 18 other WTO members
including the U.S. and  Japan  said on March 30 hinders trade and
violates global regulations. Governments and businesses say the
Latin American country’s import-substitution rules, which force
foreign companies to produce goods in Argentina or lose market
access, are protectionist.  “The high and increasing number of import-restricting
measures implemented by the Argentine government in application
of its discriminatory import-substitution policy is a cause of
considerable concern,” EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht
said in an April 19 letter to Argentine Foreign Minister Hector Timerman. “You are certainly aware of the very serious legal
considerations these measures raise from a WTO perspective and
the growing concern among WTO members affected by this policy,
which is manifestly incompatible with WTO rules.”  Protectionism  The April 16 expropriation of YPF, Argentina’s largest
crude producer, by Argentinean President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is emboldening the EU to act over the separate question
of the country’s import restrictions. Together, the issues
highlight growing concerns about protectionism in Argentina,
whose $448 billion economy is South America’s second biggest.  The seizure of YPF isn’t covered by Argentina’s commitments
under the WTO and the EU can’t impose unilateral sanctions
without going through the trade arbiter’s complaint process. The
European Commission, the EU’s executive in Brussels, ruled out a
WTO filing over YPF on April 17 and said  Spain  would break
European and international law by unilaterally imposing trade
curbs on Argentina.  “I wish to express the EU’s serious concerns about the
overall business and investment climate in Argentina and, in
particular, certain recent decisions by the Argentine
government,”  De Gucht  said. “The situation is now at a point
where it risks jeopardizing our overall trade and investment
relations.”  Export Market  The 27-nation EU is Argentina’s No. 2 export market and its
top foreign investor, accounting for more than half of foreign
direct investment in the country. The EU shipped 8.3 billion
euros ($11 billion) of goods such as machinery, chemicals and
transport equipment to Argentina last year and bought 10.7
billion euros of Argentine products, mainly agricultural goods
and raw materials.  Governments that endorsed the statement urging Argentina to
modify its policy also include Australia, Israel, Mexico, New
Zealand, Norway, Panama,  South Korea , Switzerland, Taiwan,
Thailand and Turkey.  China , Chile, Colombia,  Peru ,  Singapore  and
Malaysia have also expressed concerns.  WTO Director-General Pascal Lamy said on April 20 that the
import curbs may breach global commerce rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  