-- Eurasia Drilling Expects Record Year as Crude Spending Rises
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-04-23T09:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/eurasia-drilling-expects-record-year-as-crude-spending-rises.html
Eurasia Drilling Co. (EDCL) ,  Russia ’s
largest traded oilfield services company, expects to beat last
year’s onshore drilling record as demand increases.  Net income rose 34 percent in 2011 to $277 million after
Eurasia drilled 4.8 million meters onshore, the Moscow-based
company said today on its website. The number of meters drilling
will likely rise by a further 15 percent this year, Chief
Financial Officer  Richard Anderson  said by phone.  “This is a great time to be in Russia, the oil business is
really popping,” Anderson said.  OAO Rosneft, OAO Lukoil and TNK-BP, Russia’s top three oil
producers, are boosting spending this year after Urals blend
crude prices averaged more than $100 a barrel last year for the
first time.  Eurasia Drilling plans to spend $420 million to $450
million this year to accelerate drilling, Anderson said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  Plans to buy drilling assets from OAO Slavneft, a unit of
TNK-BP and OAO Gazprom Neft, for $150 million may fall apart as
the sides have yet to agree on terms after announcing a
tentative deal last year, the CFO said.  “As time goes by, the chances of closing it are dimmer and
dimmer,” he said.  The company plans to announce the acquisition of a company
that has about three rigs in the  Middle East  in May or June, the
executive said. The new unit will be used as a platform for
growth in the region, according to Anderson.  Dividend payouts of about 20 percent of net income will
probably remain company policy, he said. Cash may be used to
accelerate debt reduction in the absence of any other
opportunities, he said.  Revenue surged 52 percent to $2.75 billion last year,
according to Eurasia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  