-- European Services, Manufacturing Shrink for Third Month: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-23T10:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/euro-area-services-manufacturing-contract-more-than-estimated.html
Euro-area services and
manufacturing output declined for a third month in April as the
economy struggled to rebound from a fourth-quarter contraction.  A euro-area  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 47.4, a five-month low, from
49.1 in March, London-based Markit Economics said in an initial
estimate today. Economists had forecast an increase to 49.3,
according to the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Budget cuts by governments and surging unemployment are
curbing the pace of  Europe ’s economic recovery as officials
across the region battle the sovereign-debt crisis.
Manufacturers from Europe to  China  have been buffeted as the
fiscal squeeze has crimped demand.  “Not only does it look highly likely that the  euro zone 
suffered further economic contraction in the first quarter of
2012 after gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent quarter-on-
quarter in the fourth quarter of 2011, but the April purchasing
managers’ surveys suggest that a third quarter of GDP
contraction is firmly on the cards for the second quarter of
2012,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight
in London.  The euro pared losses after the report was released,
trading at $1.3151 at 11:32 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.5 percent.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was down 2 percent to 252.75.  Chinese Manufacturing  A gauge of euro-area  manufacturing  tumbled to 46 in April,
a 34-month low, from 47.7 in March, Markit said. A measure of
services dropped to a five-month low of 47.9 from 49.2.  The economy of the 17-nation euro area  shrank  0.3 percent
in the fourth quarter and the  European Central Bank  predicts a
contraction of 0.1 percent for this year as a whole. Officials
are counting on low  interest rates , emergency crisis measures
and export demand from outside the region to aid the recovery.  In  Asia , China’s manufacturing may shrink for a sixth month
in April, maintaining pressure on officials to adopt more
policies to stimulate economic growth.  The 49.1 preliminary reading of the purchasing managers’
index from Markit and HSBC Holdings Plc today compares with a
final 48.3 in March. The contraction, if confirmed in the final
reading due May 2, would be the longest since the global
financial crisis and may spur the government to lower banks’
reserve requirements a third time since November.  ECB Stimulus  U.S. companies, by contrast, are growing more upbeat about
the country’s economy this year and plan to take on more workers
as demand improves, a survey showed.  Some 78 percent of businesses, the most in a year, project
the world’s largest economy will expand more than 2 percent in
2012, according to the  National Association for Business
Economics ’ April survey released today in  Washington . The share
is up from 65 percent in the group’s January report.  In response to Europe’s fiscal crisis, the ECB left its
benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent this month and has
pumped about 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking
system to secure the supply of credit to households and
companies.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, last week
predicted a “very demanding” 2012 as the debt crisis threatens
economic stability. Still, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said he’s “convinced” the company “can approach
the coming months with confidence.”  German business and investor confidence has beaten
forecasts every month this year, suggesting the strength of
Europe’s largest economy may have been underestimated.  Today’s survey “signaled a faster rate of economic
contraction in the euro zone during April, extending what
appears to be a double-dip recession into a third consecutive
quarter,” said  Chris Williamson , Markit’s chief economist.  “With price pressures easing,” he said, the report
“suggests that policymakers will worry about growth rather than
inflation in coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  