-- Euro-Region Debt Rises to Highest in Currency’s History
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-04-23T12:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/euro-region-debt-jumps-to-highest-in-history-of-single-currency.html
The debt of the euro region rose
last year to the highest since the start of the single currency
as governments increased borrowing to plug budget deficits and
fund bailouts of fellow nations crippled by the fiscal crisis.  The debt of the 17 euro nations climbed to 87.2 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011 from 85.3 percent the previous
year, official European Union figures showed today. That’s the
highest since the euro was introduced in 1999.  Greece  topped the
list with debt at 165.3 percent of GDP, while Estonia had the
least at 6 percent of GDP.  Euro-region nations are on the hook for the bulk of the 386
billion euros ($508 billion) in bailouts for Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  after those nations were forced to seek rescues when
their borrowing costs become unsustainable. Concern that  Spain 
and  Italy  may follow has led their bonds to decline for six
weeks, pushing yields toward the 7 percent level that triggered
the other aid programs.  “The different debt trajectories of the euro-area countries
crystallize the process of great divergence between the
periphery and the core of the euro area and even more markedly
between  Germany  and the rest of the region,”  Silvio Peruzzo , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by
phone.  Italy, Spain  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond was up 6 basis points at
5.72 percent at 2:00 p.m. Rome time, pushing the difference with
German securities to 406 basis points. The Spanish 10-year yield
rose 2 basis points to 5.98 percent.  Italy ended last year with the second-highest debt at 120.1
percent of GDP. Spain’s rose to 68.5 percent from 61.2 percent.  Germany posted one of the only declines, with its debt
shrinking to 81.2 percent from 83 percent, Eurostat said in the
report. Only five euro-region nations -- Estonia, Luxembourg,
Slovenia, Slovakia and  Finland  -- had debt within the euro-
region’s limit of 60 percent of GDP.  The cost of the bailouts in 2011 ran as high as 1 percent
of GDP in the case of Malta, with Germany, Italy and Spain
paying 0.8 percent and  France  contributing 0.7 percent, the
report showed.  The region’s overall  budget deficit  declined to 4.1 percent
of GDP from 6.2 percent as nations from Greece to Spain and
France implemented austerity measures aimed at stopping the
spread of the debt crisis and convincing investors that  Europe 
can shore up its public finances.  Ireland  Ireland posted the biggest budget deficit at 13.1 percent
of GDP, which was higher than the 10.4 percent target under the
country’s bailout program.  The shortfall was boosted by 5.8 billion euros of capital
injected into some banks, the Dublin-based Finance Ministry said
in a statement today. Stripping out those costs, the budget gap
was 9.4 percent of GDP, the statement said. In all, Ireland has
poured about 62 billion euros into its financial system, after a
real estate bust pushed some banks to the brink of collapse.  The commission attached two reservations on the Irish data.
Eurostat said it’s still awaiting the final restructuring plans
for two banks so it can confirm the size of the needed capital
injection. The statistics office also signaled concern that debt
linked to Ireland’s so-called bad bank is currently not on the
government’s books, as the entity which controls the agency has
fallen under government control.  Irish Life Investment Managers said today it has agreed to
sell its stake in the vehicle designed to keep the National
Asset Management Agency debt off the state’s balance sheet to a
“private investor.” Ireland’s  Finance Ministry  said in a
statement the stake’s sale will allow the country to keep NAMA’s
debts off its books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  