-- Yen Gains Versus Peers on Political Turmoil; Aussie Drops
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-04-24T06:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/euro-holds-drop-versus-dollar-yen-amid-political-turmoil.html
The yen gained against all of its
16 major counterparts amid concern that leadership contests in
 France  and the Netherlands will hinder efforts to resolve
Europe’s debt crisis, boosting demand for haven assets.  Japan’s currency rose against the dollar and euro before
Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte is set to speak in parliament
today, less than 24 hours after tendering his Cabinet’s
resignation. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Socialist
challenger  Francois Hollande  face off in a second ballot May 6.
Australia’s dollar fell to a two-week low after data showed
inflation slowed more than forecast, boosting speculation the
nation’s  Reserve Bank  will lower borrowing costs.  “The market’s got nervous because of political uncertainty
in Europe,” said Morio Okayasu, chief analyst in Tokyo at
FOREX.com Japan Co., a unit of the online currency trading firm
 Gain Capital Holdings Inc. (GCAP)  in Bedminster, New Jersey. “The bias
is for the safe-haven currencies such as the yen to be bought.”  The yen added 0.3 percent to 80.91 per dollar at 7:01 a.m.
in London. It rose 0.3 percent to 106.53 per euro. The 17-nation
currency was at $1.3167 from $1.3156 after falling 0.5 percent
yesterday, the most since April 13. The so-called Aussie slid
0.6 percent to $1.0262 after earlier touching $1.0247, the
weakest level since April 11.  Netherlands, France  Rutte will speak during a debate in the Netherlands
parliament in The Hague today in a bid to break a budget
deadlock over additional cuts of at least 9.5 billion euros
($12.5 billion) needed to comply with European deficit limits.
Rutte offered to quit after budget talks with Geert Wilders’s
Freedom Party collapsed.  In France, presidential challenger Hollande is set to beat
incumbent leader Sarkozy in a second round of balloting next
month, according to four polls. Interior Ministry estimates on
April 22 gave Hollande 27.1 percent and Sarkozy 26.7 percent of
the first ballot. National Front candidate Marine Le Pen came in
third, with about 19.3 percent of the vote.  The yen has declined 7.5 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar has fallen
2.2 percent and the euro has depreciated 0.6 percent.  Bank of Japan (8301)  officials will meet on April 27 to decide on
policy. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board unexpectedly
expanded bond purchases by 10 trillion yen ($123.6 billion) and
set a 1 percent inflation goal on Feb. 14 before leaving
stimulus policies unchanged at its next two meetings.  ‘Committed’ BOJ  The central bank is “committed” to monetary easing,
Shirakawa said last week in  New York . Deputy Governor Kiyohiko
Nishimura said on April 18 the BOJ is “committed to
implementing additional easing measures, if deemed necessary.”  “I do think the yen’s safe-haven status will be steadily
undermined because of their very, very loose monetary policy and
potential more quantitative easing,” said  Thomas Averill ,
Sydney-based managing director of Rochford Capital.  In the U.S., the  Federal Open Market Committee  begins a
two-day meeting today. The central bank is scheduled to release
a statement on monetary policy along with its projections for
growth, unemployment and inflation tomorrow. All of 79
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News predict the Fed will keep
its benchmark rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  FOMC Meeting  “We see risks that their economic and rate forecasts will
be considered hawkish,”  Tomoko Fujii , a Tokyo-based senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
wrote in a note today. “That may prove positive for the
dollar.”  Australia ’s currency weakened versus all of its major peers
after a report showed the nation’s  consumer prices  rose 1.6
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier. That’s the
slowest pace since 2009 and compares with a forecast for a 2.2
percent increase.  Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled April 3 he may
end a three-month pause in interest-rate cuts as soon as next
month if weaker-than-forecast growth slows inflation.  “The fact that it’s a more benign reading on inflation,
you’ve got higher  risk aversion  -- all are likely to add
pressure on the Aussie dollar,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of
global currency strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB.
“A 25-basis-point cut is the most likely outcome” at the RBA’s
next meeting, he said.  The Aussie may decline to 82 yen after forming a “head-
and-shoulders” pattern on its chart, said Pak Lai Ng,
Singapore-based technical analyst at Forecast Pte. The formation
was completed after the currency’s price movement formed three
tops on March 2, March 19 and March 27, the middle of which is
the highest, he said.  A head-and-shoulders pattern appears when a currency makes
three consecutive peaks, with the middle being the highest. The
Australian dollar fell 0.9 percent to 83.02 yen. It last touched
82 yen on Feb. 6, when it slid to as low as 81.88.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  