-- Europe’s Austerity Backlash Gathers Steam in Merkel Test
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-04-23T15:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/europe-s-austerity-backlash-gains-steam-in-challenge-to-merkel.html
Europe’s backlash against austerity
gained momentum, in a challenge to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s budget-cutting prescriptions for resolving the debt
crisis.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lost the first round of
his re-election bid and a revolt against extra spending cuts in
the traditionally budget-conscious Netherlands propelled Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte ’s coalition toward an early breakup.  Together with anti-austerity rumblings in a campaign for
elections in Greece, the shift in grass-roots sentiment at the
heart of Europe generated fresh doubts about the German-driven
strategy for getting to grips with the two-year-old crisis.  “We have organized the track of discipline, that’s very
good and we have to continue on that, but we need desperately
also to organize the second track, the track of growth,
solidarity, investment,” former Belgian Prime Minister  Guy Verhofstadt , now a member of the European Parliament, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  The euro fell as bond investors moved money into Germany
and out of the  Netherlands , Belgium, Spain and Italy amid
concern that a consensus over the crisis response is fraying.
The yield on  Germany’s five-year bond  fell to a euro-era low of
0.61 percent while the premium that investors demand to hold
 Dutch bonds  over bunds rose to the highest since 2009.  Political tensions coincided with a report of a greater-
than-expected decline in services and factory output in April,
equipping opponents of austerity with evidence that budget-
cutting zeal may cast the 17-nation euro region into recession.  Route to Health  Northern European advocates of tight fiscal policies
pointed to a separate report from the European statistics office
showing that the aggregate debt of euro governments reached 8.2
trillion euros ($11 trillion) in 2011, the highest in the
currency’s 13-year history.  Merkel, who has dominated  Europe ’s crisis response, said
debt reduction is the best route to economic health.  “Solid budget management is a factor for producing growth,
but of course not the only one,” Merkel said yesterday at the
Hanover trade fair, a showcase for high-tech products. “We’re
still in the process of overcoming this crisis.”  While that has pushed down German borrowing costs, other
European countries are struggling to convince investors that
austerity is the best route to political stability and financial
health. Ten-year bond yields rose 3 basis points to 5.94 percent
in Spain today and 6 basis points to 2.37 percent in the
Netherlands.  Sarkozy Trapped  The politician caught in the middle is Sarkozy, who sought
to balance the German anti-deficit line with pro-growth
policies, and delivered on neither count.  France  was stripped of
its AAA credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s  in January and had
9.8 percent unemployment in the fourth quarter.  While French bonds have since rallied, the  risk premium  on
10-year debt at one point last year rose to the highest since
 Francois Mitterrand  was president in 1990. The spread over
German bunds is now at 145 basis points compared with 190 in
November.  Voters punished Sarkozy yesterday, making him the first
incumbent in the 54-year history of France’s Fifth Republic to
come in second in a presidential primary. He now faces an uphill
climb in a May 6 runoff against yesterday’s front-runner,
Socialist rival  Francois Hollande .  Austerity ‘Desperation’  Hollande pressed the advantage today, telling a rally in
Quimper on the Brittany coast that a Socialist victory would
“be the end of imposing austerity everywhere, austerity that
brought desperation to people throughout Europe.”  Hollande has promised to renegotiate a deficit-reduction
accord that Merkel pitched to German voters as proof that Europe
has embraced fiscal rigor. The yet-unratified accord also helped
convince the  European Central Bank  of governments’ determination
to stamp out debt.  In the final days of the campaign, Sarkozy’s temptation is
to reach out to backers of Marine Le Pen’s anti-immigrant
National Front, which tallied 17.9 percent in the first round,
its best result ever. Such a tilt would distance Sarkozy from
the European mainstream if re-elected.  National Front  “What would the National Front mean: no euro, no Europe,”
Luxembourg Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn, a Socialist, told
reporters in Luxembourg today. “If I were president of the
republic, I’d be asking myself why one in five French voted for
the National Front.”  A party that rejects immigration and bailouts for debt-
ridden countries flexed its muscles in the Netherlands, one of
four remaining AAA states in the euro zone and a traditional
enthusiast for fiscal and wage restraint.  Geert Wilders , head of the  Freedom Party , balked at social
security cuts over the weekend, removing support for Rutte’s
minority government. Rutte’s Cabinet offered to quit today,
putting early elections on the horizon.  Queen Beatrix  asked the
Cabinet to stay as a caretaker in the meantime.  Credit-default swaps on Dutch bonds jumped 11.5 basis
points to a five-month high of 130 at 3:20 p.m. in  London ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The chances of a Dutch political compromise “do not look
very high,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at
Mizuho International Plc in London, said in a note to investors.
“ Germany  looks increasingly isolated within the euro zone due
to its low  budget deficit  and stringent discipline-enforcing
mechanisms.”  Dutch Deficit  The Netherlands posted a deficit of 4.7 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, the third year over the euro limit of
3 percent, today’s official EU data showed. Rutte needs to cut
an extra 9.5 billion euros to meet the target by 2013. The
economy is likely to shrink 0.9 percent this year, the EU
forecast on Feb. 23.  The rebellion against austerity among longstanding German
allies sharpens the focus on elections next month in Greece, the
epicenter of the debt crisis. The Greek poll, also on May 6,
looms as a referendum on the  budget cuts  demanded of  Greece  in
exchange for bailout loans now worth 240 billion euros.  Antonis Samaras, head of the New Democracy party, yesterday
promised lower taxes and an end to the across-the-board pension
and wage cuts that have triggered the steepest economic slump
since the end of World War II. Budget savings will mainly come
through fighting waste, he said.  Samaras’s party is on track to win between 104 and 112
seats in parliament, leaving it short of an outright majority to
govern, a poll by Public Issue SA showed. As many as 10 parties
may enter the parliament, the poll showed.  “What you’ve got, look right across the EU, is an anti-
incumbency move,” said Richard Whitman, an associate fellow at
 Chatham House  in London. “Where publics have chance to express
their dissatisfaction with incumbents, they’re giving incumbents
the kicking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in Paris at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  