-- Texas Instruments Rises on Forecast for Revival in Orders
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-04-24T13:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/texas-instruments-forecasts-sales-profit-that-may-top-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog semiconductors, rose after forecasting second-
quarter earnings that may top some analysts’ estimates, buoyed
by a revival in chip orders.  Texas Instruments increased 1.1 percent to $32.25 at 9:45
a.m. New York time following the report yesterday after the
markets closed. The stock earlier advanced 2.7 percent for the
biggest intraday gain in a month. Shares of the Dallas-based
company had climbed 9.6 percent this year before today.  Texas Instruments’ analog chips perform electronic
functions that range from running car radios to controlling
missiles, making the company’s earnings a harbinger of demand in
the broader economy. The chipmaker’s orders are increasing
across most of its end markets, according to Tore Svanberg, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “The improvement the company is seeing is fairly broad-
based,” said San Francisco-based Svanberg. He recommends buying
Texas Instruments stock and owns some of the shares.
“Automotive is clearly standing out as an area of strength.”  Profit will be 30 cents to 38 cents a share on revenue of
$3.22 billion to $3.48 billion, the company said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts on average had predicted earnings of 32
cents on sales of $3.28 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Breadth’ of Orders  “Our business cycle bottomed in the first quarter, and
early signs of growth began to emerge,” Texas Instruments Chief
Executive Officer Rich Templeton said in the statement.
“Particularly encouraging is the breadth of increased orders
across geographical regions and markets, including the
industrial sector.”  Texas Instruments’ forecast underscores increasing signs
that the  U.S. economy  is beginning to strengthen, lifted by
household spending on durable goods like automobiles.
Homebuilding and auto purchases are accounting for a growing
proportion of gains in gross domestic product growth, according
to  Joseph Carson , director of global economic research at
AllianceBernstein LP.  First-quarter net income declined 60 percent to $265
million, or 22 cents a share, from $666 million, or 55 cents, in
the same period a year earlier, the company said. Sales fell 8
percent to $3.12 billion. Analysts had estimated earnings of 17
cents on sales of $3.06 billion.  Last month, Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said Texas
Instruments was seeing weaker-than-expected demand for its
connectivity products and OMAP, or Open Multimedia Application
Platform, processors, which run programs in smartphones and
tablets. Some clients were reducing their projections for demand
for the devices and cutting inventory, he said on a conference
call on March 8.  Now, customers have stopped drawing down inventory, and
some may have brought levels lower than appropriate for demand,
Chief Financial Officer Kevin March said in an interview
yesterday. The return of order growth across regions and
business segments indicates that the industry may be poised for
multiple quarters of growth, he said.  “The fact that it was broad-based is much more
reassuring,” March said. “It’s not like one market has one
great product offering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  