-- Mexico Says U.S. Stalling on Addition to Pacific Trade Deal
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-23T14:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/mexico-says-u-s-stalling-on-adding-nation-to-pacific-trade-deal.html
Mexico ’s Economy Minister expressed
frustration over what he said was the Obama administration’s
delay in adding the nation to Pacific trade talks.  Mexico’s entry to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a sweeping
deal that seeks to boost trade links between the Americas and
Asia, is already supported by the private sector in all nine
countries involved in the talks, Economy Minister Bruno Ferrari
said in an interview. Mexico is closer to winning approval than
Japan and Canada, who are also seeking to join negotiations,
Ferrari said.  U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk met with officials from
Mexico and Canada this month in Washington during a visit by
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  and Canadian Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper . The three nations are already bound together by
the North American Free Trade Agreement that took effect in
1994. Standing beside his Nafta partners in the Rose Garden,
President Barack Obama said the Pacific deal’s current partners
are discussing how new members can meet the accord’s standards.  “We are waiting for the Trade Representative’s office to
go to the next level,” Ferrari said on the sidelines of a World
Economic Forum event in Puerto Vallarta on April 20. “For some
reason this has been delayed. Until everyone is in agreement,
and the U.S. is missing, we cannot advance.”  ‘Additional Work Ahead’  Carol Guthrie , a spokeswoman for Kirk, said the U.S. hasn’t
decided whether to support Mexico,  Japan  and Canada’s bid to
join the talks and is going through “a detailed and thorough
process” to decide if they’re ready to meet the “high
standards and objectives” of the Pacific trade deal. The nine
current nations must reach a consensus for new members to join.  “We are undertaking a detailed and thorough process to
evaluate the readiness of Mexico, as well as Japan and Canada,
to meet the high standards and objectives of the TPP,” Guthrie
said yesterday in an e-mail. “While we have made progress, we
and other current TPP members have additional work ahead,
including further consultations on issues that have emerged
through our analysis and from input from Congress and
stakeholders.”  An accord with the eight other Pacific nations already in
talks would be the biggest trade deal for the U.S. since
President George H. W. Bush agreed to Nafta two decades ago.
Kirk has said that the U.S., the world’s largest economy, wants
to reach an agreement this year.  Mexico’s Interest  Other nations participating in the talks are Australia,
Chile, Peru and Singapore, all of which have separate free-trade
agreements with the U.S., as well as Malaysia,  New Zealand ,
Vietnam and Brunei. Japan,  Canada  and Mexico said in November
that they’d like to join the talks.  At the April 2 press conference with Obama, Calderon
reiterated Mexico’s interest in joining the talks “as soon as
possible,” saying his country “can contribute to a quick and
successful conclusion of this project.”  Mexico, Latin America’s second-largest economy, is the
largest U.S. trading partner after Canada and  China , with $461
billion in goods exchanged last year, according to data from the
U.S. Commerce Department. Mexico was the second-biggest buyer of
products made in America, behind only Canada, and Mexico sends
80 percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  Ferrari said pushing for Mexico’s inclusion will be a
“very important topic” of his visit to the U.S. this week to
meet with officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 