-- Mexico Peso Drops Most in a Week as Europe Growth Concern Mounts
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-04-23T22:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/mexican-peso-drops-most-in-a-week-as-growth-concern-damps-risk.html
Mexico ’s peso fell the most in a
week as manufacturing and services contracted in the euro area,
sapping demand for riskier assets in  emerging markets .  The currency pared its gain against the dollar in 2012 to
5.8 percent, still the best performance among the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Investors are “worried about economic growth in  Europe ,”
 Rafael Camarena , an economist at  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , said in a
phone interview from Mexico City. “It’s being dominated by
external issues.”  The peso declined 0.6 percent to 13.1756 per dollar at 4
p.m. in Mexico City. It was the biggest fall since April 13.  The currency briefly pared its drop after the national
statistics agency reported that Mexico’s retail sales rose 7.6
percent in February from a year earlier. The median forecast of
14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 4.8 percent
increase.  The yield on government peso-denominated debt due in
December 2024 was little changed at 6.22 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The price increased 0.01 centavo to
133.01 centavos per peso.  The peso fell today after an  initial estimate  from Markit
Economics showed euro-area services and manufacturing output
sank to a five-month low in April. Concern over European
finances also increased after Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
offered to resign after struggling to clinch an austerity deal.  Speculation over how the European sovereign-debt crisis
would drag on demand for Mexican exports helped make the peso
Latin America’s worst-performing major currency last year.  Rate Cuts  Mexico this week may join peers from  Brazil  to  India  in
cutting borrowing costs, rate futures show. Policy makers in
Latin America’s second-biggest economy are scheduled to announce
whether they will reduce the nation’s record-low 4.5 percent
benchmark rate on April 27.  Consumer prices fell 0.16 percent in the first half of
April, according to the median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The government is scheduled to publish the report
tomorrow.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.73 percent in March, within
the country’s target of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage
point.  The yield gap between fixed-rate bonds due in 2013 and
similar-maturity notes linked to inflation, a gauge of investor
expectations for consumer price increases, is 2.97 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  