-- Mexico Sets First Fixed Rates With Inflation Receding: Mortgages
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-04-23T17:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/mexico-sets-first-fixed-rates-with-inflation-receding-mortgages.html
Mexico ’s largest mortgage provider
plans to offer home buyers fixed-rate loans for the first time,
as the two-decade long inflationary hangover from the country’s
Tequila Crisis fades.  A legal overhaul will let Mexicans who finance their homes
with state-controlled Infonavit, the company founded in 1972 to
give workers access to home financing, get the 30-year mortgages
for the first time as soon as June. The lender, which has made
about 4.4 million loans since 2001, also plans to issue
mortgage-backed securities in pesos next year to match income
with obligations, the first such sales since 2004.  President  Felipe Calderon ’s government is taking advantage
of the second-lowest inflation rate among major Latin American
economies to start providing the loans as it moves to tame a
housing shortage afflicting 8.9 million families. Inflation has
declined to 3.73 percent from 52 percent in 1995 when the peso’s
devaluation sparked capital outflows across the region.  It’s “a much more mature country” than during the
“disaster” of The Tequila Crisis, said Alan Boyce, chief
executive officer of Absalon Project, which is partially backed
by billionaire financier  George Soros  to promote the Danish
mortgage model globally, including Mexico. The peso’s
devaluation in December 1994 led to investors pulling money from
countries throughout  Latin America , an event that came to be
known as the Tequila Crisis because of its origin in Mexico.  Mexico Versus Brazil  The real interest rate, which is the benchmark rate minus
inflation, of 0.77 percent in Mexico compares with 3.76 percent
in Brazil, the region’s biggest economy, where President Dilma Rousseff’s administration is seeking to address a shortage of
6.3 million homes.  “Mexico is in a better position” than others as “it’s
very hard to have a mortgage market when your real  interest
rates  are so high,” Boyce said by telephone from  Westlake
Village ,  California .  Mexico’s central bank board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens left the overnight rate unchanged at a record low of
 4.5 percent  for the 25th straight meeting last month. “If
current favorable conditions in the inflation outlook are
consolidated, it may be advisable to adjust downward the
benchmark interest rate,” according to the minutes of the
meeting published on March 30.  Protecting Banks  Lenders in Mexico, which targets inflation at 3 percent,
plus or minus one percentage point, turned to loans in
inflation-linked units in the 1990s for protection against
spiking consumer prices, according to  Gabriel Casillas , chief
Mexico economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  More than 99 percent of
the 72.5 billion pesos ($5.5 billion) in outstanding mortgage-
backed securities, known as Cedevis, that Infonavit has sold are
denominated in an inflation-linked currency known as an udi.  “The use of udis wasn’t to protect workers rather to
protect the lenders, the banks,” Casillas said by phone from
Mexico City. “At the end of the day a loan in pesos with a
fixed-rate is much better.”  Fixed-rate loans from Infonavit represent “an advance in
the credibility in  Banco de Mexico ,” said Casillas.  Investors’ inflation estimates, as measured by the gap
between yields on fixed-rate debt and notes linked to consumer
prices, fell to the lowest level since at least May 2009 after
the central bank said it’s considering a rate reduction in the
minutes of its March meeting. The gap, known as the break-even
rate, declined to 2.92 percentage points on April 11, before
increasing to 2.98 percentage points as of 12:24 p.m. in Mexico
City. The so-called break-even rate in  Brazil  is 5.61 percentage
points.  Biggest Gain  The peso fell 0.8 percent today to 13.2034 per dollar,
paring its gain this year to 5.5 percent. The increase is still
the biggest among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Infonavit’s financing climbed by a record 2.57 million
loans under outgoing President Calderon, putting pressure on
candidates vying to replace him to expand the programs further.  Infonavit said on Jan. 5 it granted a record 501,292 home
loans last year. Demand for fixed-rate mortgages has been
increasing, according to Enrique Aranda Vargas, director of
planning and strategic initiatives at Infonavit.  “There’s no doubt that these policies are here to stay,”
Eduardo Torres, an economist tracking the real-estate industry
for Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria unit BBVA Bancomer SA, said
by phone from Mexico City. “It’s easier to explain an
instrument denominated in pesos than one that’s based on an
index that changes with inflation.”  Foreign Investment  The peso-denominated mortgage-backed securities Infonavit
plans to sell next year will be benchmarked to Mexican fixed-
rate bonds known as Mbonos. Foreigners hold about 44 percent of
Mbonos, according to central bank data, while global investors
haven’t bought Cedevis directly in the primary market, according
to the lender.  Foreign investment in the securities is likely to increase
after Infonavit begins issuing them in pesos, according to Jorge Galindo, the chief executive officer of Hipotecaria Total, a
mortgage servicing company focused on securitization that
Absalon set up whose backers include Soros and the Mexican
government.  The company, known as HiTo, has been advising Infonavit on
issuing the peso-denominated securities. Absalon is also backed
by Danish financial processing firm VP Securities A/S.  “The peso-denominated security is much, much more liquid
than the udi-denominated securities,” Galindo said by phone
from Mexico City. “When they open the securities in pesos, I’m
expecting to see more liquidity.”  Infonavit sold almost 14 billion pesos of the mortgage-
backed securities last year.  Biggest Growth Opportunities  Selling the securities in pesos may “increase a segment of
investors that at this moment don’t feel attracted to our
product denominated in minimum wage units,” Infonavit’s Aranda
Vargas said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Mexican banks’ outstanding housing loans increased 16
percent in January, from a year earlier, according to the
country’s National Banking and Securities Commission.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s Mexican unit is eyeing mortgages as
one of this year’s biggest growth opportunities, Chief Executive
Officer Marcos Martinez said in an interview on March 23.  In a speech last month, Calderon touted his
administration’s legacy of boosting homeownership among Mexican
workers and said Infonavit had become synonymous with “well-
being” and “progress” for the families of Mexican workers.  ‘Measured Return’  “The housing policy will be hard to reverse with all that
it’s accomplished,” said Luis Rodriguez, an equity analyst with
Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB, in a telephone interview from
Guadalajara, Mexico. “They have to keep promoting these
instruments, the securitization of mortgage portfolios. There’s
a great market for these instruments.”  Infonavit is authorized to issue 10 billion pesos in
mortgage-backed securities this year and plans to sell a similar
amount annually through 2017, according to Jorge Marquez,
coordinator for Infonavit’s Cedevis program.  Infonavit sold almost 5 billion pesos of Cedevis at a yield
of 4.5 percent in February that were benchmarked to government
inflation-linked bonds known as Udibonos, according to the
lender.  Ivan Reguera, director of investment at Afore Coppel SA, a
Mexican pension that has about 50 billion pesos in assets under
management, said his fund doesn’t buy Infonavit’s mortgage-
backed securities because they offer “a measured return”
relative to their duration.  Mexican pension funds known as Afores, Mexico’s largest
institutional investors, hold about 40 percent of Cedevis,
according to Infonavit.  Presidential Candidates  “There’s an exposure that’s prolonged with these types of
assets,” Reguera said by phone. For the maturities to be
attractive there “would have to be a very significant change in
terms of the maturities and under a different structure that
could allow for a different type of return,” said Reguera.  JPMorgan’s Casillas said it’s unlikely that whoever wins
July’s presidential election will make large scale changes at
Infonavit.  Mexican presidential candidate Enrique Pena Nieto, of the
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , is leading other rivals to
replace Calderon ahead of the July poll with 40.2 percent of
voter support, according to the results of a survey from
Consulta Mitofsky, a Mexican polling company, released April 17.  Josefina Vazquez Mota, from Calderon’s ruling  National
Action Party , had 22.6 percent support while  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , from the Party of the Democratic Revolution, had 17.3
percent, in the poll.  ‘Reactivate the Economy’  The ruling party and  Lopez Obrador ’s campaign have proposed
programs aimed at cutting the housing deficit, which both said
may be higher than the projection of 8.9 million families. A
Pena Nieto spokesman declined to comment.  “There’s a lot of work ahead of us,” said Daniel
Hernandez, message coordinator for Vazquez Mota, in a telephone
interview from campaign headquarters in Mexico City.  The Lopez Obrador campaign said building homes is also part
of its plan to create jobs and “reactivate the economy,”
according to congresswoman Laura Itzel Castillo, a campaign
coordinator.  “The macro-economic conditions in recent years allow us to
offer loans in pesos,” Infonavit’s Aranda Vargas said.  “Independent of what party wins the election, we think
that we can maintain the products and the trajectory that have
been around since the current director came aboard,” he said.
“This is a maturation of the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  