-- Extreme Runner’s Moab Desert Offers ‘Wall Street’ Cliffs
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-04-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/extreme-runner-s-moab-desert-offers-wall-street-cliffs.html
“It’s going to seem like we’re in
the middle of nowhere,” said Chris Martinez, founder of trail-
running guide service  360 Moab Adventures .  He met me on Main Street in Moab, Utah, a few miles east of
where we would be running on the Amasa Back desert trail. He had
two new water bottles strapped to his hands, a common sight
among extreme runners.  “Once we get on the trail we’re going to be isolated,”
said Martinez, who has black tribal plugs in his earlobes and
Aztec tattoos on his legs. “It’s amazing.”  During the drive to the trailhead, he pointed out Navajo
sandstone cliffs named  Wall Street  that are sought out by rock
climbers and others from which you can sometimes see base
jumpers.  Moab is a mecca for “almost all extreme, adventure
sports,” said Martinez, 40, during our run as we gazed from
700-foot cliffs overlooking Canyonlands National Park,
petroglyph rock-art carvings and petrified sand dunes. “You can
do a lot here.”  The area is known for mountain biking, jeep trails and
natural sandstone arches, of which Arches National Park
preserves more than 2,000 specimens, according to the  National
Park Service . One of those arches is on the state’s license
plate.  Martinez has lived in Moab for 15 years. He won the 12-hour
Nanny Goat race in Riverside,  California , in 2009 by running 67
miles in that time span. In 1997, he started guiding rafting
tours on the  Colorado  River. He’s also the director of Moab’s
Red Hot 55-kilometer and 33-kilometer races; that’s 34.2 and
20.5 miles.  ‘Punishment for Pizza’  It’s a prime place for getting off the road to run, said
Christopher McDougall, author of “Born to Run.”  “People aren’t looking at running as the punishment for
pizza anymore,” said McDougall, whose book explores barefoot
running and chronicles the Tarahumara Indians. They cover
hundreds of miles in  Mexico  by foot.  “Rather than people putting in the obligatory half-hour on
the treadmill, they want to get outside where it’s gorgeous,”
he said.  He suggested I talk to Karl Meltzer, world- record  holder
for most 100-mile trail-race victories, about running in Moab.  “I’ve been down to Moab about a million times,” said
Meltzer, who lives in Sandy,  Utah . “You get these athletes,
super-hardcore mountain-biker athletes, and you’ve got these
killer runners, and then you’ve got these jeeper guys who aren’t
getting out of the jeep. They’re just driving around. But
everybody gets along.”  Stranded in the Desert  About a mile from the end of the 9.5-mile Amasa Back loop,
Martinez and I met Danelle Ballengee, four-time Pike’s Peak
Marathon winner and a member of the Colorado Sportswoman Hall of
Fame. She’s also part of Utah’s lore about people who find
themselves stranded in the desert.  Aron Ralston in 2003 was pinned by an 800-pound boulder in
Bluejohn Canyon, south of Moab, before he amputated his right
hand with a multitool, according to  National Geographic News .
The event inspired the 2010 film “127 Hours” with actor  James Franco .  Ballengee, who has the women’s record for climbing
Colorado’s 54 peaks of 14,000 feet in less than 15 days,  fell
about 60 feet  from a cliff just off the Amasa Back trail in
December 2006, as detailed on her website. She survived more
than two days alone in the desert with internal injuries as she
forced herself to do crunches to keep from freezing to death.
Her dog, Tasman, helped lead rescuers to her.  “If you don’t know your way around,” Martinez said of the
Amasa Back trail, “you can get lost.”  Dinosaur Footprints  On my last day in Moab, I ran at Klondike Bluffs with
Martinez and Heidi Rentz, 28, a professional mountain-bike
cyclist who’s available as a backup 360 Moab guide. She’s also a
mountain-bike guide, won the women’s 33-kilometer Red Hot trail-
running race in 2011 and has the record for the 9.5-mile Amasa
trail race.  From Klondike, about a 20-minute drive north of Moab and
adjacent to Arches National Park, you can view uranium mines.
You may stumble on dinosaur fossils or footprints.  After the run, which covered about 9 miles in two hours, I
had one last concern before leaving Moab: Could I go without a
picture of an arch?  “Go see Delicate Arch in Arches National Park,” Martinez
said. “It’s the one on the license plate.”  Moab is a four-hour drive from Salt Lake City Airport. The
city’s tourism  website  has details on hotels and campgrounds,
national parks, activities and restaurants:
 http://www.discovermoab.com/index.htm .  (John Detrixhe is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater 
and  John Mariani  on  wine .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 