-- Facebook Board Should Have Women, Minorities, Group Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-23T22:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/facebook-board-should-have-women-minorities-petition-urges.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s largest
social network, should diversify its all-white male board to
include women and minorities, according to advocacy group  Face
It , which is urging the change with a petition that gathered
more than 52,000 signatures.  “We have no doubt that you are well aware that women make
up the majority of your users, produce the majority of your
content and drive your profits,” Face It Campaign founders
Alice Baumgartner and Alice Buttrick wrote in a letter to
Facebook’s board, posted online yesterday. “In the spirit of
your own company, we are asking you to add women of all colors
to your board before you go public.”  Facebook has drawn scrutiny for appointing a board of seven
white males, even while most of its 800 million users are women
and the company’s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, is
an advocate for  gender equality . Just 11.3 percent of the
Fortune 500 had male-only boards last year, according to
Catalyst, a New York-based nonprofit that researches women and
business issues.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Menlo Park,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment on the group’s letter.  The social-media company should take steps to diversify
before proceeding with a planned initial public offering, the
advocacy group said. Fifty-eight percent of Facebook users are
women, according to a 2010 survey by the Pew Internet and
American Life Project that found women spend more time than men
making status and profile updates and commenting on posts.  Facebook, which intends to raise $5 billion in the biggest
IPO of an  Internet company , valued its shares at $30.89 apiece
as of Jan. 31, according to a regulatory  filing  today. Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  founded the company in his
Harvard University dorm and has 56.5 percent voting control of
the stock.  Face It will gather at Facebook’s New York office at noon
on April 25 to present the petition, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  