-- Facebook Paying $550 Million for Some of AOL’s Patents
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-23T23:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-23/facebook-pays-550-million-for-some-of-microsoft-s-aol-patents.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is beefing up its
intellectual property arsenal by paying $550 million for some of
the patents  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  recently agreed to buy from  AOL Inc. (AOL)   Facebook, the world’s largest social network, will obtain
about 650 AOL patents and applications, as well as a license to
AOL patents and applications that Microsoft will purchase and
own, the companies said in a statement today.  Patent disputes are increasing in the technology industry
as competitors fight over intellectual property rights to key
breakthroughs in areas, such as mobile technology and social
media. The Microsoft deal may bolster Facebook’s defense against
infringement allegations by Yahoo! Inc., said Brian Wieser, an
analyst at Pivotal Research Group LLC.  Today’s deal “helps Facebook, hurts Yahoo,” said Brian
Wieser, an analyst with Pivotal Research Group LLC. “Yahoo is
counting on seeing some money from Facebook, and maybe didn’t
expect such vigorous defense.”  Microsoft said earlier this month that it would pay $1.06
billion for a portfolio of AOL’s patents. Under the terms of the
auction, companies couldn’t band together to bid jointly, and
AOL didn’t permit offers for part of the portfolio, said a
person with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be named
because the negotiations were private. Microsoft bid with the
intention of reselling most of the patents and always considered
Facebook the most likely buyer, the person said.  Selling Opportunity  “Anytime someone buys a huge amount of patents, there’s an
opportunity to sell the ones you don’t need,” said Ron Laurie,
managing director of Inflexion Point Strategy LLC in  Palo Alto ,
California, which counsels companies on intellectual property
purchases.  AOL, under shareholder pressure to reverse sales declines,
sold and licensed more than 800 patents to Microsoft earlier
this month. AOL would still hold more than 300 patents and
applications after the transaction.  The portfolio that AOL is selling includes patents that
cover e-mail, instant messaging, browsing, search, advertising
and other Internet-related technologies, according to another
person with knowledge of the matter. The patents also cover
handsets, e-commerce and long-term evolution (LTE) wireless
communications, this person said.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to
comment.  Kevin Kutz , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, and  Maureen Sullivan , who represents New York-based
AOL, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Facebook’s Earlier Effort  Facebook made an offer for AOL’s patent portfolio before
losing out to a higher Microsoft bid, two people with knowledge
of the matter said last week.  Microsoft was particularly interested in AOL’s search
patents and many of those will probably be among those it
retains, the person with knowledge of the matter said today.
Microsoft expects the transaction to close this year and doesn’t
expect regulatory obstacles, the person said.  Even though Microsoft didn’t want to own the majority of
the patents, it did want a license to all of them -- which it
will get through this agreement. Microsoft also would have
viewed a purchase by a rival like  Google Inc. (GOOG)  as negative, said
the person with knowledge of the issue.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, has lined up $8
billion of available credit from its IPO underwriters. Like more
established technology companies, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google,
it is buying intellectual property to protect itself from
patent-infringement litigation.  Yahoo Sues  Facebook acquired 750 patents from  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , a person with knowledge of the matter said on
March 22.  Yahoo, the largest U.S. Web portal, sued Facebook on March
12, alleging that the social network infringed patents covering
such functions as Internet advertising and information sharing.
Facebook fired back on April 3, accusing Yahoo of infringing on
10 patents through its home page and Flickr photo-sharing
service.  “Nothing about today’s action changes the fact that
Facebook continues to infringe our patents,” Yahoo said today
in a statement. “Companies who purchase patents are often
working from a position of weakness and take these actions to
strengthen their portfolio. We see today’s announcement as a
validation of our case against Facebook.”  Facebook in February filed for an initial public offering,
seeking to raise $5 billion in what could be the largest
Internet IPO on record. The company may seek a valuation of $75
billion to $100 billion, people familiar with the matter have
said.  AOL fell 1 percent to $24.75 at the close in  New York .
Microsoft declined less than 1 percent to $32.12. Yahoo, based
in Sunnyvale,  California , slid 1.7 percent to $15.33.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  